Financial review Generating value for shareholders Fixed staff costs of 43.0m 2012: 39.5m increased by nine per cent.
Results for the year as headcount grew as a result of continued steady investment in our The Group saw healthy growth across all key metrics in 2013 and people, platform and distribution capabilities.
Other expenses rose consequent cash generation has seen continued balance sheet to 43.9m 2012: 41.5m as higher IT and legal and professional costs strengthening and dividend increases.
were partially offset by lower occupancy costs as a result of a temporary reduction in our rent ahead of our lease expiring in 2016.
Net revenue We continue to manage our fixed cost base according to prevailing market conditions at the time, mindful of our desire to grow the Net revenue m 2013 2012 business over time whilst preserving our scalable operating model.
Net management fees 267.1 225.7 This is evident from the graph below which shows net management Net initial charges 15.7 14.3 fees have increased at a greater rate than underlying fixed costs in 2013.
Performance fees 5.7 4.5 Total 288.5 244.5 Net management fees v fixed costs m Net revenues for the year were 288.5m 2012: 244.5m, 2013 267 Net management fees Fixed costs 18 per cent.
This was driven by a rise in net management fees to 267.1m 2012: 225.7m, as strong flows and 87 investment outperformance resulted in average assets increasing by 22 per cent.
an increase ahead of underlying market levels 2012 226 the FTSE 100 averaged 6,429 in 2013 compared with 5,742 in 2012.
81 Net management fees 2013 2012 Net management fees m 267.1 225.7 2011 226 Average AUM bn 29.5 24.2 77 Net management fee margin bps 90 93 Net management fees remain the main component of net revenue 2013 : 93 per cent.
The Groups net management fee margin for the period was 90 basis points, below the 2012 Variable staff costs m 2013 2012 margin of 93 basis points.
This reduction was due to a higher Cash bonus 33.9 30.0 proportion of SICAV and fixed income assets in the mutual fund Deferred bonus 8.5 5.4 book and was in line with both our expectations and previous market guidance.
LTIP and SAYE 8.6 4.5 Pre-IPO deferral scheme 0.2 We continue to expect net management fee margins to decline Total 51.0 40.1 slowly over time, although the rate and angle of any such decline Variable compensation ratio continues to be uncertain.
25% 25% Net initial charges of 15.7m 2012: 14.3m were higher due to Variable staff costs of 51.0m 2012: 40.1m increased by 27 per cent.
a more favourable pattern of sales versus redemption activity The cash bonus of 33.9m 2012: 30.0m rose in line with earnings across individual funds, partially offset by the expected reduction and higher profitability of the Group.
The additional increase in in net amortised front end fees.
Front end fees will continue to variable costs was due to the continuing roll-out of the post-Listing decline, and the unpredictable nature of box profits means there compensation structure, driven by the addition of an extra year is no guarantee that the improvement in initial charges will be of awards under the LTIP scheme and Deferred Bonus Plan.
This repeated in future years.
Performance fees grew slightly to roll-out is now largely complete with the first tranches due to 5.7m 2012: 4.5m, although these continue to represent vest in April 2014. a small percentage of net revenue.
Variable compensation as a proportion of pre-variable Administrative expenses compensation operating earnings was 25 per cent.
This excludes a 4.2m charge 2012: 7.3m in respect of options granted prior to the Listing over the remaining shares Fixed staff costs 43.0 39.5 in the pool established for employees at the time of the MBO Other expenses 43.9 41.5 in June 2007.
Total fixed costs 86.9 81.0 We expect the variable compensation ratio to remain in the mid Variable staff costs 51.0 40.1 to high 20 per cent.
range over the medium-term, as the incentive Charge for options over pre-Listing shares 4.2 7.3 schemes put in place as part of our Listing are now close to Administrative expenses maturity.
However, the equity-settled nature of previously awarded 142.1 128.4 deferred bonus and LTIP schemes means that their costs are fixed at the time of grant and subsequently do not change if future earnings Administrative expenses of 142.1m 2012: 128.4m rose by 11 per rise or fall.
As a result, the variable compensation ratio remained cent.
predominantly due to an increase in variable staff costs in at 25 per cent.
at the lower end of our range, in line with line with higher profitability and the continued roll out of our our expectations for an environment in which earnings have post-Listing compensation structure.
18 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 EBITDA Profit before tax EBITDA was 151.5m 2012: 124.2m, a 22 per cent.
increase on the PBT for the year was 114.1m 2012: 73.6m.
This increase of previous year.
This was driven by an increase in net revenue from 55 per cent.
was driven by the rise in operating earnings, reduced strong flows, investment outperformance and higher average finance costs and the gain made from the sale of the holding market levels, partially offset as expected by higher variable in Cofunds.
The Group's EBITDA margin increased to 53 per cent.
as revenue growth filtered through to profits The effective tax rate for 2013 was 22.3 per cent 2012: 23.6 per as a result of our scalable business model.
This is lower than the standard rate of 23.25 per cent.
primarily due to the Cofunds disposal which generated a historic loss for tax purposes owing to the previous tax disallowance of EBITDA write downs in the investment pre-Listing.
2013 152 53 EBITDA m EBITDA margin % Underlying profits and underlying earnings per share EPS Underlying profit before tax and underlying EPS are non-GAAP 2012 124 51 measures which the Board believes provide a more useful representation of the Groups trading performance than the statutory presentation.
The Groups basic and diluted EPS 2011 135 54 measures were 21.1p and 20.0p respectively in 2013, compared with 14.9p and 14.2p in 2012.
Underlying EPS 2013 2012 Profit before tax m 114.1 73.6 Other income statement movements Adjustments: During the year, the Group sold its entire holding in Cofunds to a co-investor, Legal & General Group plc, resulting in a gain of 6.7m Amortisation of acquired investment 38.7 38.7 which has been included within the other gains losses line on the management contracts and trade name m income statement.
Of this, 6.6m was previously held within the Charges for options over pre-Listing shares m 4.2 7.3 available for sale reserve and transferred to the income statement, Gain loss taken to the income statement 6.7 0.7 and a further gain of 0.1m was recognised in the year.
on available for sale investments m FSCS levy exceptional income m 5.0 Amortisation of 39.7m 2012: 39.7m included 38.7m 2012: 38.7m relating to intangible assets acquired as part of the MBO on 19 June 36.2 41.7 2007.
These assets relate to investment management contracts Underlying profit before tax m 150.3 115.3 acquired for 258.0m and the Jupiter brand name acquired for Tax at statutory rate of 23.25 per cent.
18.7m, amortised on a straight line basis through to June 2014 and June 2017 respectively.
Amortisation is expected to decrease 2012: 24.5 per cent.
m 34.9 28.2 significantly in 2014 when the amortisation on the investment Underlying profit after tax m 115.4 87.1 management contracts fully unwinds.
The remaining 1.0m relates Issued share capital m to the amortisation of acquired computer software and is included 457.7 457.7 in underlying earnings.
Underlying EPS 25.2p 19.0p Finance costs of 3.1m 2012: 7.4m decreased by 58 per cent.
Underlying EPS is a non-GAAP measure which the Group uses to assess its primarily due to a decrease in interest payable on the bank loan performance.
This was due to the outstanding bank loan being paid down from 143.0m at the start of 2012 to The 2013 underlying EPS was 25.2p 2012: 19.0p.
Finance costs were further reduced due increase reflects the Groups improved trading performance, to an increase in the fair value of the swaps in 2013 as they neared reduced finance costs following debt repayments and the lower maturity.
During the year, both interest rate swaps were closed out.
Interest payable m Underlying EPS p 2013 Interest payable on bank borrowings 2 2013 25.2 plus interest payable on swaps 2012 6 2012 19.0 2011 10 2011 19.1 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 19 Financial review continued We deploy seed capital into funds to assist us in building a track Cash flow record from launch or to give small but strongly performing funds The Group has a high conversion rate of operating earnings to cash, sufficient scale to attract external money.
As at 31 December 2013, generating positive operating cash flows after tax in 2013 of 122.1m we had a total investment of 50.1m in our own funds 2012: 53.8m 2012: 110.6m.
Together with the 16.6m received from the sale of as we maintained seed capital at targeted levels.
These investments Cofunds, this cash was primarily used for payments of 42.8m in are shown on the Groups balance sheet under the appropriate respect of the interim and final dividends to shareholders and net heading for the relevant level of ownership in each fund.
The Group repayments of 67.0m of bank debt.
A small amount has been only invests into liquid funds and chooses to hedge market and retained for investment and to fund the higher 2013 compensation currency risk on the majority of its holdings of seed capital round.
As a result of these movements, overall cash held increased investments, with 99 per cent.
of seed capital either hedged or by 23.5m to 170.5m 2012: 147.0m.
invested in absolute return products.
As a result, the value of these investments is stable and available to improve the Groups cash balances and liquidity if required.
Operating cash flows m 2013 122.1 Equity and capital management 2012 110.6 Total shareholders equity increased by 54.7m to 513.7m 2012: 459.0m as a result of the Groups continued profitability, partially offset by the final and interim dividends.
2011 107.1 The Board considers the dividend on a total basis, whilst looking to maintain an appropriate balance between interim and final dividends.
Reflecting our strong trading and robust balance sheet, as well as our confidence in the prospects for the business, the Board has declared an increased final dividend for the year of Assets and liabilities 9.1p 2012: 6.3p per share to ordinary shareholders, making a total payment for the year of 12.6p 2012: 8.8p.
Helped by reduced financing costs from the deleveraging of the balance sheet during 2012 and 2013 alongside the generation of This payment is subject to shareholders approval at the Annual significant cash amounts through trading, the Group strengthened General Meeting and, if approved, will be paid on 27 May 2014 to its net cash position at 31 December 2013 to 159.5m 2012: 69.0m.
shareholders on the register on 11 April 2014.
During the year, a net 67.0m of bank debt was repaid, reducing the The Group currently has a three year investment firm consolidation outstanding loan balance to 11.0m as at 31 December 2012: 78.0m.
waiver which runs to June 2015.
The waiver remains valid under the Subsequent to the year end, the remaining 11.0m was repaid, new CRD IV regime which is effective from 1 January 2014.
Having leaving the Group with no outstanding debt.
completed the deleverage process begun at Listing, the Group has traded out of its need to rely on the waiver.
In July 2013, we rolled our existing loan facility into a new three year revolving credit facility.
The facility extends to July 2016 and will Looking forward, the Board's intention is to use profits and cash provide the Group with greater liquidity and flexibility for a longer flow to pay shareholder dividends, to re-invest selectively for future period at more attractive rates.
It is our intention to leave the growth and to look to return excess cash according to market facility intact, but undrawn, in case of need, supporting our conditions at the time.
This provides Jupiter with two opportunities intention to run a sustainable balance sheet with net cash across to grow shareholder returns over time.
First from executing our the cycle.
strategy to grow profits to the benefit of all our stakeholders and secondly from shareholders receiving a greater share of marginal Cash m profit growth in the future.
2013 11 171 Gross cash Gross bank loan Dividends p 2012 78 147 2013 3.5 9.1 Interim Final 2011 143 150 2012 2.5 6.3 Net debt cash 2011 2.5 5.3 20 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Corporate responsibility We believe that corporate responsibility and sustainability are integral to commercial success For the first time, we have aligned the corporate responsibility A message from our Group Chief Executive section of our annual report with the Global Reporting Initiative GRI G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.
This is in order to What sustainability issues are influencing Jupiter provide greater insight into our diverse responsibilities as a and its strategy?
company, as well as to demonstrate the progress we are making towards becoming a more sustainable organisation.
We recognise that companies face a number of  challenges and trends that are likely to shape future markets, As a leading asset manager, transparency in reporting is an such as climate change, increasing globalisation and natural resource important basis for dialogue with our clients, shareholders, depletion.
These are creating real risks and opportunities that employees and other members of society.
As a result, any input require action and collaboration in order to sustain long-term value.
from stakeholders regarding the activities detailed within our corporate responsibility disclosure is welcome.
What are the companys key strategic priorities Edward Bonham Carter Group Chief Executive with regard to sustainability?
We believe that corporate responsibility and sustainability are integral to commercial success and we are committed, wherever About Our Corporate Responsibility Disclosure practical, to implementing good practice throughout our business.
Our key strategic priorities with regard to sustainability are Reporting period therefore: This section of our annual report covers the 2013 financial year and is the first such disclosure that we have prepared in accordance with 1.
It is our intention to continue to disclose our annual To continue engaging on relevant corporate governance and corporate responsibility performance in this way so as to conform sustainability issues with investee companies, as well as to regulatory and best practice developments in extra-financial exercising our voting rights with care.
Workplace In order to apply GRIs Guidance on Defining Report Content and To provide a healthy and rewarding working environment for associated Principles to our 2013 disclosure, Jupiter conducted a our employees.
Sustainability SWOT analysis with employees across a range of business functions.
This exercise involved identifying global trends 3.
Environment and issues in the wider context of sustainability that could be of To improve operational sustainability through better concern to Jupiters stakeholders and potentially impact our sector management of environmental impacts arising from our business in future years.
The insights gained during this process allowed us activities.
to select material aspects and priority indicators in order to build a complete first disclosure.
Our GRI Index for this reporting year 4.
Community will be made available on the Jupiter website.
To continue to make a positive impact within the communities in which we operate through active encouragement of Reporting boundary employees charitable activities.
The boundary of our corporate responsibility disclosure is coterminous with the widely adopted operational control approach to consolidating organisational greenhouse gas GHG emissions.
This is defined by our chosen GHG methodology Defras What have been the main corporate responsibility Environmental Reporting Guidelines as operations where Jupiter and sustainability highlights at Jupiter in 2013?
or one of its subsidiaries has the full authority to introduce and implement its operating policies.
Jupiter considers that this We are pleased to report continued progress across the spectrum approach incorporates all entities that generate materially of our sustainability activities.
Our key highlights for 2013 were significant actual or potential sustainability impacts.
as follows: Limitations Over 50 staff took part in Movember to collect charitable At the end of 2013, Jupiter had operations in six countries.
However, donations for the fight against prostate cancer, an issue close it has been reasonably estimated that the actual or potential to Jupiter following the recent death of a colleague, Spencer sustainability impacts of our small offices outside of the UK are Reynolds.
A grand total of 92,088 was raised by the team, currently of no material significance.
A materiality threshold of 5 per ranking us first in the UK and fifth in the world.
has thus been applied for sustainability data reporting purposes Jupiter has reduced its operational emissions intensity in line with common practice among similar sized firms in our sector.
to 1.18 tCO e per employee Full Time 2 Equivalent FTE.
Furthermore, there are no joint ventures over which Jupiter 128 companies were engaged on governance and or considers it has operational control and leased assets have been sustainability issues in 2013.
These meetings included fund accounted for via application of the same consolidation approach managers and or members of Jupiters Sustainable Investment used to define our reporting boundary.
We have implemented an environmental data programme in This is Jupiters first published GRI-aligned disclosure.
There have order to collate automatically more accurate information to been no restatements of information provided in earlier disclosures, better inform our corporate sustainability efforts.
nor any significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary or measurement methods applied.
For further information regarding our corporate responsibility disclosure please contact shareholderservices@jupiter-group.
co. uk Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 21 Corporate responsibility continued The main mechanisms through which we ensure that such policies, Stakeholder engagement principles and codes of conduct are being implemented and We are committed to engaging with our stakeholders to understand enforced include: the sustainability issues of importance to them.
Jupiters key stakeholders include our clients, the companies in which we invest, Training programmes e. g. 100 per cent.
of employees undertake shareholders, employees, NGOs, policymakers and regulators.
We regular web-based training in Anti-Bribery and Corruption in line believe that open communication is best achieved by offering with our corresponding policies and procedures stakeholders including shareholders and employees several Periodic audits against compliance with laws, regulations and methods of communication with the Board, including via phone, internal rules e-mail or written communication.
On a regular basis employees are Supervisory controls e. g. a TCF Manager in every client facing directly engaged via online surveys and staff briefings on matters department regarding Group performance and business strategy.
Terms and Conditions of Employment and annual Employee Declarations Our Corporate Governance structure 1.
Marketplace Jupiter policies are reviewed annually and circulated to all staff Our core purpose is to deliver long-term investment once updated.
The Compliance department is responsible for outperformance for clients through active management.
We ensuring the implementation of our policies, principles and consider that this focus is integral to delivering shareholder returns.
In particular, we emphasise positive engagement with the Stewardship companies in which we invest.
Transparency, accountability and At Jupiter, we aim to act in the best interests of all our stakeholders sustainability are, therefore, essential to the success of our by engaging with the companies in which we invest and exercising company.
our voting rights with care.
Not only is this commensurate with good market practice, it goes hand in hand with ensuring the Our customers responsible investment of our clients funds.
As such, it is fundamental that we ensure the appropriate, fair and responsible use of our Primary topics may include, but are not limited to, long-term products across all business lines, as well as their responsible strategy, board effectiveness, remuneration, shareholder rights, marketing and selling.
This is reinforced by the regulatory culture, values and relevant sustainability issues.
We also ask environment in which we operate.
companies to present us with their plans for maintaining corporate social and environmental sustainability.
We have worked hard to embed a set of policies, principles and codes of conduct into our culture that are designed to ensure that Jupiters Sustainable Investment and Governance Team is the interests of Jupiter and its employees are aligned with those of responsible for co-ordinating the timely and careful voting of existing and potential customers.
These policies include: proxies at company meetings and also for engaging with companies on governance and sustainability issues.
Whilst they work with the Treating customers fairly policy wider investment teams at Jupiter, they are also responsible for Treating customers fairly TCF is a core FCA principle intended screening companies held in our environmental and responsible to promote the fair treatment of customers from product investment funds.
inception, through to marketing and post-sales support.
Our TCF policy ensures that we are committed to dealing with customers During 2013, Jupiter voted at 2,279 shareholder meetings worldwide honestly, openly and competently not just as part of approximately 983 in the UK and 1,296 overseas and voted against regulatory compliance, but as a fundamental guiding principle.
management, or abstained, on at least one resolution at 18 per cent.
We also engaged with 182 companies to discuss Our TCF Committee ensures that Jupiter services provided to governance and or sustainability issues.
This dialogue was clients are operated and undertaken in a manner consistent with undertaken in addition to the 1,000-plus company meetings Jupiter TCF obligations and our TCF policy.
holds in a year, typically following the announcements of preliminary or interim results.
Conflicts of interest policy This policy sets out potential material conflicts that have been Jupiter monitors investee companies by hosting and attending identified by Jupiter, together with procedures and arrangements regular meetings with management teams.
We particularly focus on designed to prevent these from constituting or giving rise to a those companies in which we have a meaningful shareholding in material risk of damage to the interests of our clients.
terms of issued share capital or as a percentage of Jupiters assets under management.
However, this does not mean our engagement is purely restricted to our major holdings.
22 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Regular meetings are an important part of our investment process, 2.
Workplace helping us to evaluate each companys ability to create and sustain As a people business, we value our employees and aim to create long-term shareholder value.
Most of our engagement with a positive culture in which employees can work and develop companies is conducted on a one-to-one basis via face-to-face their skills.
meetings and teleconferences or collectively with other investors.
Jupiter has established an in-house database for the purposes of Diversity monitoring and following up on our engagement activities.
We believe that a diverse workforce is better able to service the needs of our clients.
We have an equal opportunities policy and are For a more detailed understanding of our stewardship activities, committed to treating all job applicants and employees fairly and please visit www.
com to view monthly records and equally, irrespective of gender, marital or civil partnership status, download our latest biannual Voting and Engagement Report.
race, colour, national or ethnic origin, disability, religious belief, sexual orientation or age.
We aim to support staff with families Further information on our approach to corporate governance, through enhanced maternity and paternity pay and childcare corporate responsibility and voting can be found published vouchers.
of our total workforce, within our Corporate Governance and Voting Policy and The UK whilst approximately 21 per cent.
of senior managers and 20 per Stewardship Code: Jupiters Approach, both of which are available cent.
of Board members are female.
This year, Jupiter also took part in the first year of Investment 2020.
Stewardship Committee This venture aims to give school leavers and recent graduates from We continually seek to enhance our capabilities in order to best diverse backgrounds paid work experience in investment serve our clients and have recently developed our Stewardship management.
We are proud to be offering year-long placement framework as part of a regular review.
This has led to the opportunities in a number of different business areas to candidates establishment of a Stewardship Committee, which aims to develop who are keen and passionate about gaining exposure to and an and deliver a co-ordinated approach to engagement with chairmen, understanding of investment management.
directors and non-executive directors for Jupiters fund management department.
Talent management We encourage the ongoing training and development of all our Through this process, we aim to better enable fund managers to employees to allow them to maximise their performance in their gain investment insight, inform decision-making and influence roles, assist them in the achievement of corporate objectives and to investee companies where appropriate.
The Committee is chaired reach their potential.
All of our employees take part in a six-monthly by Jupiters Head of Investments and comprises fund managers, the appraisal process where feedback is sought, performance assessed Stewardship Director and corporate governance and sustainability and training and development needs reviewed.
a number of initiatives in 2013 to enhance our talent management processes, including a pilot talent assessment programme, as well Our latest stewardship statements comment on how Jupiters as the development of a dedicated leadership framework for Jupiter stewardship activities are, for the first time, subject to independent management.
The Financial Reporting Council FRC recently reported that the number of respondents subjecting their stewardship In addition, Jupiter regularly provides employees with updates activities to independent assurance remains low.
The FRC states on Company performance, strategy and other information that that 14 per cent.
of their study subject engagement activities to concerns them through our staff newsletter, staff meetings and independent assurance, even though this is a recommendation of email.
Our remuneration policy is designed to motivate, aid the Code.
retention, improve individual and corporate performance and align employee behaviour with the interests of shareholders.
Health and safety The Board has the responsibility of ensuring that all reasonable precautions are taken to provide and maintain working conditions which are safe and healthy and that comply with all statutory requirements and all legally binding codes of practice.
Our Health and Safety policy aims to prevent accidents and to maintain the health of employees while at work.
The prime responsibility for a safe and healthy place to work rests with the Company.
In addition, each employee also has a personal responsibility in this respect.
FRC Developments in Corporate Governance 2013: The impact and implementation of the UK Corporate Governance and Stewardship Codes December 2013 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 23 Corporate responsibility continued Jupiter has been managing environmental solutions funds for over 3.
Environment 20 years and over this time we have developed a leading knowledge As a major UK corporate, we believe it is important to measure and of environmental investing across a range of products.
This gives monitor our impact on the environment and to look to reduce this Jupiter a potential competitive advantage which is derived from wherever possible.
We are committed to managing the direct regulatory or technological changes that bring about positive action impacts of our activities and seek to be resource efficient as far by companies on issues such as climate change.
Most notably, our Jupiter Global Ecology Growth Fund launched Environmental policy in 2001 seeks to invest globally in companies that are responding The key components of our environmental policy are as follows: positively to the challenge of environmental sustainability and climate change, either through the products they provide or the Energy Jupiter will seek to minimise its way in which they reduce their operational impact.
Materials Jupiter will seek to minimise its Such positive action, however, relies on the quantification and consumption of raw materials.
In 2011, Jupiter began working with Waste Jupiter will also seek to achieve the best Carbon Credentials to measure our carbon footprint for voluntary environmental option for the disposal disclosure purposes.
Since then, we have been gathering data on a of waste.
variety of emissions sources, including Scope 3 emissions.
Within the table below we present the Jupiter Operational Boundary for Suppliers Jupiter will seek to assess the environmental our reported 2013 GHG emissions: performance of suppliers as part of its purchasing policy.
Direct Building gas Fugitive Owned Compliance Jupiter will seek to meet or exceed all the Emissions combustion emissions vehicles environmental legislation that relates to Scope 1 from RAC the Group.
equipment Indirect Building Understanding Jupiters environmental impact Emissions electricity Jupiters operational activities principally impact the environment Scope 2 consumption through the waste we dispose of, the water we consume and the Other Business travel Waste Water greenhouse gas emissions we either directly or indirectly release.
Relevant disposal consumption Indirect As one of the greatest challenges facing nations, government, Emissions business and society, climate change has been a particular focus Scope 3 of our organisation for several years.
Our most recent analysis of climate change risks and opportunities facing our own organisation was conducted as part of our 2013 CDP Investor disclosure.
A sample set of information is provided within the table below in order to provide context to our greenhouse gas disclosure: Drivers Description Risks The potential implications on our Regulatory investments stemming from air pollution limits, carbon taxes, cap-and-trade schemes, fuel energy taxes and regulations, product efficiency labelling regulations and standards, and any associated uncertainty surrounding these.
Risks The potential implications on our Physical investments stemming from any changes in mean average temperature, changes in temperature extremes, changes in mean average precipitation and precipitation pattern: rise in sea level: rise in extreme weather events, and any associated uncertainty surrounding these.
Opportunities The potential implications on our Regulatory investments stemming from international agreements, air pollution limits, carbon taxes, cap and trade schemes, emission reporting obligations, fuel energy taxes and regulations, product efficiency labelling regulations and standards, and general environmental regulations.
24 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Environmental performance Environmental initiatives The following table shows the sources of environmental impacts As part of ensuring that the environmental consequences of currently being measured and recorded and our associated our operational activities are managed in accordance with our performance for 2013.
Environmental Policy, Jupiter has undertaken a number of environmental initiatives: Key performance Assumptions and or indicator Total FY2013 estimations A policy has been developed to replace all light bulbs with Direct emissions 124.1 tCO e December gas data 2 more energy efficient equipment upon failure or refurbishment.
Scope 1 was apportioned Hot water boilers at all staff tea points have been fitted with based on the last timers programmed to switch off outside working hours.
recorded Dedicated recycling points have been introduced to separate consumption due all waste.
Zero waste was sent to landfill during the reporting to data supply issues year and 100 per cent.
of all paper was recycled.
Indirect emissions 411.7 tCO e 2 Implementation of a print management solution incorporating Scope 2 Multi-Functional Devices MFDs has rationalised the number Other relevant 8 tCO e 2 of office printers, faxes and scanners to reduce energy indirect emissions consumption.
Scope 3 MFDs are also defaulted to double-sided printing in mono 3 and to print only on demand in order to reduce the amount Total water 974.2 m of paper and toners used.
consumption We have achieved a refurbishment rate of between 50 per cent.
Total weight of and 75 per cent.
for disposed IT equipment, which is waste by disposal subsequently resold or re-used depending on age and type.
method An environmental data programme has been implemented, in Recycling 18.7 tonnes Dry mixed recycling order to collate automatically more accurate data to better data for Q3 and Q4 inform our sustainability efforts.
was extrapolated Jupiter has recently decided to improve recording of Scope 3 using previous business travel emissions via the appointment of a travel months due to data management company.
supply issues Energy recovery 11.4 tonnes Data for Q3 and Q4 CO e reduction target 2 was extrapolated In order to ensure that the commitments outlined within our using previous Environmental Policy are aligned to Jupiters environmental months data due to initiatives, we have set an intensity target to reduce our tCO e per 2 data supply issues employee Full Time Equivalent FTE year on year.
In 2012, our Landfill 0 tonnes emissions intensity was 1.58 tCO e per employee FTE.
2 Since the last reporting period we reduced our emissions intensity All water is supplied through our local utility by 26 per cent.
having achieved an emissions intensity of 1.18 tCO e All waste disposed is non-hazardous commercial waste or paper cardboard 2 per employee FTE in 2013.
This reduction principally came from our efforts to improve monitoring and measurement of our greatest climate change impact, electricity consumption emissions, which have fallen from 553.11 tCO e in 2012 to 411.7 tCO e in 2013.
2 2 We are working to put in place a long-term strategy to further reduce this ratio in future reporting years.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 25 Corporate responsibility continued 4.
Community Charitable giving We believe that Jupiters charitable giving should be directed by employees rather than being driven by corporate-level decisions.
Jupiters matched giving scheme, which is available to all permanent employees, provides a focus for this activity.
Under the scheme, Jupiter matches each employees charitable contributions up to a set limit each year, enabling employees to support their nominated charities.
Some 104 employees currently participate in the matched giving scheme, which was double-matched up to a limit of 800 for the 2013 financial year, and the Charity Committee will be working to increase participation numbers substantially during 2014.
In recent years, Jupiter employees have worked closely together to raise funds for specific causes and to facilitate both these efforts and promote the uptake of our matched giving scheme, we established a Charity Committee during 2013.
This Committee comprises a broad cross-section of employees and seeks to promote charitable giving and provide a focal point for Group activities.
For the third year running, we supported the Movember charity, which seeks to raise funds to promote mens health.
During the month of November, more than 50 employees, including Jupiters Executive Committee, worked to raise over 90,000 for the charity, placing our team first in the UK and fifth in the world.
This is the second time in three years Jupiters Movember team has been the biggest fund-raiser in the UK.
This activity was supported by a raffle and dress down day and has subsequently resulted in the production of a Movember Calendar to raise further funds.
While our charitable giving is employee-directed, we do undertake some corporate-level activity where appropriate.
We typically seek to provide support for charities dealing with major disasters and in 2013, donated 10,000 to the Disasters Emergency Committees Philippines appeal.
Jupiter also continued its support of the Crisis at Christmas campaign with a corporate donation of 16,200.
In addition, nine employees from across the Company took part in a volunteering day at one of the Crisis centres during November.
During 2013, four executives took part in a London Business School programme, The Good Business.
This programme focused on the ethics and challenges facing businesses and was designed to lead to specific steps that could be undertaken by each Company involved to respond to these challenges.
Whilst Jupiter has a positive culture and focus on delivering outperformance and high service standards to clients, as the Company gets larger, establishing these standards in guiding principles would clearly set out for employees our expectations and this was the project the Good Business team undertook.
Jupiter remains a proud long-term sponsor of the Orchestra of the Age of Enlightenment.
During the past 14 years we have established a successful relationship based on our shared strengths of quality and innovation.
Jupiter also continued its sponsorship of the Observer Ethical Awards in 2013, sponsoring the Business Initiative Award which champions those large or small businesses taking sustainability to the next level.
26 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Governance review 28 Chairmans introduction 29 Our governance structure 30 Board of Directors 32 Management committees 34 Application of the Code principles 40 Nomination Committee report 42 Audit Committee report 47 Remuneration report 69 Directors report 72 Statement of Directors' responsibilities Within this section you will find the following: Leadership Effectiveness Accountability Remuneration Shareholder relations Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 27 Chairmans introduction Dear Shareholder, Your Board aims for the highest standards of corporate governance and is committed to the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
I am pleased to take the opportunity to report personally on how its principles relating to the role and effectiveness of the Board have been applied during the year under review.
Corporate governance is a term that is used freely, but it may be worth reminding ourselves of its meaning.
The Code has this to say on the role of the Board: Corporate governance is the system by which companies are directed and controlled.
Boards of directors are responsible for the governance of their companies.
"The responsibilities of the board include setting the companys strategic aims, providing the leadership to put them into effect, supervising the management of the business and reporting to shareholders on their stewardship.. "" ""Corporate governance is therefore about what the board of a company does and how it sets the values of the company, and is to be distinguished from the day to day operational management of the company by full-time executives."
source: UK Corporate Governance Code The following sections of this report describe how this has been applied to your Company through the Board and its committees to provide leadership: effective management and controls: continued focus on strategy and risk: and a remuneration structure that aims to maximise value to shareholders by attracting and motivating the most talented individuals on whom your Company depends for its success.
Over the following pages we describe our governance framework in more detail.
This not only contains the information required by regulation: I hope you will also find it helpful in understanding our commitment to good governance.
Jamie Dundas 26 February 2014 28 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Governance structure Our governance structure The Board The Board is responsible for the leadership and management of the Group, with the Chairman at its head, and comprises executive and non-executive Directors.
It has established a number of Board committees as well as Management committees.
Committees of the Board Board committees are the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration committees which operate within defined terms of reference.
The committees are entirely composed of independent non-executive Directors.
The Chief Executive and executive Directors The Chief Executive, together with the executive Directors, are responsible for the management of the Groups day-to-day business and for ensuring the implementation of strategy.
Management committees There are six principal Management committees established by the Chief Executive: the Executive Committee, Risk Committee, Balance Sheet Management Committee, Product Development Committee, Operations Committee and Treating Customers Fairly TCF Committee.
The activities of all committees are discussed in this governance review.
Diagram of structure The diagram below illustrates the Groups core governance framework and how authority is delegated from the Board to management for the day-to-day management of the business.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Board Board Committees Chief Executive Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Executive Committee Management Committees Risk Balance Sheet Product Development Operations Treating Customers Fairly Committee Management Committee Committee Committee Committee Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 29 Board of Directors Jamie Dundas Edward Bonham Carter John Chatfeild-Roberts Philip Johnson Maarten Slendebroek Liz Airey Jon Little Matteo Dante Perruccio Lorraine Trainer Michael Wilson Chairman Group Chief Executive Chief Investment Officer Chief Financial Officer Distribution & Senior Independent Independent Independent Independent Non-executive Director Strategy Director non-executive Director non-executive Director non-executive Director non-executive Director Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Jamie Dundas was Edward Bonham Carter was John Chatfeild-Roberts was Philip Johnson joined Maarten Slendebroek joined Liz Airey was appointed as Jon Little was appointed Matteo Dante Perruccio Lorraine Trainer was Michael Wilson was appointed as nonappointed Group Chief appointed Chief Jupiter as Chief Financial Jupiter in September 2012 as the non-executive senior a non-executive Director of was appointed a nonappointed as a nonappointed a non-executive executive Chairman of the Executive of the Company Investment Officer in Officer in October 2009.
Distribution and Strategy independent Director of the Company in September executive Director of the executive Director of the Director of the Company Group in January 2008. in June 2007.
He will succeed the Company in May 2010.
Company in May 2010. in 2007 having been Edward Bonham Carter as nominated by TA Group Chief Executive with Associates, L. P. effect from 17 March 2014.
Career Career Career Career Career Career Career Career Career Career Jamie is a non-executive Edward Bonham Carter John Chatfeild-Roberts Philip started his career Before joining Jupiter in Liz served as Finance Jon is a Partner in Northill Matteo started his career In her executive career, After serving as a managing Director of Standard joined Jupiter in 1994 joined Jupiter in March Director of Monument Oil Capital a private in financial services in 1986, at Coopers & Lybrand, September 2012 as Head Lorraine held a number director from 2005-2012, Chartered PLC and is as a UK fund manager 2001 to establish and lead where he qualified as of Distribution & Strategy, and Gas plc from 1990 to investment business spending six years at San of human resource Michael reduced his time Chairman of its Board after working at 1999, when it was sold to backed by one of Europes Paolo IMI before moving to the team running the a chartered accountant.
Maarten spent 18 years leadership roles in commitment in 2013 and Risk Committee.
He was Schroders 1982-1986 Jupiter Merlin portfolios.
He left in 1996 to work at BlackRock and its Lasmo plc.
She is currently wealthiest families.
From American Express Bank in international organisations, became an advisor of a non-executive Director and Electra Investment a non-executive Director 2000 until 2010, he was 1992 as Executive Director, His earlier career in fund in Prudential Plcs group predecessor companies.
At focusing on performance TA Associates, L. P. He of J Sainsbury plc between Trust 1986-1994.
Edward management was at head office before BlackRock he was a member and Chairman of the audit Vice Chairman of BNY Head of EMEA.
These formerly served on the 2000 and 2007 and of Drax was appointed Chief committee of Tate & Lyle Mellon Asset Management Lazard Brothers Asset transferring to M&G in of the firm's global operating he moved to Pioneer include Citibank NA, the Boards of Advisory Group plc between 2005 Investment Officer in Management 1995-2001 2000.
He spent eight years committee and European PLC and Dunedin Enterprise and, as part of that role, he Investment Management London Stock Exchange Research, Chartered and 2010.
After being called 1999 and Joint Group Investment Trust PLC and held a number of positions and Henderson at M&G, the last five as executive committee.
His to head up the firms and Coutts, then part Marketing Services, EYP to the Bar, Jamies early Chief Executive of Jupiter Administration 1990-1995.
Group Finance Director, last two roles were Head of Chairman of the Unilever including Chairman of international business of the NatWest Group.
Mission Critical Facilities, career was in banking at Investment Management UK Pension Fund.
Dreyfus one of the USs He held a Short Service after which he joined BlackRock Solutions EMEA before moving to work In addition to her board K2 Advisors and United Morgan Grenfell, where he Group Limited in Commission in the British Marshall Wace LLP as and Head of International oldest mutual fund in Milan, a posting that work, she works in the area Pet Group.
Prior to joining became Head of Corporate May 2000.
Edward companies, Chairman of Army in the 1980s.
At BlackRock culminated in his of director development at TA Associates, L. P. in 1992, and International Banking.
relinquished his role as He is responsible for Solutions, Maarten led Insight Investments and appointment in 2005 as and around board level for Michael worked in He was subsequently Chief Investment Officer of West LB Mellon Asset finance, treasury, the teams responsible for CEO International CEO a variety of international Morgan Stanleys Finance Director of the in February 2010.
Maarten information technology, complex portfolio analytics Management.
In addition, Pioneer Investment groups.
Lorraine was a Telecommunications Hong Kong Airport Slendebroek will succeed he was also a director of compliance, risk and and asset valuation projects Management SGR, Milan.
In 1994, he joined Authority and Chief Edward as Group Chief investor relations.
as well as the marketing and other asset managers in the Matteo left Pioneer in Aegis Group plc between Affiliated Managers Executive of UK-based Executive with effect from group including Newton, implementation of 2006 to take up the role August 2005 and March Group, a TA-backed asset property company, MEPC.
17 March 2014 and Edward BlackRock's Aladdin Walter Scott, Alcentra and of Co-Chief Executive 2013 and she is also a management platform He is deputy President will then take on a new Pareto Partners.
As at Olympia Capital non-executive director company, as Vice President formerly Chairman of executive role as Vice Head of International Retail, 1997-2000, Jon was at JP Management in Paris and of Essentra plc and Colt and a member of the Macmillan Cancer Support.
On 1 January Morgan Investment he was responsible for the left in 2008 to found and Group S. A. founding management 2014, Edward joined the build-out and running of all Management where he was become Chief Executive team.
Michael currently Board of Land Securities Vice President and Head of mutual fund-related business Officer of Hermes BPK also serves on the Board Group plc as a nonin the world outside of the Distribution responsible for Partners LLP.
From January of Numeric Investors, LLC.
International Funds and United States and Canada.
to December 2013 he was Earlier in his career, Maarten from 1991-1997 he was at Chief Executive Officer of Fidelity Investments, gained extensive experience Rebacapital, a renewable as a sell side European equity latterly as Director of UK energy fund investment Business Development.
He will become management company Chief Executive of Jupiter Jon is also a director of based in London.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Jamie has over 40 years Edward has over 30 years' John has many years' With over 20 years in the Maarten has brought over Liz has significant and Jon has developed Matteo brings considerable Lorraine brings her With a primary focus in experience in international experience in the experience in investment financial services industry, 25 years' experience from relevant financial skills extensive experience of the strategic management and experience from HR asset management, Michael finance and investment investment market.
Having management and is also a Philip has significant UK the asset management and and expertise in financial asset management industry business oversight leadership in the areas of brings his extensive banking.
held his position as Group fellow of the Chartered financial and reporting financial services industry governance and executive on an international scale experience within the cultural development, team experience as an external Chief Executive since 2000, Institute for Securities and experience.
to his role, together with leadership.
through roles with a financial services sector.
He performance and reward investor in many and varied he has extensive Investment.
extensive specific knowledge number of global has particular experience in both from her executive companies to the Board's knowledge of the fund and experience of running institutions and has international finance and career and her work on strategic decision making.
cross-border asset considerable expertise in investment.
management operations running asset management in the international businesses in the UK and retail sector.
Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Chairman of Nomination Chairman of Audit Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Committee Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Chairman of Remuneration Committee 30 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jamie Dundas Edward Bonham Carter John Chatfeild-Roberts Philip Johnson Maarten Slendebroek Liz Airey Jon Little Matteo Dante Perruccio Lorraine Trainer Michael Wilson Chairman Group Chief Executive Chief Investment Officer Chief Financial Officer Distribution & Senior Independent Independent Independent Independent Non-executive Director Strategy Director non-executive Director non-executive Director non-executive Director non-executive Director Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Jamie Dundas was Edward Bonham Carter was John Chatfeild-Roberts was Philip Johnson joined Maarten Slendebroek joined Liz Airey was appointed as Jon Little was appointed Matteo Dante Perruccio Lorraine Trainer was Michael Wilson was appointed as nonappointed Group Chief appointed Chief Jupiter as Chief Financial Jupiter in September 2012 as the non-executive senior a non-executive Director of was appointed a nonappointed as a nonappointed a non-executive executive Chairman of the Executive of the Company Investment Officer in Officer in October 2009.
Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Chairman of Nomination Chairman of Audit Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Committee Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Chairman of Remuneration Committee Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 31 Management committees Risk Committee Management committees The Committee provides support to the Executive Committee on the establishment, implementation and maintenance of adequate risk management policies and procedures.
In particular, it advises Executive Committee the Executive Committee on: Subject to matters reserved to the Board, the Board has delegated authority to the Group Chief Executive for the management of the appropriate level of risk to be tolerated by the Group the Group's day-to-day business.
He is assisted by the Executive risk appetite tolerance : Committee, comprising the executive Directors and the Chief the management of risks within the determined risk tolerances: Operating Officer Adrian Creedy, which has operational and responsibilities for developing the business in accordance with the effectiveness of risk management processes across the the strategy and objectives of the Board.
business, including compliance with such policies and any remedial action, where required.
The purpose of the Committee is to provide an efficient forum for discussion and decision-making regarding the development of the The Committee reviews the Groups primary risk exposures business in accordance with the strategy and objectives set by the with consideration of impact and likelihood assessment and the Board.
The minutes from its meetings are made available to the effectiveness of existing controls in the context of the Boards Chairman of the Board.
The tolerance thresholds and ensures that the governance arrangements following committees report to the Executive Committee: within the Group are effective in the mitigation of risk.
Risk The scope of the Committees remit encompasses risk control Balance Sheet Management issues facing the Group in relation to any aspects of risk as Product Development categorised in the Groups risk management framework, as Operations described further below.
The Risk Committee is supported in TCF its role by a number of focused sub-committees, namely the Portfolio Review, Monitoring and Conflicts Committees and the Counterparty Review Group.
32 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Balance Sheet Management Committee Treating Customers Fairly Committee The Balance Sheet Management Committee provides support to Through its sub-committees, the Committee seeks to ensure the Executive Committee on the establishment, implementation that funds managed by the Group and services provided to and maintenance of adequate balance sheet management policies clients are operated and undertaken in a manner consistent and procedures.
It advises the Executive Committee, on both a with TCF obligations.
current and forecast basis, on the areas under its remit, as well as reviewing the risk and control issues facing the Group in The TCF Funds sub-committee considers the extent to which those areas.
product launches and enhancements have met the Groups TCF obligations.
It meets quarterly and considers available management Product Development Committee information including performance, target audience, distribution The purpose of the Committee is to ensure new product proposals approach, market share analysis, subscription and redemption and changes to existing products have been adequately considered patterns, administrative statistics and complaint data to consider so that they are designed to meet client needs, can be appropriately whether the products continue to meet the general needs of the managed and supported from an operational, risk, and compliance target audience for which they were designed and whether the perspective and are appropriate additions to Jupiter's range of performance is in line with expectations and the information products.
TCF is an integral part of the Committees deliberations in communicated to distributors at the time of sale.
respect of sign-off, implementation and post launch analysis.
This applies to all of Jupiters product range, including UK unit trusts, The TCF Clients sub-committee considers the private client SICAVs and investment companies.
reporting arrangements to ensure that the services being provided to private clients are consistent with TCF objectives and that poor Operations Committee customer outcomes are being avoided.
It meets quarterly and The purpose of the Committee is to provide a forum through receives reports and management information.
which senior operational management from across the business can discuss operational issues and changes to the business.
The Committee considers any significant errors occurring during the year and any pertinent risk assessment findings from the Operational Risk function.
The Committee reviews health & safety risks and practices as well as any incidents that have occurred.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 33 Application of the Code principles The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and Application of the Code principles there is a clear division of responsibilities between the roles.
"The Chairman is primarily responsible for leading the Board, ensuring The Board is committed to the principles of corporate governance its effectiveness and setting its agenda, whereas the Chief Executive contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code ""the Code"", is responsible for the execution of strategy and day-to-day issued by the Financial Reporting Council ""FRC"" in September 2012 management of the Groups business."
Certain responsibilities are and which is available on their website, www.
delegated to the Board committees which assist the Board in carrying out its functions.
Throughout the year, the Company has applied the Main Principles of the Code, with the following exceptions: It was announced on 9 December 2013 that Maarten Slendebroek would replace Edward Bonham Carter as Chief Executive Officer on The Board consisted of 11 members, until 19 July 2013 when 17 March 2014.
Edward Bonham Carter will take up a newly created Richard I. Morris, Jr. stepped down, and for the remainder of the executive role of Vice Chairman with specific responsibility for year 10 members.
Throughout the year there were four executive engaging with key stakeholders.
Directors and until July 2013 seven, and thereafter six, nonexecutive Directors, four of whom excluding the Chairman were Liz Airey is the Senior Independent Director and, as such, and are regarded as independent.
The Code recommends that is responsible for assisting the Chairman with effective at least half the Board excluding the Chairman should comprise communications to shareholders and is available to them should non-executive Directors determined by the Board to be they have any concerns which have not been resolved through the independent.
The Board does not consider Michael Wilson and normal channels.
She is also available to non-executive Directors did not consider Richard I. Morris, Jr to be independent under B. should they have any concerns which are not appropriate to raise 1.1 of the Code, but believes that throughout the year there were with the Chairman or which have not been satisfactorily resolved sufficient independent non-executive Directors to provide an by the Chairman.
The Code recommends that non-executive Directors should be Board balance and independence appointed for specific terms.
However, Michael Wilson, who The Board is made up of 10 members, comprising the Chairman, was nominated by TA Associates, L. P. has been appointed as a four executive Directors and five other non-executive Directors.
non-executive Director of the Company for an indefinite period, Four members of the Board Liz Airey, Jon Little, Lorraine Trainer subject to three months notice of termination by either the and Matteo Dante Perruccio are free of any relationship which Company or Michael Wilson.
In addition, Richard I. Morris, Jr. could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent had been appointed as a non-executive Director of the judgement and have been identified as independent, as was the Company for an indefinite period, subject to three months' Chairman on his appointment, for the purposes of the Code.
notice of termination by either the Company or himself.
Michael Wilson, who was nominated by TA Associates, L. P. which Where the Company has not complied with the Code, the Board held 10.61 per cent.
of the Companys share capital as at 20 considers that it is not practical to do so, given the provisions of the February 2014 is the only non-executive Director who does not Relationship Agreement between the Company and TA Associates, meet the criteria of independence set out in the Code.
L. P. further details of which are set out in the Directors Report.
TA Associates L. P. has the right to nominate a Director so long as its The Board considers each of its non-executive Directors to holding exceeds 10 per cent.
of the issued share capital.
TA be independent in both character and judgement and no one Associates L. P. holding is currently 10.61 per cent.. individual or group of individuals dominates the Boards decision making.
The non-executive Directors constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy, and bring strong independent judgement, knowledge and experience to the Boards deliberations.
Leadership Operation of the Board The Board has a rolling agenda programme which ensures that items The Board is the custodian of the Companys strategic aims, vision relating to strategy, finance, operations, corporate governance and and values.
It provides entrepreneurial leadership to management compliance are covered at its meetings.
within a framework of controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed appropriately.
There were seven scheduled meetings during the year and additional ad hoc meetings where required.
All Directors including A formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision has been Richard I. Morris Jr prior to his stepping down on 19 July 2013 established by the Board.
attended all of the meetings of the Board and all Board committee meetings where they are a member.
A schedule of attendance is Overview of matters reserved for the Board: set out over the page.
To enable the Board to function effectively the Groups long-term commercial objectives and strategy: and to assist Directors in discharging their responsibilities, a major acquisitions, disposals and investments: comprehensive set of papers is provided for Board and committee dividends: meetings.
These include regular business progress reports, budgets, annual budgets and forecast updates: financial statements and shareholder information.
significant capital expenditure and or borrowings: the effectiveness of internal control: and appointment removal of the Company Secretary.
34 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Effectiveness Key areas discussed by the Board in 2013 Jupiter's strategic plan, including international distribution Balance sheet management, including MBO loan repayment Appointments and establishing a revolving credit facility The Companys Articles of Association empower the Board to Risk appetite appoint new Directors.
Corporate values Product development Induction and development RDR When Directors are appointed they are given a full, formal and Talent management and succession tailored induction to the business, including meetings with senior CEO succession management and advisers.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring Regular review of fund investment performance that induction and training programmes are provided.
Specific 2014 plan and budget training requirements of Directors are met either directly or by the Company through legal regulatory updates.
Non-executive In addition, non-executive Directors meet with senior management Directors also have access to externally run programmes.
The Company Secretary manages the provision Directors are also expected to take responsibility for identifying of information to the Board, in consultation with the Chairman and their training needs and take steps to ensure that they are Chief Executive.
He facilitates the induction of new Directors and adequately informed about Jupiter's business and their assists with their personal development as required.
He also seeks responsibilities as a Director.
The Chairman regularly to ensure Board procedures are complied with, that applicable rules reviews and agrees with each Director his or her training and regulations are followed and reports to the Chairman on and development needs.
Directors have access to independent professional advice at The Board requires all Directors to devote sufficient time to their the Companys expense where they judge this to be necessary duties and to use their best endeavours to attend meetings.
Whilst to discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
All Directors have the terms of appointment of the non-executive Directors require a access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who commitment to the business of up to 30 days a year, in fact, most is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are non-executive Directors spent considerably more time on the complied with, and to the Chairman on matters of corporate Groups business during the year.
The Chairman held one meeting governance.
during the year with non-executive Directors without the executive Directors present.
Conflicts of interest The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to consider and, if thought fit, to authorise situations where a Director has a conflict, or potential conflict, of interest in relation to the Group.
The Board has established a formal system whereby conflicts, and potential conflicts, can be recorded by each Director and, if appropriate, authorised by the Board.
Conflicts of interest are included as an agenda item at each Board meeting.
When authorising conflicts or potential conflicts of interest, the Director concerned is required not to take part in the Boards decision making.
Non-conflicted Directors are required to act in a way they consider would be in the best interests of the Company and most likely to promote the success of the Company.
These procedures on conflicts of interest have been followed throughout the year and the Board considers that they have operated effectively.
Meeting attendance Board 7 Audit 6 Remuneration 6 Nomination 5 Jamie Dundas Liz Airey Edward Bonham Carter John Chatfeild-Roberts Philip Johnson Jon Little 1 Richard I. Morris, Jr. Matteo Dante Perruccio Maarten Slendebroek Lorraine Trainer Michael Wilson Meetings attended 1 Stepped down as a Director of the Company on 19 July 2013 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 35 Application of the Code principles continued Evaluation Accountability The Board believes that a continuous and constructively critical evaluation of its performance is an important component of the Groups success.
The Directors provide a statement of their responsibilities for the preparation of the Annual Report and report on the Group as a In 2013, the Board conducted an internal evaluation of its own going concern.
The Strategic report sections of this report describe performance and of its Committees with individual Directors the performance of the business.
The questionnaire covered a number of areas including Board communication, effectiveness, the Board programme and agenda content.
As a result of recommendations from the performance evaluation process, in 2014 the Board has Internal control and risk management agreed to take the following steps: improve the communication from Committees to the Board: Internal control review of the layout and content of Board reports: and The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control maintain a good level of understanding of industry issues.
and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system can provide only a reasonable assurance against material financial misstatement or With regard to the performance of individual Directors, relevant loss and is designed to mitigate, not eliminate, risk.
input from the Chairmans meetings with individual non-executive Directors was fed in to the review by the Nomination Committee.
The Board, with the assistance of the Audit Committee, carried The Chairmans performance was subject to a review by nonout its annual assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, and during 2013, covering all material controls including operational, took into account the views of each of the executive Directors financial and compliance controls, using the following to support and the Company Secretary.
Having reviewed the Chairmans its conclusion: performance, his appointment has been renewed for a further three years from 28 January 2014. reports from the Compliance Director on the regulatory control environment within the Group: An externally facilitated Board and Committee evaluation process reports provided by both the Operational Risk department was not undertaken in 2013, but will be undertaken in 2014.
ORD and Risk Committee setting out the key risk exposures faced by the Group and, where appropriate, quantifying these Succession planning exposures and the adequacy of the corresponding control The Nomination Committee is responsible for both executive and mitigation in place within the Group: non-executive Director succession planning and recommends new a report from the Compliance Director on the effectiveness appointments to the Board.
When making Board appointments, of the risk assurance arrangements in place within the Group: the Board seeks to ensure that there is a diverse range of skills, a review of the method by which the Executive Committee gains background and experience, including industry experience.
Further assurance that the business is operated in alignment with the risk information is included in the Nomination Committee report.
appetite that is set by the Board: a review of the Risk Committees heatmap methodology and Director re-election the roles of various committees in overseeing risks within the All Directors appointed by the Board are required by the Companys business: Articles of Association and the Code to be elected by shareholders reports from the General Counsel outlining the Groups legal at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment by and litigation risks: the Board.
In accordance with the Code, all Directors will seek a report outlining the design and operating effectiveness of the re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Following the evaluation Groups 3 lines of defence model and the manner in which the described above, the Chairman believes that the individual's assurance functions and risk committees interact with each performance continues to be effective and to demonstrate other in supporting the risk management framework: commitment to their roles and that their respective skills reports from the Internal Audit function on key control and complement each other to enhance the overall operation governance issues arising from their review programme: of the Board.
an annual report from the Money Laundering Reporting Officer MLRO on the anti-money laundering and fraud prevention financial crime measures in place within the Group: and a report from an external audit firm on the internal framework in place within the Group AAF01 06 - ISAE 3402.
36 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 The Board is of the view that there is an ongoing process for Risk management framework identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant The Board has ultimate responsibility for the risk strategy of the risks that: Group and for determining an appropriate risk appetite, as well as the tolerance levels, within which the Group must operate.
By was in place for the year ended 31 December 2013 and up defining these, the Board demonstrates that it is aware of and, to the date of approval of the Annual Report & Accounts: where appropriate, has taken steps to mitigate the impact of risks is regularly reviewed by the Board: and that may have a material impact on the Group.
complies with the Financial Reporting Councils guidance, Internal Controls: Revised Guidance for Directors formerly To assist with its oversight of risk, the Executive Committee has the Turnbull Guidance.
formed an executive Risk Committee chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
The Risk Committee is attended by all members of the The Board is also of the view that: Executive Committee, together with the Heads of Compliance, Operational Risk and Investment Risk and is responsible for the necessary actions have been, or are being taken, to remedy oversight of regulatory, capital and liquidity risks within a coherent any significant failings identified as part of the ongoing risk and manageable structure.
management process: and no significant weaknesses were identified during the year.
Approach to risk The Board determines the appropriate approach to risks within Supplier oversight which the Group must operate.
"Risk tolerances are the Groups Jupiter has three significant outsourced relationships with thirdactual boundaries and limits through which the business monitors party organisations: The Northern Trust Company ""Northern and, if appropriate, escalates concerns to the Board."
"Risks and the Trust"", International Financial Data Services ""IFDS"", and HSBC Group's attitude to them are considered and monitored in the Securities Services ""HSBC""."
following categories: Northern Trust provides custodial services.
Strategic risk The risk that the Group is unable to meet its strategic 1 IFDS provides a number of services, including dealing and objectives as a result of matters inherent in the nature of registration processing, box management, agent and distributor our business or the markets in which we operate.
serving, enquiries handling, client accounting and reconciliations, Operational risk distribution processing and tax and regulatory reporting.
The risk of loss caused by weaknesses or failures in the 2 Groups systems and controls, related to people, systems HSBC provides a number of services relating to custodial, or processes.
These include risks arising from failing to administration and fund accounting.
properly manage key outsourced relationships.
The activities of these third parties are defined in service level Liquidity risk agreements and the organisations are closely monitored to ensure The risk that the Group may be unable to meet its 3 that service delivery standards are met.
Capital risk Assurance process The risk that the Group may lack sufficient capital to be The control environment in place across the Group is reviewed 4 able to operate as a going concern.
during the course of a year by one or more of the three assurance functions Compliance, Operational Risk and Internal Audit and Counterparty credit risk assurance reports provided to senior management, the Board and The risk of loss caused by the corporate failure of one of Audit Committee as appropriate.
5 the trade, prime brokerage or treasury counterparties to which the Group may be exposed, or by a custodial On an annual basis, Jupiter commissions the external audit firm to institution with which the Group has a relationship.
perform testing of the integrity of aspects of the Group-wide Regulatory reputational risk control environment.
"Jupiter has adopted the International Standard The risk of censure because of the Groups failure to meet on Assurance Engagement ""ISAE"" 3402 together with AAF 01 06 6 its regulatory obligations, which may lead to reputational as recommended by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of damage, a monetary fine or, ultimately, the withdrawal of England and Wales in the November 2010 technical release of its authorisation to carry on business."
The results of this testing, including any exceptions identified, are made available to the Group's institutional and investment company clients.
Depending on the risk category, the monitoring of these internally will be owned by the Risk Committee or the Balance Sheet Management Committee.
If the latter have any concerns, those concerns will also then be considered by the Risk Committee.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 37 Application of the Code principles continued Risk management process Management, with the assistance of the Finance function, is The foundation of the Groups risk framework is the responsible for the appropriate maintenance of financial records departmental risk self-assessment process.
Each functional business and processes that ensure all financial information is relevant, area completes a risk assessment on a four-monthly basis, which, reliable, in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations when taken in conjunction with the ongoing monthly control and distributed both internally and externally in a timely manner.
performance assessments, is seen as being adequate to capture A review of the consolidation and financial statements is completed any ongoing and emerging risks to the business.
by management to ensure that the financial position and results of the Group are appropriately recorded, circulated to members of The departmental risk self-assessments are conducted by the heads the Board and published where appropriate.
All financial of each functional area and are facilitated by Operational Risk.
The information published by the Group is subject to the approval work is informed by any loss data or near miss control failure of the Board, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
information and takes into account any topical system, process or staffing changes within the department as well as considering the Monitoring functions integrity of existing established processes and controls.
Where The Groups monitoring functions comprise a Compliance processes or controls are seen to be insufficiently robust, line department and an Internal Audit department currently management will be required to define improvements to be made outsourced to EY.
to the operating environment in order to ensure that they pose a minimal or acceptable level of risk to the Group.
The Compliance department oversees compliance by the Group with the relevant regulatory rules.
The Group maintains In addition to consideration of the processes and controls within comprehensive procedures and compliance manuals covering all their own departments, managers are required to consider the level business operations.
The Groups Compliance department also of service which they deliver to their stakeholders as well as the maintains detailed monitoring programmes for all regulated service which is delivered to them by other departments within the activities to monitor the perceived regulatory risk within the Group.
This is intended to ensure that all potential weaknesses in business.
These monitoring procedures are supported by risk the Group-wide operating environment are identified and assessments and are regularly reviewed.
The findings of the addressed.
monitoring programmes are circulated in full to the relevant Directors and executive summaries are provided to the Chief The results of the departmental risk assessment are signed off by Operating Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.
functional line management to indicate their acceptance both of the accuracy of the assessment and their ownership of the The Internal Audit function is focused on ensuring that operations identified issues.
Four-monthly risk assessment reports are comply with the Groups policies and procedures, including in distributed to, and subject to challenge from, the Executive relation to efficient operations, financial reporting, fraud, Committee and the Audit Committee.
safeguarding assets and compliance with laws and regulations.
The internal audit team is independent of business operations and has a Where risks are identified that are deemed to be of a sufficiently reporting line to the Audit Committee.
The team works closely with high likelihood of crystallising with a potentially significant impact the Compliance department and the Operational Risk department.
on the Group, these will be reflected in the firms high-level risk In addition, the Group periodically utilises external parties to review map in order to ensure that they receive an appropriately high level counterparty relationships.
This includes the reviewing of legal of senior management and Board attention.
The Board will be documentation as well as testing the operations of external service expected to take action where these risks are deemed to be outside providers.
The Groups risk management assurance programme is closely linked with the compliance monitoring programme.
Any breaches Remuneration found by the Compliance department are logged into the in-house error database and allocated to a failed control and the associated risk category.
Any breaches are, therefore, considered by the Executive Directors remuneration is structured so as to link rewards business as part of the risk and control assessment process.
to corporate and individual performance.
Further information on remuneration is set out in the Remuneration report.
This approach also allows the Compliance department to allocate a tolerance level to control failures that relate to regulatory controls, which can in turn help to determine the frequency at which certain areas should be monitored.
38 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Relations with shareholders Communication with shareholders is given a high priority and the Company undertakes a regular dialogue with major shareholders, fund managers and analysts.
The Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer meet with shareholders, as appropriate, during the course of the year, in particular following the announcement of the interim and year-end financial results.
The Chairman stands ready to maintain a dialogue with shareholders on strategy, corporate governance and Directors remuneration, as required, and in 2013 attended post-results meetings with a number of shareholders as part of the process of ensuring that good channels of communication are in place, and in order to maintain an understanding of the view of the major shareholders about the Company.
In 2013, the Remuneration Committee Chairman engaged with investors regarding Jupiters remuneration policy and disclosures in the Remuneration report.
Presentations to analysts are simultaneously posted on the Companys website at www.
The Senior Independent Director is available to meet shareholders on request if they have concerns that contact through the normal channel of communication through the Chairman has failed to resolve, or for which such a contact is not appropriate.
The Directors receive a report at Board meetings giving information on the changes in shareholders and any feedback from the Companys brokers and investors.
The Annual General Meeting provides the Board with an opportunity to communicate with, and answer questions from, private and institutional shareholders.
The Chairman of each of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions.
Key Investor Relations activities in 2013 February 2013 Full year results presentation for 2013 March 2013 Full year results London roadshow April 2013 Investor roadshow, Scotland Annual General Meeting June 2013 Investor roadshow, USA July 2013 Half year results presentation September 2013 Half year results London roadshow October November 2013 Investor dialogue relating to remuneration policy and Remuneration report December 2013 Investor calls following the CEO succession announcement Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 39 Nomination Committee report Dear shareholder, Committee members Welcome to the report of the Nomination Committee.
Jamie Dundas Chairman Liz Airey The Nomination Committee has an important role to play in Lorraine Trainer keeping under review the balance of experience and skills of the Board.
To this end, a significant part of the Committees work in 2013 has been on succession planning and Board balance and Committee roles and responsibilities include: composition.
The Committee has initiated more detailed planning for future non-executive Director appointments and I would expect reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board that this will lead to one or more further appointments in 2014. and making recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes: One of the Committee's key roles in 2013 has been overseeing considering succession planning for Directors and other the succession plans for the Group Chief Executive with the senior executives: announcement in December of the appointment of Maarten identifying and nominating, for approval by the Board, Slendebroek as the new Group Chief Executive with effect from candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise: 17 March 2014.
In addition, the Committee considered the broader evaluating the balance and skills, knowledge and experience succession plans for senior executives together with diversity on the Board and identifying the capabilities required for a within the Group as a whole.
As you will see from the report, particular appointment: and the Committee is pleased to see the further development of keeping under review the leadership needs of the Group, succession planning.
both executive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring the Groups continued ability to compete effectively in the The Committee also reviewed policy and practice for executive marketplace.
talent management, development and diversity and will maintain close focus on these themes.
More about the activities of the Committee is set out on the following page.
Jamie Dundas Chairman 26 February 2014 40 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Diversity Committee activities The Committee considers Board diversity when looking to appoint additional Directors.
It is seen as a prerequisite that each member of the Board must have the skills, experience and character that will The Committee has terms of reference which are available for enable him or her to contribute both individually, and as part of the inspection on the Companys website www.
Board team, to the effectiveness of the Board and the success of the Company.
Subject to that overriding principle, diversity of The Committee has three scheduled meetings per year and also experience and approach, including gender diversity, amongst meets as required to consider non-executive Director or senior Board members is of great value and it is the Boards settled policy executive recruitment or other matters.
In 2013, the Committee to give careful consideration to issues of overall Board balance met on five occasions.
The Committee formally reports to the and diversity in making new appointments to the Board.
Female Board on its proceedings.
Directors currently constitute 20 per cent.
Subject to overriding principles and other factors, the Board will aim to Succession planning maintain female representation on the Board at least at the current During the year, the Committee oversaw the succession plans level, and increase the level if appropriate candidates are available for the role of Group Chief Executive, currently held by Edward when Board vacancies arise.
A copy of the full statement on Bonham Carter.
The Committee has worked on succession planning diversity is available at www.
for this role for several years.
Maarten Slendebroek was recruited in March 2012 and joined in September that year as Distribution and During the year, the Committee considered diversity across the Strategy Director.
Having been a member of the executive team for business.
More information is set out in the Corporate 15 months, the Board announced in December 2013 that Maarten Responsibility section on the gender mix at 31 December 2013.
The would succeed Edward as Group Chief Executive with effect from genders are more balanced as we go down the corporate structure 17 March 2014.
The decision to make this appointment was taken and Jupiter is aiming to bring through a more balanced gender mix after careful consideration of the skills and experience that are as the next generation of leadership is developed and recruited.
Maarten's extensive asset management experience in the UK and internationally as outlined in his Evaluation biography in this Governance review together with his contribution The Committee undertook an evaluation regarding the operation at Jupiter underpinned the Committee's recommendation of and effectiveness of the Committee in 2013.
The Committee Maarten to the Board for this role.
concluded that it was operating effectively and identified steps to increase communication between the Committee and the Board.
The Board also considered the merits of Edward Bonham Carter The Committee also reviewed its terms of reference and was remaining on the Board in a new executive role.
Edward's experience satisfied that no major changes were required.
and his specific skill set were taken into account in the Committee's recommendation to the Board.
The Board decided that Edward The Committee did not undertake an externally facilitated Board should remain on the Board in a new executive role as Vice and Committee evaluation process this year, but will do so in 2014.
As part of the Board effectiveness review, and following No new appointments were made to the Board this year.
Richard I. conversations between the Chairman and each individual Director, Morris, Jr. stepped down as a Director on 19 July 2013 as a result of the Committee reviewed the performance of all Directors except the shareholding of TA Associates L. P. falling below 15 per cent.
the Chairman, whose performance review was led by the Senior This was in accordance with the Relationship Agreement, details Independent Director.
The Committee has recommended to the of which are provided in the Directors report.
Board that all Directors should be proposed by the Board for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
A search for a new non-executive Director to join the Board has started with external search consultants, The Zygos Partnership, Copies of the executive Directors' service contracts and letters of being appointed.
Other than being engaged for non-executive appointment of the non-executive Directors are available at the Director appointments, The Zygos Partnership has no connection Company's registered office, 1 Grosvenor Place, London SW1X 7JJ.
The skills, knowledge and experience the Committee is looking for in a new non-executive Director have been identified.
The Committee will give careful consideration Key areas reviewed by the Committee during 2013 to diversity and the balance of the Board in making its recommendations to the Board.
An appointment is expected Board composition to be made in 2014.
Succession planning The Committees work on succession planning also focused Non-executive Director search on considering the critical roles and critical people within the organisation and the potential immediate and long-term successors Diversity for these roles and people.
The Company has developed this area considerably during the course of 2013.
Recommendations on Directors for re-election by shareholders Review of Committees performance Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 41 Audit Committee report Dear shareholder, Committee members I am pleased to introduce the Audit Committees report for 2013.
Liz Airey Chairman Jon Little This year we are presenting it in a new format.
The Audit Lorraine Trainer Committees principal responsibilities are set out in the box opposite and our explanation of how we carried them out in 2013 and satisfied ourselves that we had fulfilled our oversight Committee roles and responsibilities include: responsibilities in line with the expectations of the Board are set out in the following pages.
overseeing the Groups financial reporting processes: reviewing the Groups internal controls and I would like to use my introduction to set the context within risk management systems: which the Audit Committee determines and carries out its annual reviewing the external and internal audit work plans, their programme of activities.
These are designed to support the Board findings and their effectiveness: and in fulfilling its governance responsibilities.
overseeing the appointment, remuneration, independence and performance of the Groups internal and external We are always cognisant of the profile of Jupiters business and auditors the environment in which it operates and this informs the way we approach our work and its focus.
By way of thumbnail sketch, Jupiter is currently a compact organisation with over 95 per cent.
of the some 440 staff working from its single central London office and most of its current business focused on UK investors, especially retail investors.
It has a strong internal culture of excellence in investment management.
Significant parts of the administration and operational support for Jupiters investment activities are outsourced to specialist providers.
Jupiters management is very conscious that it operates in a highly regulated environment, both in the UK and overseas, and it places importance on the quality of its regulatory engagement as well as compliance.
Jupiters strategy is to deliver value to its shareholders through significantly increasing funds under its management over the years ahead.
This strategy will change its business footprint and, whilst it will further develop its business in the UK, it will also build it globally, initially in Europe and Asia.
The Audit Committee is mindful that Jupiters growth strategy needs to be underpinned by effective administrative and operational support.
Whilst the major part of our routine work is focused on achieving assurance over the management of current operations, as discussed over this and the following pages, we also look at the scalability and robustness of those operations to meet the growth strategy.
We achieve this primarily by identifying specific topics on which we wish to focus, which are then presented to the Committee by relevant line management to ensure we connect directly with those responsible within the business.
We also seek to incorporate a forward-looking perspective into routine reports to the Committee and we ensure the Internal Audit function incorporates the fit for growth facet into their work programme too.
We report regularly to the Board and send minutes of our meetings to the Board, but all Board members have a standing invitation to receive the papers and sit in on our meetings.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website and I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions from shareholders about the work of the Committee.
Liz Airey Chairman of the Audit Committee 26 February 2014 42 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 As detailed in the Governance review, the Committee held six meetings during the period under review with two of those meetings having short agendas the primary focus being the items Overview of 2013 concerning a proposed trading update and Interim Management During the period under review, the Audit Committee completed Statement respectively.
its annual cycle of regular agenda items which it sets in advance to ensure its work fulfils the requirements of the UK Corporate The current Audit Committee members are Liz Airey Chairman, Governance Code and other relevant regulations.
This included Jon Little and Lorraine Trainer, all of whom have been identified by oversight of the Groups complete external reporting cycle, its the Board as independent non-executive Directors.
All the members internal assurance functions and responsibility for the review, and of the Committee whose profiles, provided earlier, provide further reappointment, of both internal and external auditors.
The Audit details of their qualifications are considered as being appropriately Committee complemented its regular annual programme of work experienced and qualified to fulfil their duties.
Liz Airey is the with specific reviews of topics of particular interest and relevance Chairman and is considered by the Board to have recent and which it determined on a rolling basis through the year.
description of both the regular activities and topics of focus carried out by the Committee is included later in this report.
The Committees work during the year External financial reporting In its formal annual review of its own effectiveness during 2013, The Committee reviewed the Groups half-year and annual financial the Committee concluded that it had carried out its duties in an statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 and the reports effective manner and had successfully followed up on the findings from the external auditors, PwC, on the outcome of their reviews of its effectiveness review in 2012.
Enhancements were identified and audits in 2013.
The Committee considered the significant issues for 2014 and beyond to deepen Committee members' knowledge which arose and main areas of judgement in relation to the Groups of the work of the executive Risk and Conflicts Committees and financial statements and disclosures to be the following: also to ensure that topics of interest are reviewed most effectively by the Committee.
Establishing an awareness of the importance of 1. the carrying value of goodwill and acquired intangible assets: the Audit Committees activities within the business is a continuing 2. the valuation of accrued income and accrued expenses: and process.
The Committee also reviewed its terms of reference and 3. share-based payments expense.
Each of these items currently require judgements to be made and The Committee has an ongoing training programme.
In addition so receive - and have received in the past - close scrutiny by the to attending seminars on relevant topics, the members of the Committee as well as by PwC.
To enable the Committee to do this, Committee receive regular training from both the external auditors, the management prepares a briefing paper for the Committee  LLP PwC, and the internal auditors, Ernst summarising the nature of the item and why it is considered to be a & Young LLP EY.
Experts from the relevant firm provide key judgement in the preparation of the Group's financial statements.
supplement the training for the specific areas.
Follow-up analysis is performed where necessary at the request of the Committee.
As a matter of good practice, the Committee asks Meetings of the Committee PwC to confirm if they agree with the judgements made.
The work cycle agreed by the Audit Committee requires it to meet at least four times a year to carry out its routine work and it meets As a result of the Group structure adopted at the time of the MBO otherwise as necessary.
While only members of the Committee in 2007, the Group has goodwill of 341.2m on its balance sheet.
have the right to attend meetings of the Committee, The Committee was presented with the results of the 2013 year-end representatives of the Groups external and internal auditors, the impairment review which demonstrated very substantial headroom.
Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, the Compliance In respect of the carrying value of acquired intangible assets, Director, the Head of Operational Risk and other relevant members primarily attributable to the valuation of investment management of the senior management team as appropriate are required to contracts following the MBO, the Committee agreed that no attend all routine meetings and unless otherwise specifically indicators of impairment existed.
It noted that these contracts determined ad hoc meetings of the Committee.
In addition, would be fully amortised by mid-2014 and, therefore, it was unlikely the Group Chief Executive, the Chief Investment Officer and to be a matter of significant judgement going forward.
the Distribution and Strategy Director are invited to attend all or relevant parts of the meetings of the Committee.
The Chairman of the Board has a standing invitation to attend all Committee meetings and other non-executive Directors likewise.
As part of its routine meetings, the Committee meets at least twice a year with the internal and external auditors without Jupiter management present.
Ahead of the Audit Committee meetings, the Chairman of the Committee has separate pre-meetings with the internal and external auditors by way of preparation for the Audit Committee meeting itself.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 43 Audit Committee report continued With respect to accrued income and expenses, the Committee In addition to the above routine annual activities, during the year reviewed the key assumptions made.
The most significant expense the Committee also identified topics of focus for review.
These assumption at the year end was, as usual, the annual bonus accrual largely related to key features of the Groups operating model, areas which is also subject to review by the Remuneration Committee.
of internal or external change or regulatory focus.
The main topics covered during 2013 and to date in 2014 were: With respect to share-based payments, the Committee has in the past reviewed in some detail the process by which the share Distribution options awards are valued including the underlying judgements the Groups readiness to meet the regulatory requirements of and assumptions and the number of shares expected to vest as a the Retail Distribution Review: result.
At this year end it satisfied itself that this process was being arrangements for the payment of rebates and trail commissions: consistently carried out and the underlying basis was still appropriate.
relationship management with institutional clients: overseas offices governance and operational controls for Also considered was the Group's position as a going concern.
This set-up and operation: and assessment was informed by the business and cash flow projections the Groups sales process UK and International.
for the Group and their sensitivities, the current net cash balance and the loan facilities available to the Group.
Platform programme change assurance in relation to specific During the year, the Committee also undertook reviews for the on-going projects within the Group: Board of Interim Management Statements and trading updates staff training and development: prior to their release.
the Groups dealing processes and procedures: client on-boarding in the Private Client department: and Internal controls and risk management systems IT work focus including cyber security.
The Committee received a report at each of its regular meetings from: Risk and governance the Groups Employee Benefit Trust and the arrangements for the Compliance Director, who provided reports on regulatory the waiver of dividends in respect of shares in the Company compliance across the group and the status of any other held by the EBT: relevant compliance matters: alignment of the risk appetite set by the Board with the way the Head of Operational Risk, who provided a report from the the business operates: executive Risk Committee and an update on operational risk the Jupiter Pension Scheme: and performance: the Groups use of accountancy firms.
the Head of Internal Audit, who provided a report on the status of the internal audit programme and any recommendations Towards the end of its annual cycle of work, in line with guidance for changes to that programme: and from the Financial Reporting Council, the Committee reviewed a the Head of Legal, who provided an update on litigation as report from the Compliance Director on the overall system of appropriate.
internal control and risk management.
This enabled the Committee to assist the Board in its own subsequent review of the adequacy of Also as part of its routine control and risk management work, the Groups system of internal controls for the Annual Report.
the Committee reviewed: the Groups Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process, prior to its submission to the Board: the Groups AAF 01 06 - ISAE 3402 report, prior to despatch to institutional clients: the Client Assets Sourcebook Regulatory Report undertaken by the external auditors, prior to submission to the FCA: and the Group's whistleblowing arrangements - to date there have been no calls made to the confidential helpline provided by an independent third party.
44 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Internal audit function The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for the relationship EY were appointed to provide the Groups internal audit function in with the external auditors, and during the year it reviewed and the second half of 2008.
The internal auditors report directly to the approved the terms of engagement and the proposed audit fee for Audit Committee and, in addition to submitting status reports for the 2013 audit.
In addition, in line with its annual work cycle, a full each Committee meeting, provide the Committee members with review of the effectiveness of the external auditors was carried out copies of any individual specific internal audit reports completed by the Committee following the 2012 audit.
This review took the between meetings.
The status reports tabled at meetings include form of a questionnaire which was completed by representatives both findings and recommendations, as well as reports on progress from the Committee, the Board, Finance, Compliance and in implementing previous recommendations.
A summary of the scores and key messages was the Committees discussion of any further required follow-up.
presented to the subsequent meeting of the Audit Committee.
The Committee works with the internal auditors to help ensure As part of the process, the FRC Guidance on Audit Committees that their work is embedded in the business as well as co-ordinated was followed and the Committee satisfied itself with respect to with that of the external auditors.
During the year the Committee the external auditors' qualifications, expertise, resources and amended the Internal Audit Charter and some aspects of its modus independence.
The Committee continues to believe that PwC operandi to bring it into line with best practice and with the revised conducts its audit work with objectivity and to a high standard.
Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors' professional standards for On this basis, it believes the external audit process to be effective, Financial Services companies.
These changes should help further although it will only carry out its detailed review of the 2013 audit embed the activities of internal audit within the Groups operations.
Accordingly, although there are no contractual obligations restricting Jupiters choice of external auditor other The Audit Committee reviewed the performance and effectiveness than in respect of the appointment of EY as Jupiters internal of the internal auditors during 2013.
This was undertaken by auditors, the Committee has not to date considered it necessary reviewing the KPIs which have been set by the Audit Committee to instigate any competitive tender for the audit work.
and obtaining feedback from relevant stakeholders within operations, the executive management and the Audit Committee The Audit Committee has a primary responsibility to safeguard the members.
In addition, the Committee received a Quality Assurance objectivity and independence of the external auditors and it has report from an independent partner of EY.
The Committee will developed and implemented a policy to achieve this which has continue to review the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function been approved by the Board.
This policy which is regularly on an annual basis and is currently of the view that outsourcing this reviewed and was unchanged during the year provides that certain to a specialist independent provider is appropriate and helps to types of non-audit services are pre-approved, whilst others are ensure that the function is adequately resourced.
The current prohibited and not permitted under any circumstances the internal audit plan runs until December 2014, in advance of which prohibited services being those where the associated threats to date the Committee will consider the continued appointment of auditor independence are considered unacceptable.
Those services EY as the Groups internal auditors.
which are pre-approved are those in relation to which the threats to auditor independence are considered low but, nonetheless, External auditors still need the Committees approval if the expected fee exceeds The Groups current external auditors are PwC.
Any proposed services which are neither pre-approved nor proposed scope of the audit plan for the full year together with a prohibited need to be approved by the Committee in advance and review plan for the half-year to the Audit Committee annually.
This in such circumstances, the Committee will need to be persuaded includes their assessment of the material risks to the Groups audit that it is in Jupiters best interests for the external auditors to be and their proposed materiality levels for discussion and agreement appointed and that the use of the external auditors will not impair by the Committee.
PwC attend all regular meetings of the their independence and objectivity.
In its reports to the Board Committee throughout the year and also provide reports on topics in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the external such as the control environment, key accounting and regulatory auditors, the Committee has not identified any matters in respect matters as well as their reports on the financial statements.
The policy also sets out certain disclosure requirements by the external auditors to the Committee, PwC were appointed in 2001.
Since that date, no tender has been restrictions on the employment of the external auditors former conducted for this work although the last rotation of the partner employees, partner rotation and the procedures for the approval responsible for the audit took place in 2010.
Following planned of non-audit services provided by the auditors.
changes to the UK Governance Code and the recent report from the Competition Commission requiring FTSE 350 companies to put their external audit out to tender at least every 10 years, the European Parliament has begun to finalise its proposals for reform of the market for audit services.
These embed the principle of the rotation of auditors every 10 years.
Whilst the consequent changes to the regulatory requirements are not yet in final form, the Committee currently anticipates that it will conduct a tender for the external audit in 2014.
This planned timing reflects the fact that the current audit engagement partner is due to rotate after the audit of 2014.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 45 Audit Committee report continued The Committee receives a quarterly report setting out the non-audit services provided by the external auditors during the year and the fees charged.
An analysis of fees paid in respect of audit and non-audit services provided by PwC is provided within Note 1.3 of the financial statements which covers administrative expenses.
The value of non-audit services of 0.3m as a proportion of audit services in the year was 33 per cent.
During the period under review, the majority of non-audit fees paid to the external auditors came from three main areas, with 0.1m spent on each.
These were: advice relating to taxation, review of marketing material for compliance with local laws, and remuneration advice.
Remuneration advice included assistance on developing remuneration regulations and provision of asset management remuneration survey data for management.
PwC was used in these areas due to the existing relationship which aids the understanding of the Group's business and structure and thus the ability to provide effective advice.
In addition, the Group spent 0.2m on audit-related assurance services.
These predominantly related to three main pieces of work which the Committee believes would be impractical and or not cost effective to be provided by another professional auditing firm: a the half yearly review: b the Jupiter report on Internal Controls AAF 01 06 - ISAE 3402 : and c the annual client assets assurance report to the FCA.
Accordingly, the Committee is satisfied that the external auditors were best placed to provide all of these non-audit services and that the arrangements in place between Jupiter and the external auditors are sufficient to ensure that PwCs objectivity and independence have been safeguarded.
Based on the satisfactory conclusions of the work described above carried out by the Committee to assess the performance of the external auditors and safeguard their independence, the Committee considers that it is in the best interests of the Group that  LLP continue to act as the Groups auditors and has recommended to the Board that a resolution to re-appoint them be proposed to the shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Liz Airey Chairman of the Audit Committee 26 February 2014 46 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Remuneration report Improved transparency Introduction from the Chairman We recognise that having a policy that results in a high proportion of the Committee of total compensation being delivered as variable pay brings with it greater accountability for ensuring that the variable element reflects performance and value delivered to shareholders.
We have Dear shareholder, therefore provided more information on the link between variable I am pleased to present our Remuneration report for 2013, which, pay and performance by providing more detail on: in accordance with the new reporting regulations is split into two parts: How we calculate the variable compensation pool: How we have arrived at the bonus amounts for the executive Directors' remuneration policy - setting out the framework Directors: and within which we operate and that will be subject to a binding Confirmation of our intention that, in normal circumstances, vote: and dilution from our employee share incentive arrangements will Annual report on remuneration - outlining how our policy has be no more than 10 per cent.
been implemented in 2013 and is intended to apply in 2014, that will be subject to an advisory vote.
The calculation of the variable compensation pool limits total variable pay awarded to executive Directors as well as all other The Remuneration Committee is accountable to shareholders employees.
Therefore, in normal circumstances, for ensuring that the remuneration policy of the Company is bonuses paid in respect of prior year performance and the value appropriate and aligns reward for executive Directors and other of long-term awards granted will not exceed the available variable employees with performance and the best interest of shareholders.
This pool is, in normal circumstances, capped We believe we have a strong track record in this area.
The Committee believes that maintaining capped base salaries but uncapped 2013 remuneration outcome individual bonuses is an important part of our performance culture.
Our underlying philosophy, outlined at the time of Listing, has This practice does not result in unlimited payouts because of the not changed.
By combining investment outperformance with our capped variable compensation pool.
The Remuneration Committee distribution strategy and efficient operations, we are able to create has maintained the variable compensation pool at or below 25.5 per value for our shareholders.
To achieve this, we need to acquire and cent.
of pre-incentive operating profit since Listing.
retain talented people who can deliver outperformance to our clients.
Our performance pay culture is both driven by, and The Remuneration Committee considers profits, net sales and underpins, this goal with the decisions on pay for our executive investment performance, alongside strategic goals and personal Directors, and the Company as a whole, driven by our results.
performance when setting executive Director bonuses.
This year, we have provided measure by measure commentary on how each Jupiter performed strongly in 2013.
Assets under management of these has been assessed.
increased from 26.3bn to 31.7bn from 31 December 2012 to 31 December 2013.
Underlying earnings per share have grown to 25.2p, Increased long-term focus an increase of 33 per cent.
The dividend has again In addition to improved transparency, we have increased the increased, from 8.8p per share for 2012 to a total of 12.6p per share long-term focus of the remuneration packages of executive for 2013.
This strong financial and overall corporate performance is Directors by refining our deferral policy as follows: reflected in our share price, which has increased from 2.79 on 31 December 2012 to 3.85 on 31 December 2013.
We have increased the deferral level on executive Director bonuses and simplified the deferral calculation.
Whereas Our practice of capping all salaries at a maximum of 250,000 and previously the deferral rate was 30 per cent.
on bonus amounts rewarding employees for performance delivered means that a high in excess of 150,000 with 100 per cent.
deferred between proportion of total compensation continues to be delivered as 100,000 and 150,000, the deferral rate will now be 40 per variable pay, with this element determined by profits and individual cent.
of any bonus amount in excess of 100,000.
We firmly believe this is appropriate for a cyclical per cent.
straight-line deferral calculation simplifies the deferral business such as Jupiter and that the variable compensation structure and results in a higher level of deferral for higher bonus awarded to the executive Directors in respect of 2013 is aligned amounts: and with, and appropriate in light of, the Companys financial To ensure that the DBP awards granted to executive Directors performance.
are fully aligned with shareholders interests, the previous choice to elect to receive up to 50 per cent.
of a DBP award as an We have sought to improve the level of disclosure in this years option over units in a Jupiter fund will no longer apply for report, which also incorporates the Remuneration Committees executive Directors.
For DBP awards granted from 2014 in reflections following the last AGM and some important changes respect of 2013 performance onwards, all DBP awards to to our policy.
executive Directors will be in the form of an option over Jupiter shares.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 47 Remuneration report continued Jupiter has a long-term commitment to employee share ownership Committee members and the impact of our share incentives are reviewed for their Lorraine Trainer Chairman relevance to succession and retention throughout the organisation.
Jamie Dundas In 2013, we introduced an HMRC approved Share Incentive Plan in Liz Airey which c. 45 per cent.
of eligible employees participate to Matteo Perruccio complement our existing HMRC approved Sharesave in which c. 78 per cent.
of eligible employees participate and to further encourage our culture of long term employee share ownership.
Committee roles and responsibilities include: Board changes determining the overarching policy for the remuneration of As we announced on 9 December 2013, Maarten Slendebroek will the Companys employees and ensuring it is structured in a succeed Edward Bonham Carter as Chief Executive Officer with way that aligns reward with performance and shareholder effect from 17 March 2014.
Edward Bonham Carter will remain on interests and promotes effective risk management: the Board and take on a new executive role as Vice Chairman, determining the overall size of the annual variable reporting to Maarten Slendebroek.
As Chief Executive Officer, compensation pool, taking into account all relevant factors Maartens base salary will remain unchanged.
His variable including the profitability of the business, the performance compensation will continue to be determined based on the usual of the Company, the assessment of the Groups financial and performance measures applicable for executive Directors and will non-financial performance against targets and any also reflect his increased responsibility for the success of the constraints around total remuneration spend: Company.
Edwards salary will be 160,000 per annum, reflecting an determining the Chairmans fees and the total individual appropriate rate for his new role.
Edwards variable remuneration remuneration package of each member of the Executive will be determined based on the usual performance measures Committee together with any employee whose total applicable to executive Directors, as well as reflecting the size and remuneration is expected to exceed the median of the total scope of his new role.
remuneration for the executive Directors in accordance with the agreed remuneration policy and consistent with the We take our shareholders views very seriously and I have financial situation and prospective performance of the appreciated having more frequent discussions with many of our Company: shareholders this year.
I hope that this years report will explain assessing the extent to which individual performance targets more clearly the principles that underpin our remuneration policy for incentive awards have been met by the above group of and how we link pay and performance.
We welcome any further employees: comments and hope the additional detail provided in the approving the design of, determining the targets for, and Remuneration report will underpin shareholders' support at the monitoring the operation of, any performance related pay AGM this year.
schemes, ensuring appropriate links exist between risk and reward, operated by the Company and approve the total Lorraine Trainer annual payments made under such schemes: Chairman of the Remuneration Committee reviewing the design of all share incentive plans and deferred bonus arrangements for approval by the Board and, if 26 February 2014 applicable, shareholders.
For any such plans, determining each year whether awards will be made, and if so, the overall amount of such awards, the eligibility criteria for such awards and the performance targets attaching to those awards, taking into account future risks: overseeing any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Company: determining and reviewing annually individuals who may be included as Code Staff for the purposes of the FCA Remuneration Code and keeping a record of those individuals: and overseeing the setting of objectives, considering performance and approving bonus proposals for Code Staff.
48 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Directors' remuneration policy Compliance with the FCA Remuneration Code Jupiter is a level three company for the purposes of the FCA Remuneration Code.
The Remuneration Committee fulfils all of its This section of the Remuneration report sets out the remuneration requirements under the FCA Remuneration Code and ensures that policy for the Directors of Jupiter.
The remuneration policy has the principles of the FCA Remuneration Code are adhered to in been prepared in accordance with The Large and Medium-sized the remuneration policy.
The Compliance Director attends two Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Remuneration Committee meetings a year to ensure that there is an Regulations 2013.
Consideration has also been given to the appropriate risk and compliance link to the remuneration policy and principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012. remuneration related decisions.
This link is intended to support the long-term success of the business.
Context The Jupiter Remuneration Committee considers the pay and Future remuneration policy conditions of employees throughout Jupiter when determining The remuneration policy table summarises each of the elements of remuneration arrangements for executive Directors.
the remuneration package and the remuneration policy effective from the Annual General Meeting at which this remuneration policy The remuneration policy for executive Directors applies on a is approved, for executive Directors of the Company.
It is intended similar basis to all employees.
The salary cap in place for executive that the remuneration policy will apply for three years, subject to Directors currently applies across the Company.
In any year, regulatory changes.
In practice the remuneration policy from 1 bonuses paid in respect of prior year performance and the face January 2014 will also be in line with the following table.
Additional value of LTIP and any other awards granted to executive Directors information is also provided in the sections following the and all other employees will be funded by and not exceed the remuneration policy table.
available variable compensation pool so all employees including executive Directors are incentivised in a similar way and are The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make any rewarded according to personal performance and the success of remuneration payments and payments for loss of office, including the Company.
the ability to exercise any discretion available to it in connection with such payments, notwithstanding that they are not in line with Participation in the all-employee share plans the HMRC approved the policy set out below where the terms of the payment were Sharesave and Share Incentive Plan is also offered to all UK agreed: i before the policy came into effect: or ii at a time when employees on the same terms, giving all employees the opportunity the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, to benefit from the opportunity of owning shares in the Company in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in and helping further align the interests of all employees with consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the shareholders.
For these purposes payments includes the Company satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an Benefits are also offered on a consistent basis for example, the award over shares or fund units, the terms of the payment are level of employer pension contributions is 15 per cent.
"of base ""agreed"" at the time the award is granted."
This includes awards salary for all employees and other benefits, such as private medical granted under the DBP and LTIP.
The Remuneration Committee also insurance, are offered to all employees on the same terms.
reserves the right to make any remuneration payments not in line with the policy set out below where such payments are, in the Most of the Jupiter remuneration policies apply on a Companyopinion of the Committee, necessary following any future changes wide basis.
The main differences for employees below executive in regulatory requirements.
Should such a situation arise, we would Director level and the remuneration policy for executive Directors engage with shareholders prior to any changes being made.
The relate to the deferral profile for large bonus amounts, the form of Remuneration Committee also retains the discretion to determine DBP awards and the performance conditions applicable to LTIP that DBP, LTIP and any other long-term awards be settled in cash or awards.
adjusted to reflect any distributions or variations of share capital between the relevant grant and vesting date of such awards.
Shareholder views The Remuneration Committee has a policy that executive Directors should maintain a significant holding of shares in the Company.
The The Remuneration Committee has taken steps to engage further in policy provides that executive Directors should build up, over time, dialogue with investor bodies and investors over the last year, which a holding of shares in the Company with a value equivalent to at has resulted in more detailed disclosure on various aspects of the least 150 per cent.
Jupiter remuneration policy in this Remuneration report and some refinements of the remuneration policy for executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee has considered the environmental, social and governance implications of the remuneration policy and is satisfied that it does not lead to irresponsible behaviour.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 49 Remuneration report continued Remuneration policy table - components of executive Director remuneration Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Base salary Jupiter aims to keep fixed costs low.
Base salaries are generally reviewed annually with any increases The base salaries of executive Directors are subject to the N A Therefore, the Remuneration Committee taking effect from 1 May.
When determining base salary levels, the applicable Jupiter salary cap, currently 250,000 per annum.
caps the salaries of executive Directors.
Remuneration Committee considers the individual's skills, the size and scope of their role, the market rate for the role at comparator companies and the salary increases for other employees of the Company.
Salaries are subject to the salary cap.
Annual bonus The annual bonus rewards corporate The bonus pool to be distributed amongst employees is part of the The variable compensation pool is, in normal circumstances, Executive Director bonus amounts are determined by reference to and DBP performance and the achievement of variable compensation pool, which is calculated by reference to a capped at 27.5 per cent.
In any performance against specific personal performance objectives and strategic and personal objectives.
As the percentage of pre-incentive profits.
year, bonuses paid in respect of prior year performance and the performance against the following performance measures: bonus pool is based on Jupiters profits, value of long-term awards granted will not exceed the available Bonus amounts are determined based on performance against 1.
Profitability, compared against expectations in light of market this ensures that bonuses are affordable.
The proportion of the pool that is various criteria and targets that are agreed by the Remuneration conditions, considering: When the performance of Jupiter, or of an distributed will depend on the underlying business performance.
Committee at the start of each year.
Profits against prior year individual, is such that no bonus is merited, The calculation of the variable compensation pool effectively caps Profits against the target set by the Board then no bonus will be paid.
The bonus amount determined is paid out in cash for the first total bonuses paid and LTIP awards granted to executive Directors 100,000.
For bonus amounts in excess of 100,000, no less than and employees and ensures they are affordable.
Net flows, compared against expectations in light of market The DBP provides a deferral element in the 40 per cent.
of the bonus amount in excess of 100,000 is delivered conditions: form of Jupiter shares to bonuses above a in the form of a DBP award.
Gross flows and net flows against prior year certain level to ensure there is a link to the Net flows against the target set by the Board longer-term performance of the Company.
Awards under the DBP take the form of shares or options over The margins at which those flows were achieved shares in Jupiter.
This aligns DBP award recipients with the interests of shareholders over the longer term.
Investment performance, considering: at least three years after the date of grant.
The proportion of mutual funds, weighted by AUM, with first or second quartile performance Malus provisions apply to unvested DBP awards granted in 2013 and The investment performance of other mandates beyond.
These malus provisions may, at the Committee's discretion, including segregated mandates and Investment Trusts result in awards lapsing where information comes to light that has, or would have had, a material impact on the bonus pool for the 4.
Achievement of strategic growth objectives, as set by the year in respect of which the DBP award was originally granted.
Remuneration Committee It is expected that high standards of risk and compliance are maintained.
If an appropriate risk and compliance environment is not maintained, executive Director bonus amounts would be reduced accordingly.
LTIP The LTIP is intended to provide long-term The LTIP pool which determines the face value of LTIP awards As stated above, the variable compensation pool is, in normal The performance conditions, applicable to 100 per cent.
of any reward for executive Directors to incentivise granted in any year is part of the variable compensation pool, circumstances, capped at 27.5 per cent.
of pre-incentive operating LTIP award granted to an executive Director are as follows for and reward for the long-term performance which is calculated by reference to a percentage of profit.
In any year, bonuses paid in respect of prior year awards granted from 2013 onwards 25 per cent.
of the award each : of the Company and to aid the retention of pre-incentive profits.
performance and the value of long-term awards granted will not underlying EPS: key employees.
exceed the available variable compensation pool.
The proportion of net sales: LTIP awards take the form of shares or options over shares in Jupiter the pool that is distributed will depend on the underlying business investment outperformance: and and vest a minimum of three years from the date of grant, subject performance.
The calculation of the variable compensation pool strategic goals.
to a continuing employment requirement and the satisfaction effectively caps total bonuses paid and LTIP awards granted to of performance conditions.
The appropriate targets applicable The Remuneration Committee adopts such calculation methods executive Directors and employees and ensures they are affordable.
in the measure of the performance conditions are set by the and policies in assessing the performance conditions as it Remuneration Committee at the start of the year performance determines are appropriate.
In exceptional circumstances, the Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to vary or replace a performance condition if an event occurs that means a performance condition has ceased to be appropriate, provided that any varied or new performance condition is, in its opinion, no more or less difficult to satisfy.
All-employee Jupiter encourages employee share Under the Sharesave plan, employees enter into a three or five Under the Sharesave plan, employees can save the maximum No performance conditions apply to the awards under the share plans ownership and operates an HMRC approved year savings contract and are granted linked options over shares permitted under the relevant legislation and are offered options all-employee share plans.
Sharesave plan and an HMRC approved in the Company.
with up to the maximum permitted discount to the exercise price.
Executive Directors are The Share Incentive Plan awards take the form of shares in the Under the Share Incentive Plan, employees can purchase Jupiter eligible to participate in both of these plans Company acquired by employees from pre-tax salary in conjunction shares from their pre-tax salary with a value up to the maximum on the same basis as other UK employees.
permitted under the relevant legislation in any tax year.
Jupiter will award matching shares based on the number of shares purchased by an employee through the Share Incentive Plan.
Benefits To ensure that a market competitive The benefits provided include pension contributions or cash Employer pension contributions are made at a rate of 15 per cent.
of N A remuneration package is provided on a allowance of the same equivalent cost to the Company where an base salary in respect of executive Directors the same contribution consistent basis to all employees, executive individual has entered into fixed or enhanced protection, private rate as applies for all Jupiter employees who are members of the Directors are provided with the same range medical insurance, life assurance, dependants pension and an Jupiter pension scheme.
of benefits as are available to all employees.
income protection scheme to cover long-term illness.
The value of other benefits will vary year on year, depending on factors such as the third party provider charges and market conditions.
50 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Remuneration policy table - components of executive Director remuneration Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Base salary Jupiter aims to keep fixed costs low.
G ross flows and net flows against prior year certain level to ensure there is a link to the N et flows against the target set by the Board longer-term performance of the Company.
Awards under the DBP take the form of shares or options over T he margins at which those flows were achieved shares in Jupiter.
T he proportion of mutual funds, weighted by AUM, with first or second quartile performance Malus provisions apply to unvested DBP awards granted in 2013 and T he investment performance of other mandates beyond.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 51 Remuneration report continued Performance conditions details The measures used to determine bonus payouts are considered in light of the key performance indicators and include a balance of financial and strategic measures.
The bonus and LTIP targets are commercially sensitive and so are not disclosed.
However, we will disclose information on performance against those targets in the Annual report on remuneration for the relevant year.
As noted in the remuneration policy table, the calculation of the variable compensation pool which is split between the bonus pool and the LTIP pool is linked to profits.
Therefore, not only is the initial calculation of the variable compensation pool strongly linked to the financial success of the Company, the performance measures used to determine the distribution of that pool are also linked to the key performance indicators for the achievement of the Company's strategy.
LTIP performance conditions are set by the Committee having given consideration to Jupiters strategic corporate objectives and the budget, to ensure that the performance conditions are aligned to the business strategy and are stretching.
The table below sets out the performance conditions attached to LTIP awards from 2013 and beyond.
Proportion of award Performance condition Details Jupiters underlying EPS performance Excess of Jupiters underlying Proportion of the award subject against a comparator index compounded EPS change over to the EPS performance condition The comparator index will be determined the change in the comparator that will vest 25% by the Remuneration Committee based on index a weighted average of an approximation of Less than 5 per cent.
the markets in which the Assets Under 5 per cent.
Management AUM of the Group are Between 5 per cent.
Pro rata between 30 per cent.
invested over the performance period.
or more per annum 100 per cent.
Jupiters net sales against net sales Jupiters net sales compared Proportion of the award subject performance targets against net sales targets to the net sales performance The net sales target for each year has condition that will vest 25% been, or will be, set by the Remuneration Less than 80 per cent.
Committee, with reference to the net sales 80 per cent.
target in the budget prepared by the Board.
Pro rata between 65 per cent.
or more of target 100 per cent.
Jupiters investment outperformance Proportion of mutual funds Proportion of award subject to The proportion of Jupiter mutual funds achieving first and second the investment outperformance weighted by AUM that are in the first or quartile performance over three performance condition that vest 25% second quartile when compared against the years, weighted by AUM appropriate benchmarks for those funds.
Pro rata between 25 per cent.
Strategic goals i Developing existing employees and recruiting new talent There are three strategic goals for the to provide the performance, products and service required purposes of these performance conditions.
by clients: 25% Of the shares subject to the strategic goals ii B roadening the client base in the UK and internationally: and performance condition, one third will vest iii M aintaining an appropriate risk control and compliance for each of the strategic goals, although the environment.
Remuneration Committee retain the discretion to determine that none of the shares subject to the strategic goals performance condition would vest if an appropriate risk control and compliance environment has not been maintained.
52 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Recruitment In the case of the future recruitment of a new executive Director, the Company would apply the following principles: Base salary: the base salary agreed will be the lower of the appropriate market rate and the applicable Jupiter salary cap, currently 250,000 per annum: Bonus: no guaranteed bonus payment will be made in respect of any unearned bonus or incentives.
Where a guaranteed bonus is payable, it will be subject to clawback for a period of one year from payment and, as per the terms of the FCAs Remuneration Code, guaranteed bonuses will not extend beyond the first year of employment.
Any new executive Director would also be eligible for an annual bonus payment in respect of service from the financial year of appointment on the same basis as all other executive Directors as outlined in the remuneration policy table: DBP: DBP awards will be granted in respect of the relevant proportion of any bonus paid in the year of recruitment, on the same basis as it applies for all other executive Directors and the usual malus provisions would apply to any DBP award as outlined in the remuneration policy table: LTIP: in the year of recruitment, any LTIP awards granted will be granted on the same terms as apply to other executive Directors, as set out in the remuneration policy table: All-employee share plans: participation in the HMRC approved Sharesave Plan and HMRC approved Share Incentive Plan will be offered on the same basis as it is for all other executive Directors and employees: and Benefits: pension contributions, private medical insurance, life assurance, dependants pension and income protection will be provided on the same basis as they are for all other employees including executive Directors.
Where the Remuneration Committee determines that such a payment is necessary for recruitment, payments such as relocation allowances and other relocation related expenses may also be paid at a level determined as appropriate by the Remuneration Committee.
Any buy-out awards granted in addition to the elements of the remuneration package on recruitment will be structured in compliance with the FCA Remuneration Code.
Therefore, buy-out awards will be required to be granted on no more favourable terms than the awards which they are buying out, in particular in respect of the: quantum of the award: timing of delivery: form of award: and existence of performance conditions.
Where necessary, any buy-out awards granted outside of the provisions of the rules of the LTIP will be granted under the Listing Rules exemption applicable to such share arrangements.
In the case of the future recruitment of a new executive Director, the Company will disclose the full details of the recruitment package and the approach taken in the annual Remuneration report following the appointment.
The other main contractual terms of the service contract would follow the same principles as those of existing executive Directors.
Any new non-executive Director would be appointed with contractual terms and a fee basis in line with the other existing non-executive Directors.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 53 Remuneration report continued Exit payments Our over-riding policy on termination payments to executive Directors is that we do not include any contractual provisions for compensation on early termination, other than the amount due under law and that the Committee will seek to keep any other such payments to an appropriate level, reflecting performance.
In the case of termination, a payment in lieu of notice may be due if such notice is not given by the Company.
As set out in the summary table of executive Director service contracts, no contractual entitlement to a bonus payment accrues or arises during the notice period.
Any bonus payment that the Remuneration Committee determines is appropriate to be paid in respect of an executive Directors notice period will be based on performance.
The DBP rules provide for the vesting of DBP awards no later than the first anniversary of the individual's cessation of employment with Jupiter, provided that the former employee has not joined a competitor of Jupiter in that time, in which case any outstanding DBP awards would lapse.
In the case of a change of control of the Company or equivalent transaction, DBP awards would continue to vest in the usual way on the usual timeframe.
Alternatively, the Board may determine that outstanding DBP awards may be exchanged for equivalent awards on such terms as agreed with the acquiring company.
The LTIP rules provide that any LTIP awards will lapse on cessation of employment, other than in limited circumstances, as follows: a The death of the employee: b Disability of the employee: c Termination without cause: and d Any other reason which the Remuneration Committee in its absolute discretion so permits.
Some of the scenarios where the Committee might exercise their discretion under d above to allow LTIP awards to vest in the case of cessation of employment are where the employee retired or left Jupiter as a result of ill health.
Where the Committee did exercise their discretion to allow LTIP awards to vest, they would normally only allow vesting on a pro rata basis, with reference to the proportion of the vesting period that had elapsed at the time of termination of employment and the extent that performance conditions were satisfied at the end of the performance period.
The timing of vesting would only be accelerated in the case of the death of the employee and in any other scenario any vesting would be on the usual vesting date s. LTIP awards would lapse if the employee was summarily dismissed.
In the case of a change of control of the Company or equivalent transaction, the Remuneration Committee may exercise its discretion to assess performance conditions applicable to outstanding LTIP awards to the date of the relevant event, but the timing of vesting could not be accelerated.
Alternatively, the Board may determine that outstanding LTIP awards may be exchanged for equivalent awards on such terms as agreed with the acquiring company.
54 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Executive Director pay modelling scenarios Jupiters remuneration policy provides for a significant proportion of total compensation for executive Directors being delivered in the form of variable compensation, dependent upon Jupiters performance.
The scenario chart below shows the minimum fixed compensation for each executive Director in their respective roles from 17 March 2014 when Maarten Slendebroek will succeed Edward Bonham Carter as Chief Executive Officer and Edward Bonham Carter will take on a new executive role as Vice Chairman.
The annual fixed compensation adjusted to reflect Edward Bonham Carter's role from 17 March 2014 is compared against their actual compensation for 2013, as set out in the Single total figure table in the Annual report on remuneration.
It is not possible to show maximum total compensation illustrations in the chart due to the structure of the Jupiter remuneration policy whereby capping of the bonus and LTIP is achieved by way of a cap on the variable compensation pool.
Edward Bonham Carter 160,000 21,090 Salary Fixed Benefits in kind Pension allowance in lieu of pension contributions 186,090 Cash bonus in respect of 2013 DBP award in respect of 2013 LTIP award vesting 2014 5,000 Sharesave options granted 250,000 32,953 940,000 560,000 1,500 Actual SIP matching shares 14.0% 1.8% 52.6% 31.3% 0.1% 1,788,422 1,724 2,245 0.1% 0.1% 0 500,000 1,000,000 1,500,000 2,000,000 2,500,000 John Chatfeild-Roberts 250,000 37,500 Salary Fixed Benefits in kind Pension allowance in lieu of pension contributions 292,500 Cash bonus in respect of 2013 DBP award in respect of 2013 LTIP award vesting 2014 5,000 Sharesave options granted 243,269 36,490 1,060,000 640,000 Actual SIP matching shares 12.3% 1.8% 53.5% 32.3% 1,982,483 1,724 1,000 0.1% 0.1% 0 500,000 1,000,000 1,500,000 2,000,000 2,500,000 Philip Johnson 215,000 32,250 Salary Fixed Benefits in kind Pension allowance in lieu of pension contributions 252,250 Cash bonus in respect of 2013 DBP award in respect of 2013 LTIP award vesting 2014 5,000 Sharesave options granted 210,000 31,500 460,000 240,000 170,715 1,500 Actual SIP matching shares 18.8% 2.8% 41.2% 21.5% 15.3% 0.1% 1,116,650 690 2,245 0.1% 0.2% 500,000 0 1,000,000 1,500,000 2,000,000 2,500,000 Maarten Slendebroek 250,000 37,500 Salary Fixed Benefits in kind Pension allowance in lieu of pension contributions 292,500 Cash bonus in respect of 2013 DBP award in respect of 2013 LTIP award vesting 2014 5,000 Sharesave options granted 250,000 37,500 790,000 460,000 Actual SIP matching shares 16.2% 2.4% 51.3% 29.9% 1,539,224 1,724 0.1% 500,000 0 1,000,000 1,500,000 2,000,000 2,500,000 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 55 Remuneration report continued Service contracts and letters of appointment The terms of the current executive Directors service agreements are summarised below: Provision Details Term Not fixed.
Notice period Six months written notice from either party, during which period salary and benefits will be provided but no contractual entitlement to any bonus payment will accrue or arise.
Service agreement dates 1 June 2010 for Edward Bonham Carter, John Chatfeild-Roberts and Philip Johnson, and 30 March 2012 for Maarten Slendebroek.
Termination arrangements No provisions for compensation on early termination, other than those provided by the position under law.
In the event that compensation for early termination is payable, the Committees policy is to seek to keep such compensation to an appropriate level.
There are no specific provisions in the service agreements providing for compensation payable by the Company on termination without cause or on a change of control of the Company.
No entitlement to benefits such as pension contributions and private medical insurance will continue after termination of employment.
The terms of the current non-executive Directors letters of appointment are summarised below: Provision Details Term Three years from the date of appointment renewal date Unexpired term as at 31 December 2013 Jamie Dundas: 3 years Liz Airey: 2 years 4 months Matteo Dante Perruccio: 8 months Lorraine Trainer: 2 years 4 months Jon Little: 8 months Michael Wilson: n a Notice period Three months written notice from either party Date of letters of appointment Jamie Dundas: 1 June 2010 replacing an agreement dated 28 January 2008 Liz Airey: 17 May 2010 Matteo Dante Perruccio: 1 June 2010 replacing an agreement dated 9 September 2008 Lorraine Trainer: 17 May 2010 Jon Little: 12 September 2011 Michael Wilson: 19 June 2007 Termination arrangements No provisions for compensation on early termination, other than those provided by the position under law.
T he appointment of Michael Wilson is for an indefinite period unless terminated by the Director on three months written notice to the Company, or by the Company on three months written notice to the Director which may be given at any time if the percentage of the Companys issued ordinary shares owned by TA Associates L. P. together with its Associates falls below 10 per cent.
The service contracts and letters of appointment can be viewed at the Company's registered office, 1 Grosvenor Place, London SW1X 7JJ.
Non-executive Director responsibilities The Chairmans level of fees is reviewed annually.
Non-executive Director fee levels are reviewed annually.
The current annual fees comprise the following elements: Basic fee: Senior Independent Director fee: Audit Committee chairman fee in addition to member fee : Remuneration Committee chairman fee in addition to member fee : Audit Committee member fee: and Remuneration Committee member fee.
The fees are set to reflect the time commitment and skills and experience required, based on an appropriate level against the market, and will not exceed the maximum amount permissible under the Company's Articles of Association.
The fees are currently paid in cash, but the Board retains the flexibility to pay some or all of the fees in shares.
Reasonable business expenses are reimbursed or settled on behalf of non-executive Directors and any tax arising in respect of the reimbursement or settlement of such expenses may also be settled by the Company.
56 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Annual report on remuneration Implementation in 2014 As announced on 9 December 2013, Maarten Slendebroek will succeed Edward Bonham Carter as Chief Executive Officer with effect from 17 March 2014.
Edward Bonham Carter will take on a new executive role as Vice Chairman.
As Chief Executive Officer, Maartens base salary will remain unchanged.
His variable compensation will continue to be determined based on the usual performance measures applicable for executive Directors and will also reflect his increased responsibility for the success of the Company.
Edwards salary will be 160,000 per annum reflecting an appropriate rate for his new role.
Edwards variable remuneration will be determined based on the usual performance measures applicable to executive Directors, as well as reflecting the size and scope of his new role.
The fixed elements in the scenario charts shown in the remuneration policy reflect the new roles that these individuals will hold from 17 March 2014.
For bonuses in respect of 2014 performance, the following performance measures will apply: Area Performance measures Corporate performance Profitability, compared against expectations in light of market conditions, considering: Profits against prior year Profits against the target set by the Board Net flows, compared against expectations in light of market conditions, considering: Gross flows and net flows against prior year Net flows against the target set by the Board The margins at which those flows were achieved Investment performance The proportion of mutual funds, weighted by AUM, with first or second quartile performance The investment performance of other mandates including segregated mandates and Investment Trusts Strategic objectives Achievement of strategic growth objectives, as set by the Remuneration Committee Personal performance Appropriate weighting of the above criteria and specific personal performance objectives In addition to the performance measures outlined above, the maintenance of an appropriate risk control and compliance environment is also required: if not maintained, any executive Director bonus amounts would be reduced according to the severity of any breaches.
Following a review undertaken in 2013, it has been decided to increase the fee levels of the non-executive Directors with effect from 1 January 2014.
The previous fee structure had been in place since Jupiters Listing in June 2010 and the new fee levels reflect the increased market rate and time commitments required for the roles.
The annual fee rates applicable from 1 January 2014 will be as follows: Basic fee: 55,000 45,000 to 31 December 2013 : Senior Independent Director fee: 7,500 5,000 to 31 December 2013 : Audit Committee Chairman fee in addition to member fee : 15,000 10,000 to 31 December 2013 : Remuneration Committee Chairman fee in addition to member fee : 15,000 10,000 to 31 December 2013 : Audit Committee member fee: 5,000 no change : and Remuneration Committee member fee: 5,000 no change.
Non-executive Directors are reimbursed for reasonable business expenses.
The roles and committee responsibilities of the non-executive Directors are currently as follows: Director Title Roles and Committee responsibilities Jamie Dundas Independent Chairman Nomination Committee Chairman Remuneration Committee member Liz Airey Independent non-executive Director Audit Committee Chairman Nomination Committee member Remuneration Committee member Senior Independent Director Matteo Dante Perruccio Independent non-executive Director Remuneration Committee member Lorraine Trainer Independent non-executive Director Audit Committee member Nomination Committee member Remuneration Committee Chairman Jon Little Independent non-executive Director Audit Committee member Michael Wilson Non-executive Director External directorships Executive Directors are not permitted to hold external directorships or offices without the prior approval of the Board.
Edward Bonham Carter became a non-executive Director of Land Securities Group plc on 1 January 2014, for which he will be paid fees of 67,500 per annum.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 57 Remuneration report continued Shareholder context At the AGM of the Company held on 18 April 2013, the voting outcome on resolution two to approve the Directors Remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2012 was as follows: Percentage of Percentage of For total votes cast Against total votes cast Withheld 189,809,409 68.51 per cent.
52,465,641 Our understanding of the key shareholder concerns identified from the feedback on our 2012 Remuneration report is as follows: A lack of detailed disclosure relating to the determination of 2012 bonus amounts, in conjunction with uncapped individual bonuses: and Our policy regarding dilution.
The Remuneration Committee have made active efforts during 2013 to engage with investor bodies and our major shareholders.
As well as considering comments from shareholders, the ABI and ISS, we reviewed the remuneration policies at our comparators, including other listed asset management companies.
Following this review, we continue to believe that the quantum of our remuneration is appropriate but we recognise that improvements must be made to the level of transparency and disclosure in the Remuneration report.
Therefore, we have made some important changes to our remuneration policy during 2013 and sought to improve our level of disclosure in various areas of our 2013 Remuneration report.
In Autumn 2013, we consulted with our major shareholders outlining the proposed changes to be made to our remuneration policy and explaining the additional disclosure of the executive Director bonus performance measures that we proposed to make in our 2013 Remuneration report.
Shareholder feedback from that consultation process was considered in finalising our proposed changes.
Philip Johnsons salary was increased from 200,000 to 215,000, effective 1 May 2013.
This increase was a result of a review of market data for similar roles at comparator companies in the asset management sector and the wider FTSE 250 that took place as Philip Johnson had received no salary increase since joining Jupiter in October 2009.
Estimated value of 2011 LTIP award vesting in 2014, based on the average closing share price over the period 1 October 2013 to 31 December 2013 the actual vesting date, from which the option is exercisable, is 18 April 2014.
These amounts have been determined by the Remuneration Committee based on performance against the relevant annual bonus performance measures in respect of 2013.
# The value of the LTIP award vesting is based on the Remuneration Committee's determination of performance against the relevant LTIP performance measures.
58 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Single total figure continued 2013 bonus performance measures The table below outlines the performance measures used to determine 2013 bonus amounts payable to executive Directors.
Whilst the actual targets are commercially sensitive, information on performance against those measures is provided below.
The variable compensation pool, which is used to fund bonus payments, is determined by reference to the profits of the Company and has been maintained at or below 25.5 per cent.
Indicator of Area Performance measures performance Comments Corporate Profitability, compared against expectations Profits for 2013 exceeded the prior year EBITDA performance in light of market conditions, considering: of 151.5m was 22 per cent.
higher than 2012 and Profits against prior year: and underlying EPS of 25.2p was a 33 per cent.
increase Profits against the target set by the Board.
Profits, EBITDA and underlying EPS for 2013 also exceeded the targets set by the Board.
Whilst market conditions were favourable, cost discipline was maintained and operating margins increased as a result Net flows, compared against expectations in Net inflows were 24 per cent.
ahead of 2012: gross light of market conditions, considering: inflows were 14 per cent.
Gross flows and net flows against prior year: Net inflows of 1.2bn were in line with target, Net flows against the target set by the given external market conditions.
Board: and The margins at which those flows were Flows were written at rates consistent with achieved.
external market guidance on net management fee margin progression.
Investment performance Investment performance was strong with 69 per The proportion of mutual funds, weighted cent.
of mutual funds above median weighted by AUM, with first or second quartile by AUM over three years.
performance: and The investment performance of other Performance on other mandates was exceptional mandates including segregated mandates with 99 per cent.
of segregated mandates and and Investment Trusts.
of investment trusts weighted by AUM over three years beating their benchmarks.
Strategic objectives Achievement of strategic growth Significant improvement in articulation and objectives, as set by the Board.
implementation of the Companys strategy.
Continued delivery across main strategic key performance indicators as outlined in the table below.
Sustainable net cash balance sheet achieved, deleverage cycle near completed, liquidity enhanced and need for regulatory capital waiver eliminated.
Combined with higher profits, this has allowed the Board to increase dividends declared to shareholders Summary Overall, outcomes against the performance measures were above the previous year and 2013 expectations with value delivered for both clients and shareholders.
This resulted in a dividend per share of 12.6p for 2013, an increase of 43 per cent.
total shareholder returns for Jupiter Fund Management plc shareholders in 2013 compared against a wider market return of 21 per cent.
An appropriate risk and compliance environment was maintained throughout and so no bonus adjustments are necessary in respect of risk and compliance issues.
Individual executive Director bonus amounts are determined based on the corporate performance and achievement of strategic objectives outlined above, as well as personal performance.
The weighting of each factor is based on what is appropriate for the year in question and the role fulfilled by the individual.
excellent performance: very good performance: good performance: below expectations performance - Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 59 Remuneration report continued Single total figure continued Personal performance Edward Bonham Carter, Chief Executive Officer As Chief Executive Officer, Edward oversaw the continued strong corporate performance.
Edwards bonus reflects the value he has continued to create for shareholders through his leadership of the firm internally and externally as evidenced by the combination of good investment performance, positive net sales, strong growth in profits combined with the rollout of Jupiters strategic plan.
In particular, Edward also made a valuable contribution to the planning and delivery of succession arrangements and the appointment of Maarten Slendebroek as Chief Executive Officer with effect from 17 March 2014.
Bonus amount for 2013: 1,500,000 Personal performance: John Chatfeild-Roberts, Chief Investment Officer Johns 2013 bonus reflects his contribution as an executive Director of the Company, but also in particular the strong investment performance of Jupiters mutual funds, segregated mandates and Investment Trusts, which John is primarily responsible for as Chief Investment Officer.
John also performed well in overseeing fund manager changes with a minimal impact on the business.
The Jupiter Merlin portfolios, which John leads the team in running, made good absolute returns for clients in 2013, but relative performance was not as strong as it was in 2012.
John has also played a leading part in articulating the Company's corporate values.
Bonus amount for 2013: 1,700,000 Personal performance: Philip Johnson, Chief Financial Officer Philips 2013 bonus amount reflects, in particular, the strong financial performance of the Company as well as his contribution as an executive Director of the Company.
In 2013, Philip has taken on management of further internal functions of the Company and led progress within his responsible areas.
He has also overseen continued development of the internal risk management framework and the ongoing implementation of our balance sheet management strategy.
The strong financial performance and capital management of the Company overseen by Philip has contributed to enabling the dividend to be increased in respect of 2013.
Bonus amount for 2013: 700,000 Personal performance: Maarten Slendebroek, Distribution & Strategy Director In his current role, Maarten is responsible for the sales and marketing function as well as formulating the forward looking strategy and growth framework for the Company.
During 2013, in addition to his wider contribution as an executive Director, Maarten oversaw continued net flows and played a key role in the significant improvement in articulation and implementation of the Companys strategy.
Maarten initiated and led a restructuring of sales and marketing to position the Company for future growth.
Critical to positioning the Company for future growth, Maarten also played a decisive role in bringing in experienced talent in multiple functions and geographies.
Bonus amount for 2013: 1,250,000 The following table supports the conclusions above by showing the Companys performance since Listing against key performance indicators: 2010 2011 2012 2013 Three year investment performance proportion of mutual funds 66 per cent.
weighted by AUM above median Net flows mutual funds 1,886m 528m 1,550m 1,162m Operating margin 54 per cent.
Underlying EPS 17.6p 19.1p 19.0p 25.2p Net debt cash 62.7m 7.4m 69.0m 159.5m 60 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Single total figure continued Performance condition testing for 2011 LTIP award, vesting 18 April 2014 Philip Johnson holds an LTIP award due to vest on 18 April 2014, subject to performance conditions.
The performance conditions have been tested and performance against those conditions and the associated level of vesting is outlined below.
The actual net sales targets are commercially sensitive, but information on performance against that performance condition is included in the information provided below: Options Proportion of award over shares Performance Condition Performance against the condition over the performance period vesting vesting Underlying EPS vs index Jupiters underlying EPS grew by 12.7 per cent.
Jupiters annualised 15,472 underlying EPS 30 per cent.
vesting for 5 per The index grew by 6.1 per cent.
In assessing growth exceeded cent.
growth in excess of the the index growth, the Committee exercised discretion to measure the index index: the index on an average basis rather than a point to point basis as by 6.6 per cent.
vesting for the averaging basis is considered a fairer reflection of the index Jupiters underlying EPS performance and will be used consistently for future LTIP underlying This equates to growth exceeding the index EPS performance condition measurement.
The point to point 53 per cent.
per annum: basis would have resulted in higher vesting 73 per cent.
under and the underlying EPS performance condition as the index growth Straight-line vesting measured on this basis was lower.
Actual net sales against target Jupiters net sales over the performance period were below 80 per 0 per cent.
This was largely a result of poor market conditions 30 per cent.
vesting for net in particular in 2011 and the very stretching targets that the sales 80 per cent.
vesting for net sales 100 per cent.
vesting for net sales 125 per cent.
of target: and Straight-line vesting between these points.
of mutual funds weighted by AUM are ranked in the 100 per cent.
vesting 29,192 first or second quartile over the three year performance period.
Maintaining long-term Extensive development of existing talent, in particular in fund investment performance.
management, has been a feature throughout the performance Developing existing period.
Recruitment has also been successful with a range of key employees and recruiting hires at a senior management level, in fund management and sales new talent to provide the in particular internationally.
During this period, talent management performance, products and has developed significantly.
The wealth management client base and range of funds supported Broadening the client base has been broadened over the performance period.
From an in the UK and internationally Institutional perspective, a wider range of Jupiter strategies are Maintaining an appropriate now rated from consultants.
risk control and compliance Internationally, the expansion overseas has progressed at pace, environment.
with offices in Switzerland, Hong Kong and Sweden added during the performance period.
Expansion in Germany has also taken place.
This has led to a broadening of the international client base and the work carried out to date is expected to lead to a further broadening of the client base internationally going forward.
The value of external mutual fund assets in SICAVs has increased from 1.1bn in December 2010 to 2.7bn in December 2013.
There have been no major risk or compliance issues over the performance period.
vesting 44,664 LTIP awards were also granted to executive Directors during 2013.
The face value of the awards granted to Edward Bonham Carter and John Chatfeild-Roberts were 250,000.
The award granted to Philip Johnson had a face value of 275,000 and the award granted to Maarten Slendebroek had a face value of 825,000.
As disclosed in our 2012 Remuneration Report, the LTIP award granted to Maarten Slendebroek was part of his recruitment arrangements.
Directors shareholdings audited information Unvested ordinary shares Unvested held at options, vesting Unvested options, Ordinary shares 31 December Vested but not subject to vesting subject Total options held at subject to Total ordinary unexercised performance to performance over ordinary Shareholding 31 December 2013 continued shares held at options at conditions at conditions at shares held at as a percentage Director no restrictions employment 31 December 2013 31 December 2013 31 December 2013 31 December 2013 31 December 2013 of salary Jamie Dundas 1,250,000 1,250,000 Edward 13,000,466 457 13,000,923 4,663 441,006 175,032 620,701 20,021 Bonham Carter per cent.
Slendebroek Liz Airey 45,450 45,450 Matteo 76,833 76,833 Dante Perruccio Lorraine Trainer 24,242 24,242 Jon Little 2,513 2,513 Michael Wilson 2 185,947 185,947 1 Includes connected person's holding.
2 Shares in which Michael Wilson has a pecuniary interest.
The Remuneration Committee has a policy that executive Directors should maintain a significant holding of shares in the Company.
The policy provides that executive Directors should hold shares in the Company with a value equivalent to at least 150 per cent.
With the exception of Maarten Slendebroek who only joined the Board on 4 September 2012, each of the executive Directors currently holds shares with a value significantly in excess of 150 per cent.
It is anticipated that Maarten Slendebroek will build up the required holding over a timeframe of three to five years from his appointment to the Board.
There have been no changes to the above interests between the year end and 20 February 2014 the latest practicable date before the printing of the Annual Report and Accounts.
62 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Share awards audited information DBP options over Jupiter shares Options held at start of year Options granted during the year Options held at end of year Number of Number of Market shares shares under value Price used under option option held per share to determine Number of held as at Earliest Latest Year as at at date Face value number of shares 31 December exercise exercise Director granted 1 January 2013 of grant Grant date at award shares under option 2013 date date Edward 2011 185,658 2.85 185,658 18 April 18 July Bonham Carter in respect 2014 2014 of 2010 2012 190,098 2.39 190,098 2 April 2 July in respect 2015 2015 of 2011 2013 4 April 205,000 3.30 62,158 62,158 4 April 4 July in respect 2013 2016 2016 of 2012 John 2011 253,967 2.85 253,967 18 April 18 July Chatfeild-Roberts in respect 2014 2014 of 2010 2012 315,437 2.39 315,437 2 April 2 July in respect 2015 2015 of 2011 2013 4 April 287,500 3.30 87,174 87,174 4 April 4 July in respect 2013 2016 2016 of 2012 Philip 2011 75,314 2.85 75,314 18 April 18 July Johnson in respect 2014 2014 of 2010 2012 83,559 2.39 83,559 2 April 2 July in respect 2015 2015 of 2011 2013 4 April 185,000 3.30 56,094 56,094 4 April 4 July in respect 2013 2016 2016 of 2012 Average closing share price from three trading days prior to date of grant.
Key terms: No performance measures are attached to options granted under the DBP, although malus provisions apply see the remuneration policy table for further details : and No exercise price is payable on the exercise of DBP options.
DBP options over units in Jupiter funds Options held at start of year Options granted during the year Options held at end of year Number of Market Number of units under value Price used units under option held per unit to determine Number of option as at Earliest Latest Year as at at date Face value number of units under 31 December exercise exercise Director granted 1 January 2013 of grant Grant date at award units option 2013 date date Edward 2013 4 April 205,000 0.65 317,042 317,042 4 April 4 July Bonham Carter in respect 2013 2016 2016 of 2012 John 2013 4 April 287,500 1.31 220,154 220,154 4 April 4 July Chatfeild-Roberts in respect 2013 2016 2016 of 2012 Options over units in Jupiter Japan Income Accumulation Fund.
Options over units in Jupiter Merlin Balanced Accumulation Fund.
Key terms: No performance measures are attached to options granted under the DBP as they represent deferral of bonus, although malus provisions apply see the remuneration policy table for further details : and No exercise price is payable on the exercise of DBP options.
Key terms: Performance conditions for LTIP awards granted in 2011 and 2012 are underlying EPS, net sales and strategic goals with the exception of Maarten Slendebroeks 2012 LTIP awards, where no performance conditions are attached as part of buy-out arrangements.
For LTIP awards granted from 2013 onwards, the performance conditions are: underlying EPS, net sales, investment outperformance and strategic goals.
These performance conditions are measured over the period 1 January in the year of grant to 31 December in the year prior to vesting: and An exercise price of 0.02 per share is payable on the exercise of LTIP options.
64 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Share awards continued audited information Joiner Plan Options held at start of year Options granted during the year Options held at end of year Market Number of Number of value Price used shares under shares under per share to determine Number of option as at Earliest Latest Year option as at at date Face value number of shares under 31 December exercise exercise Director granted 1 January 2013 of grant Grant date at award shares option 2013 date date Maarten 2012 320,649 2.26 320,649 31 January 31 January Slendebroek 2014 2016 2012 42,554 2.26 42,554 31 January 31 January 2015 2017 Key terms: The options granted under the Joiner Plan are one-off awards made as a buy-out of awards foregone by Maarten Slendebroek on resignation from his previous employer in order to join Jupiter.
In order to match the terms of the awards foregone, no performance conditions are attached to the options granted under the Joiner Plan: An exercise price of 0.02 per share is payable on the exercise of Joiner Plan options: and The options granted under the Joiner Plan will not be settled with newly issued shares.
Sharesave Options exercised during the Options held at start of year Options granted during the year year Options held at end of year Number of Market shares under Number of Number of value Price used option shares under shares under per share to determine Number of exercised option as at Earliest Latest option as at at date Face value number of shares under during the 31 December exercise exercise Director 1 January 2013 of grant Grant date at award shares option year 2013 date date Edward 4,663 2.56 4,663 1 December 31 May Bonham Carter 2013 2014 7 October 11,243 2.91 3,092 3,092 1 December 31 May 2013 2016 2017 Philip Johnson 4,663 2.56 4,663 7 October 11,243 2.91 3,092 3,092 1 December 31 May 2013 2016 2017 20 per cent.
discount to the average closing share price from three trading days prior to the Sharesave 2013 invitation opening date.
Closing share price on date of exercise, 2 December 2013, was 3.90.
This resulted in a gain on exercise of 9,186.
Key terms: No performance conditions are attached to Sharesave options: and The exercise price for Sharesave options is equal to the price used to determine the number of shares.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 65 Remuneration report continued Share awards continued audited information SIP Awards granted during the year Awards held at end of year Price used Number of to determine shares subject Face value number of Number of to award as at Earliest Director Grant date at award shares shares 31 December 2013 vesting date Edward Bonham Carter 2 May 2013 1,500 3.28 457 457 2 May 2016 John Chatfeild-Roberts 2 May 2013 125 3.28 38 38 2 May 2016 3 June 2013 125 3.24 38 38 3 June 2016 2 July 2013 125 2.91 43 43 2 July 2016 2 August 2013 125 3.56 35 35 2 August 2016 2 September 2013 125 3.46 36 36 2 September 2016 2 October 2013 125 3.72 34 34 2 October 2016 4 November 2013 125 3.94 32 32 4 November 2016 2 December 2013 125 3.90 32 32 2 December 2016 Philip Johnson 2 May 2013 1,500 3.28 457 457 2 May 2016 Market price on the date of purchase of SIP shares.
Pre-Listing Share Plan, not listed company remuneration shares Ordinary shares held as at 1 January 2013 Ordinary shares held as at 31 December 2013 Director subject to vesting Ordinary shares vested during 2013 subject to vesting Edward Bonham Carter 3,937,500 3,937,500 John Chatfeild-Roberts 2,250,000 2,250,000 Philip Johnson 533,334 533,334 The vesting of the shares shown in the table above is no longer dependent upon the satisfaction of performance conditions.
These shares are restricted shares that are derived from B ordinary shares acquired in the Management Buy-Out in 2007 or in 2009 on joining the Company in the case of Philip Johnson for 1 per B ordinary share equivalent to 0.02 per ordinary share, which was equal to the market value of the B ordinary shares at that time.
Therefore, as they represent a significant at risk investment in the business and the vesting terms were voluntarily extended at the time of the Listing, these shares should not be considered as listed company remuneration in the year of their eventual vesting.
Pre-Listing Share Plan, not listed company remuneration options Number of shares Number of shares under option Number of shares under option as exercised during under option as at Exercise price Earliest Latest Director at 1 January 2013 the year 31 December 2013 per share exercise date exercise date John Chatfeild-Roberts 250,000 250,000 0.02 21 June 2011 333,375 333,375 0.02 21 June 2012 333,375 333,375 0.02 21 June 2013 645,750 645,750 0.02 21 June 2014 1 Prior to Listing, John Chatfeild-Roberts was granted an option under the pre-Listing Share Plan over 1,562,500 ordinary shares which becomes exercisable between 21 June 2011 and 21 June 2014.
of the shares under option 312,500 of the shares vesting on 21 June 2014 is subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
The performance conditions will be measured by the Remuneration Committee with reference to the performance of the funds John Chatfeild-Roberts manages, the growth in assets and his wider contribution as Chief Investment Officer and as a Director of the Company.
The exercise price of 2p per share was paid on the grant of the option 31,250 in total.
2 For the options that vested during the year, the closing share price on the date of vesting, 21 June 2013, was 2.82.
66 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Dilution Our settled policy regarding dilution from employee share awards has been and will continue to be to ensure that dilution will be no more than 10 per cent.
in any rolling 10 year period and no more than five per cent.
from employee share awards granted to executive Directors of the Company in any rolling 10 year period.
As at 31 December 2013, share awards granted under the DBP, LTIP and Sharesave in the three and a half years since Jupiter's Listing were outstanding over 18.2m shares.
of the Company's issued share capital.
In practice, it is our current intention that all share awards outstanding as at 31 December 2013 will be settled with market purchased shares.
Therefore, we are currently operating within the relevant dilution targets by a comfortable margin.
Notwithstanding the target outlined above, as a business exposed both to market shocks and to critical people issues, we believe we should retain flexibility to act very quickly to take steps that could increase dilution up to a maximum of 15 per cent.
on a temporary and short-term basis if the Remuneration Committee Board believes it is clearly in shareholders interests to do so.
If dilution were to exceed 10 per cent.
in any rolling 10 year period, this would be on an exceptional basis and for a short time period.
The Remuneration report for the relevant year would also contain the necessary justifications for such an outcome.
The Remuneration Committee and Board would ensure that dilution levels returned to within the 10 per cent.
level in any rolling 10 year period as soon as practicable thereafter.
Pay vs performance Share price performance total shareholder return per cent.
180 Jupiter Fund Management plc Source: Bloomberg FTSE 250 160 FTSE 350 General Financial 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 Sep 10 Dec Mar 11 Jun Sep Dec Mar 12 Jun Sep Dec Mar 13 Jun Sep Dec -20 The chart above shows the Companys share price performance based on total shareholder return, with dividends reinvested net of tax in the period since Listing on 21 June 2010 compared with the movement of the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE 350 General Financial Index.
These two indices were chosen as the Company is in the FTSE 250 and the FTSE 350 General Financial Index includes UK listed financial stocks, including asset managers.
Table of historic levels of CEO pay 2010 2011 2012 2013 CEO single figure of total remuneration 2,034,996 1,785,324 1,633,857 1,788,422 Long-term incentive vesting rates against maximum opportunity N A N A N A N A No LTIP awards vested 2010 to 2013 as the first LTIP awards granted to the CEO after Listing were in 2012 and vest in 2015.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 67 Remuneration report continued Change in CEO pay vs employees The percentage change in the CEOs pay defined for these purposes as salary, taxable benefits, cash bonus and DBP awards in respect of the relevant year between 2013 and the prior year and the same information, on an averaged basis, for all employees excluding executive Directors is shown in the table below: All employees excluding executive Directors CEO percentage change 2012 to 2013 percentage change 2012 to 2013 Base salary 0 per cent.
Bonus including DBP portion 11 per cent.
The cost of benefits comprised of private medical insurance increased by 53 per cent.
between 2012 and 2013 due to a large increase in private medical insurance premiums.
Relative importance of spend on pay The following chart shows the Company's profit after tax, total employee remuneration and dividends declared on ordinary shares for 2013 and 2012.
2012 56.2 Profit after tax m 2013 88.6 57.7% increase 2012 76.0 Total employee remuneration m 84.6 2013 11.3% increase 2012 38.9 Dividend declared m 57.0 2013 46.5% increase Advisers Deloitte LLP has been the adviser to the Remuneration Committee from January 2013.
Deloitte LLP is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Fees paid to Deloitte LLP for executive remuneration consulting were 25,000 in 2013.
Deloitte LLP also provides advice relating to IFRS 2 accounting valuations to the Company.
The Remuneration Committee do not consider that the other advice provided has any impact on Deloittes independence as advisers to the Remuneration Committee.
On behalf of the Board Lorraine Trainer Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 26 February 2014 68 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Directors report The Directors present their report and the audited financial None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard statement of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2013. to control of the Company.
"Principal activities and results Shares held in employee benefit trusts The principal activity of the Company is to act as a holding Under the rules of the Jupiter Share Incentive Plan ""SIP"", which company for a group of investment management companies."
The was introduced in 2013, eligible employees are entitled to acquire Group operates principally in the United Kingdom and has branches ordinary shares in the Company.
SIP shares are held in trust for overseas.
"The Company is incorporated and domiciled in England participants by Yorkshire Building Society ""the SIP Trustees""."
Voting and Wales and is the holding company of the Group.
rights are exercised by the SIP Trustees on receipt of participants instructions.
If a participant does not submit an instruction to the Other information, which forms part of this Directors' report, can SIP Trustees, no vote is registered.
In addition, the SIP Trustee does be found in the following sections of the Annual Report and are not vote on any unallocated shares held in trust.
As at 20 February deemed to form part of this report: 2014 the SIP Trustees held 0.03 per cent.
of the issued share capital of the Company.
"Commentary on the likely future developments in the business of the Group is included in the Strategic report RBC cees Trustee Limited, as trustee of the Jupiter Employee Benefit A description of the Group's financial risk management Trust the ""EBT Trustee"", holds ordinary shares on trust for the objectives and policies, and its exposure to risks arising from benefit of employees of the Group."
Where the EBT Trustee has its use of financial instruments are set out in Note 5.3 to the allocated shares held in the trust in respect of specific awards accounts.
granted under the Jupiter Employee Share Plan, the holders of such Information concerning Directors' contractual arrangements awards may make recommendations to the EBT Trustee as to how and entitlements under share-based remuneration arrangements voting rights relating to such shares should be exercised by the EBT is given in the Remuneration report.
Trustee, and, to the extent that a participant does not make such The Group's absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions for FY2013 recommendations, no vote is registered.
In addition, the EBT Trustee amounted to 535.8 tCO2e.
This is equal to 1.18 tCO2e per does not vote on any unallocated shares held in the trust.
As at 20 employee Full Time Equivalent FTE.
Our emissions have been February 2014 the EBT Trustee held 4.6 per cent.
of the issued share quantified and reported according to Defras 2013 Environmental capital of the Company.
For more information on our boundaries, exclusions and estimations please see the Corporate Appointment and replacement of Directors responsibility section.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that Directors may Information concerning the involvement of employees in the be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the business is given in the Corporate responsibility section.
If appointed by the Board, a Director holds office only until the next Annual General Meeting.
The Articles of Association Company Number 6150195 have detailed provisions regarding the retirement of Directors by rotation.
However, in accordance with the requirements of the Share capital and voting rights Code, all Directors will offer themselves for election or re-election As at 31 December 2013 and 20 February 2014, there were at the Annual General Meeting in May 2014.
457,699,916 fully paid ordinary shares of 2p each in issue and listed on the Official List maintained by the FCA in its capacity as the UK In addition to any powers under the Act to remove Directors from Listing Authority.
There were no changes to the share capital during office, the Company may, by passing an ordinary resolution, remove the year.
any Director from the Board before the expiration of his or her period in office.
The Company may, subject to the Articles of The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry the right Association, by ordinary resolution appoint another person who is to attend, speak and vote at general meetings of the Company.
In willing to be a Director in his or her place.
The Companys Articles addition, the holders of ordinary shares have the right to participate of Association may be amended by special resolution of the in dividends and other distributions according to their respective shareholders.
rights and interests in the profits of the Company and a return of capital on a winding-up of the Company.
Full details regarding the The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary exercise of voting rights in respect of the resolutions to be shares, as well as the powers of the Companys Directors, are set considered at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 21 May out in detail in the Companys Articles of Association.
2014 are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
To be valid, the appointment of a proxy to vote at a general meeting must be received not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
Number of Number of shares as at Percentage shares as at Percentage Name 31 December 2013 interest % 20 February 2014 interest % Jupiter Asset Management Limited 64,771,935 14.15 64,702,859 14.13 TA Funds 48,579,760 10.61 48,579,760 10.61 BlackRock Inc 34,418,246 7.52 29,194,810 6.38 Invesco 23,631,367 5.16 22,721,933 4.96 held in Jupiter private client accounts largely for employees and ex-employees In addition to the number of shares held in the table above, on 20 February 2014 BlackRock Inc held an additional 1,083,672 shares by way of contracts for difference, taking their overall voting rights to 6.6 per cent.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 69 Directors report continued Substantial share interests The Relationship Agreement contained certain other provisions As shown in the table on the previous page, the Company had which are now time-expired.
received notifications from the following substantial shareholders 3 per cent.
or more of their indirect and or direct interests in the Directors and Directors interests ordinary share capital of the Company, in accordance with the The Directors who have served throughout the year are as follows: Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Jamie Dundas Liz Airey CREST Edward Bonham Carter Jon Little The Companys ordinary shares are in CREST, the settlement system Richard I. Morris, Jr. until 19 July for stocks and shares traded on the London Stock Exchange.
John Chatfeild-Roberts 2013 Philip Johnson Matteo Dante Perruccio Restrictions on transfer of shares Maarten Slendebroek Lorraine Trainer At the time of the Companys Listing in 2010, certain employees Michael Wilson beneficially owning approximately 35 per cent.
of the Companys issued ordinary shares at that time agreed to restrictions on the The interests of the Directors in shares of the Company are set out sale and transfer of their ordinary shares during the three years in the Remuneration report.
The overall effect of these arrangements was that: Employees following the first anniversary of Listing 21 June 2011, The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for approximately 15 per cent.
of the ordinary shares in issue employment from disabled persons where the requirements of became capable of being sold by such persons: the job can be adequately fulfilled by a disabled person.
following the second anniversary of Listing 21 June 2012, approximately a further 10 per cent.
of the ordinary shares Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Groups in issue became capable of being sold: and policy, wherever practicable, to provide continuing employment following the third anniversary of Listing 21 June 2013, under normal terms and conditions and to provide training, approximately a further 10 per cent.
of the ordinary shares career development and promotion to disabled employees became capable of being sold.
A small number of shares less wherever possible.
of the current issued share capital continue to be subject to the lock-ins described above.
Dividends The Directors have recommended a final dividend of 9.1p per No member is entitled to vote at any general meeting or class ordinary share 2012: 6.3p per ordinary share.
Payment of this meeting in respect of any shares held by him or her if any call dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual or other sum then payable by him or her in respect of that share General Meeting and, if approved, will be paid on 27 May 2014 to remains unpaid, or if he or she has failed to give the Company the shareholders on the register at the close of business on 11 April 2014. information required in a notice under section 793 of the Act unless the Board has determined that the sanctions under the Companys Authority to allot shares Articles of Association as to voting should not apply.
Currently, all An ordinary resolution was passed at the Annual General Meeting shares are fully paid.
Save as described above, there are no in 2013 authorising the Directors to allot new ordinary shares up to restrictions on the voting rights attached to the Companys ordinary an aggregate nominal amount of 6,102,664.
The Directors intend to shares or any other restrictions on the transfer of the securities in seek shareholders approval for the renewal of this authority at the the Company.
Annual General Meeting to allot and grant rights to subscribe for ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6,102,664, TA Associates relationship agreement representing approximately two-thirds of the Companys issued The Company and TA Associates, L. P. have entered into an share capital as at 20 February 2014, of which an aggregate nominal agreement which regulates the ongoing relationship between the value of 3,051,332 representing approximately one-third of the Company and TA Associates, L. P. the Relationship Agreement.
Companys issued share capital may only be allotted pursuant to a TA Associates, L. P. and the Company have agreed, inter alia, that fully pre-emptive rights issue.
If approved, this authority will expire TA Associates, L. P. is entitled to nominate for appointment: i two at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2015 or, if non-executive Directors to the Board whilst it and or any of its earlier, on 30 June 2015. associates owns, on an aggregated basis, 15 per cent.
or more of the ordinary shares in issue from time to time: and ii one nonSubject to the terms of the authority noted above, a special executive Director to the Board whilst it and or any of its resolution will also be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to associates owns, on an aggregated basis, 10 per cent.
or more empower the Directors to allot equity securities for cash other than of the ordinary shares in issue from time to time.
The ordinary pro rata to existing shareholders, until the Annual General Meeting share percentage held by TA Associates L. P. reduced below to be held in 2015 or, if earlier, until 30 June 2015.
This authority will 15 per cent.
as at 20 February 2014 be limited to the allotment of equity securities, up to an aggregate and Richard I. Morris, Jr, one of the two Directors nominated by nominal amount of 457,699, being 5 per cent.
of the Companys TA Associates L. P. stepped down as a Director on 19 July 2013. issued share capital as at 20 February 2014.
The Directors currently The Relationship Agreement will terminate once the aggregate have no intention to issue ordinary shares, other than pursuant to interest of TA Associates, L. P. and its associates in ordinary shares the Companys employee share schemes and any share dividend falls below 10 per cent.
70 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Authority to purchase shares Change of control At the Annual General Meeting in 2013, shareholders approved The Company does not have agreements with any Director or a resolution authorising the Company to make purchases of its employee that would provide compensation for loss of office own shares up to a maximum of 45,769,991 ordinary shares.
As or employment resulting from a change of control following a at 20 February 2014, the Directors have not used this authority.
takeover bid, except that provisions of the Companys share A special resolution will be proposed at the Annual General schemes may cause options and awards granted under such Meeting to renew the Companys limited authority to purchase schemes to vest in those circumstances.
The authority will be limited to a maximum of 45,769,991 ordinary shares approximately 10 per cent.
of the Directors indemnities Companys issued share capital as at 20 February 2014 and will The Companys Articles of Association permit the provision of set out the minimum and maximum prices which may be paid indemnities to the Directors.
In accordance with the Articles of for any such purchase by the Company.
If approved, this authority Association, the Company has entered into a deed of indemnity in will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in favour of each Director which is a qualifying third party indemnity 2015 or, if earlier, on 30 June 2015. provision under the Act pursuant to which the Director has been granted the right to indemnification as permitted under the Act.
Independent auditors and audit information These arrangements were in place throughout the year and up to  LLP are willing to continue as the Groups the date of approval of this report and applied to the current and auditors and resolutions concerning their reappointment and the previous Directors.
In addition, during the year the Company has determination of their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual maintained liability insurance for Directors.
Political donations Going concern The Group made no political donations or contributions during the The Strategic report discusses the Groups business activities, year 2012: nil.
together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position.
In addition, it sets out the Groups Annual General Meeting financial position, cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing The Annual General Meeting will take place on 21 May 2014.
The financial risk management note of the financial shareholders are invited to attend and will have the opportunity statements sets out the Groups objectives, policies and processes to put questions to the Board.
The Notice of the Annual General for managing capital and its financial risk management objectives, Meeting will be circulated to all shareholders at least 20 working together with details of financial instruments and exposure to days before the meeting and the details of the resolutions to be credit and liquidity risk.
proposed will be set out in that Notice.
This document will be available on the Companys website at www.
The Group has access to the financial resources required to run the business efficiently and has a strong gross cash position.
The By order of the Board Groups forecasts and projections, which are subject to rigorous sensitivity analysis, show that the Group will be able to operate Adrian Creedy within its available resources.
Company Secretary As a consequence, the Directors have a reasonable expectation 26 February 2014 that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 71 Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity Remuneration report and the Financial statements in accordance of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with International The Directors consider that the Annual Report & Accounts, taken Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Union.
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company's performance, business model and strategy.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of in the Directors profiles, confirms that, to the best of his or the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these her knowledge: financial statements, the Directors are required to: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in select suitable accounting policies and then apply them accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and consistently: fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable of the Group: and and prudent: the Directors report contained in the Annual Report and state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Accounts includes a fair review of the development and Union have been followed, subject to any material departures performance of the business and the position of the Group, disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and together with a description of the principal risks and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, uncertainties that it faces.
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors report includes a statement, in the case of each Director The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting in office at the date the Directors report is approved, that: records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time a so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable information as defined in section 418 3 of which the them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Companys auditors are unaware: and Remuneration report comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial b he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Group and, hence, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention auditors are aware of that information.
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
On behalf of the Board Philip Johnson Chief Financial Officer 26 February 2014 72 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Financial statements Group 74 Section 1: Results for the year Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 84 Section 2: Consolidated statement of cash flows Consolidated statement of cash flows 86 Section 3: Assets and liabilities Consolidated balance sheet 95 Section 4: Equity Consolidated statement of changes in equity 97 Section 5: Other notes 114 Independent auditors report to the members of Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 73 Section 1: Results for the year Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2013 2013 2012 Notes m m Revenue 1.1 388.8 346.4 Fee and commission expenses 1.1 100.3 101.9 Net revenue 1.1, 1.2 288.5 244.5 Administrative expenses 1.3 142.1 128.4 Operating earnings 1.6 146.4 116.1 Other gains losses 1.7 9.5 0.9 Amortisation of intangible assets 3.2 39.7 39.7 Operating profit before exceptional items 116.2 75.5 Exceptional income 1.8 5.0 Operating profit 116.2 80.5 Finance income 1.9 1.0 0.5 Finance costs 1.10 3.1 7.4 Profit before taxation 114.1 73.6 Income tax expense 1.11 25.5 17.4 Profit for the year 88.6 56.2 Earnings per share Basic 1.12 21.1p 14.9p Diluted 1.12 20.0p 14.2p Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2013 2013 2012 Notes m m Profit for the year 88.6 56.2 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Exchange movements on translation of subsidiary undertakings 0.3 Net change in fair value of available for sale investments 3.4 5.5 Net change in fair value of available for sale investments reclassified to profit or loss 3.4 6.6 0.7 Other comprehensive expense for the year net of tax 6.6 5.1 Total comprehensive income for the year net of tax 82.0 51.1 74 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Notes to the Group financial statements Income statement Introduction The Group's financial statements have been split into sections to assist with their navigation and align with the Financial Review.
Accounting policies are contained within relevant notes and are boxed, with the basis of preparation and general policies collected in Section 5.
Net revenue The Groups primary source of revenue is management fees.
Management fees are based on an agreed percentage of the assets under management.
Initial charges and commissions include fees based on a set percentage of certain flows into our funds, commission earned on private client dealing charges and profits earned on dealing within the unit trust managers box, known as box profits.
Performance fees are earned from some funds when agreed performance conditions are met.
Net revenue is stated after fee and commission expenses to intermediaries for ongoing services under distribution agreements.
Revenue Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the provision of investment management services.
Revenue is shown net of any value added tax, rebates and discounts.
Our primary revenue components are accounted for as follows: management fees are recognised in the period in which the service is performed and calculated as a percentage of net fund assets managed in accordance with individual management agreements: initial charges and commissions on sales of unit trusts are deferred and amortised over the anticipated period of the provision of investment management services.
Box profits are calculated as the difference between the cost of purchasing redeemed units at cancellation prices and reselling them at creation prices.
Such box profits are recognised when the related transaction occurs: and performance fees, calculated as a percentage of the appreciation in the net asset value of a fund above a defined hurdle.
These are recognised when the fee amount can be estimated reliably and it is probable that the fee will be receivable.
Such fees are normally recognised at the end of the relevant reporting period of the fund.
Fee and commission expenses These are paid to third parties for ongoing services under distribution agreements and are charged to the income statement over the period in which the service is expected to be provided.
The services provided include the provision of access to a basket of fund products, information on financial products, promotional materials, ongoing services to customers and transaction processing.
2013 2012 m m Management fees 360.7 320.4 Initial charges and commissions 22.4 21.5 Performance fees 5.7 4.5 Fee and commission expenses 100.3 101.9 Total net revenue 288.5 244.5 1.2.
Segmental reporting The Group offers a range of products and services through different distribution channels.
All financial, business and strategic decisions are made centrally by the Board of Directors the Board, which determines the key performance indicators of the Group.
Information is reported to the chief operating decision maker, the Board, on a single segment basis.
While the Group has the ability to analyse its underlying information in different ways, for example by product type, this information is only used to allocate resources and assess performance for the Group as a whole.
On this basis, the Group considers itself to be a single-segment investment management business.
Management monitors operating earnings, a non-GAAP measure, for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment.
Geographical information 2013 2012 Net revenue by location of clients m m UK 261.1 225.0 Continental Europe 21.7 14.7 Rest of the world 5.7 4.8 Total net revenue by location 288.5 244.5 The net revenue information above is based on the location of the customer.
The Group did not have any single customer or distributor contributing more than 10 per cent.
of net revenues during the year 2012: none.
Non-current assets for the Group excluding financial instruments and deferred tax assets are all domiciled in the UK 2012: all in the UK.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 75 Section 1: Results for the year Notes to the Group financial statements Income statement continued 1.3.
Administrative expenses The largest administrative expense is staff costs.
The other administrative expenses category includes certain significant costs such as administration fees, marketing and IT costs.
Operating leases Operating leases are leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset.
All of the Groups leases are operating leases and rental payments are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Administrative expenses consists of the following items: 2013 2012 m m Staff costs Note 1.4 98.2 86.9 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment Note 3.3 0.9 0.8 Auditors remuneration see below 0.9 0.7 Operating lease rentals for land and buildings 1.1 2.0 Other administrative expenses 41.0 38.0 Total administrative expenses 142.1 128.4 2013 2012 Auditors remuneration m m Fees payable to the Companys auditors and their associates for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.1 0.1 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and their associates for other services to the Group: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.3 0.3 Audit-related assurance services 0.2 0.1 Total audit and audit-related fees of the Group 0.6 0.5 Tax advisory services 0.1 0.1 Other non-audit services 0.2 0.1 Total non-audit fees 0.3 0.2 Total auditors remuneration 0.9 0.7 1.4.
Staff costs Staff costs include wages and salaries, share-based payments, pension costs and redundancy costs, along with associated social security costs, and are recognised on an accruals basis as services are provided to the Group.
Pension costs The Group contributes to a number of defined contribution pension schemes for the benefit of its employees.
Contributions in respect of the UK employees at the rate of 15 per cent.
of gross salary are made into the Jupiter Pension Scheme whose financial statements are available from the trustees at the registered office of the Company.
No liability is included in the balance sheet as no obligations were outstanding at the balance sheet date.
Contributions made by the Group are charged to the consolidated income statement as they become payable in accordance with the rules of the schemes.
2013 2012 m m Wages and salaries 66.8 58.6 Share-based payments Note 1.5 13.8 13.7 Social security costs 13.3 10.6 Pension costs 4.0 3.7 Redundancy costs 0.3 0.3 98.2 86.9 76 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Fund units As described in Note 1.5 ii, deferred bonuses can be deferred into either options over the Company's shares or a cash equivalent to units in the Group's funds.
The expense included within the income statement in relation to fund units for the year ended 31 December 2013 was 2.0m 2012: nil.
Where bonuses are deferred into fund units, the fair value of the award is spread over the vesting period and included within staff costs.
The liability is revalued at each balance sheet date to the expected settlement amount and is therefore based on the current market value of the underlying fund unit.
Any increase or decrease in value is recognised in the income statement within staff costs.
The liability is included in the balance sheet as part of accrued expenses within trade and other payables see Note 3.9.
The Group hedges its exposure to price fluctuations in the underlying fund units, by purchasing the fund units at the date of grant.
These are included within Financial assets at FVTPL on the balance sheet.
Any change in the fair value of the units is recognised in the income statement within other gains losses.
Average number of employees The average number of persons employed by the Group during the year, including executive Directors, by activity are: 2013 2012 Fund management 72 69 Distribution and marketing 90 83 Infrastructure and operations 293 280 455 432 Information regarding Directors emoluments is given in the Remuneration Report.
Share-based payments The Group engages in share-based payment transactions in respect of services receivable from certain employees by granting the right to either shares or options over shares, subject to certain vesting conditions and exercise prices.
These have been accounted for as equity settled share-based payments.
The difference between the fair value of the employee services received in respect of the shares or share options granted and the price payable is recognised as an expense over the appropriate performance and vesting period.
The corresponding credit is recognised in retained earnings within total equity.
The fair value of services is calculated using the market value on the date of award, discounted for dividends foregone over the holding period of the award, and is adjusted for expected and actual levels of vesting which includes estimating the number of eligible employees leaving the Group and the number of employees satisfying the relevant performance conditions.
These estimates are reviewed regularly and the charge to the income statement is adjusted appropriately.
As a minimum, this is adjusted at the end of the relevant scheme.
Shares and options vest on the occurrence of a specified event under the rules of the relevant plan.
The fair value of shares and options granted during the year to be charged over the vesting period was 13.1m 2012: 15.8m.
A summary of the charge taken to the income statement excluding social security for each share-based payment arrangement is shown below: 2013 2012 m m Interests in options under pre-Listing Share Plan 2.2 5.3 Deferred Bonus Plan 4.8 4.6 Long-term Incentive Plan 6.3 3.5 Sharesave Plan 0.3 0.3 Share Incentive Plan 0.2 Total Note 1.4 13.8 13.7 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 77 Section 1: Results for the year Notes to the Group financial statements Income statement continued 1.5.
Share-based payments continued The fair value of the services received has been calculated indirectly by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted.
Fair value amounts for the options granted under the DBP, LTIP and SAYE schemes were determined using a Black Scholes option-pricing method and the following assumptions: 2013 2012 DBP 2012 LTIP 2013 SAYE 2013 DBP 2011 LTIP 2012 SAYE 2012 Weighted average share price 3.28 3.34 3.64 2.47 2.43 2.52 Exercise price 0.02 2.91 0.02 1.97 Weighted average expected volatility % 32.3 32.4 32.3 35.0 34.4 33.3 Weighted average option life years 3.1 4.2 3.6 3.1 4.3 3.4 Weighted average dividend yield % 2.7 2.7 2.7 3.2 3.2 3.1 Weighted average risk-free interest rate % 0.3 0.8 1.1 0.6 0.8 0.4 Expected volatility for options granted in 2013 and 2012 has been calculated using the historical volatility of the Group.
The numbers above in relation to the LTIP 2013 and 2012 include the Joiner Plans as both schemes have a similar structure.
i Interests in options under pre-Listing Share Plan These options were granted to certain employees prior to Listing in June 2010 and allow them to acquire shares at nominal value, subject to satisfying certain vesting and performance conditions.
The terms of the options allow individuals to make a payment to the Company entitling them to take up rights to shares between one and five years after the grant date, depending on the individual award.
The interests in options under pre-Listing Share Plan were granted at the nominal price of 0.02, which gives them the characteristics of nil cost options, and therefore, the fair value of these awards is based on the market price at the date of the award.
The following table illustrates the number and weighted average exercise price WAEP of, and movement in, share options during the year: 2013 2012 WAEP WAEP Options outstanding Number Number At 1 January 14,798,616 0.02 15,460,528 0.02 Exercised 4,514,629 0.02 594,578 0.02 Forfeited 604,483 0.02 67,334 0.02 At 31 December 9,679,504 0.02 14,798,616 0.02 Exercisable at 31 December 1,377,168 0.02 2,015,705 0.02 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these options was 3.29 2012: 2.18 per ordinary share.
No options were granted under this plan in 2013 or 2012.
For the options granted in 2010, the weighted average fair value of options granted was 1.48.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding as at 31 December 2013 is 0.6 years 31 December 2012: 1.2 years.
78 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 ii Deferred Bonus Plan DBP All employees of the Group who are eligible for a bonus over a certain level, as determined by the Remuneration Committee, are required to participate in the DBP.
The DBP provides for compulsory deferral of a proportion of bonus.
Deferrals can be made into either options over the Companys shares or a cash amount equivalent to the value of units in the Groups funds see Note 1.4 for information on the treatment of fund units.
The awards in respect of DBP are granted after the year end to which they relate.
The first year of this award was related to 2010 performance, with the first options granted in April 2011.
The awards made in 2012 and 2013 in relation to 2011 and 2012 performance were granted in the form of nil cost options over the Companys shares, at a price calculated as the market price immediately prior to the date of the award.
Awards will also be made in 2014 in relation to 2013 performance, thus a charge for these awards has been taken to the income statement in 2013.
2013 2012 WAEP WAEP Options outstanding Number Number At 1 January 5,678,943 2,479,034 Granted 1,319,487 3,240,824 Exercised 40,915 Forfeited 87,054 At 31 December 6,911,376 5,678,943 Exercisable at 31 December There were no options exercised under this plan in 2013.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these options in 2012 was 2.18 per ordinary share.
The weighted average fair value of options granted under this plan during the year was 2.83 2012: 2.11.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the share options outstanding under this plan at 31 December 2013 was 1.2 years 31 December 2012: 1.9 years.
iii Long-term Incentive Plan LTIP All employees are eligible to participate in the LTIP.
Awards are made at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee and may be granted in the form of options either at market value, nominal value or nil-cost, restricted shares or conditional share awards over the Company's shares.
The LTIP awards granted in 2013 and 2012 took the form of nominal cost options over the Company's shares.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the share options outstanding under this plan at 31 December 2013 was 1.8 years 31 December 2012: 2.5 years.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 79 Section 1: Results for the year Notes to the Group financial statements Income statement continued 1.5.
Share-based payments continued iv Sharesave Plan All eligible UK employees may participate in the Groups Sharesave Plan, which was introduced in 2010.
Under the terms of this plan, employees may enter into contracts to save up to 250 per month and, at the expiry of a fixed three or five year term, have the option to use these savings to acquire shares in the Company at a discounted price, calculated under the rules of the plan currently a 20 per cent.
discount to the market price at the date of award.
Participants in the plan have six months from the date of vesting to exercise their option.
The weighted average fair value of the options granted under this scheme during the year was 1.01 2012: 0.68.
The range of exercise prices of options granted under this scheme is between 1.69 and 2.91.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the share options outstanding under this plan at 31 December 2013 was 1.8 years 31 December 2012: 2.1 years.
v Share Incentive Plan SIP All eligible UK employees may participate in the Groups Share Incentive Plan, which was introduced in 2013.
Under the terms of this plan, employees may contribute up to 1,500 in any tax year from pre-tax salary to be used to acquire shares in the Company at the market price on the relevant date.
Matching shares are then awarded by the Company on a one matching share for each share purchased basis.
The matching shares are subject to forfeiture where the employee leaves employment with the Group within three years of their award.
The number of matching shares purchased under this scheme during the year was 62,476 2012: nil.
Operating earnings Operating earnings are defined as net revenue less administrative expenses and do not include investment income and returns, other gains losses, amortisation of intangible assets or exceptional items.
These are items which the Group considers are not indicative of the ongoing income and costs of its operations.
The Group believes that operating earnings, while not a GAAP measure, gives relevant information on the profitability of the Group and its ongoing operations.
Operating earnings may not be comparable with similarly titled measures used by other companies.
Other gains losses Other gains losses total a 9.5m gain 2012: 0.9m loss, of which 6.7m was due to the gain on the sale of the holding in Cofunds.
See Note 3.4 for further details.
Exceptional income Exceptional items consist of those significant income and expenses which are required to be separately disclosed due to their size or incidence in order to enable a better understanding of the Groups financial performance.
"During 2010, a charge of 5.2m was recognised in relation to the contribution made to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme ""FSCS"" second interim levy for 2010 11."
In 2012, 5.0m of this levy was refunded and recognised as exceptional income.
There were no items arising in 2013 which the Group considers to be exceptional.
2013 2012 m m FSCS levy refund 5.0 5.0 80 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 1.9.
Finance income The Group earns income as a result of holding cash in bank deposits.
Interest on cash and cash equivalents is recognised on an accruals basis using the effective interest rate method.
2013 2012 m m Interest on bank deposits 0.5 0.4 Other interest income 0.3 Fair value movement on interest rate swaps 0.2 Dividend income 0.1 1.0 0.5 1.10.
Finance costs The majority of the finance costs relate to interest on the bank loan.
Interest payable is charged on an accruals basis using the effective interest method.
Debt issue costs relating to the raising of loans and borrowings are deducted from the carrying value of the loans and borrowings and are amortised over the term of the loan using the effective interest method.
Other finance costs include ancillary charges for commitment fees and non-utilisation fees that are charged as incurred.
2013 2012 m m Interest payable on bank borrowings 1.8 5.6 Amortisation of debt issue costs Note 3.8 0.7 0.9 Debt issue cost expense 0.3 Interest payable on interest rate swaps 0.2 0.4 Fair value movement on interest rate swaps 0.3 Other finance costs 0.1 0.2 3.1 7.4 During the year, the remaining 78.0m 2012: 65.0m of senior debt under the previous facility was repaid Note 3.8.
This resulted in an acceleration of 0.4m 2012: 0.5m in the amortisation of the debt issue costs.
Interest rate swaps During the year, the Group terminated two interest rate swaps, both with a notional value of 35.0m with interest settling quarterly.
One was for a period of three years which was due to mature in November 2013, paying a fixed interest rate of 1.33 per cent.
and the other was for a period of four years, due to mature in November 2014, paying a fixed interest rate of 1.6175 per cent.
The Group held both swaps as at 31 December 2012.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 81 Section 1: Results for the year Notes to the Group financial statements Income statement continued 1.11.
Income tax expense The Groups headquarters are based in the UK.
It pays taxes according to the rates applicable in the countries in which it operates.
Most taxes are recorded in the income statement and relate to taxes payable for the reporting period current taxation, but there is also a charge relating to tax payable for future periods due to income or expenses being recognised in a different period for tax and accounting purposes deferred tax.
Deferred tax is charged to equity when the deferred tax benefit exceeds the cumulative income statement expense on share plans.
The Group provides for current tax according to the tax laws of each jurisdiction in which it operates, using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes provisions, where appropriate, on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences at the financial position date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future, have occurred at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised when it is considered recoverable and, therefore, recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable that there will be suitable taxable profits against which to recover carried forward tax losses and from which the future reversal of underlying temporary differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the temporary differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Current and deferred tax relating to items recognised in other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income and not in the income statement.
Deferred tax that has arisen in respect of equity items is recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
2013 2012 m m Current taxation UK corporation tax Tax on profits for the year 34.5 30.1 Adjustment in respect of prior years 0.8 0.1 33.7 30.0 Deferred taxation Origination and reversal of temporary differences 8.9 12.5 Impact of changes in corporation tax rate 0.7 0.1 Total deferred tax Note 3.5 8.2 12.6 25.5 17.4 Total tax expense With effect from 1 April 2013, the UK corporation tax rate changed from 24 per cent.
The weighted average UK corporation tax rate for the year ended 31 December 2013 was therefore 23.25 per cent.
The tax charge in the year is lower 2012: lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK and the differences are explained below: 2013 2012 Factors affecting tax expense for the year m m Profit before taxation 114.1 73.6 Taxation at the standard corporation tax rate 2013: 23.25 per cent.
26.5 18.0 Non-taxable income 1.2 1.3 Disallowable expenses 0.1 1.0 Other permanent differences 0.2 0.1 Adjustment to current tax charge in respect of prior years 0.8 0.1 Impact of tax rate change on deferred tax balances 0.7 0.1 Total tax expense 25.5 17.4 A number of other changes to the UK corporation tax system were announced in 2013 and have been substantively enacted.
These include a reduction in the main rate of corporation tax to 21 per cent.
from 6 April 2014 and to 20 per cent.
These changes have been reflected in the calculations at the balance sheet date.
82 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 1.12.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share EPS is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, less the weighted average number of own shares held.
"Own shares are shares held in an Employee Benefit Trust ""EBT"" for the benefit of employees under the vesting, lock-in and other incentive arrangements in place."
Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year for the purpose of basic EPS, plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
For the purposes of calculating EPS, the share capital of the parent is calculated as the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue over the years reported.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares during the year used for the purposes of calculating EPS is as follows: 2013 2012 Number Number Weighted average number of shares m m Issued share capital 457.7 457.7 Less own shares held 38.6 80.0 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic EPS 419.1 377.7 Add back weighted average number of dilutive shares 22.9 18.1 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted EPS 442.0 395.8 2013 2012 Earnings per share p p Basic 21.1 14.9 Diluted 20.0 14.2 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 83 Section 2: Consolidated statement of cash flows Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2013 2013 2012 Notes m m Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations 2.1 155.4 141.2 Income tax paid 33.3 30.6 Net cash inflows from operating activities 122.1 110.6 Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment 3.3 0.5 0.8 Purchase of intangible assets 3.2 2.5 0.7 Purchase of financial assets at FVTPL 2.8 26.6 Proceeds from disposal of financial assets at FVTPL 6.8 19.8 Proceeds from disposal of available for sale investments 16.6 Finance income received 0.7 0.5 Net cash inflows outflows from investing activities 18.3 7.8 Cash flows from financing activities Dividends paid 4.3 42.8 33.9 Purchase of shares by EBT 3.8 Finance costs paid 3.3 7.3 Proceeds from bank loan 3.8 40.0 Repayment of bank loan 3.8 107.0 65.0 Net cash outflows from financing activities 116.9 106.2 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 23.5 3.4 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 147.0 150.4 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 3.7 170.5 147.0 84 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Notes to the Group financial statements Consolidated statement of cash flows 2.1.
Cash flows from operating activities 2013 2012 m m Operating profit 116.2 80.5 Adjustments for: Amortisation of intangible assets 39.7 39.7 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 0.9 0.8 Other non-cash gains 9.0 4.8 Share-based payments 13.8 13.7 Cash inflows on exercise of share options 0.5 - Increase in trade and other receivables 0.8 8.7 Decrease increase in trade and other payables 5.9 20.0 Cash generated from operations 155.4 141.2 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 85 Section 3: Assets and liabilities Consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2013 2013 2012 Notes m m Non-current assets Goodwill 3.1 341.2 341.2 Intangible assets 3.2 27.3 64.5 Property, plant and equipment 3.3 1.2 1.6 Available for sale investments 3.4 2.6 19.1 Deferred tax assets 3.5 18.4 15.3 Trade and other receivables 3.6 9.0 13.9 399.7 455.6 Current assets Investments in associates 3.4 19.3 19.2 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 3.4 41.3 34.2 Trade and other receivables 3.6 96.5 90.6 Cash and cash equivalents 3.7 170.5 147.0 327.6 291.0 Total assets 727.3 746.6 Equity attributable to owners of the parent Share capital 4.1 9.2 9.2 Own share reserve 4.2 0.4 1.3 Other reserve 4.2 8.0 8.0 Available for sale reserve 4.2 6.6 Foreign currency translation reserve 4.2 7.1 7.1 Retained earnings 4.2 489.8 429.4 Total equity 513.7 459.0 Non-current liabilities Loans and borrowings 3.8 11.0 77.3 Trade and other payables 3.9 16.8 22.3 Deferred tax liabilities 3.5 5.6 14.5 33.4 114.1 Current liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 3.4 10.2 3.1 Trade and other payables 3.9 154.9 154.8 Current income tax liability 15.1 15.6 180.2 173.5 Total liabilities 213.6 287.6 Total equity and liabilities 727.3 746.6 The financial statements on pages 74 to 106 were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 26 February 2014.
They were signed on its behalf by Philip Johnson Chief Financial Officer 86 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Notes to the Group financial statements Assets and liabilities 3.1.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisitions, being the excess of the cost of a business combination over the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, is capitalised in the consolidated balance sheet.
Goodwill is carried at cost less provision for impairment.
The carrying value of goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment or more frequently if any indicators of impairment arise.
"Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units ""CGUs"" for the purpose of impairment testing, with the allocation to those CGUs or groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose."
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
On 19 June 2007, the Group acquired the entire share capital of Knightsbridge Asset Management Limited, giving rise to a goodwill asset being recognised.
2013 2012 m m Goodwill 341.2 341.2 341.2 341.2 No additional goodwill was recognised in the year 2012: nil.
The Group has determined that it has a single CGU for the purpose of assessing the carrying value of goodwill.
In performing the impairment test, management prepares a calculation of the recoverable amount of the goodwill and compares this to the carrying value.
The recoverable amount for the acquired share capital was based on a fair value less costs to sell calculation using the Companys year-end share price.
No impairment losses have been recognised in the current or preceding years.
Intangible assets In 2007, the Group acquired the entire share capital of Knightsbridge Asset Management Limited.
This acquisition gave rise to the recognition of intangible assets relating to investment management contracts and trade name of the Group.
The other intangible assets recognised are computer software.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are held at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any provision for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cashgenerating units.
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is the fair value as at the date of acquisition.
In relation to the investment management contracts and the trade name, the useful lives are assessed as being finite and they are, therefore, amortised over their useful economic lives and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication of impairment.
The amortisation period and the amortisation method for these assets are reviewed at least at each financial year end.
The useful economic lives of the trade name and individual management contracts acquired are currently assessed as a maximum of ten years and seven years, respectively.
The remaining amortisation periods of the investment management contracts and trade names are 0.5 years and 3.5 years respectively.
The amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives is recognised in the consolidated income statement on a straight line basis.
Computer software licences acquired are capitalised at the cost incurred to bring the software into use and are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives, which are estimated as being five years.
Costs associated with developing or maintaining computer software programs that do not meet the capitalisation criteria under IAS 38 are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Gains and losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying value of the asset.
The difference is then recognised in the income statement.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that an asset in use may be impaired.
If any such indication exists and the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount at that time, then the assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is measured as the greater of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Non-financial assets that suffered impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
The Directors have reviewed the intangible assets as at 31 December 2013 and have concluded there are no indicators of impairment.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 87 Section 3: Assets and liabilities Notes to the Group financial statements Assets and liabilities continued 3.2.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the assets.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other repair and maintenance expenditures are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they were incurred.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis to allocate the cost of each asset over its estimated useful lives as follows: Leasehold improvements Shorter of 10 years and the remaining period of the lease Office furniture and equipment 3-5 years The assets useful economic lives and residual values are reviewed at each financial period end and adjusted if appropriate.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising on the disposal of the asset, calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item, is included in the income statement in the year the item is sold or retired.
"Financial instruments held at fair value Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes party to the contractual provisions of an instrument, at fair value adjusted for transaction costs, except for financial assets classified as at fair value through profit or loss ""FVTPL"" where transaction costs are immediately recognised in the income statement."
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the assets have expired or where they have been transferred and the Group has also transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation under the liability has been discharged, cancelled or has expired.
Financial assets The Groups financial assets include cash and short-term deposits, trade and other receivables, quoted and unquoted seed capital investments and derivative financial instruments.
Financial assets are classified as at FVTPL as held for trading or designated as at FVTPL, loans and receivables or available for sale.
The classification adopted by the Group depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired and is determined at initial recognition.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at FVTPL include investments in closed ended funds, open ended investment companies and unit trusts which are designated as at FVTPL, as they are managed and evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the documented strategy.
A financial asset is classified in this category if it has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Financial assets at FVTPL are carried at fair value, with gains and losses recognised in the income statement within other gains losses in the period in which they arise.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets.
Where the Group holds more than 50 per cent.
of the share capital, the investment is consolidated.
Where the Group holds 20-50 per cent.
of the share capital, the investment is classified as an investment in associate.
Further information is included in the Basis of consolidation in Note 5.1.
Available for sale investments Available for sale investments are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management actively intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in other comprehensive income until the security is disposed of or is impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified to the income statement for the accounting period.
Where a fall in the value of an equity investment is deemed to be significant or prolonged, this is considered an indication of impairment under IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
In such an event, the investment is written down to fair value and the amounts previously recognised in equity in respect of market value movement on the investment are recognised in the income statement as an impairment charge.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
Financial liabilities The Group's financial liabilities include loans and borrowings, trade and other payables, derivative financial instruments and the minority interests in funds that have been consolidated as subsidiaries.
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Financial liabilities at FVTPL are carried at fair value, with gains and losses recognised in the income statement within other gains losses in the period in which they arise.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL relate to minority interests which are designated as at FVTPL, further information is provided in Note 5.1.
In prior year, this category also included the interest rate swaps.
The Group used the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments: Level 1: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: other techniques, for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
As at 31 December 2013, the Group held the following financial instruments measured at fair value: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2013 m m m m Available for sale investments 2.6 2.6 Investments in associates 19.3 19.3 Financial assets at FVTPL 41.3 41.3 Financial liabilities at FVTPL 10.2 10.2 50.4 2.6 53.0 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 89 Section 3: Assets and liabilities Notes to the Group financial statements Assets and liabilities continued 3.4.
Financial instruments held at fair value continued As at 31 December 2012, the Group held the following financial instruments measured at fair value: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2012 m m m m Available for sale investments 19.1 19.1 Investments in associates 19.2 19.2 Financial assets at FVTPL 34.2 34.2 Financial liabilities at FVTPL 2.2 0.9 3.1 51.2 0.9 19.1 69.4 Level 1 financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments that are actively traded in organised financial markets is determined by reference to quoted market bid prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
Investments in associates and financial assets at FVTPL These relate to seed capital investments in funds and investments made through subsidiary undertakings.
Details of the subsidiary and associate seed capital investments are given below: Percentage of ordinary shares held Name Country of incorporation Principal activities 2013 2012 Jupiter Strategic Reserve Fund England & Wales Unit trust 64 89 Jupiter Global Fund SICAV: North American Equities Luxembourg SICAV sub-fund 41 6 Jupiter Global Emerging Markets Fund England & Wales Unit trust 33 28 Jupiter Global Fund SICAV: Asia Pacific Luxembourg SICAV sub-fund 32 45 Jupiter Merlin Conservative Portfolio England & Wales Unit trust 12 39 Level 2 financial instruments At 31 December 2012, the Level 2 financial instruments related to interest rate swaps.
The Group used the swaps to manage the interest rate exposure on its floating-rate loan.
The fair value of the swaps were determined by discounting future cash flows at the prevailing market rates at the balance sheet date.
The swaps were terminated during 2013.
Further information on the swaps is included in Note 1.10.
The swaps were not designated as hedging instruments as defined in IAS 39, and consequently all changes in the fair value were taken to the income statement within finance income or finance costs.
Derivative financial instruments The Group does not trade in derivatives.
Derivatives are held to hedge specific exposures and have maturities designed to match the exposures they are hedging.
The derivatives are held at fair value which represents the price to exit the instruments at the balance sheet date.
Movements in the fair value are included in the income statement.
In addition to the interest rate swaps disclosed above, the Group enters into total return swap arrangements to hedge certain of its seed capital investments.
Gains and losses are recognised in the consolidated income statement within other gains losses in accordance with the fair value movements in the swap over the period of the contract and settled monthly in accordance with the terms of the contract.
At the balance sheet date, any cash settlement due from, or to, the counterparty is recorded within current assets or current liabilities as appropriate.
At 31 December 2013, the notional value of the swaps was 22.6m 2012: 26.5m.
The settlement amount at 31 December 2013 was 0.4m due from the counterparty and is included within trade and other receivables 2012: 0.9m due to the counterparty and included within trade and other payables.
Level 3 financial instruments Level 3 financial instruments held at fair value relate to available for sale investments.
Fair value is based on internally calculated valuations of the entity, which takes into account inputs such as expected future cash flows or the net assets of the investment.
Liquidity discounts are included where considered relevant.
The Level 3 financial instrument held at 31 December 2013 relates to an investment in iO Adria Limited Adria.
At 31 December 2013, an impairment review was performed and no impairment was recognised.
90 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 3.4.
Financial instruments held at fair value continued At 31 December 2012, there was also an investment in Cofunds Holdings Limited Cofunds.
The carrying value of the investment at 31 December 2012 was 16.5m.
In May 2013, the Group sold its investment for 16.6m, a 0.1m increase on the 31 December 2012 carrying value.
This was recognised in the income statement along with 6.6m previously recognised in the available for sale reserve, which was recycled to the income statement on disposal.
This resulted in a total realised gain in the income statement of 6.7m see Note 1.7.
The table below reconciles the carrying values of Level 3 financial instruments at the beginning and end of the year: 2013 2012 Adria Cofunds Total Adria Cofunds Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2.6 16.5 19.1 2.7 21.9 24.6 Disposals 16.6 16.6 Losses gains recognised in other comprehensive income 6.6 6.6 0.6 5.4 4.8 Gains losses recognised in consolidated income statement 6.7 6.7 0.7 0.7 At 31 December 2.6 2.6 2.6 16.5 19.1 3.5.
Deferred tax Analysis of the Groups deferred tax assets and liabilities is shown below: Deferred ShareIntangible income based Less than More than assets expense payments Other Total one year one year m m m m m m m Assets 2.7 11.4 1.2 15.3 3.8 11.5 Liabilities 14.3 0.2 14.5 9.0 5.5 At 31 December 2012 14.3 2.7 11.4 1.0 0.8 5.2 6.0 Assets 1.8 15.3 1.3 18.4 10.1 8.3 Liabilities 5.0 0.6 5.6 4.7 0.9 At 31 December 2013 5.0 1.8 15.3 0.7 12.8 5.4 7.4 Movements in temporary differences between the balance sheet dates have been reflected in the income statement and the statement of changes in equity as follows: Deferred Intangible income Share-based assets expense payments Other Total m m m m m At 1 January 2012 25.4 3.7 5.9 1.3 14.5 Credited charged to the income statement 11.1 1.0 2.8 0.3 12.6 Credited to equity 2.7 2.7 At 31 December 2012 14.3 2.7 11.4 1.0 0.8 Credited charged to the income statement 9.3 0.9 0.1 0.3 8.2 Credited to equity 3.8 3.8 At 31 December 2013 5.0 1.8 15.3 0.7 12.8 The other deferred tax balances at 31 December 2013 include short-term timing differences and temporary differences between depreciation and capital allowances.
At 31 December 2012, this balance also included the deferred tax on the fair value of the interest rate swaps.
Information on changes in the tax rate is included in Note 1.11.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 91 Section 3: Assets and liabilities Notes to the Group financial statements Assets and liabilities continued 3.6.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against trade receivables and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited to the income statement.
Trade and other receivables, including loans to employees, are included in current assets except where they have maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
These are classified as non-current assets.
Accrued income relates to accrued interest and accrued management, performance and registration fees.
It is based on the latest available information and therefore involves a degree of estimation.
2013 2012 Current m m Trade receivables 68.2 65.8 Prepayments and accrued income 22.7 18.3 Deferred acquisition and commission costs 5.6 6.5 96.5 90.6 Non-current Deferred acquisition and commission costs 9.0 13.9 9.0 13.9 At 31 December 2013, there was no cash collateral 2012: 1.2m pledged against a decrease in the fair value of the Group's interest rate swaps.
Collateral was pledged when the fair value of the swaps fell below certain predefined levels.
It was returned to the Group when the swaps were terminated see Note 1.10 for further details.
The amount of collateral pledged was included within trade receivables for 2012.
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally collected within four working days.
An analysis of the ageing profile of trade receivables is disclosed in Note 5.3.
Cash and cash equivalents 2013 2012 m m Cash at bank and in hand 88.7 35.2 Short-term deposits 77.5 108.5 Cash held by EBT and seed capital subsidiaries 4.3 3.3 170.5 147.0 Cash and cash equivalents have an original maturity of three months or less.
Cash at bank earns interest based at the current prevailing daily bank rates.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months, depending on the forecast cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
Cash held by seed capital subsidiaries of 2.4m 2012: 2.5m was not available for use by the Group.
92 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 3.8.
Loans and borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of directly attributable transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
2013 2012 m m Bank loan 11.0 78.0 Unamortised debt issue costs 0.7 11.0 77.3 At 31 December 2012, the Group had a syndicated loan which was repayable on or before 19 June 2015.
The loan was issued to a subsidiary company, Jupiter Asset Management Group Limited, and was secured by a charge over their assets.
In July 2013, the outstanding loan balance of 42m was repaid.
At the same time, a new three year revolving credit facility of 50m was entered into by Jupiter Fund Management plc, of which 40m was immediately drawn.
The movement on the carrying value of the loans is shown below: 2013 2012 m m At 1 January 77.3 141.4 Voluntary prepayments made in the year 107.0 65.0 Proceeds from new loan 40.0 Amortisation of debt issue costs Note 1.10 0.7 0.9 At 31 December 11.0 77.3 Interest on the new facility is payable at a rate per annum of LIBOR plus a margin of 1.00 per cent.
Interest was payable on the old facility at a rate per annum of LIBOR plus a margin of 3.75 per cent.
A non-utilisation fee is payable on the new facility at a rate of 0.35 per cent.
per annum on the undrawn balance.
A utilisation fee is also payable at a rate of 0.5 per cent.
per annum when more than 66 per cent.
of the facility is drawn, and 0.25 per cent.
No utilisation fee is payable when less than 33 per cent.
The Group had two interest rate swaps in place to hedge its floating rate exposure and they were both closed out during the year.
Details of these are given in Note 1.10.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 93 Section 3: Assets and liabilities Notes to the Group financial statements Assets and liabilities continued 3.9.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently remeasured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
Certain share awards made to employees include conditions which, prior to vesting, may require the Group to repurchase the shares at nominal value.
Accordingly, these amounts are shown within trade and other payables.
Accruals are based on the latest information and, therefore, involve a degree of estimation.
The most significant accruals at the year end relate to bonuses.
The Group recognises a provision for bonuses based on a formula that takes into consideration the operating profitability of the Group.
At the end of each financial year, the Group recognises a liability for bonuses accrued but not yet paid in respect of service attributable to that year.
This provision is recognised within accrued expenses.
Deferred income relates to initial charges being spread over the expected life of the contract on a straight line basis.
2013 2012 Current m m Trade payables 83.0 92.8 Accrued expenses 46.0 37.7 Deferred income 8.7 10.7 Social security and other taxes 15.7 11.5 Amounts due to employees in respect of share and option awards 0.2 1.1 Other payables 1.3 1.0 154.9 154.8 Amounts due to employees relates to conditions attached to some of the ordinary shares and options over ordinary shares.
In certain circumstances these require the Group to repurchase the instruments at 2p, being the original issue cost.
At 31 December 2013, 3.5m 2012: 42.5m shares and 8.3m 2012: 12.8m options were subject to these restrictions.
2013 2012 Non-current m m Deferred income 14.8 21.5 Accrued expenses 2.0 Other payables 0.8 16.8 22.3 Accrued expenses of 2.0m included within non-current trade and other payables relate to deferred bonus awards whose settlement amount will be based on the value of units in the Group's funds.
94 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Section 4: Equity Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2013 Foreign Available currency Share Own share Other for sale translation Retained capital reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 2012 9.2 2.1 8.0 11.4 7.4 390.7 424.6 Profit for the year 56.2 56.2 Exchange movements on translation of subsidiary undertakings 0.3 0.3 Net change in fair value of available for sale investments 5.5 5.5 Net change in fair value of available for sale investments reclassified to profit or loss 0.7 0.7 Other comprehensive expense 4.8 0.3 5.1 Total comprehensive expense income 4.8 0.3 56.2 51.1 Vesting of ordinary shares and options 0.8 0.8 Dividends paid 33.9 33.9 Share-based payments 13.7 13.7 Deferred tax 2.7 2.7 Total transactions with owners 0.8 17.5 16.7 At 31 December 2012 9.2 1.3 8.0 6.6 7.1 429.4 459.0 Profit for the year 88.6 88.6 Net change in fair value of available for sale investments reclassified to profit or loss 6.6 6.6 Other comprehensive expense 6.6 6.6 Total comprehensive expense income 6.6 88.6 82.0 Vesting of ordinary shares and options 0.9 0.5 1.4 Dividends paid 42.8 42.8 Purchase of shares by EBT 4.4 4.4 Share-based payments 13.8 13.8 Current tax 0.9 0.9 Deferred tax 3.8 3.8 Total transactions with owners 0.9 28.2 27.3 At 31 December 2013 9.2 0.4 8.0 7.1 489.8 513.7 Notes 4.1 4.2 4.2 4.2 4.2 4.2 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 95 Section 4: Equity Notes to the Group financial statements Equity 4.1.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
2013 2012 Issued, allotted, called-up and fully paid m m 457.7m ordinary shares of 2p each 9.2 9.2 9.2 9.2 4.2.
Reserves i Own share reserve The Group operates an EBT for the purpose of satisfying certain retention awards to employees.
The holdings of this trust include certain shares that have not vested unconditionally to employees of the Group.
These shares are classified as own shares.
They are held for the short term to meet future award requirements and are recorded, at cost, as own shares.
From June 2013, the Group started funding the EBT with cash to purchase own shares.
These shares will be used to settle future obligations that have arisen from various share awards.
At 31 December 2013, 3.5m 2012: 42.5m ordinary shares beneficially owned by senior employees were subject to restrictions which, in some circumstances, require the Group to repurchase the shares at their nominal value, and this liability is shown within current trade and other payables.
These restrictions are released over the next two years.
The shares are held within the Groups EBT and, together with a further 17.4m 2012: 20.9m shares held for the purpose of satisfying share option obligations to employees, are treated as own shares with a cost of 0.4m 2012: 1.3m.
ii Other reserve The other reserve of 8.0m 2012: 8.0m relates to the conversion of Tier 2 preference shares in 2010. iii Available for sale reserve The available for sale reserve is nil 2012: 6.6m.
It relates to the uplift in the fair value of the Groups holdings in investments classified as available for sale.
iv Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve of 7.1m 2012: 7.1m is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
v Retained earnings Retained earnings of 489.8m 2012: 429.4m are the amount of earnings that are retained within the Company after dividend payments and other transactions with owners.
Dividends Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised in the accounting period in which the dividends are paid and, in the case of final dividends, when these are approved by the Companys shareholders.
2013 2012 m m Final dividend 2012 6.3p per ordinary share 2011: 5.3p per share 27.5 24.3 Interim dividend 2013 3.5p per ordinary share 2012: 2.5p per share 15.3 11.4 42.8 35.7 In April 2013, the EBT waived its right to receive future dividends on shares held in the trust.
There were no dividends paid on shares held in the EBT in 2013 2012: 1.8m.
Net dividends paid in 2012 were therefore 33.9m.
A final dividend for 2013 of 9.1p per share 2012: 6.3p amounting to 41.7m before adjusting for any dividends waived on shares in the EBT will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 21 May 2014 and will be accounted for in 2014.
96 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Section 5: Other notes Notes to the Group financial statements Other 5.1.
Basis of preparation and other accounting policies Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and IFRIC Interpretations IFRS as adopted by the EU and with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis using the historical cost convention modified by the revaluation of certain financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative financial instruments that have been measured at fair value.
After reviewing the Groups current plans and forecasts and financing arrangements, as well as the current trading activities of the Group, the Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
Basis of accounting The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 includes the consolidated financial information of the Company and its subsidiaries.
"The accounting policies set out those policies that have been applied consistently in preparing the financial statements, with no new policies adopted for the year ended 31 December 2013, except as disclosed later in this note within the section titled ""New standards and interpretations adopted for 2013""."
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
"The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed later in this note within the section titled ""Critical accounting estimates, judgements and assumptions""."
Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefit from its activities, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
A list of principal subsidiaries can be seen in Note 6.3.
Uniform accounting policies are applied across all Group companies and intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Seed capital investments in closed-ended funds, open-ended investment companies and unit trusts are accounted for as subsidiaries, associates or other financial investments depending on the holdings of the Group and on the level of influence and control that the Group exercises.
The transactions and balances of subsidiaries are consolidated in these financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
When the Group holds controlling interests in certain mutual funds and similar entities, these are accounted for as subsidiaries.
The funds have issued redeemable shares to the Group and external investors who have the ability to put the redeemable shares back to the funds.
In accordance with IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation, puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation, non-controlling interests in redeemable shares issued by these funds accounted for as subsidiaries represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets that is not held by the Group or its subsidiaries and are included within other gains losses in the income statement and as liabilities at fair value through profit or loss in the balance sheet.
This is due to the ability of the external shareholders in these funds to put the shares back to the funds.
ii Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies and are usually accompanied with a shareholding between 20 per cent.
Investments that are held as part of the Groups investment portfolio in mutual funds and similar entities are carried in the balance sheet at fair value even though the Group may have significant influence over those companies as permitted by IAS 28, Investment in Associates, with changes in fair value recognised in the consolidated income statement.
The fair value of investments in associates is determined by reference to the quoted bid prices or net asset value of the underlying investments at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
The Group has no investment in associates other than these and, therefore, no associates are currently equity accounted.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 97 Section 5: Other notes Notes to the Group financial statements Other continued 5.1.
Basis of preparation and other accounting policies continued Foreign currency i Functional and presentational currency Items included in the financial information of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is both the Companys functional and presentational currency as well as the currency in which the majority of the Groups revenue streams, assets and liabilities are denominated.
ii Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the consolidated income statement within administrative expenses.
Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets and liabilities, such as equities held at fair value through profit or loss, are recognised in the consolidated income statement as part of other gains losses.
Translation differences on non-financial assets, such as investments classified as available for sale, are included in other comprehensive income unless the change in the fair value taken to equity has been recycled to the income statement, in which case the foreign exchange gain or loss is also recycled to the income statement.
iii Group companies The results and financial position of all Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: income and expenses for each consolidated income statement are translated at average exchange rates: and all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of other comprehensive income.
98 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 5.1.
Basis of preparation and other accounting policies continued New standards and interpretations adopted for 2013 The following new and revised standards and interpretations have been adopted in the current year.
Annual improvements 2011 These improvements address changes to: IFRS 1 First Time Adoption IAS 1 Financial Statement Presentation IAS 16 Property Plant and Equipment IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement Aims to improve consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across IFRSs.
IAS 1 revised Presentation of Items of Other Revises the way other comprehensive income is presented: requiring separate Comprehensive Income subtotals for those elements which may be recycled to the income statement and those elements that will not.
The main change resulting from IAS 1 revised Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income is a requirement to group items presented in other comprehensive income on the basis of whether they are potentially reclassifiable to profit or loss subsequently.
The adoption of IFRS 13 requires the Group to disclose further information relating to assets and liabilities held at fair value.
The adoption of the remaining new and revised standards and interpretations have not had a significant impact on amounts reported in the financial statements.
New standards and interpretations not applied The International Accounting Standards Board and IFRS Interpretations Committee have issued a number of new accounting standards, amendments to existing standards and interpretations.
The following new standards are not applicable to these financial statements, but are expected to have an impact when they become effective.
The Group plans to apply these standards in the reporting period in which they become effective.
Effective for periods beginning Not yet endorsed Summary on or after IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Proposes revised measurement and classification criteria for Unconfirmed Measurement financial assets.
IAS 36 Impairment of Assets Clarification of the disclosure requirement for Recoverable 1 January 2014 Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets.
IFRIC 21 Levies Guidance in when to recognise a liability for a levy imposed 1 January 2014 by a government.
Endorsed and available for early adoption IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements Defines the principle of control, and establishes control as 1 January 2014 the basis for consolidation in the preparation of consolidated IAS 27 revised Separate Financial Statements financial statements.
IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities Includes the disclosure requirements for all forms of interests 1 January 2014 in other entities, such as joint arrangements, associates and other off balance sheet vehicles.
IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Prescribes the accounting for investments in associates and 1 January 2014 sets out the requirements for the application of the equity method when accounting for investments in associates and joint ventures.
Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments These amendments clarify some of the requirements for 1 January 2014 offsetting financial assets and liabilities on the balance sheet.
The adoption of the accounting standards endorsed but not yet applied are not expected to have a significant impact the financial statements of the Group, except the following: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements defines the principle of control and establishes control as the basis for consolidation.
As such, the Group may be required to consolidate more funds that are managed by the Group.
IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities will require increased disclosure for all forms of interests in other entities, including associates.
It is not expected to impact the results of the Group.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 99 Section 5: Other notes Notes to the Group financial statements Other continued 5.1.
Basis of preparation and other accounting policies continued Critical accounting estimates, judgements and assumptions The preparation of the financial information requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities.
If, in the future, such estimates and assumptions, which are based on managements best judgement at the date of preparation of the financial information, deviate from actual circumstances, the original estimates and assumptions will be modified as appropriate in the period in which the circumstances change.
The areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the Group financial statements are discussed in the following notes.
1.5 Share-based payments 3.1 Impairment of goodwill 3.2 Impairment of acquired intangibles 3.6 Accrued income 3.9 Accrued expenses 5.2.
Financial commitments The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases on office properties are shown below.
2013 2012 m m Not later than one year 1.4 1.5 Later than one year and not later than five years 1.6 0.1 3.0 1.6 The commitments above take into account any early break clauses exercisable by the Group.
There are no special terms for renewal or purchase options for the Groups leasehold property, nor are there any restrictions on dividends, additional debt or further leasing imposed from the leasing arrangements.
Financial risk management Financial instruments by category The carrying value of the financial instruments of the Group at 31 December is shown below: Financial Financial assets liabilities Other Total NonAvailable designated Loans and designated financial financial financial for sale at FVTPL receivables at FVTPL liabilities instruments instruments Total 2013 m m m m m m m m Goodwill 341.2 341.2 Intangible assets 27.3 27.3 Property, plant and equipment 1.2 1.2 Available for sale investments 2.6 2.6 2.6 Deferred tax assets 18.4 18.4 Non-current trade and other receivables 9.0 9.0 Investments in associates 19.3 19.3 19.3 Financial assets at FVTPL 41.3 41.3 41.3 Current trade and other receivables 86.8 86.8 9.7 96.5 Cash and cash equivalents 170.5 170.5 170.5 Loans and borrowings 11.0 11.0 11.0 Non-current trade and other payables 2.0 2.0 14.8 16.8 Deferred tax liabilities 5.6 5.6 Current trade and other payables 130.5 130.5 24.4 154.9 Current income tax liability 15.1 15.1 Financial liabilities at FVTPL 10.2 10.2 10.2 Total 2.6 60.6 257.3 10.2 143.5 166.8 346.9 513.7 100 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 5.3.
Financial risk management continued Financial Financial assets liabilities Other Total NonAvailable designated Loans and designated financial financial financial for sale at FVTPL receivables at FVTPL liabilities instruments instruments Total 2012 m m m m m m m m Goodwill 341.2 341.2 Intangible assets 64.5 64.5 Property, plant and equipment 1.6 1.6 Available for sale investments 19.1 19.1 19.1 Deferred tax assets 15.3 15.3 Non-current trade and other receivables 13.9 13.9 Investments in associates 19.2 19.2 19.2 Financial assets at FVTPL 34.2 34.2 34.2 Current trade and other receivables 80.8 80.8 9.8 90.6 Cash and cash equivalents 147.0 147.0 147.0 Loans and borrowings 78.0 78.0 0.7 77.3 Non-current trade and other payables 0.8 0.8 21.5 22.3 Deferred tax liabilities 14.5 14.5 Current trade and other payables 132.6 132.6 22.2 154.8 Current income tax liability 15.6 15.6 Financial liabilities at FVTPL 3.1 3.1 3.1 Total 19.1 53.4 227.8 3.1 211.4 85.8 373.2 459.0 Financial instruments do not include prepayments, deferred income, deferred acquisition and commission costs or social security and other taxes as these are not financial instruments For financial instruments held at 31 December 2013 and 2012, there was no material difference between the carrying value and fair value.
Gains and losses recognised in the income statement during the period to 31 December by category are shown below: 2013 2012 Financial Other Financial Other Financial assets liabilities income Financial assets liabilities income Available designated designated and designated designated and for sale at FVTPL at FVTPL expense Total at FVTPL at FVTPL expense Total m m m m m m m m m Revenue 388.8 388.8 346.4 346.4 Fee and commission expenses 100.3 100.3 101.9 101.9 Administrative expenses 142.1 142.1 128.4 128.4 Other gains losses 6.7 2.5 0.3 9.5 0.2 0.9 Amortisation of intangible assets 39.7 39.7 39.7 39.7 Exceptional income 5.0 5.0 Finance income 0.2 0.8 1.0 0.5 0.5 Finance costs 3.1 3.1 0.3 7.1 7.4 Income tax expense 25.5 25.5 17.4 17.4 6.7 2.5 0.2 79.2 88.6 0.2 0.3 57.4 56.2 During the year, 6.6m was recycled from equity to the income statement on disposal of an available for sale investment see Note 3.4.
In 2012, a loss of 4.8m was recognised directly in equity reflecting a loss on available for sale investments.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 101 Section 5: Other notes Notes to the Group financial statements Other continued 5.3.
Financial risk management continued Financial risk management objectives and policies The Group is subject to a number of financial risks throughout its business, the principal risks being market risk, including price, foreign exchange and interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Board is accountable for risk and is responsible for oversight of the risk management process.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the risk strategy of the Group, and for determining an appropriate risk appetite and tolerance levels within which the Group must operate.
By defining these, the Board demonstrates that it is aware of and, where appropriate, has taken steps to mitigate the impact of risks that may have a material impact on the Group.
The Executive Committee reviews the key corporate risks facing the Group.
The Chief Executive Officer has ultimate responsibility for the governance of the risk management of the firm, but delegates the risk and control framework to the Chief Financial Officer CFO.
The CFO is responsible for the monitoring and reporting of risk and controls, and through the Risk Committee manages the ongoing development of the Groups risk and control framework.
Jupiter embeds risk management within the business, with independent oversight and challenge being provided by the risk function.
Price risk Price risk is the risk that a decline in the value of assets will adversely impact the profitability of the Group.
Management has identified price risk as the exposure in the value of financial assets held by the Group, resulting in a loss recognised in the consolidated income statement.
The Group is not exposed to commodity price risk.
The Group holds equity investments in its seed capital portfolio and is exposed to the risk of changes in the equity markets that will reduce the value of the Groups investments.
At 31 December 2013, the exposure to unlisted equity securities at fair value was 2.6m 2012: 19.1m and the exposure to listed securities at fair value was 52.9m 2012: 53.8m.
The Groups policy is to hedge the equity market and currency exposure of its seed capital investments depending on the fund mandate and whether available transactions are cost effective.
As at 31 December 2013, the Group had a total return swap arrangement over certain holdings in seed fund investments.
A fall in value of an available for sale investment which is significant or prolonged is considered to be an indication of impairment under IAS 39.
In such an event, the available for sale investment is written down to fair value and the amounts previously recognised equity in respect of market value are recognised in the consolidated income statement as an impairment charge.
Price risk sensitivity analysis on financial assets The Directors believe that 10 per cent.
gives a reasonable measure of the Groups sensitivity to price risk.
An increase or decrease of 10 per cent.
in equity markets would have the following impact on the profit before taxation and equity of the Group: 2013 2012 Market value movement 10% -10% 10% -10% Income statement 3.0 3.3 2.7 2.7 Equity 0.3 1.9 1.9 The sensitivity analysis takes account of the relevant derivative transactions the Group has entered into in order to provide a hedge against such movements.
Foreign exchange risk Foreign exchange risk is the risk that the Group will sustain losses through adverse movements in currency exchange rates.
As the Group predominantly operates in the UK, with some transactions from overseas third parties in foreign currencies, this then impacts its exposure to non-sterling income and expenses.
The Groups policy is to hold minimum currency to cover operational needs and, therefore, to convert foreign currency on receipt.
Direct exposures are limited to operational cash held in overseas subsidiaries and short-term outstanding currency fee debts at any time.
The Group does not normally hedge this risk.
Foreign currency risk is managed by the finance function incorporating treasury operations, whereby foreign currency balances are monitored closely.
102 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 5.3.
Financial risk management continued Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
The Groups exposure to the risk of changes in interest rates relates primarily to the Groups cash balances and long-term debt obligations Note 1.10.
The Group manages interest rate risk via its finance function monitoring the interest rate cash flow risks and returns.
Historically, the Group has managed the interest rate risk on its borrowings via the use of interest rate swaps.
At 31 December 2012, after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps, approximately 90 per cent.
of the Groups borrowings were at a fixed rate of interest.
During 2013, these swaps were terminated, as the Board no longer considered it necessary to hedge the exposure of such a reduced loan balance.
The Group puts cash on deposit at fixed rates of interest for periods of up to three months.
Interest rate sensitivity analysis The Directors believe that a movement in interest rates of 50bps gives a reasonable measure of the Groups sensitivity to interest rate risk.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit before tax mainly through the impact on floating rate cash deposits and borrowings.
There is only an immaterial impact on the Groups equity.
2013 2012 Impact on the income statement of change in interest rates m m 50 bps 0.8 0.7 50 bps 0.5 0.5 The sensitivity analysis for 2012 takes into account the relevant derivative transactions the Group has entered into in order to provide a hedge against such movements and takes into account the economic cash flow impact.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract leading to a financial loss in its operating activities.
The Group is exposed to credit risk primarily on its trade receivables and from its financing activities, including deposits with banks and financial institutions.
Trade receivables arise principally within the Groups investment management business and amounts are monitored regularly.
Historically, default levels have been insignificant and the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying value of its trade receivables and cash and cash equivalents Notes 3.6 and 3.7.
"The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 December is shown below: 2013 2012 m m Trade receivables Note 3.6 68.2 65.8 Cash and cash equivalents Note 3.7 170.5 147.0 238.7 212.8 With regard to credit risk related to financial instruments, the Groups policy is to place deposits only with financial institutions which satisfy minimum ratings and other criteria set by the Counterparty Review Group ""CRG""."
Investments of surplus funds are made only with approved counterparties and within credit limits assigned to each counterparty.
The limits are set to minimise the concentration of risks and, therefore, mitigate financial loss through potential counterparty failure.
The CRG monitors the Groups counterparty exposures.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 103 Section 5: Other notes Notes to the Group financial statements Other continued 5.3.
Financial risk management continued The table below contains an ageing analysis of current and overdue trade receivables: 2013 2012 m m Neither past due nor impaired 67.0 64.7 Days past due 30 1.0 0.8 30-60 0.1 0.1 61-90 90 0.1 0.2 68.2 65.8 None of the receivables which were past due were considered to be impaired.
The table below contains an analysis of financial assets as rated by Fitch Ratings for the Group.
2013 2012 Cash and Cash and Trade cash Trade cash receivables equivalents Total receivables equivalents Total m m m m m m AAA AA 23.8 23.8 16.0 16.0 A 146.7 146.7 1.2 131.0 132.2 BBB Not rated 68.2 68.2 64.6 64.6 Total 68.2 170.5 238.7 65.8 147.0 212.8 The cash and cash equivalents are graded A or better and the portfolio has no exposures to emerging markets, sub-investment grade assets or any asset-backed securities.
Trade and other receivables which are not rated comprise cancellations of units in unit trusts and sales of units in unit trusts, title to which are not transferred until settlement is received.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group may be unable to meet its payment obligations as they fall due or at a significantly higher cost.
The Group produces a cash flow forecast to ensure all assets and liabilities are managed efficiently.
The Groups objectives are: ensuring both the Group as a whole and individual entities within the Group have access to sufficient liquid funds to trade solvently and meet trading liabilities as they fall due: allowing the Group to maintain a flexible dividend policy, taking reference to prior year and prospective profitability, cash flow and balance sheet: and providing the Group with appropriate flexibility over the transferability of its capital and cash balances.
Surplus cash held by the operating entities over and above the balances required for working capital management is held in interest bearing deposits of up to three months and the regulated companies, in particular, ensure that sufficient capital is kept to meet regulatory requirements.
104 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 5.3.
"Financial risk management continued During the year the Group entered into a revolving credit facility ""RCF"" of 50m of which 39m was unutilised at 31 December 2013."
In 2012, the Group had access to a 10m RCF under a separate arrangement, of which 10m was unutilised at 31 December 2012.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 based on contractual undiscounted payments: Financial liabilities 2013 2012 Within Within 1 year or 1 year or repayable repayable on demand 1-5 years 5 years Total on demand 1-5 years 5 years Total m m m m m m m m Loans and borrowings 0.3 11.6 11.9 3.3 82.8 86.1 Trade and other payables 130.5 2.0 132.5 132.6 0.8 133.4 Financial liabilities at FVTPL 10.2 10.2 3.6 0.4 4.0 Total 141.0 13.6 154.6 139.5 84.0 223.5 Loans and borrowings includes expected cash flows in respect of interest payments.
Capital management The Groups objectives when managing its capital and funding structure are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, maintain appropriate financial resources, maximise shareholder value, to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital and to meet working capital requirements.
2013 2012 m m Loans and borrowings 11.0 78.0 Cash and short-term deposits 170.5 147.0 Net cash 159.5 69.0 Equity 16.8 22.5 Retained earnings and foreign currency translation reserve 496.9 436.5 Total capital 513.7 459.0 Regulatory capital requirements The Group considers its share capital and reserves to constitute its total capital.
The subsidiaries within the Group which are regulated are required to maintain capital resources to comply with the regulatory capital requirements of the FCA and certain overseas financial regulators.
All regulated entities within the Group complied with the externally imposed regulatory capital requirements.
Headroom over regulatory capital is discussed by the Balance Sheet Management Committee.
"Further information on the Balance Sheet Management Committee can be found in the ""Management Committees"" overview within the Governance section."
In addition to the capital held to meet the regulatory capital requirements, the Group maintains sufficient cash resources to meet its liabilities as and when they fall due, taking into account cash forecasts.
The Group performs regular cash flow forecasts, modelling both normal and stressed conditions.
Liquidity risk is mitigated by the long-term nature of the Groups principal borrowings and the high levels of cash balances in the business.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 105 Section 5: Other notes Notes to the Group financial statements Other continued 5.4.
Related parties The Group manages, through its subsidiaries, a number of investment trusts, unit trusts and overseas funds.
The subsidiary companies receive management fees from these entities for managing the assets, and in some instances, receive performance fees.
The precise fee arrangements for the different entities are disclosed within the financial statements of each entity or within other information which is publicly available.
The Group manages a number of collective investment vehicles and, by virtue of the investment management agreements in place between the Group and these vehicles, they may be considered to be related parties.
The Group acts as manager for 39 2012: 38 authorised unit trusts.
Each unit trust is jointly administered with the trustees, National Westminster Bank plc.
The aggregate total value of transactions for the year was 2,799.6m 2012: 2,831.2m for unit trust creations and 2,596.1m 2012: 1,819.4m for unit trust redemptions.
The actual aggregate amount due to the trustees at the end of the accounting year in respect of transactions awaiting settlement was 15.2m 2012: 11.5m.
The amount received in respect of gross management and registration charges was 349.6m 2012: 301.3m.
At the end of the year, there was 9.1m 2012: 8.4m accrued for annual management fees and 1.5m 2012: 1.3m in respect of registration fees.
Investment management and performance fees are disclosed in Note 1.1.
Included within the financial instruments note are seed capital investments in funds managed by the Group.
At 31 December 2013, the Group had a total net investment in collective investment vehicles of 52.9m 2012: 53.8m and received distributions of 0.2m 2012: 0.1m.
During 2013, it invested 2.8m 2012: 29.1m in seed capital investments and received 6.8m 2012: 19.8m on disposal of them.
TA Associates, L. P. is also considered a related party of the Group.
There were no transactions with TA Associates, L. P. in the year.
Key management compensation The Group also considers transactions with its key management personnel as related party transactions.
Key management personnel is defined as the executive Directors together with other members of the Executive Committee.
The aggregate compensation paid or payable to key management for employee services is shown below: 2013 2012 m m Short-term employee benefits 5.3 7.8 Share-based payments 2.9 2.3 Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.1 Other long-term benefits 0.3 0.1 8.6 10.3 106 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Financial statements Company 108 Section 6: Company financial statements Company balance sheet Company statement of cash flows Company statement of changes in equity Notes to the Company financial statements 114 Independent auditors report to the members of Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 107 S ection 6: Company financial statements Company balance sheet at 31 December 2013 2013 2012 Notes m m Non-current assets Investment in subsidiary undertakings 6.2 137.6 124.2 137.6 124.2 Current assets Trade and other receivables 6.4 184.0 219.7 Cash and cash equivalents 6.5 2.2 4.6 186.2 224.3 Total assets 323.8 348.5 Equity capital and reserves Share capital 4.1 9.2 9.2 Own share reserve 4.2 0.4 1.3 Other reserve 4.2 8.0 8.0 Retained earnings 294.8 331.2 Total equity 311.6 347.1 Non-current liabilities Loans and borrowings 6.7 11.0 11.0 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 6.8 1.0 1.4 Current income tax liability 0.2 1.2 1.4 Total liabilities 12.2 1.4 Total equity and liabilities 323.8 348.5 The financial statements of Jupiter Fund Management plc registered number 6150195 on pages 108 to 113 were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 26 February 2014.
They were signed on its behalf by Philip Johnson Chief Financial Officer 108 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Company statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2013 2013 2012 Notes m m Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations 6.6 34.7 35.0 Income tax paid 0.9 Net cash inflows from operating activities 33.8 35.0 Cash flows from financing activities Purchase of shares by EBT 3.8 Proceeds from bank loans 6.7 40.0 Repayment of bank loans 6.7 29.0 Finance costs paid 0.6 Dividends paid 4.3 42.8 33.9 Net cash outflows from financing activities 36.2 33.9 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 2.4 1.1 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 4.6 3.5 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 6.5 2.2 4.6 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 109 S ection 6: Company financial statements Company statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2013 Own Share share Other Retained capital reserve reserve earnings Total m m m m m At 1 January 2012 9.2 2.1 8.0 352.6 367.7 Loss for the year 1.2 1.2 Total comprehensive income 1.2 1.2 Vesting of ordinary shares and options 0.8 0.8 Dividends paid 33.9 33.9 Share-based payments 13.7 13.7 Total transactions with owners 0.8 20.2 19.4 At 31 December 2012 9.2 1.3 8.0 331.2 347.1 Loss for the year 2.4 2.4 Total comprehensive income 2.4 2.4 Vesting of ordinary shares and options 0.9 0.5 1.4 Dividends paid 42.8 42.8 Share-based payments 13.8 13.8 Purchase of shares by EBT 4.4 4.4 Current tax 1.1 1.1 Total transactions with owners 0.9 34.0 33.1 At 31 December 2013 9.2 0.4 8.0 294.8 311.6 Notes 4.1 4.2 4.2 110 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Notes to the Company financial statements 6.1.
"Accounting policies Basis of preparation The separate financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and IFRIC interpretations ""IFRS"" adopted by the EU"" and with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS."
The principal accounting policies adopted are the same as those set out in Sections 1 - 5 of the Groups financial statements.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in section 408 of the Act not to present its own income statement.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings Investments in subsidiary undertakings are held at cost less provision for impairment.
Share-based payments The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as a capital contribution.
The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised over the vesting period as an increase to the investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity in the Company financial statements.
Investment in subsidiary undertakings 2013 2012 m m At 1 January 124.2 110.5 Share-based payments 13.8 13.7 Impairment 0.4 At 31 December 137.6 124.2 During 2013 and 2012, a number of subsidiary companies granted options to their employees over the shares of Jupiter Fund Management plc.
This created an investment by the Company in those entities.
Principal group undertakings The following information relates to the Companys operating subsidiaries which principally affected the profits or net assets of the Group.
At 31 December 2013 and 2012, these were all indirectly held.
To avoid a statement of excessive length, details of investments which are not significant have been omitted.
A full list of subsidiary and associate undertakings will be annexed to the next annual return of Jupiter Fund Management plc to be filed with the Registrar of Companies.
All subsidiaries have the same reporting dates and period of reporting as the parent Company.
The parent held directly or indirectly all of the issued ordinary shares of all of the subsidiaries in 2013 and 2012.
Name Country of incorporation Principal activities Jupiter Asset Management Group Limited United Kingdom Investment holding company Jupiter Investment Management Group Limited United Kingdom Investment holding company Jupiter Asset Management Limited United Kingdom Investment management Jupiter Unit Trust Managers Limited United Kingdom Unit trust management 6.4.
Trade and other receivables 2013 2012 m m Prepayments and accrued income 0.1 Amounts owed from subsidiaries 183.4 219.6 Trade receivables 0.6 184.0 219.7 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 111 Section 6: Company financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements continued 6.5.
Cash and cash equivalents 2013 2012 m m Cash at bank and in hand 0.4 1.3 Cash held by EBT 1.8 3.3 2.2 4.6 6.6.
Cash flows from operating activities 2013 2012 m m Operating loss 1.8 1.2 Adjustments for: Decrease in trade and other receivables 35.7 36.3 Decrease in trade and other payables 0.1 0.1 Cash inflows on exercise of share options 0.5 Impairment of investment in subsidiary 0.4 Cash generated from operations 34.7 35.0 6.7.
Loans and borrowings 2013 2012 m m Bank loan 11.0 11.0 2013 2012 m m At 1 January Proceeds from new loan 40.0 Voluntary prepayments made in the year 29.0 At 31 December 11.0 In July 2013, the Company entered into a three year revolving credit facility of 50m.
Further details of this are given in Note 3.8.
Trade and other payables 2013 2012 m m Accruals 0.1 0.2 Due to employees in respect of share and option awards 0.2 1.1 Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 0.1 Other payables 0.7 1.0 1.4 The amounts due to subsidiary undertakings are unsecured, interest free and are payable on demand.
112 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 6.9.
Financial instruments Financial instruments by category The carrying value of the financial instruments of the Company at 31 December is shown below: Other Total Loans and financial financial Non-financial receivables liabilities instruments instruments Total 2013 m m m m m Investment in subsidiary undertaking 137.6 137.6 Current trade and other receivables 184.0 184.0 184.0 Cash and cash equivalents 2.2 2.2 2.2 Loans and borrowings 11.0 11.0 11.0 Current trade and other payables 1.0 1.0 1.0 Current income tax liability 0.2 0.2 Total 186.2 12.0 174.2 137.4 311.6 Other Total Loans and financial financial Non-financial receivables liabilities instruments instruments Total 2012 m m m m m Investment in subsidiary undertaking 124.2 124.2 Current trade and other receivables 219.6 219.6 0.1 219.7 Cash and cash equivalents 4.6 4.6 4.6 Current trade and other payables 1.4 1.4 1.4 Total 224.2 1.4 222.8 124.3 347.1 At 31 December 2013 and 2012 the Company did not hold any financial instruments measured at fair value.
The Companys exposure to price, foreign exchange, interest rate, credit and liquidity risk is not considered to be material and, therefore, no further information is provided.
Related parties Investment in subsidiary undertakings are disclosed in Note 6.2 and the amounts due to and from subsidiaries in Notes 6.4 and 6.8 respectively.
During 2013, Jupiter Fund Management Group Limited repaid the Company 36.2m 2012: 36.2m of the intercompany loan.
Key management compensation The Company also considers transactions with its key management personnel as related party transactions.
Key management personnel is defined as the Directors together with other members of the Executive Committee.
The aggregate compensation paid or payable to key management for employee services is shown below: 2013 2012 m m Short-term employee benefits 1.2 1.6 Share-based payments 0.5 0.2 1.7 1.8 With the exception of non-executive Directors, key management personnel compensation is paid for by a Group subsidiary and no recharge is made to the Company.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 113 Independent auditors report to the members of Jupiter Fund Management plc Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality Report on the financial statements for the Group financial statements as a whole to be 5.7 million Our opinion which approximates to 5% of profit before taxation.
We concluded In our opinion: that profit before taxation was the relevant benchmark because it is the financial statements, defined below, give a true and fair view a key metric for the Groups business.
of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit and of the Groups and We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to Companys cash flows for the year then ended: them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.3 million the Group financial statements have been properly prepared as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared Overview of the scope of our audit in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and The Group is structured along a single business line being as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies investment management.
The Group financial statements are a Act 2006: and consolidation of the Company and nineteen subsidiary entities, the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with comprising the Groups operating business and centralised the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the functions.
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the determined the type of work that needed to be performed at each remainder of this report.
of the subsidiaries by us, as the Group engagement team and also as auditors for each of the subsidiaries, to be able to conclude What we have audited whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained The Group financial statements and Company financial statements as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a the financial statements, which are prepared by Jupiter Fund whole.
Accordingly, of the Groups nineteen subsidiary entities, Management plc, comprise: we identified three which, in our view, required an audit of their the Group and Company balance sheets as at 31 December 2013: complete financial information.
the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: Two of these entities, Jupiter Asset Management Limited and Jupiter the Consolidated and Company statements of cash flows for the Unit Trust Managers Limited, were identified due to their size being year then ended: the Consolidated and Company statements of regarded as financially significant to the Group as a whole, and a changes in equity for the year then ended: and third unit, Jupiter Investment Management Group Limited, was the notes to the Group and Company financial statements, identified as there are a number of balances within this company, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and including investments, which are material to the Group financial other explanatory information.
Specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were also performed at the Company, which included The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their confirming outstanding loans and borrowings of the Group as at 31 preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by December 2013.
The work performed on the components, together the European Union and, as regards the Company, as applied in with additional procedures performed at the Group level gave us accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Areas of particular audit focus on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
This includes an assessment of: We primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our and Companys circumstances and have been consistently own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial applied and adequately disclosed: statements.
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling the overall presentation of the financial statements.
and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of in the Annual Report & Accounts the Annual Report to identify controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect We considered the following areas to be those that required based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those the implications for our report.
matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out in the Audit Committee report.
Overview of our audit approach Materiality We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
114 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Fraud in revenue recognition We understood and evaluated controls, including relevant Information Technology systems and controls, in place around the ISAs UK & Ireland presume that there is a risk of fraud in revenue key revenue streams.
This included both in-house and outsourced recognition because of the pressure management may feel under activities.
The calculation of mutual fund and SICAV fee income, to achieve the planned results due to the focus on revenue by the constituting the majority of Group revenue, is outsourced to a market.
To obtain evidence over the key outsourced In addition, the value of bonuses and other long term incentive functions supporting the calculation of revenue, we obtained schemes is linked to revenue measures which could provide and assessed independent reports on the design and operational additional pressure on management to achieve the planned results.
effectiveness of controls at these third parties.
There may therefore be an incentive for management to For processes involving manual calculations performed by manipulate the results.
management, where the ability to manipulate revenue transactions had been identified, we reperformed the calculations and agreed Overall, we therefore considered that the risk of fraud in revenue inputs back to source documentation, such as investment recognition was heightened where there was judgement and management agreements and third party valuation reports.
or the process for recording revenue was a manual or complex process.
We performed tests over manual journals posted to revenue to identify unusual or irregular items.
We also understood and tested material one-off items.
In doing so, we focused on performance fees, where we determined that fees had been recognised in the appropriate period and had been calculated correctly, and agreed that the fee had crystallised.
Share-based payments expense We understood and evaluated the controls in place over the sharebased payment expense and performed tests of details for each We focussed on this area because there is an inherent risk due to type of share based payment transaction.
This included: the judgemental nature in determining the value of the awards, the interpretation of complex terms in the scheme agreements and the obtaining calculations and performing testing to evaluate manual nature of the calculations.
whether the calculation was in line with terms of the individual The Group has a number of schemes in operation and the expense scheme agreements: is material to the financial statements.
obtaining and reading agreements and other supporting documentation for new and amended awards: testing third party valuations of new grants made in the year by agreeing inputs to source documentation and re-calculating the award value using an industry accepted mathematical model: assessing the reasonableness of estimates in relation to performance conditions and or service conditions of existing awards: and obtaining details of outstanding awards and testing that the charge was spread in accordance with the appropriate period of the award.
Risk of management override of internal controls We understood and evaluated the controls surrounding journal entries and significant judgemental items.
ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this because management is in a unique position to perpetrate fraud as a result We tested a sample of manual journal entries recorded in the of their ability to manipulate accounting records and prepare general ledger and other adjustments made by management in the fraudulent financial statements by overriding controls that preparation of the financial statements.
otherwise appear to be operating effectively.
We further considered whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors in the significant accounting estimates and judgments relevant to the financial statements.
For significant transactions identified as being outside of the normal course of business, or that otherwise appeared to be unusual, we evaluated whether the rationale or the lack thereof suggested that they may have been entered into to engage in fraudulent financial reporting or to conceal misappropriation of assets.
We also built in an element of unpredictability into our detailed testing.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 115 Independent auditors report to the members of Jupiter Fund Management plc continued Going Concern Directors remuneration Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you statement in relation to going concern.
We have no exceptions to if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration report arising from our review.
specified by law have not been made.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups and Companys financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going Corporate Governance Statement concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements prepared by the Company.
We have no exceptions to report arising were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the from this responsibility.
Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of However, because not all future events or conditions can be the corporate governance statement relating to the Companys predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the Directors state that they Opinions on other matters prescribed by the consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced Companies Act 2006 and understandable and provide the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and In our opinion: strategy.
As required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the report for the financial year for which the financial statements financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been the statement given by the Directors is materially inconsistent properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of and performing our audit: or the information given in the corporate governance statement the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the in the Annual Report with respect to internal control and risk Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters management systems and about share capital structures is communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
consistent with the financial statements.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Other matters on which we are required to report Other information in the Annual Report Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our by exception opinion, information in the Annual Report is: Adequacy of accounting records and information and materially inconsistent with the information in the audited explanations received financial statements: or Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially in our opinion: inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company we have not received all the information and explanations we acquired in the course of performing our audit: or require for our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
116 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group and Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Sandra Dowling Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 26 February 2014 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 117 118 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Other information 120 Historical summary unaudited 121 Shareholder information 122 Glossary of terms Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 119 Historical summary unaudited For the year ended 31 December 2013 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 m m m m m Net revenue 288.5 244.5 248.5 230.5 182.1 Administrative expenses 142.1 128.4 123.8 115.1 92.3 Operating earnings 146.4 116.1 124.7 115.4 89.8 Other gains losses 9.5 0.9 1.2 1.7 2.4 Amortisation of intangible assets 39.7 39.7 39.9 39.8 39.8 Operating profit before exceptional costs 116.2 75.5 83.6 77.3 52.4 Exceptional items 5.0 6.8 Operating profit 116.2 80.5 83.6 70.5 52.4 Finance income 1.0 0.5 1.0 0.9 1.2 Finance costs 3.1 7.4 14.3 29.0 46.4 Profit before taxation 114.1 73.6 70.3 42.4 7.2 Income tax expense credit 25.5 17.4 18.9 9.9 1.4 Profit for the year 88.6 56.2 51.4 32.5 8.6 Earnings per share Basic p share 21.1 14.9 15.6 10.8 10.6 Diluted p share 20.0 14.2 15.0 7.6 3.2 Assets under management at year end bn 31.7 26.3 22.8 24.1 19.5 Average headcount number 455 432 409 444 474 Operating earnings to EBITDA reconciliation Operating earnings 146.4 116.1 124.7 115.4 89.8 Add: charge for options over pre-Listing shares 4.2 7.3 9.6 7.8 Add: depreciation 0.9 0.8 0.6 1.4 1.4 EBITDA 151.5 124.2 134.9 124.6 91.2 Net cash debt m 159.5 69.0 7.4 62.7 139.6 Net cash inflows from operating activities m 122.1 110.6 107.1 108.1 17.2 Underlying earnings per share p 25.2 19.0 19.1 17.6 11.4 120 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Shareholder information All enquiries relating to holdings of shares in Jupiter Fund Management plc, Shareholder enquiries including notification of change of address, queries regarding dividend interest payments or the loss of a certificate, should be addressed to the Companys registrars: Capita Asset Services The Registry 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham Kent BR3 4TU Tel: 0871 664 0300 Calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras, lines are open 8.30am-5.30pm Monday to Friday.
co. uk Other shareholder queries should be addressed to the Company Secretary.
There is a share dealing service offered by the Registrar.
It is a simple way to buy and Share dealing service sell shares via the internet or telephone with quick settlement.
com For telephone purchases: Tel: 0871 664 0445 UK only between 8.00am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday.
Calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
Event Date Financial calendar Ex-dividend date for final dividend 9 April 2014 Record date for final dividend 11 April 2014 Interim Management Statement 11 April 2014 Annual General Meeting 21 May 2014 Final dividend payment date 27 May 2014 Interim results announcement 30 July 2014 Ex-dividend date for interim dividend 6 August 2014 Record date for interim dividend 8 August 2014 Interim dividend payment date 29 August 2014 Interim Management Statement 10 October 2014 Jupiter Fund Management plc Company details and 1 Grosvenor Place principal office London SW1X 7JJ Registered number: 6150195 Company Secretary Adrian Creedy Tel: 020 7412 0703 The Company has a corporate website, which holds, amongst other information, Website copies of our latest annual report and copies of all press announcements released.
This site can be found at: www.
com The Companys ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange: Share information ISIN GB00B53P2009 SEDOL B53P200 TICKER JUP.
LN Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 121 Glossary of terms A D Act DBP Companies Act 2006 Deferred Bonus Plan as amended, supplemented or replaced from time to time AGM E Annual General Meeting EBITDA AUM Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation Assets under management is a non-GAAP measure which the Group uses to assess its performance.
It is defined as operating earnings excluding the effect of depreciation and the charge for options over pre-Listing shares.
B EBITDA margin Bps Represents EBITDA divided by net revenue One one-hundredth of a percentage point EBT 0.01 per cent.
The Jupiter employee benefit trust established pursuant to a trust Board deed dated 22 April 2004 The Board of Directors of the Company EPS Box profits Earnings per share Profit on dealings in mutual funds by the Group representing the EU difference between the cost of purchasing redeemed units at The European Union cancellation prices and reselling those units at higher creation prices on the same day rather than cancelling those units, in each case after brokerage fees F FCA C Financial Conduct Authority of the United Kingdom CDP FCA Remuneration Code Carbon disclosure project The Code whereby firms regulated by the FCA are required to establish, implement and maintain remuneration policies consistent CGU with effective risk management Cash generating unit FCA Rules Code The FCA Handbook of Rules and Guidance made by the FCA under UK Corporate Governance Code adopted by the Financial Reporting FSMA for firms regulated by the FCA Council in 2012 FRC Company Financial Reporting Council Jupiter Fund Management plc FSCS CREST Financial Services Compensation Scheme The system for paperless settlement of trades in listed securities, of which Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited is the operator FSMA Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, as amended, supplemented or replaced from time to time FVTPL Fair value through profit or loss 122 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 G L GAAP LIBOR Generally Accepted Accounting Principles London Interbank Offered Rate Group Listing The Company and all of its subsidiaries The Company Listing on the London Stock Exchange on 21 June 2010 I LTIP Long-term Incentive Plan for retention IAS International Accounting Standard s M IASB International Accounting Standards Board MBO IFA Purchase by management and other parties in 2007 of the Group as Independent financial advisor at that date IFDS MLRO International Financial Data Services Money laundering reporting officer IFRIC Mutual funds International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee Collective investments where a group of investors pool their money buying units or a portion of the mutual fund IFRS International Financial Reporting Standard s N IMA Investment Management Association Net cash net debt ISA Net cash net debt is defined as the gross cash less bank debt Individual savings account outstanding and overdrafts J O Jupiter Overseas Regulated Entities The Company and all of its subsidiaries Jupiter Asset Management Asia Private Limited Jupiter Asset Management Hong Kong Limited Jupiter Asset Managers Jersey Limited K KPI Key performance indicator P PBT Profit before tax Platforms Service providers that enable investors to buy and hold in a single place a range of investments from multiple providers with different tax wrappers Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 123 Glossary of terms continued R RCF Revolving credit facility RDR The FCAs Retail Distribution Review launched in June 2006 Registrar Capita Asset Services S SAYE Save As You Earn SEDOL Stock Exchange Daily Official List Segregated mandates An investment strategy run exclusively for institutional clients SICAV Socit dInvestissement Capital Variable: an open-ended collective investment scheme that derives its value by the number of participating investors SIP Share Incentive Plan T TCF Treating customers fairly U UCITS Undertaking for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities as defined by EC Council Directive 85 611 EEC, as amended W WAEP Weighted average exercise price 124 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Contents 4 Chief Executive Officers report 5 Market opportunity 8 Our business model 10 Strategic objectives 12 Principal risks and mitigations 14 Key performance indicators 16 Operational review 18 Financial review 21 Corporate responsibility 28 Chairmans introduction 29 Governance structure 30 Board of Directors 32 Management committees 34 Application of the Code principles 40 Nomination Committee report 42 Audit Committee report 47 Remuneration report 69 Directors report 72 Statement of Directors' responsibilities 74 Section 1: Results for the year Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 84 Section 2: Consolidated statement of cash flows Consolidated statement of cash flows 86 Section 3: Assets and liabilities Consolidated balance sheet 95 Section 4: Equity Consolidated statement of changes in equity 97 Section 5: Other notes 114 Independent auditors report to the members of Jupiter Fund Management plc 107 Section 6: Company financial statements Company balance sheet Company statement of cash flows Company statement of changes in equity Notes to the Company financial statements 114 Independent auditors report to the members of Jupiter Fund Management plc 120 Historical summary unaudited 121 Shareholder information 122 Glossary of terms Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Registered address: 1 Grosvenor Place, London SW1X 7JJ www.
