16 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial Review the Financial model These three measures, which are described in more detail below, As described earlier, the Groups strategy is to attract and retain provide investors with different perspectives on the performance retail funds under management on which we receive an annual of the business in a particular year.
We believe the additional management fee for as long as we retain the funds.
This is the disclosure will assist them in making their own assessment of the principal source of income for the Group out of which we meet value of the business.
the overheads of the business, and invest in growing the Partnership and in acquiring new funds under management.
The IFRs result is the approach required for statutory reporting purposes.
The standards require that profits are recognised in The level of income is dependent on the level of client funds and line with the provision of services and therefore broadly in line asset values.
In addition, since a proportion of our business does with the cash emergence from a contract.
However, for long-term not generate net cash in the first six years, the level of income business it seeks to spread some of the initial cash flows over the will increase as a result of new business from six years ago whole duration of the contract through the use of intangible becoming cash generative.
This deferral of cash generation means assets and liabilities known as DAC Deferred Acquisition Costs the business always has six years worth of funds in the gestation and DIR Deferred Income Reserve and recognises the value of period see page 28. certain future cash flows, particularly deferred tax.
Group expenditure is carefully managed with clear targets set for One point of note in the IFRS methodology is the requirement growth in establishment expenses in the year.
Other expenses that the tax recognised in the accounts should include the tax increase with business levels and are met from margins in the incurred on behalf of policyholders in our UK life assurance products see page 31.
In addition, the Group will incur company.
Since the policyholder tax charge is unrelated to the development expenditure through investment in new client performance of the business, management believes it is useful to services, computer systems and other corporate initiatives.
provide additional disclosure of the profit before shareholder tax.
This measure reflects the profit before tax adjusted for tax paid A small proportion of Group expenditure is required to support on behalf of policyholders.
We believe this measure provides the management of existing funds, but the majority of expenditure is most useful indication of IFRS operating performance in investment in growing the Partnership and acquiring new funds.
The resulting new business is expected to generate income for an average of 14 years, and is expected to provide a good return on In arriving at the profit before shareholder tax, it is necessary to the investment see page 28. estimate the analysis of the total tax charge between that payable in respect of policyholders and that payable by shareholders.
As the business matures, the proportion of the cash emergence Shareholder tax is estimated by making an assessment of the from the existing business required to support the acquisition of effective rate of tax that is applicable to the shareholders, with the new business is reducing.
This has resulted in strong growth in balance being treated as tax in respect of policyholders.
This is a both cash emergence and IFRS profits.
refinement to the estimation approach previously used.
The Directors consider that this refined approach both more Given the high level of investment in new business generation appropriately reflects the tax that is borne by shareholders on each year, neither the cash emergence nor the IFRS profit their profits and simplifies the approach for investors.
provides an easy guide to the profits likely to emerge in the future or the total economic value of the business.
However, The embedded value result is particularly useful for investors consideration of the contribution to profits from just the in-force seeking to assess the full value of the long-term emergence of business does provide a good indication of the underlying value shareholder cash returns, since it includes an asset in the being generated by the business and results using the EEV valuation reflecting the net present value of the expected future methodology described below are also useful in assessing the cash flows from the business.
This type of presentation is also economic value of our business.
commonly referred to as a discounted cash flow valuation.
Our embedded value is based on the EEV principles, which were set Presentation of Financial Results out as an industry standard by the Chief Financial Officers CFO Management believes it is important for investors to appreciate not Forum in 2004. only the short term net income position of our business, but also the full, long term potential.
We therefore complement our Many of the future cash flows derive from fund charges, which statutory IFRS reporting with additional disclosure on an change with movements in stock markets.
Since the impact of embedded value basis using EEV principles.
This measure assesses these changes is unrelated to the performance of the business, the discounted value of all future cash flows and we believe it better management believes that the eeV operating profit reflecting reflects the full economic value of the performance of the business.
the EEV profit before tax adjusted to reflect only the expected We also provide analysis of the sources of cash emergence in the investment performance and no change in economic basis year, which we refer to as the cash result.
provides the most useful measure of performance in the period.
