ovERvIEW undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY OUR PERFORMANCE govERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEmEnTS And oTHER InFoRmATIon ouR PERFoRmAnCE: oFFICES REvIEW offIces revIew TIm RoBeRTs Head of offices HIgHLIgHTs 9.7% Total property returns for the year Another good year with London focus driving strong outperformance: Q&A total returns 9.7%, outperforming IPd by 500 bps.
why london Is the place to be valuation up 5.0% to 3.7 billion: investment portfolio up 2.3%, developments up 12.8%.
Q: Why do you think London Capital returns 5.8%, 640 bps ahead will continue to outperform?
of IPd: outperforming West End 370 bps A: London is a worldleading City and City 90 bps.
for finance, business and investment and we dont expect this to change.
Increased offices weighting from Its population is forecast to continue 3.6 billion to 3.7 billion, despite sale to grow with more and more people Due to the quality of of Ropemaker Place, through acquisitions wanting to live and work in London.
our existing portfolio, and investment in our committed With significant investment in major development pipeline.
infrastructure projects, notably Crossrail, and development large parts of the capital are being Achieved strategic objective of greater programme, we believe regenerated, boosting growth.
weighting in West end than City.
So we see London remaining a growing we will successfully good demand for our assets: 778,000 sq ft and vibrant market and one where continue to attract investment letting activity, 7.1% ahead of eRv.
we can continue to make good returns.
and retain customers Q: How do you see British Land at our buildings.
growing its business in London?
A: London has been the fastest growing 420m TIm RoBeRTs part of our business and we expect this Head of offices to continue.
In London, our focus will Total development profits remain on offices and we continue from committed programme to see development as a major growth driver.
In greater London we see more developments continue to drive opportunity in retail, where we can performance: now expected to produce create locally dominant convenience total profits of over 420 million.
destinations such as Ealing in areas 297 million of profit delivered to date: with growing and affluent populations.
126 million to come on valuers estimates.
Q: How will Crossrail benefit your 199 Bishopsgate and 10 Portman Square business?
completed on time and budget.
A: Crossrail is a 14.8 billion rail project good preletting activity with 200,000 sq ft which will transform transport links of development prelets agreed including north of the Thames from Heathrow 104,000 sq ft under offer at the year end.
to the West End, City and Canary Wharf, dramatically cutting journey times.
Committed developments now 61% our 4 million sq ft Broadgate Estate will prelet generating 43 million of annual sit on top of the Liverpool St Crossrail contracted rent.
station and our future plans see it becoming a more vibrant, mixeduse Replenishing development pipeline to drive estate with more leisure and food growth and returns going forward.
operators and attracting a much more Acquisition of the Clarges Estate, a major diverse range of occupiers.
mixeduse development site in mayfair.
directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 57 ouR PERFoRmAnCE: oFFICES REvIEW offIces revIew contInued We have signed 611,000 sq ft of lease extensions at Broadgate including with Herbert Smith and F&C.
mARkeT oveRvIeW PeRFoRmAnCe AsseT mAnAgemenT our portfolio is focused in London, reflecting our offices portfolio had another successful We continued to see demand from a good our view that London will continue to show good year with total property returns of 9.7%, range of occupiers, attracted by the quality of absolute and relative performance over the significantly outperforming the IPd office our buildings and our high levels of customer mediumterm.
London is regularly voted as benchmark by 500 bps.
We have developed a strong track one of the most attractive cities in the world to portfolio was up 5.0% to 3.7 billion and record of attracting and retaining occupiers, invest, do business, live or visit and is one of the represents an increase in weighting of the signing 1.9 million sq ft of lease extensions most important financial and business services groups overall portfolio to over 35% at over the past three years.
We signed leasing centres globally.
In contrast to the uK as a 31 march 2013 proforma for committed initiatives on 778,000 sq ft of space, at an whole, the London economy has grown steadily: developments, 38%.
This is despite the sale average of 7.1% ahead of ERv over the last year.
it has had the best performing property market of Ropemaker Place in the City for 461 million in the uK with all major asset classes offices, net of costs and is as a result of our investment our activity primarily focused on lease retail and residential contributing.
We have into new assets and our committed development extensions at Broadgate where we extended positioned our business to benefit from this pipeline.
This has achieved our strategic a total of 611,000 sq ft of leases.
These included: growth: through our major development objective of having a greater weighting in the Herbert Smith 315,000 sq ft and F&C 54,000 programme, taking advantage both of the West End than the City for the first time.
sq ft who extended their leases from 2020 to shortage of highquality space, mainly in offices 2030 and 2027 respectively at Exchange Square and 10 Exchange House: a minimum two year but also in residential, and highergrowth in our capital returns were 640 bps ahead of the extension with ICAP 174,000 sq ft at 12 the West End.
IPd benchmark with both of our subsectors Broadgate which secures their lease until at outperforming the West End by 370 bps and least 2019: and Tullett Prebon PLC 66,000 sq ft We expect London to retain its preeminent the City by 90 bps.
Performance has primarily at 155 Bishopsgate, who extended their lease position as a worldleading City.
Its population been delivered through our actions, the key from 2019 to 2025. is forecast to grow steadily, major infrastructure driver being our development portfolio but spend notably on Crossrail is regenerating also through our asset management activity.
In addition, we agreed 124,000 sq ft of new large parts of the Capital and we expect lettings, including 50,000 sq ft at Broadgate ongoing improvements to benefit these our development programme is generating Tower with Itochu, Banco Itau, and Hill areas for a number of years to come.
strong returns, with valuation up 12.8% dickinson at rents accretive to ERv, increasing over the year.
This uplift has been driven occupancy at the Tower to 93.2%.
At the recently London continued to outperform the broader by a combination of our continued success refurbished 199 Bishopsgate, we agreed property market during the year, reflecting on prelets and the consequent ERv growth a 14,500 sq ft deal with nippon oil and have strong investor demand with relatively limited for our West End projects: profit release as a further 25,000 sq ft under offer at terms supply of good quality space.
It continues to be developments near practical completion and accretive to march 2013 valuation.
This leasing perceived as a safe haven by overseas the release of contingencies as we continue activity has improved the average weighted investors and the number of new international to deliver the projects within budget.
lease length to first break at Broadgate by 1.3 investors continues to expand.
In the West End, years to 7.8 years for the standing investments.
demand is underpinned by residential The investment portfolio was ahead 2.3% conversion potential, which is also limiting reflecting increased values through successful InvesTmenT ACTIvITy West End stock keeping yields firm.
Investor leasing activity: both new lettings and lease We have continued to deliver our strategy of demand for City assets remains strongest for extensions, primarily at Broadgate.
our recycling capital from lower growth assets prime, longterm income generating assets, occupational metrics remained robust across into higher returning opportunities through and we have experienced this firsthand with the office portfolio.
ERv growth was 1.9% development and a focus on the West End.
our successful sale of Ropemaker Place overall, made up of 1.5% in the investment development in London is one of our this year.
There are some signs of weakness portfolio and 2.8% in our development competitive advantages and we see the for secondary property in more peripheral properties.
Likeforlike income growth was up development pipeline as an integral part of the locations.
0.7% over the year with a stronger performance office portfolio.
given the continued shortage in the second half.
occupancy was lower at of highquality space and lack of development While occupier demand was some way below 96.3% reflecting the impact of the sale of finance we believe the outlook for development the longterm trend, the shortage of quality Ropemaker and the inclusion of 199 Bishopsgate returns remains positive and we are looking space across the market kept rental growth which was completed in September.
to maintain our level of commitment.
So as the overall positive.
In recent months, there have development programme nears completion, been early signs of an improvement in occupier during the period, the lockup term governing we are actively seeking to replenish the pipeline.
demand, particularly in the West End where our Broadgate joint venture with Blackstone We will continue to focus on prime property, occupiers have less choice but also in the City, expired.
Blackstone have indicated that they or on property with the potential to be prime.
where there has been demand from a range wish to sell their interest in the joint venture and of occupiers focused on smaller floorplates, we will work closely with Blackstone through and in particular from the insurance sector.
Broadgate will continue to develop as a vibrant mixeduse estate in the heart of the City of London and we expect it to benefit from its location around one of Londons most important transport hubs and from the completion of Crossrail in 2018.
58 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 directors report and business review ovERvIEW undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY OUR PERFORMANCE govERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEmEnTS And oTHER InFoRmATIon 423 0 ouR PERFoRmAnCE: oFFICES REvIEW CommITTed oFFICe deveLoPmenT The Leadenhall Building will be prelet, which Residential is an important part of our London PRoFIT leaves mainly the upper, smaller floors to let, portfolio both as a part of our mixeduse for which we expect good demand closer to developments and through our residential led practical completion.
This puts us in a strong schemes and we have a strong track record of 03.2013 297 126 423m position in the City overall, with 74% of our delivering value.
Since 2009, we have profitably 09.2012 216 175 391m developments prelet under offer.
committed 190 million to 187,000 sq ft of residential developments both within our West 03.2012 167 192 359m At Broadgate, we are excited by our End office projects and on a standalone basis.
09.2011 133 188 321m development programme, which is well timed The committed programme is making good to benefit from the advent of Crossrail, and progress, with the new residential units at 03.2011 65 192 257m more widespread improvements to the Regents Place nearing completion, and work surrounding area.
As Spitalfields and old Street progressing at marble Arch House, Craven Hill Profit taken Profit to come develop into dynamic growth hubs, covering and Bedford Street, where marketing has a broader spectrum of industry, we expect the already started.
This year, we have presold estate will become more diversified in its 25 units for a total of 28 million with sales 14% occupier mix.
At our 5 Broadgate development, ahead of book value, contributing 22% profit which is fully let to uBS, the concrete cores are on cost for all residential sales to date.
now complete, and work is progressing on the steelwork.
In June, we will secure vacant We have replenished the residential pipeline possession of Broadgate Circle where through acquiring further sites with the aim 20 million is being invested to improve the of maintaining our exposure on a gross public space and enhance the food and retail development basis, up to 500 million.
The design has been agreed for Clarges Estate, detailed below in acquisitions, redevelopment of Broadgate Circle and is a mixeduse development in mayfair where demolition contracts have been put to tender residential will account for over half of the and we expect to start on site later this year.
during the year, we bought the Hempel We are also working up plans for the next Hotel in Bayswater, which is next to our existing We continue to revitalise Broadgate with the phase of regeneration at Broadgate South, Craven Hill garden scheme.
Subject to re-development of Broadgate Circle completing which includes a major refurbishment planning, combined they will be a 120 million during 2014. of 100 Liverpool Street.
deveLoPmenT In the West End, the office space at our ACQuIsITIons And dIsPosALs our committed office developments are 10 Portman Square development is now over We announced the sale of Ropemaker Place progressing well and we remain on track for all 50% prelet following the completion of for a gross sale price of 472 million in march of our West End projects to complete this year.
58,000 sq ft of deals with Aspect Capital and this year.
As part of the deal, we will top up the In the City, we completed the refurbishment Aramco overseas Company including 9,000 sq rentfrees to the contractual rent of 24.05 of 199 Bishopsgate and our three remaining City ft of space completed post year end.
At rents million per annum.
The sale represents a net developments are due to complete within the of over 90 per sq ft, both deals are significantly initial yield of 5.0%.
We received net proceeds next two years.
All of this will result in the accretive to value with rental values around of 461 million in cash from the sale after taking release of significant developers profit, however 23% ahead of the march 2012 ERvs.
The into account the rentfree topups and costs.
in the shortterm it is also likely to increase our building, which we successfully completed vacancy rate as the completed developments on time and below budget post financial year In July 2012, we announced the acquisition of are transferred into our standing investment at the end of April, has great presence facing the Clarges Estate in mayfair, for 128.6 million: portfolio.
We continued to see good demand onto the Square.
The site is nearly one acre which faces onto Piccadilly in mayfair, for all of our developments with 200,000 sq ft and is an excellent redevelopment opportunity of prelets signed or placed under offer during We continue to see encouraging levels of to create a landmark mixeduse scheme, the year, increasing the amount of space prelet interest at our nEQ development in Regents for which planning consent had already been or under offer from 51% to 61% during the year.
Place which comprises two office buildings granted.
Having successfully agreed to move We now have 43 million of rent prelet.
We agreed a further the headquarters of The Kennel Club in march We are therefore confident that any increase 7,200 sq ft prelet at 10 Brock Street which of this year, we have recently submitted a in vacancy rates will be manageable.
in addition to the 174,000 sq ft prelet to revised planning application for an improved debenhams means the building is now 53% scheme which modestly increases the overall In the City, at The Leadenhall Building, the prelet.
Sainsburys will relocate their store size of the building and sees an increase in the main structure has now reached the 47th level, from the Euston Tower to an 8,000 sq ft unit at residential element of the site from 63,000 sq ft with cladding installation progressing well.
Hampstead Road within the nEQ development, to 94,000 sq ft, and a reduction in the offices to We have agreed terms for a minimum of allowing us to subdivide their Euston Tower 47,500 sq ft.
This is a rare opportunity to develop 95,000 sq ft prelet to Amlin, who will join the space to further enhance the retail offer across new residential in a prime mayfair location global insurance company Aon in the building.
The residential units at 20 Brock which will have spectacular views over green The Amlin deal covers floors 1924 and floor 45, Street are now 83% presold.
Park, and to also provide offices, which are and a further 53,000 sq ft of option space.
on completion of the letting, around half of directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 59
