ovERvIEW undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY OUR PERFORMANCE govERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEmEnTS And oTHER InFoRmATIon ouR PERFoRmAnCE: RETAIL REvIEW retaIl revIew CHARLes mAudsLey Head of Retail HIgHLIgHTs 4.0% Total property returns for the year Continuing to outperform a tough market: total unlevered property returns of 4.0%, Q&A 170 bps ahead of the IPd All Retail benchmark.
evolvIng our portfolIo In a rapIdly uK Retail portfolio valuation 6.1 billion: capital returns outperformed IPd by changIng world 180 bps.
ERv up 0.8% which compares to a 0.7% decline for the market as a whole.
Q: Are shops still relevant or will we soon all be shopping online?
uK occupancy remains robust at 97.4% A: We firmly believe that physical shops 70 bps reduction on 31 december 2012. will remain at the heart of the retail offer and become increasingly important as showrooms and places where you can collect or return goods bought online.
1m sq ft The amount of space retailers need will performance during reduce so landlords must ensure they Lettings and lease renewals have the right kind of offer which what has been reflects how consumers want to shop.
a challenging year Attracting a broad range of retail and leisure occupiers.
Q: What do you mean by the right offer?
strengthens our A: Quite simply, the places where 1.1 million sq ft of lettings and conviction that we consumers want to shop.
We see three lease renewals: investment lettings main trends: functional, where people have the right assets 7.6% ahead of ERv.
make regular visits for items they cannot which are well Administrations 0.9% of total rent do without, convenience, which takes as at march 2013. an hour or so and an experience suited to the needs somewhere they can spend the whole of modern retailers.
Retailers also need to make money so rents need to be affordable and the CHARLes mAudsLey space adaptable to their changing needs.
351m Head of Retail They want excellent services from their landlords and this increasingly means Acquisitions forward fundings a digital offer to allow them to better connect with their customers.
Reshaping the portfolio through recycling: 610 million of gross investment activity.
Q: How would you describe British Sale of 23 nonstrategic assets.
A: digital is part of an integrated 351 million of acquisitions and forward strategy which looks at the whole funding in locally dominant schemes.
shopping experience including, for example, the leisure, food and drink enhancing our overall services to offer.
We want our assets to remain customers signed long-term deal with places where people want to come.
BT to extend free wi-fi: continue to trial our approach is to amplify retailers digital innovation.
voices, not compete with them.
So we are in the process of rolling out free wifi across our assets so we can exploit technological innovations to increase the connectivity between retailers and their customers.
directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 53 100 80 60 40 20 0 ouR PERFoRmAnCE: RETAIL REvIEW retaIl revIew contInued mARkeT oveRvIeW PeRFoRmAnCe individual retail subsector level.
We have now The way people shop is changing.
The internet our Retail business had another busy and outperformed the market materially in each of lies at the heart of these changes not only productive year, operationally and strategically.
the last four years which underlines the quality because of the immediacy of being able to buy our operational performance continues to be and resilience of our business and our ability online but also because of the way it enables resilient in tough markets.
At the same time, to evolve our retail offer in a rapidly changing consumers to compare prices and quality, share we are actively evolving our portfolio through marketplace.
The value of our uK retail their opinions and shape the development of investment in our existing properties and portfolio was down 0.6% from September new products and services.
The line between through recycling.
at 6.1 billion with the benefits of asset online and physical sales is getting increasingly management initiatives partially offsetting blurred with the majority of sales more likely our asset management activities have been outward yield shift.
our retail capital returns to have some sort of digital aspect.
The uK focused on continuing to evolve and improve outperformed the All uK Retail benchmark is now the world leader in internet sales.
our retail offer through: attracting a broader by 180 bps.
our standalone leisure assets range of retailers, leisure, food and beverage generated total returns of 8.1%.
Todays consumer is increasingly looking for operators: upgrading the physical environment: more choice, greater convenience and better and enhancing our overall services to our our occupational metrics in the uK remained value along with a better shopping experience, customers, in particular by leveraging digital resilient, and we continued to sign lettings whether in a physical or an online environment.
We were also delighted to sign ahead of ERv.
ERvs were 0.8% ahead for the We believe physical shops will remain at the a new longterm joint venture at meadowhall year, outperforming the market by 150 bps core of the retail landscape but with stores also Shopping Centre with norges, one of the with a stronger performance in the second playing a key role as showrooms and pickup largest sovereign wealth companies in the half 0.8%.
occupancy was modestly lower and return points, so having a fully integrated world.
norges bought their 50% stake from at 97.4%, due to the impact of administrations physical and digital approach will be increasingly our previous partner, London and Stamford.
Too much of the available space in the performance across our portfolio was weaker, uK is not well suited to these changing needs Total returns for the year at 4.0% were again down 1.5%, we continued to outperform the nor can it be economically adapted.
Although significantly ahead of the market both at an market by 220 bps with meadowhall and retailers are reducing their overall space All Retail market level by 170 bps and at the retail parks both ahead.
requirements, demand for the right type of space remains strong and as a result the retail property market continues to be heavily polarised between the right space and that which is essentially obsolete.
our Retail property strategy therefore focuses oPeRATIng meTRICs on aligning our properties closely to the British Land changing needs of retailers and consumers British Land IPd versus IPd ensuring we remain at the forefront of market ERv 0.8% 0.7% 150 bps evolution.
our portfolio is well balanced to Footfall 1.5% 3.7% 220 bps the way people shop rational purposeled uK occupancy 97.4% 94.7% 270 bps and emotional experienceled so our retail % of total rent in administration 0.9% destinations are focused on experiential, convenience or functional shopping.
BRITIsH LAnd veRsus IPd The combined impacts of austerity and longterm changes in shopping habits meant ERV growth that the retail property market remained 0.8% challenging during the year.
Polarisation was again the dominant theme as retailers 0.7% continued to focus their portfolios on better 3.9% performing stores, exiting poor quality space on the expiry of lease terms.
There was an Occupancy rate increase in the rate of administrations in the second half, most notably those with more 97.4% vulnerable business models and or high levels 94.7% of debt.
As a result, rental values across the market remained under pressure, declining 88.3% by 0.7% although the shortage of supply for British Land Retail highquality space meant that prime rents IPD all retail were ahead.
The investment market benefited IPD secondary from improved investor sentiment during the second half for better quality assets.
54 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 directors report and business review ovERvIEW undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY OUR PERFORMANCE govERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEmEnTS And oTHER InFoRmATIon ouR PERFoRmAnCE: RETAIL REvIEW our uK likeforlike rental income was Chocolat.
new retailers attracted to our flat yearonyear, reflecting the impact of outoftown schemes included Whole Foods administrations in the second half, including at Cheltenham, and footwear retailers office oneoff costs.
Although we saw an increase in at glasgow Fort and Schuh at Stockton.
the number of administrations, our percentage of total rent in administration was only 0.9% We continued to upgrade the experiential at the year end.
our ability to manage our element on our schemes, completing 49 food, exposure to administrations reflects the quality beverage and leisure lettings and renewals over of our portfolio as well as our diverse range of the year across the portfolio.
We initiated five major uK and international retailers.
combined cinema and restaurant schemes with our 45,000 sq ft scheme at glasgow Fort due In Europe, which accounts for 2% of our to open in July 2013.
We also obtained planning Next signed a 43,000 sq ft agreement to take portfolio, the value of our portfolio fell by 17% permission for the external recladding and over an ex-Homebase store in Camberley for to 255 million.
This was driven by falls in the refurbishment of debenhams 360,000 sq ft their third Home and Garden concept in the UK.
value of the assets in PREF, the European fund flagship building on oxford Street, which will in which we have a 65.3% share, which were reinvigorate this key West End landmark.
impacted by both outward yield shift and rental Works have started and are scheduled to concessions.
The Puerto venecia Shopping complete towards the end of 2013.
Centre in Zaragoza continues to trade quite well and was up 3.6% in value.
We see digital as part of an integrated approach which overall enhances the occupier and AsseT mAnAgemenT consumer experience on our schemes helping While the overall market remained tough with amplify the retailers voice and aggregating retailers cautious and taking longer to complete information for the end consumer.
We continued deals, we continued to see encouraging demand to expand our digital activities trialling a range from a broad range of occupiers across our of innovations on our schemes and post the end schemes.
We agreed 3.5 million sq ft of leasing of the year announced a new longterm joint and rent review initiatives during the year, venture with BT to extend the provision of free securing 7.3 million of new annual contracted wifi across our retail portfolio, starting with Debenhams agreed to take 100,000 sq ft of space rent.
This included 1.1 million sq ft of lettings all of our shopping centres.
including a new store at our Fort Kinnaird Retail and renewals which were agreed on average Park in Edinburgh.
7.6% ahead of ERv with around three quarters InvesTmenT ACTIvITy of the lettings above or in line with ERv.
We have As part of ensuring our portfolio remains at a good volume of deals in the pipeline with the forefront of modern retail requirements, 420,000 sq ft of space currently under offer, we have been seeking to increase the pace at terms overall ahead of ERv.
of our investment activity both development and recycling.
over the last year, we have We signed multiple transactions with key undertaken 610 million of gross investment retailers including next, debenhams, Arcadia activity.
our investment programme has been and TK maxx.
next signed a 43,000 sq ft particularly focused on London and the South agreement to take an exHomebase store in East which accounted for the majority of our Camberley for their third Home and garden 367 million of acquisitions and development concept.
debenhams agreed to take a total of spend during the year.
All the schemes we have 100,000 sq ft of new space, with new stores invested in have strong and growing catchment signed at Leamington Spa and Fort Kinnaird, areas and are or have the potential to be Edinburgh.
We believe retail development adds significant incremental value and are We are also attracting new retailers, notably at replenishing our pipeline to capitalise on future our major shopping centres meadowhall and demand for the right space.
drake Circus, where we continue to expand the premium retail offer.
The most notable deal was with victorias Secret at meadowhall for a 13,000 sq ft store which will open in the autumn.
At drake Circus we completed eight lettings during the year including Apple, Bank and Hotel directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 55 ouR PERFoRmAnCE: RETAIL REvIEW retaIl revIew contInued upgrading the physical environment We have initiated five new cinema and restaurant schemes including a Cineworld at Chester Retail Park.
deveLoPmenT ACQuIsITIons And dIsPosALs In February, we acquired Ealing Broadway We currently have 676,000 sq ft of committed We agreed or exchanged the sale of 23 assets Shopping Centre, as part of a portfolio deal.
retail development underway in the uK.
for a total of 243 million including eight The 142.5 million consideration for the our committed pipeline includes the major superstores and the Beehive Centre Retail Park shopping centre represented a net initial yield redevelopment of Whiteley Shopping Centre in Cambridge.
details of the sales are provided of 6.9%.
Ealing Broadway Shopping Centre has a 320,000 sq ft next generation scheme near in the table on page 50.
300,000 sq ft of retail and leisure space and Southampton.
The scheme is over 90% prelet a multilet office.
The shopping centre, which or under offer by ERv ahead of opening later In June, we announced the conditional purchase has over 60 retail units, is anchored by Primark, this month.
Key occupiers include marks & of Harmsworth Quays a 14.6 acre printing marks & Spencer, Tesco, River Island and H&m.
Spencer, next, H&m, River Island, Boots and works site at Canada Water, adjacent to our Ealing Broadway is an attractive convenient Jd Sports.
We recently obtained planning Surrey Quays Shopping Centre, building on our shopping destination in west London, well permission for a 60,000 sq ft leisure scheme longterm interest and investment in the area located and close to the train and tube station including a cinema which is already prelet which is a major regeneration zone in and with an affluent catchment of 1.6 million and which will extend the scheme to nearly Southwark.
With an annual footfall of around 400,000 sq ft. 15 million, the shopping centre dominates the In July, we entered into a 50:50 joint venture at retail offer in the town centre and is expected We started on site at Hereford a 310,000 sq ft Eden Walk Shopping Centre in Kingstonupon to benefit from significant levels of development retail and leisure development in the centre Thames with the existing owner universities in Ealing, including a new leisure scheme, the of the city.
The open air scheme, on the site Superannuation Scheme uSS for 41.5 million, dickens Yard residential quarter and Crossrail.
of Herefords former cattle market, will have a net initial yield of 5.35%.
Eden Walk is a Crossrail, which completes in 2018, will lead to 22 retail units, seven restaurants and a 276,000 sq ft open shopping centre in the middle significantly shorter journey times to Heathrow, sixscreen cinema.
more than 50% of the space of Kingston, anchored by marks & Spencer, Liverpool Street and Canary Wharf.
debenhams will Sainsburys, Boots and BHS.
Kingston, which anchor the scheme with a threestorey, 84,000 is in the south west of London, has one of the In march, we acquired the 50% we did not sq ft department store.
Waitrose has also strongest consumer catchment areas in the already own in Surrey Quays Shopping Centre in south London from Tesco, our joint venture taken 22,000 sq ft of space and odeon has uK with a high proportion of young affluent partner, who also committed to a new long signed for the cinema.
next, TK maxx and residents.
We are responsible for asset term lease, bringing the weighted average Frankie & Bennys have also committed management of the centre and are also acting lease length of the centre to 9.4 years.
We expect to complete the as development manager to assess and to planning, we intend to progress plans for development in summer 2014. progress what we believe is a significant a 38 million upgrade of the centre, including mediumterm development opportunity.
a full refurbishment and 100,000 sq ft extension.
We are progressing with planning on a further Together with Harmsworth Quays, our interest 713,000 sq ft of prospective development In november, we signed a 90 million forward now covers a 37 acre site in an area of urban initiatives in the uK.
This includes: cinema funding agreement to enable the development regeneration with a strong growing catchment additions at Broughton Park Chester and of the 310,000 sq ft old market scheme in and considerable potential.
Fort Kinnaird Edinburgh: and a 100,000 sq ft Hereford city centre.
The scheme is now part extension to our existing shopping centre at of our committed development programme Surrey Quays.
and we started on site in november 2012.
In Europe, the new 1.4 million sq ft Puerto Also, in november, we acquired the 2.3 acre venecia Shopping Centre in Zaragoza Canal Corridor north site in Lancaster city centre successfully opened on schedule in early which includes the former mitchells of Lancaster october.
on opening, the shopping centre was brewery.
A development agreement is also in 90% prelet under offer to an extensive range place with Lancaster City Council for the of international and national brands including acquisition of its adjoining land to enable the all of the Inditex groups brands, desigual, delivery of a significant canalside, mixeduse H&m and mango along with key anchors scheme across a 10 acre site.
Bound to the east El Corte Ingls and Primark.
The centre by the Lancaster Canal and with two working has traded quite well since opening.
theatres, the site, which is next to the city centre, provides the only real opportunity to significantly improve the citys retail offer.
Working closely with Lancaster City Council and English Heritage, our aim is to deliver a scheme that complements the sites historical setting.
Lancaster has seen very little retail investment over the last two Increasing our exposure to London decades and our aim is to create a retail and We have bought 258 million of retail assets in leisure destination to serve local people and Greater London including Eden Walk Shopping attract more visitors into the city.
56 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 directors report and business review
