Finance Directors review Turnover and profitability United Kingdom In 2013, Computacenter Group delivered UK revenues grew in 2013 by 7.6 per cent, its fourth successive year of turnover increasing to 1,286.1 million.
Supply Chain growth and achieved adjusted profitability revenues increased by 8.4 per cent, driven growth in the face of significant headwind by a larger customer base following the in our French business.
Contractual Services wins and further demand for workplace and Windows 7 At a headline level, turnover grew by roll-outs.
Services revenues overall grew 5.4 per cent and broke through the a further 6.2 per cent following a strong 3 billion barrier for the first time to reach 15.3 per cent growth in 2012.
On a constant currency this, Contractual Services revenue grew basis turnover growth was 2.5 per cent.
5.4 per cent despite the one-off impact of Adjusted profit before tax increased large transition billing in 2012.
Professional Tony Conophy, Finance Director by 3.0 per cent from 79.3 million to Services in turn generated 8.4 per cent 81.7 million, with the impact of exchange growth in revenues mainly due to rates accounting for half of this increase.
After taking account of exceptional items Margin in the Supply Chain business was primarily relating to the German onerous broadly flat, following the decline in 2012, contracts and the non-cash impairment due to increasing work place product sales in France, statutory profit before tax and continually evolving vendor partner decreased by 22.0 per cent from terms of trade.
However, Services margin 64.8 million to 50.5 million.
increased due to improved execution, The Group profitability performance maturity of contracts and high utilisation was mixed across our main geographies.
This resulted in a UK total adjusted The German business has stabilised gross profit increase from 15.4 per cent and returned a 48.8 per cent increase to 15.6 per cent of sales.
SG&A rose by in adjusted operating profit in constant 9.3 per cent, reflecting increased bid costs, currency, whilst the UK segment increased commission and bonus for staff generated a 7.5 per cent increase.
due to the UK performance and increased These improvements were largely offset investment in improved governance by problems in France noted below which required by the Group Operating Model, has fallen from a reported 4.3 million net of recharges to other Group Segments.
adjusted operating profit in 2012 to a Overall this has resulted in a 7.5 per cent loss of 7.3 million in 2013. increase in adjusted operating profit from Adjusted operating profit 52.2 million to 56.2 million.
Management measure the Groups Germany operating performance using adjusted German revenue growth recovered in operating profit, which is stated prior 2013 as the business continued to stabilise to amortisation of acquired intangibles, after a disappointing 2012.
Revenue, as exceptional items, and after charging reported, grew in 2013 by 6.5 per cent to finance costs on customer specific 1,271.4 million 2012: 1,193.8 million, financing CSF for which the Group albeit in local currency revenue increased receives regular rental income.
profit is also adjusted to take account of CSF finance costs.
The reconciliation Supply Chain revenues grew by 2.4 per of statutory to adjusted results is further cent in 2013, increasing the rate of growth explained in the segmental reporting note over 2012 2.0 per cent.
Services revenues Note 4 to the financial statements.
For the were flat with 0.3 per cent growth in 2013. purposes of this statement, all subsequent We expected low Service revenue growth references are to adjusted measures.
as the focus was on ensuring that business is conducted in accordance with increased governance in line with the Group Operating Model and the effort on resolving the onerous contracts.
As the business grows more confident operating within the enhanced Group governance procedures we expect Services revenue growth to return.
Adjusted profit before tax and EPS is stated prior to amortisation of acquired intangible and exceptional items.
Adjusted operating profit and Adjusted gross profit is also stated after charging finance costs on CSF.
Unless specifically stated, comments on growth rates in overseas segments are stated in local constant currency.
demand for our Professional Services 2013.
Supply Chain gross margin increased Supply Chain revenue fell by 8.3 per cent business which declined by 16.9 per cent, mainly due to a favourable product mix due to continuing weakness in French resulting in spare capacity which has and, excluding the three onerous contracts macro-economic conditions and the impact had a significant impact on gross margins highlighted in exceptional costs, Service of the unsatisfactory implementation of our achieved.
In addition, Services gross margins increased due to improvement Group ERP system on 1 June 2013 which margins have been reduced by increased in other difficult contracts.
affected our ability to ship orders on time costs arising from the difficult Group ERP resulting in an order backlog and a drop implementation from 1 June 2013.
SG&A has continued to reduce following in customer service levels.
the reduction in the latter part of 2012 with In addition, gross margins in the Supply a real focus on cost base reduction driven Services revenues contracted by Chain business reduced mainly due to by the new German leadership team.
0.8 per cent when compared to 2012 mix factors, in particular an increased One-off charges related to the restructuring which featured a number of new contract proportion of low margin software business of the German business have been incurred wins.
The impact of the Group ERP which has had a positive effect on revenue and disclosed as an exceptional item.
implementation on the logistics function but generated little incremental contribution.
and specifically the maintenance parts Overall, the German segment adjusted The result of these two issues is that overall business has adversely affected service operating profit increased by 55.9 per cent gross margin reduced from 9.9 per cent to levels leading to a decline in contract value.
from 19.7 million to 30.6 million as 8.2 per cent.
reported, an increase of 48.8 per cent in constant currency.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 29 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Financial statements Governance Strategic report Finance Directors review continued SG&A expenses have increased by in 2013.
Excluding the results of the The three onerous contracts in Germany 1.2 per cent, largely reflecting the increased acquisition, which has a services focus, have continued to perform in line with our cost of the implementation of the Group gross profit margin has fallen to forecasts.
Contractual performance has ERP system in France and the increased 10.5 per cent.
remained stable with improving service time from Group resources cross-charged levels.
We continue to forecast that these SG&A, excluding the acquisition has into the business as part of the efforts to three contracts will be loss-making over the increased 0.5 per cent and has increased realign local procedures with the Group course of their lifetime and are comfortable by 28.3 per cent including the acquisition.
with the level of further provisioning, Overall there has been a 2.4 per cent 10.7 million, made in the results disclosed Overall, adjusted operating profit as decrease in reported adjusted operating in the Group Interim report.
Whilst any reported in France has therefore fallen from profit from 1.9 million in 2012 to further movement away from our forecasts a profit of 4.3 million in 2012 to a loss of 1.8 million in 2013.
This is a 6.8 per cent would also be deemed to be an exceptional 7.3 million in 2013. decrease in local currency and without item, local management will continue to the acquisition would have been a Belgium be measured on the absolute performance 39.0 per cent decrease.
Reported revenue increased by 6.0 per cent of these contracts before the provision.
to 48.2 million 2012: 45.5 million Exceptional items It should be noted that, notwithstanding equating to an increase of 1.2 per cent As described in our Group Interim Results these specific contractual losses, the in local currency.
Excluding the results of in August 2013, the rapid growth of our total business accruing from these three IS which was acquired in December 2012, Services business in Germany during customers still makes an important revenue decreased by 10.4 per cent.
the fourth quarter of 2011, coupled contribution to the Groups Supply Chain revenue fell by 19.2 per cent with insufficient contractual governance overall profitability.
19.6 per cent excluding IS mainly due to a procedures in place within our German As part of our normal processes, we very significant one-off Supply Chain order business at that time, has resulted in a have carried out a detailed evaluation of from one customer in the first half of 2012. number of Managed Services contracts other long-term Services contracts across However in the second half of 2013 Supply failing to achieve the margins anticipated the Group.
As a result of this on-going Chain revenues were 2.6 per cent higher at the time that they were agreed.
Three evaluation, management have calculated than in the second half of 2012. of these contracts were deemed likely that a positive change in certain estimates to be loss-making over the course of Services revenue, including the results of IS, has resulted in a one-off gain of 4.0 million.
Detailed analysis and grew 65.2 per cent.
Excluding the results of Due to the nature of the change in the customer re-negotiation was conducted the acquisition, organic Services revenue estimates, and the size of the gain, it and an exceptional one-off provision growth was 18.4 per cent.
has been decided to highlight this as an of 10.7 million representing our best exceptional item.
This is consistent with As the service mix of the business has estimate of the losses expected to be the treatment of the previously identified increased, gross profit return on sales incurred until the end of the contracts onerous contracts and will provide a fairer for Belgium overall has also lifted from was made as outlined in our 2013 and more balanced understanding of our 11.0 per cent in 2012 to 12.5 per cent Group Interim Results.
Table 4: Adjusted operating profit by country m 2013 Half 1 Half 2 Total m % m % m % UK 20.0 3.4 36.2 5.2 56.2 4.4 Germany 9.7 1.6 20.9 3.1 30.6 2.4 France 4.6 2.2 2.6 1.0 7.2 1.5 Benelux 0.6 2.6 1.2 4.8 1.8 3.7 Total 25.7 1.8 55.7 3.4 81.4 2.6 2012 Half 1 Half 2 Total m % m % m % UK 17.6 3.0 34.6 5.6 52.2 4.4 Germany 7.2 1.2 12.5 2.1 19.7 1.7 France 0.8 0.4 5.0 2.0 4.2 0.9 Benelux 1.0 3.8 0.9 4.7 1.9 4.2 Total 25.0 1.8 53.0 3.6 78.0 2.7 Computacenter plc Annual Report and 30 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 As a result of the continued management Germany Segment: Restatement The Group considers all movement in the restructure in Germany following the of adjusted operating profit recoverable amount of deferred tax assets stabilisation of the contracts previously relating to the recognition, fide-recognition Restated described, we have recognised related or utilisation of previously recognised FY 2012 redundancy expenses of 3.1 million in the losses, to be outside our adjusted results.
Due to the transformational nature of Managements view is that, due to their As restated in 19.7 the restructuring and the events which material nature and irregular timing, the 2013 accounts preceded it, we have continued to inclusion of these movements within our classify these as exceptional costs.
Onerous Contracts 5.9 adjusted tax charge distorts the underlying trading losses cash tax base and annual performance Similarly, Computacenter in France has of the Group as a whole.
begun a programme to also reduce its Onerous Contracts 2.1 SG&A and restructure its business and provisions for future losses This has no impact on the adjusted or senior management in line with the Group statutory results for this year.
However, As reported 11.6 Operating Model.
Redundancy related we expect net movements to be charged in 2012 accounts expenses of 1.2 million have been to exceptional tax in future periods as the included in the 2013 result.
utilisation of the previously recognised Finance income and costs deferred tax assets in Germany exceeds Our French business transferred onto the Net finance costs of 0.5 million were the recognition of further tax losses.
Group ERP system on 1 June 2013 and incurred on a statutory basis in 2013 has gone live in our Group Operating Earnings per share and dividend 2012: net finance income of 0.2 million.
Model effective as of 1 January 2014.
The adjusted diluted earnings per share This takes account of finance costs on These milestones, along with the changes has increased in line with profit performance CSF of 0.8 million 2012: 1.1 million.
in business focus and governance that by 6.1 per cent from 40.8 pence in 2012 to On an adjusted basis, prior to the interest underpin them will be the drivers of 43.3 pence in 2013.
Due to the impact of on CSF, net finance income decreased change to transform our French exceptional charges in 2013, the statutory from 1.3 million in 2012 to 0.3 million in business in the coming years.
diluted earnings per share has reduced 2013.
The decrease is primarily due to the from 32.4 pence in 2012 to 23.0 pence reduced cash holdings impacting interest The combination of the decline in the in 2013. received as a result of our Return of French economy leading to a reduction Value to our shareholders and lower in demand for our Services, operational The Board is recommending a final deposit rates.
problems arising from the Group ERP dividend of 12.3 pence per share, bringing implementation and the resulting financial the total dividend for the year to 17.5 pence Taxation impact has led to the requirement for a 2012: 15.5 pence.
Subject to the approval The effective adjusted tax rate for 12.2 million impairment of non-current of shareholders at the Annual General 2013 was 23.7 per cent 2012 restated: assets as detailed in our Interim Results Meeting AGM on 15 May 2014, the 22.0 per cent.
The deterioration was due in August 2013.
There arose a further proposed dividend will be paid on to a lower mix of overseas earnings in 2013 requirement to fully write-off a 20 June 2014.
The dividend record date is compared to 2012.
However, the Groups 2.2 million deferred tax asset set as 23 May 2014, and the shares will tax rate continues to benefit from losses as at 31 December 2013. be marked ex-dividend on 21 May 2014. utilised on earnings in Germany and further benefits from the reducing corporation tax Due to the continued adverse performance Acquisitions rate in the UK.
of our equity accounted associate ICS On 28 December 2012 the Group Solutions Limited we have decided to fully acquired 100 per cent of the voting shares Deferred tax assets of 13.5 million impair the 0.5 million recorded value of of NEWIS SA and its subsidiary, Informatic 2012: 15.7 million have been recognised our investment.
in respect of losses carried forward.
During the year, an asset of 2.2 million relating to Restatement The book and provisional fair values of the losses carried forward in France has been As reported in the 2013 Interim report, the net assets acquired that were disclosed written off.
At 31 December 2013, there 2012 accounts have been restated, where in note 16 of the 2012 Annual Report and were unused tax losses across the Group necessary, to reclassify trading losses and Accounts, are now final and are unchanged.
of 125.4 million 2012: 115.5 million provisions relating to the three onerous for which no deferred tax asset has been German contracts to provide a clearer recognised.
Of these losses, 54.5 million picture of the performance of the business.
2012: 61.6 million arise in Germany and The impact of the reclassification is 67.6 million 2012: 50.6 million arise summarised in the following table: in France.
A significant proportion of the losses arising in Germany have been generated in statutory entities that no longer have significant levels of trade.
The remaining unrecognised tax losses relate to other loss-making overseas subsidiaries.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 31 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Financial statements Governance Strategic report Finance Directors review continued Return of Value Whilst the cash position remains robust, The Group does not expect a material While the Group intends to continue to the Group continued to benefit from the increase in the level of CSF financing maintain a robust and prudent balance extension of an improvement in credit facilities, partly as the Group applies a sheet, we decided that it was appropriate terms with a significant vendor, equivalent higher cost of finance to these transactions to undertake a Return of Value to to 41 million at 31 December 2013, an than customers marginal cost of finance.
shareholders, in addition to the normal increase of 7 million from December 2012.
In addition, some of these requirements dividend.
We announced on 24 May 2013 This improvement in credit terms has have been satisfied through utilising a a one-off Return of Value to shareholders been in operation since 2009 and, whilst sale of receivables process.
of approximately 75 million, or 48.7 pence the continuation of these terms is not Capital Management for every existing ordinary share held at guaranteed and can be withdrawn at any Details of the Groups capital management the close of trading on 11 June 2013. time, the terms are generally available to all policies are included within Note 27 to the Computacenter will continue to monitor its material partners of that significant vendor.
balance sheet to ensure that it is efficient.
We no longer feel it is necessary to continue Financial instruments Computacenter also returned 74.4 million to highlight these terms in the operating The Groups financial instruments comprise to shareholders by way of a one-off capital review.
However we will continue to borrowings, cash and liquid resources, return via a B Share structure in 2006 reference this item in our Finance Directors and various items that arise directly from its equating to 39 pence per share.
report, but we will not routinely report the operations.
The Group enters into hedging number in Interim Management Statements Cash flow transactions, principally forward exchange and similar external updates or within the The Groups trading net funds position contracts or currency swaps.
of these transactions is to manage currency There is an adjusted cash flow statement Customer Specific Financing CSF risks arising from the Groups operations provided in note 31 that restates the increased in the year from 18.7 million and its sources of finance.
As the Group statutory cash flow to take account of to 18.9 million.
CSF remains low against continues to expand its global reach and this definition.
our historical standards due to a decision benefit from lower cost operations in certain to restrict this form of financing in light Net funds excluding CSF decreased from geographies, such as South Africa, it has of the current credit environment and 147.3 million to 90.3 million by the end entered into Forward Exchange contracts reduced customer demand.
However, this reduced figure to protect any further currency risk.
The is after the circa 75.0 million Return of Taking CSF into account, net funds at Groups policy remains that no speculative Value to shareholders which masked an the end of the year were 71.4 million, trading in financial instruments shall underlying net funds improvement of compared to 128.6 million at the start of be undertaken.
18.0 million on a like-for-like basis the year but after the circa 75.0 million The main risks arising from the Groups compared to the position at 31 December Return of Value to shareholders.
financial instruments are interest rate, 2012.
The Group continued to deliver Customer specific financing liquidity and foreign currency risks.
The strong cash generation from its operations In certain circumstances, the Group enters overall financial instruments strategy is to in 2013, with adjusted operating cash into customer contracts that are financed manage these risks in order to minimise flow of 70.5 million 2012: 85.2 million.
The leases are secured their impact on the financial results of the In the year we spent over 25 million on only on the assets that they finance.
The policies for managing each capital expenditure primarily investments in the outstanding balance of CSF is included of these risks are set out below.
Further IT equipment in our business and software within the net funds for statutory reporting disclosures in line with the requirements tools to enable us to deliver improved purposes, the Group excludes CSF when of IFRS 7 are included in the financial service to our customers.
managing the net funds of the business, statements.
as this CSF is matched by contracted Challenges within working capital have built Interest rate risk future receipts from customers.
up in our French business due to backlogs The Group finances its operations through a within our ERP system preventing the timely Whilst CSF is repaid through future mixture of retained profits, bank borrowings processing of transactions impacting cash customer receipts, Computacenter retains and finance leases and loans for certain collection and payment of invoices.
We the credit risk on these customers and customer contracts.
The Groups bank estimate that this has impacted our cash ensures that credit risk is only taken on borrowings, other facilities and deposits are flow by circa 10 million.
We are confident customers with a strong credit rating.
No interest rate derivative of improving this position in 2014 and as contracts have been entered into.
The committed CSF financing facilities, this occurs, working capital should be are thus outside of the normal working released into cash.
capital requirements of the Groups product resale and service activities.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 32 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Liquidity risk denominated in Sterling and any material Going concern The Groups policy is to ensure that it has trading exposures are eliminated through As disclosed in the Directors report, the sufficient funding and facilities in place to forward currency contracts.
Directors have a reasonable expectation meet any foreseeable peak in borrowing that the Group has adequate resources to The Group has been increasingly successful requirements.
The Groups positive continue its operations for the foreseeable in winning international Services contracts net funds position was maintained future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt where services are provided in multiple throughout 2013, and at the year-end the going concern basis in preparing the countries.
The Group aims to minimise was 90.3 million excluding CSF, and consolidated financial statements.
this exposure by invoicing the customer 71.4 million including CSF.
in the same currency in which the costs Fair balanced and understandable Due to strong cash generation over the are incurred.
For certain contracts, the The UK Corporate Governance Code has past three years, the Group is currently Groups committed contract costs are not a new requirement for the Board to state in a position where it can finance its denominated in the same currency as its whether the Companys Annual Report requirements from its cash balance, sales.
In such circumstances, for example and Accounts are fair, balanced and and the Group operates a cash pooling where contract costs are denominated understandable and provides the arrangement for the majority of in South African Rand, the Group seeks information necessary for shareholders Group entities.
to eliminate currency exposure for a to assess the companys performance, foreseeable future period on these future business model and strategy.
During the year the Group entered into a cash flows through forward currency specific committed facility of 40.0 million We have continued to formalise the process contracts.
In 2013, the Group recognised a for a three-year term which expires in through which we can provide comfort to loss of 1.4 million 2012: gain of 0.5 million May 2016. the Board to make the relevant assertions through other comprehensive income in within the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Group has a Board monitored policy relation to the changes in fair value of related in place to manage its counterparty risk forward currency contracts, where the cash that places cash on deposit across a flow hedges relating to firm commitments range of reputable banking institutions.
were assessed to be highly effective.
Customer-specific financing facilities Credit risk are committed.
The Group principally manages credit risk through management of customer credit Foreign currency risk limits.
The credit limits are set for each The Group operates primarily in the Tony Conophy customer based on the creditworthiness UK, Germany and France, with smaller Finance Director of the customer and the anticipated operations in Belgium, Hungary, India, 10 March 2014 levels of business activity.
These limits Malaysia, Luxembourg, Spain, South are initially determined when the Africa, Switzerland and the United States customer account is first set up and of America.
The Group uses a cash pooling are regularly monitored thereafter.
facility to ensure that its operations outside of the UK are adequately funded, where There are no significant concentrations of principal receipts and payments are credit risk within the Group.
The Groups denominated in Euros.
For those countries major customer, disclosed in Note 4 to within the Euro zone, the level of non-Euro the financial statements, consists of entities denominated sales is very small and, if under the control of the UK Government.
material, the Groups policy is to seek to The maximum credit risk exposure relating eliminate currency exposure through to financial assets is represented by forward currency contracts.
For the UK, carrying value as at the balance sheet date.
the majority of sales and purchases are Computacenter plc Annual Report and 33 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Financial statements Governance Strategic report
