Performance review As announced by the Group on 16 July 2013, Group Group revenue by region m a number of Managed Services contracts entered into by our German business in Turnover and Adjusted Profitability 1.5% 2011 have failed to achieve the margins 2013 was a year of good progress for the anticipated.
Following a thorough review 15.2% Group, notwithstanding our disappointing of these contracts in the first half of the business performance in France.
The year, it was established that three of these results outlined in this section include only were forecast to be loss-making over the one very small acquisition by our Belgian 41.9% course of their lifetime, and we continue business at the end of 2012, and thus to forecast that this will be the case.
The comparatives excluding acquisitions are operational and financial performance of not shown.
these contracts has been stabilised over 41.4% Total revenue increased by 5.4 per cent the second half of the year, and they have on a reported basis, to 3.072 billion, and continued to perform as forecast and in by 2.5 per cent in constant currency.
This line with the provision within our 2013 was our fourth successive year of turnover Interim Accounts.
As we move further into growth and represented the first time 2014, Management remain committed to 1.
UK 1,286.1m that the Group has broken through the both maintaining our relationship with these 2.
very important customers for the Group, 3.
France 466.3m whilst attempting to minimise the actual The Group continued to consolidate on level of losses incurred regardless of the 4.
Belgium 48.2m its significant Services growth seen in relevant provision made.
Group Services revenue increased by 6.3 per cent to 965.9 million on an A number of cost-saving activities have as reported basis, and by 3.7 per cent been driven across the Group during the in constant currency.
This reflects our course of 2013.
As a result of implementing strategic focus on growing our Services our Group Operating Model in Germany, Group revenue by business type % business, which now represents 31.4 per and simplifying the management structure cent of the Groups total revenue.
across the Group, we have incurred 24% restructuring charges of approximately Our Supply Chain businesses in the 4.3 million during the course of 2013, UK and Germany also performed well, in addition to the 1.5 million taken in especially during the second half of the 2012.
Whilst the underlying trend of overall year.
We believe this is a testament to adjusted operating expenses SG&A 8% the strength of our customer relationships 26% in France increased by 1.2 per cent in within these markets, which themselves constant currency as a result of the cost appear to be showing the signs of a of implementing our Group ERP system, 5% sustained economic recovery.
These we have no doubt that there will be a performances fuelled Supply Chain 11% need to take action in 2014 to increase the revenue growth across the Group of 26% competitiveness of our French business.
5.0 per cent on an as reported basis, As a result of the activity undertaken, we and by 2.0 per cent in constant currency.
have already seen an SG&A reduction of Group profitability was mixed within 3.0 per cent in Germany in 2013.
Workplace 26% our main operating units, with adjusted 2.
Datacenter & Networking 26% As reflected previously in our 2013 profit growth in the UK and Germany 3.
Software 11% Interim Results, the disappointing financial being substantially offset by our issues performance of our French business in 4.
Third Party Services 5% in France which became apparent 2013 has resulted in the requirement for during the course of the year.
Professional Services 8% a non-cash impairment to non-current the Groups adjusted profit before tax 6.
Contractual Services 24% assets in its cash-generating unit, relating increased by 3.0 per cent to 81.7 million.
to goodwill and acquired intangibles, of As a result of the overall increase in 12.2 million.
profitability and the Return of Value to As part of our normal audit processes shareholders, the Groups adjusted at the end of the financial year, we have diluted earnings per share has increased carried out a detailed evaluation of our by 6.1 per cent to 43.3 pence in 2013. other long-term Services contracts across Statutory Performance and the Group.
This has resulted in a one-off Exceptional Items gain of 4.0 million which, due to its nature The Group incurred 28.8 million of and size, has been classified by the Group exceptional items in the period.
statutory basis, taking account of exceptional items and amortisation of acquired intangibles, the Group made a profit before tax of 50.5 million.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 17 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Financial statements Governance Strategic report Performance review continued The table below summarises the adjusted profitability and exceptional Summary of Operational items for the Group as a whole: Performance Our UK business has performed well during FY 2013 Restated FY 2012 the year, further building on the significant 1 From adjusted to statutory 2012 restated m m levels of Services growth that it achieved in 2012.
The continuing ability of the UK Adjusted operating profit 81.4 78.0 Services business to deliver operational Adjusted net interest 0.3 1.3 excellence to large customers has resulted in it being awarded the number one ranking Adjusted profit before tax 81.7 79.3 within UK customer satisfaction surveys, Onerous German Contracts carried out in 2013, by each of KPMG and trading losses 8.2 5.9 the Whitelane Research Group.
In addition, this has helped the UK Professional provisions remaining for future losses 7.5 2.1 Services business to have a significant 15.7 8.0 forward order book, which is now at a record high level.
Non-cash impairment France 12.2 Computacenter in Germany saw a year of Redundancy and other restructuring costs 4.4 1.5 stable performance, which was pleasing Impairment of investment in associate 0.5 given the significant operational change which took place in 2013 due to the Services contracts re-evaluation 4.0 implementation of our Group Operating Costs in relation to relocation of premises 2.4 Model.
This change was implemented due to the need to leverage the Groups Total exceptional items 28.8 11.9 systems and processes consistently across Amortisation of acquired intangibles 2.4 2.6 its operating geographies and has helped to resolve operational problems on the Statutory profit before tax 50.5 64.8 three onerous contracts, as well as ensure Diluted earnings per share measures robust contract governance on new bids.
Adjusted diluted EPS as restated in 2013 43.3p 40.8p It has been encouraging to see this action now begin to take effect, with a gradual Adjusted diluted EPS as reported in 2012 n a 36.1p increase in Services margins throughout the Statutory diluted EPS 23.0p 32.4p year from our existing Services business, excluding our three onerous contracts.
Note We have been extremely disappointed 1 FY 2012 has been restated for the impact of the three onerous German contracts.
by the Groups performance in France.
Whilst this has no doubt been impacted Adjusted profit before tax and diluted EPS are stated prior to exceptional items and amortisation of acquired intangibles.
Adjusted operating profit is also stated after charging interest on CSF.
by the ongoing and prolonged poor Exceptional items for 2012 have been restated to take account of the reclassification of trading market conditions, it was also impacted losses and provisions in respect of the three onerous German contracts.
by a number of operational issues arising in part from the implementation of our Group ERP system.
Whilst these operational issues are now substantially behind us, we are taking robust action in order to improve the performance of the business in the medium term.
This includes the extension of our Group Operating Model into France, alongside a strategic shift towards a more Services-based business model, similar to those currently seen in the UK and Germany.
There remains significant work ahead over the next 18 months to ensure that these In the UK, recent business wins changes are implemented successfully.
and improving margins in our Services business, combined with positive momentum in the Supply Chain business, gives us scope for further improvement.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 18 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Cash and Return of Value Dividend In accordance with our strategic objectives, Cash flow generation remained strong The Board has decided to propose a final we will continue to keep abreast of industry during the period and, at the end of dividend of 12.3 pence, bringing the total developments, particularly around the use 2013, net cash prior to customer specific ordinary dividend paid for 2013 to 17.5 pence, of knowledge management to help drive financing CSF was 90.3 million representing a 12.9 per cent increase on self-service, first contact resolution and 2012: 72.3 million.
Including CSF, net the 2012 dividend paid of 15.5 pence.
This is facilitated funds were 71.4 million 2012: 53.6 million.
This regular dividend is consistent with our by a substantial investment in the upgrade It should again be noted that this position stated policy of maintaining dividend cover of our BMC Remedy platform involving continues to benefit by approximately within our target range of 2 to 2.5 times the migration of all customers, where we 41 million 2012: 34 million from the our annual adjusted diluted EPS.
Subject manage incident and request activities.
extended credit facility provided by one to the approval of shareholders at our In addition to capability, we have also of our major suppliers.
These extended Annual General Meeting on 15 May 2014, developed our capacity to satisfy customer terms have been in place for over four the proposed dividend will be paid on demand for low-cost European language years, and while they can be withdrawn Friday 20 June 2014.
The dividend record service desk operations.
In February 2014, at any time, they have now been in place date is set on Friday 23 May 2014, and the first of our customers, having recently for such a significant period that, moving the shares will be marked ex-dividend on renewed with us for a third term, transferred forwards, it is our intention to only report Wednesday 21 May 2014. its service to our new facility in Budapest, on these within our Annual Report and Strategy and Investment Hungary.
We have additionally increased Accounts document, and no longer within During the course of the year, we have the capacity of our Barcelona facilities and each external announcement released undertaken a rigorous strategy review now have additional capacity to increase by the Company.
process, which has resulted in some our offshore remote management facility The 2012 cash positions noted above refinement to the Groups strategic in Cape Town.
exclude the 75 million of value returned objectives, which are now as follows: Outlook to shareholders during 2013, in order 1.
To lead with and grow our The Board expects Computacenter to to show a like-for-like comparison against Services business: make further progress in 2014.
At such the cash position as at the end of 2013. an early stage of the year it is difficult to 2.
To improve our Services productivity Our year-end cash position clearly be very specific about the outcome, but and enhance our competitiveness: demonstrates once again Computacenters we believe all of our major geographies ability to turn operating profit into free 3.
To retain and maximise the relationship will move in the right direction.
cash, notwithstanding the impact of our with our customers over the long term: In the UK, recent business wins and 2013 challenges in France, which have and improving margins in our Services business, temporarily tied up cash in working capital.
To innovate our Services offerings to combined with positive momentum in the An additional Return of Value to shareholders build future growth opportunities.
Supply Chain business gives us scope for totalling 75 million, or 48.7 pence for every further improvement.
To enhance and implement the result of existing ordinary share held at the close of the strategy review process, the Group In Germany, we do not expect a significant trading on 11 June 2013, was successfully has appointed a Head of Strategy recruited improvement in Services revenues until completed at the beginning of July 2013. from within our German business and, the second half of the year at the earliest As part of the Return of Value, an associated additionally, a Service Innovation Director but, nevertheless, there is some progress share capital reorganisation took place on who joined with a significant track record to be gained through Services margin 12 June 2013, whereby every ten Ordinary for Services innovation development.
The onerous contracts in Shares of 6 pence each in the Company Germany should continue to perform in were effectively consolidated into nine We have continued to invest appropriately line with the provisions.
Ordinary Shares of 6 pence each.
The to ensure that we have the technical Return of Value has reduced our interest and operational capability to meet our After a highly disappointing 2013 for our income by approximately 0.8 million customers needs.
To support the ongoing French business, we expect the French annually, with adjusted diluted EPS demand for our Service desk offerings, we loss to reduce, but for the French business augmented, as a result of the share have invested in new supporting tool-sets to remain loss-making as we take steps consolidation, by approximately 9per cent to ensure high-level resilience and enable to position business for its longer-term over the course of a full year.
As the share the ongoing development of our Service success.
capital reorganisation associated with the desk capability.
In 2014, we will complete In 2014, we will continue to build on Return of Value took place in June 2013, the upgrade of our entire global Service Computacenters strong platform by the Companys adjusted diluted EPS was desk estate to this platform.
increasing its number of customers, augmented by approximately 4.5 per cent broadening our customer relationships, during the second half of 2013. increasing our service productivity and The Board will continue to evaluate the innovating our offerings.
This should requirement to maintain an efficient balance enable us to continue our track record sheet, and will endeavour to use our ability of cash generation and earnings per to generate free cash in order to continue share growth.
to deliver incremental value for our shareholders.
Adjusted profit before tax and diluted EPS are stated prior to exceptional items and amortisation of acquired intangibles.
Exceptional items for 2012 have been restated to take account of the reclassification of trading losses and provisions in respect of the three onerous German contracts.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 19 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Financial statements Governance Strategic report Performance review continued purchasing a higher volume, but lower Computacenter in the UK margin mix of product, has been seen United Kingdom throughout the course of 2013.
We Our UK business has performed well in were pleased with our Supply Chain 2013, and we are encouraged by what performance, especially during the second Revenue m has now been a sustained period of half of the year, which we see as a reflection growth in both revenue and profitability.
of the strength of our customer and vendor Overall, total revenue for the year increased relationships in the UK, and gradually by 7.6 per cent to 1,286.1 million 1,286.1m improving market conditions.
This was fuelled we have previously explained, our Supply by a Supply Chain revenue growth increase Chain business is impacted significantly by 1,286.1 of 8.4 per cent, which was primarily due the short and medium-term buying patterns 13 to an increase in the size of our customer of our customers, and is therefore difficult base, following significant Contractual 1,195.6 to forecast in the medium term and is 12 Services growth in the prior year, and reliant on macro-economic factors.
continued demand for our Windows 7 1,102.2 As a result, our primary focus will remain roll-outs.
11 on the growth of our Services business 1,265.4 Services revenue grew during the reporting which, for a second successive year, has 10 period by 6.2 per cent, consolidating underpinned our profitability growth in and building on the 15.3 per cent growth 1,226.9 the UK.
We have continued to develop 09 in 2012.
This incorporated a growth of our Contractual Services governance and 5.4 per cent within our Contractual bidding processes alongside the execution Services business and 8.4 per cent within of Service delivery to our customers, whilst our Professional Services operations.
operating efficiently through the high utilisation of our Services staff.
As expected, the significant level Group revenue by business type % of profitability achieved in 2012 as a The consistent achievement of Services result of business take-on transition and operational excellence has resulted in our transformation work, which has not been 24% retention of the number one ranking for repeated in 2013, has made profitability customer satisfaction and reference-ability growth more challenging than revenue within a survey carried out by KPMG, for the 19% growth to achieve during the reporting second year running.
Notwithstanding this, adjusted been awarded the top-ranking position operating profit in the UK grew by 8% within a study by the Whitelane Research 7.5 per cent.
Group, measuring the performance of 24 outsourcing providers in the UK, and Overall Supply Chain margin in the UK 6% 700 UK IT outsourcing contracts worth grew broadly in line with its growth in 11% 15 billion in total.
revenue, but the trend of customers 32% 1.
Contractual Services 24% Adjusted operating profit We anticipate that the demand for 56.2m our Professional Services offerings will continue, given that our forward Contract base order book finished the year at a record level.
259m Computacenter plc Annual Report and 20 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Our UK Services business is benefiting from its increasingly strong Services delivery reputation.
2013 saw a breakthrough deal for the Company with the UK Central The consistent achievement of Government.
We have signed a Desktop Infrastructure Services Agreement with a Services operational excellence UK Central Government department, which includes the management and support of has resulted in our retention of the their workplace, datacenter and networking environments, allowing the department to number one ranking for customer improve its end-user experience and safeguard service continuity.
satisfaction and reference-ability Additionally, a multi-million pound Managed Services contract with Computacenter will within a survey carried out by KPMG, help RWEIT improve the user experience and reduce operational costs for parent for the second year running.
The five-year contract includes end-user support for 13,000 UK employees, major incident management for workplace IT and a Windows 7 transformation project.
We anticipate that the demand for our continue to invest in and refine these on The RDC business enters 2014 with a Professional Services offerings will remain an ongoing basis.
The increasing focus on stable IT system, and without the significant strong, given that our forward order book our target market throughout the bidding burden of running two systems in parallel, finished the year at a record level.
We process, which is well supported and as was the case in 2013, and having additionally believe that this will be sustained monitored by our established Group trained its staff fully on the new system now in the short and medium term as customers Operating Model governance procedures, in place.
In 2014, we anticipate that RDC need to upgrade their operating systems, has indeed resulted in us withdrawing will begin to reap the benefits, through the due to user support coming to an end for from one significant bid during the year improvement of operational productivity, soon-to-be obsolete versions.
As such, where we deemed the level of risk to and the roll-out of more automation within they will continue to modernise their be unacceptable.
However, we believe its sales and reporting processes.
end-user workplace environments, that this approach reflects our prioritisation Overall SG&A in the UK have increased by for example through Windows 7 and of long-term delivery of value to our 9.3 per cent during the year.
This reflects Microsoft Office 2010 upgrades.
Our customers, and ultimately shareholders, our increased bid costs, increased bonus approach to Professional Services business over short-term financial targets of and commission payments to our staff development will not be solely reliant upon the business.
and further investment in our governance these upgrades and, in terms of a longerIn its second year at its new premises, processes.
Despite our recent success in term outlook, we believe that demand 2013 was a year of consolidation for our the UK, we are mindful of the need to invest will continue and be based around IT redeployment and recycling subsidiary in a controlled and careful manner and, as Windows Server, mobility, datacenter RDC, as the business absorbed the main such, we will be monitoring our level of and networking upgrades.
impact of its ERP system implementation.
SG&A closely during the course of 2014.
We remain aware of the critical role that In 2013, adjusted operating profit for the our governance processes and procedures year grew by 0.7 per cent, during a period have played in the maintenance of our in which all sales, service delivery and Services margins in 2013.
Given their operational staff migrated fully to its new importance to our business, we will Microsoft AX software.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 21 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Financial statements Governance Strategic report Performance review continued To support the evolution of its business, The success of the email upgrade Services provided Yorkshire Building Society Group needed project has cemented Computacenter a scalable and robust infrastructure.
The as a strategic IT partner for the Group.
Group partnered with Computacenter The project, along with our wider IT to design, source and configure a new transformation initiatives, has put us in a messaging platform for more than 4,300 better position for continued future growth.
With a consistent, reliable and scalable email platform, the Group Stephen Mulley has been able to enhance cost control, Head of IT Service Management collaboration and mobility.
Yorkshire Building Society Group Configuring a new messaging platform for more than 4,300 colleagues.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 22 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Yorkshire Building Society Group Computacenter plc Annual Report and 23 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Financial statements Governance Strategic report Performance review continued started to take effect, and has enabled us Computacenter in Germany to stabilise and improve the operational Germany and financial performance of a number of The reporting period saw our German our difficult Managed Services contracts.
Both As a result, excluding our three onerous Revenue m revenue and adjusted profitability grew contracts, we have seen a gradual during the year, against a backdrop of improvement in our Services margins significant change within the business, through the year.
including the implementation of our Group 1,497.8m Operating Model and the restructuring of Our Professional Services business its sales force.
generated significant momentum during the year, with its total revenue growing 1,497.8 Total revenue grew in 2013 by 6.5 per cent 13 by 11.3 per cent in constant currency.
This on an as reported basis to 1,497.8 million, performance was largely driven by our and 1.7 per cent in constant currency.
1,473.1 Workplace Solutions business delivering 12 This growth came from our Supply Chain significant volumes of Windows 7 and 8 business, which enjoyed a particularly 1,415.3 roll-outs, and our network security offering.
strong second half of the year.
Supply 11 Chain revenues grew by 7.2 per cent In addition to our strong Supply Chain 1,176.7 during 2013 on a reported basis, and performance, and other improvements 10 by 2.4 per cent in constant currency.
in the business, adjusted operating profit 1,048.6 for the German segment has increased by 09 Whilst this Supply Chain performance is 48.8 per cent to 36.1 million.
Notwithstanding pleasing and appears to reflect a growing that this performance was against the recovery within the German IT market backdrop of a weak comparator in 2012, which has now been sustained for the we are encouraged that the governance best part of a year, it is clearly not as changes we have implemented appear predictable as our Services business.
Group revenue by business type % to be having their intended impact.
It is for this reason that, in line with our updated strategic objectives, our primary This has been further evidenced by the 24% focus during 2014 will be in relation to new material transition and transformation the growth of our Services business.
projects that have been executed in accordance with new Group processes, 19% During 2013, Services revenue was broadly albeit that these have been relatively few flat at 485.4 million.
This was impacted in number during 2013.
These have been by the significant reduction in size of one 8% completed in accordance with agreed customer contract, which affected the contractual Services levels and projected fourth quarter of the year.
However, it also 6% financial outcomes.
We are now in a better illustrates the anticipated slow-down in position to ensure that new Services wins 11% our Services business, as a result of our in 2014 will be contracted appropriately decision to only bid for selective Managed 32% and implemented successfully as a result Services opportunities during the year.
This of the new operating model, and therefore enabled us to dedicate more resource to have built a strong platform on which successfully resolving the issues which 1.
Workplace 19% we can look to pursue medium term had arisen from the substantial growth of 2.
our Services business in the fourth quarter of 3.
Software 11% 2011, and importantly addressing the Turning specifically to our three loss-making, 4.
Third Party Services 6% underlying causes of those issues.
or onerous, contracts, we are pleased to 5.
Professional Services 8% report that the operational and financial These issues related primarily to the 6.
Contractual Services 24% performance of these has been stable adequacy of contractual governance during the second half of the year.
We procedures, and therefore during the year have resolved our operational issues and we have taken decisive action to improve are now delivering to contractually agreed these through the implementation of our levels of performance.
As explained within Group Operating Model.
This has already Adjusted operating profit 36.1m Our Professional Services business Contract base generated significant momentum during the year.
Its total revenue 311.6m grew by 11.3 per cent in constant currency.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 24 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 the Group overview, the contracts have Computacenter in France performed in line with the forecast set France out in our 2013 Interim Results during Clearly, 2013 was a disappointing year for the second half of the year.
Total revenue for the Revenue m reporting period reduced by 7.1 per cent In addition to the governance changes in constant currency.
Overall, the result outlined above, we have also carried out reduced from an adjusted operating profit a full review, restructuring and realignment of 5.3 million in 2012 to an adjusted of our sales force.
We are confident that, as 549.3m operating loss of 8.6 million in 2013. a result of this, we are now better prepared to take advantage of significant Services The majority of this decline was attributable growth opportunities within the German IT 549.3 to a significant reduction in our Supply 13 market.
This review process has included Chain revenues, which decreased by significant knowledge transfer between our 8.3 per cent in constant currency.
This 591.5 UK and German businesses, particularly 12 reduction was in itself due to two primary within Managed Services, which we factors.
Firstly, our Supply Chain business 551.3 anticipate will accelerate the learning was impacted by the prolonged and 11 progression of our sales force in Germany continuing difficult market conditions in 419.4 to sell and interact with our customers France, which has caused customers 10 in accordance with Group strategy and to reduce their IT investment spend.
Primarily as a result 358.7 09 We do not expect market conditions of the action detailed above, which has in France to improve materially in 2014, additionally resulted in a general fide-layering which has brought into sharp focus a of German management across the requirement for our business model in business, SG&A has reduced by 3.0 per France to be aligned more closely with our cent in 2013.
Due to the nature of these UK and German businesses.
In the UK and Group revenue by business type % actions, redundancy and restructuring Germany, we are less reliant on commodity costs totalling 3.7 million have been Supply Chain business, and are thus more included within the Group financials as 12% likely to be able to withstand the impact of exceptional costs.
Although 2013 Services revenue has 2% Secondly, the implementation of our Group broadly been flat, our Services business 20% ERP system in France was expected to be has achieved a number of notable wins.
a more significant challenge than was the Going forward, Computacenter will be case in either the UK or Germany, as the providing Dataport with operational extent of system and process change assistance for its IT workstations, was greater.
However, the difficulties Datacenter and Networking.
Dataport is experienced were more pronounced than 13% the service provider for information and expected and, as a result, a number of 49% communications technology of the public operational issues arose within the business administration for the German Federal affecting its ability to manage the delivery States of Hamburg, Schleswig-Holstein of product and parts through its logistics 1.
Workplace 49% and Bremen, as well as for the tax operation and therefore to ship on time.
Datacenter & Networking 13% Pomerania and Lower Saxony.
Additionally, While it is clear that these issues impacted 3.
Software 20% a Computacenter overflow help desk in the performance of our Supply Chain 4.
Third Party Services 2% Berlin will ensure that Dataports user-help business materially during the second half 5.
Professional Services 4% desk is provided with additional capacity of the year, they have now been resolved 6.
Contractual Services 12% where required during peak times.
The and the relevant order backlogs have been duration of the contract is for three years.
This is evident in the strong recovery of Supply Chain sales during Q4 2013 with Whilst we would clearly want to have orders being delivered in accordance with avoided the Managed Service contract agreed service levels.
Whilst we are aware issues that we have faced over the last two Adjusted operating profit that we have lost Supply Chain orders as a years, they have forced us to re-evaluate result of these issues, we do not believe that ourselves internally, and we are confident we have lost any of our material Supply that our business prospects in the medium -8.6m Chain customers.
term have emerged stronger as a result.
Contract base 66.9m Computacenter plc Annual Report and 25 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Financial statements Governance Strategic report Performance review continued Computacenter in France continued In line with our Group Operating Model Overall gross margin contribution within strategy and following its successful Belgium our Supply Chain business has declined as implementation in Germany, we started a direct result of the reduction in revenue the process of implementing our outlined above, an increased proportion Group Operating Model into our French Revenue m of low margin software business and business in early 2014.
The Group ERP temporary increased warehouse operating implementation was essential in order to costs due to our Group ERP system enable this to happen and will allow us implementation.
to drive efficiencies within the business, 56.8m for example within the utilisation of our Services revenue in 2013 reduced by resources and the implementation of 0.8 per cent to 90.5 million, mainly due 56.8 the Groups best practices.
13 to a 16.9 per cent decline in Professional Services revenue compared to 2012.
Given the issues experienced in France in 56.1 This was as a result of weak demand for 2013 and as a result of the implementation 12 our offerings throughout the year, which of the Group Operating Model, there have 49.5 itself was primarily due to weak market been some senior management changes in 11 conditions.
In addition, the impact of the France.
Moving forward, we will strengthen 49.6 Group ERP system implementation on the management team in key areas to help 10 our maintenance and logistics functions facilitate the implementation of the Group temporarily impacted our service levels.
Whilst the underlying 26.0 09 Whilst this has now improved significantly, trend of SG&A increased by 1.2 per cent it has led to a reduction in our Services in constant currency during the course of contract base.
2013 as a result of the cost of implementing our ERP system, we have no doubt that Overall Services gross margin generation there will be a need to take actions in 2014 has reduced materially due to the decline Group revenue by business type % to increase the competitiveness of our in revenue and lower Professional Services French business.
utilisation, resulting in spare capacity in the workforce with associated margin As outlined in the Group overview and 32% dilution.
Given our disappointing Services as previously highlighted within our 2013 performance in 2013, our strategic shift Interim Results, as a result of the continuing to become more Services-focused in the disappointing performance in France during medium term will be no easy task, and the year, and our continued medium-term 26% considerable work remains to be done in expectations for the business, we have 2014 and beyond to achieve this goal.
incurred a non-cash impairment in the French cash-generating unit of However, we are encouraged by the fact 8% 12.2 million, relating to goodwill that our French and International teams have and acquired intangibles.
6% worked very well together during the year 19% 9% to secure the Groups largest-ever Managed Services contract, for which the relevant bid had been made in accordance with 1.
Contractual Services 32% Adjusted operating profit Moving forward, we will strengthen 2.2m the management team in key areas to help facilitate the implementation Contract base of the Group Operating Model.
19.3m Computacenter plc Annual Report and 26 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Computacenter in Belgium Overall, our Belgian business has performed well in 2013.
In 2011 and 2012 We were able to renew our we enjoyed large, one-off, Supply Chain revenues with a particular customer which, Managed Services contract as we expected and as noted in our 2012 Annual report, would impact comparators with Mercedes-Benz Belgium in 2013.
Unless specifically stated, the results below include the contribution from and Luxembourg for another the acquisition of Informatic Services IS in December 2012. three years.
Total revenue grew by 6.0 per cent on an as reported basis, and by 1.2 per cent in constant currency.
Adjusted operating We were also able to renew our Managed profit reduced by 6.8 per cent to 2.2 million, Services contract with Mercedes-Benz which given the expected decline in Belgium and Luxembourg for another three Product revenue noted above, was still years.
Activities include an SLA-driven local encouraging, albeit materially assisted by service desk and onsite support activities.
Belgian SG&A has increased by 34.4 per cent however, on a In 2012, Services represented 24.1 per cent like-for-like basis excluding the acquisition, of our overall revenues and, assisted by in constant currency SG&A increased by the acquisition of IS, which is 100 per cent 0.5 per cent.
Services focused, Services now represent 39.4 per cent of our revenues.
This will Clearly, Supply Chain revenue growth provide us with increased revenue visibility was materially impacted by one-off deals as we move forward in 2014. noted above.
As a result, during the year Supply Chain revenue in constant currency reduced by 19.2 per cent.
However, in the fourth quarter Supply Chain revenue was only down by 3.2 per cent in constant currency, reflecting the one-off deals in the first half of 2012 outlined above, and Mike Norris a strengthening Supply Chain demand Chief Executive Officer environment towards the end of 2013.
10 March 2014 Our total Services revenue grew by 65.2 per cent to 22.4 million.
Excluding the effect of the acquisition, Services revenue has still grown organically by over 18.4 per cent during the period, which has been assisted by our ability to extend a number of our Managed Services contracts during the year.
We have been pleased with the performance of IS in 2013, which has exceeded our initial expectations and, although much remains to be done, we have made significant progress towards integrating IS into our business.
We have also managed to retain a significant majority of all major Managed Services contracts through the integration process.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 27 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Financial statements Governance Strategic report
