Group Operating & Financial Review Mark Bottomley - Finance Director Nature, objectives and strategies The Groups business The Groups operations are focused on the production and supply of food products.
The business operates entirely in the UK, although a small, but increasing proportion of sales are exported.
It produces a range of high quality, predominantly fresh products including fresh pork, sausages, bacon and cooked meats for sale to the high street food retailers.
It also supplies a range of pre-sliced, pre-packaged charcuterie products for sale into these same customers, together with a range of pre-packed sandwiches predominantly for sale into food service outlets.
More recently the Group has launched a range of artisan pastry products to a number of its retail customers.
The markets in which the food business operates are competitive both in terms of pricing from fellow suppliers and the retail environment in general.
The UK food retail market is known to be amongst the most competitive in the world.
Despite this, Cranswick has a long record of increasing sales and profits through a combination of investing in modern efficient factories, developing a range of quality products and making sound acquisitions.
The business is under the control of stable, experienced and talented operational management teams supported by a skilled workforce.
The performance of the business in the year is discussed in the Review of Activities on pages 4 and 5. Business Objectives It is the Boards view that meeting the following business objectives is fundamental to achieving the financial and non-financial measures that increase value to Shareholders and other stakeholders: Business Objective Progress against objectives in 2012-13 Delivering innovative, quality products to its customers Launch of premium burger range New breaded pork range Hand cured, air dried ham products launched Expansion of range of new pastry products On-going new product development and re-development of existing ranges Further information on the Groups progress in meeting this objective is set out in the Review of Activities on pages 4 and 5.
Maintaining the highest level of service to its customers Industry leading service levels were maintained throughout the year Further investment in capacity ensured that peak demand periods could be accommodated.
Projects included: Cooked meats Hull - Sutton Fields extension Fresh pork Hull - butchery reorganisation Fresh pork Hull - new retail packing facility Further information on the Groups progress in meeting this objective is set out in the Review of Activities on pages 4 and 5.
Improving operational efficiency Substantial capital investment was made across the business to drive operational efficiency improvements.
Key projects delivered the following: Fresh pork Hull increased throughput speeds and yield improvements Bacon Sherburn - increased throughput speeds and yield improvements Cooked meats Hull increased throughput speeds and yield improvements Further information on the Groups progress in meeting this objective is set out in the Review of Activities on pages 4 and 5.
8 | Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2013 Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Business Objective Progress against objectives in 2012-13 Securing employee health and safety The total number of RIDDOR accidents reportable accidents to the HSE fell by 6 per cent The RIDDOR Accident Incident Ratio fell by 15 per cent Further information on the Groups progress in meeting this objective is set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility statement on pages 20 to 23.
Maximising returns on investment Investment has been made across the business to deliver efficiency improvements and to provide additional capacity for future growth.
All projects are measured against strict investment criteria using the Groups weighted average cost of capital as a hurdle rate.
However, in certain circumstances, either due to legislative or customer requirements, other criteria may be applied.
contributed by Kingston Foods, which was current year referred to above, adjusted Business strategies acquired on 29 June 2012, sales were 5 profit before tax was 8 per cent higher at per cent higher than the prior year which 49.3 million 2012: 45.6 million.
This was The Groups market strategy is to focus rd included the benefit of a 53 week.
Sales of notwithstanding the fact that the prior year primarily on the growing quality end of the rd fresh pork, cooked meats, bacon, sausages benefited from the inclusion of a 53 week.
markets in which it operates, to establish and sandwiches all grew strongly.
Sales of meaningful and long-lasting relationships continental products were lower following with its major customers by a combination Taxation the decision of one retail customer to move of product development and high service to a direct sourcing policy, although new levels and to invest in quality facilities and The tax charge as a percentage of profit products and new customers together the latest equipment to enable it to operate before taxation was 23.6 per cent 2012: with increased sales to existing customers as efficiently as possible.
The standard rate of UK helped, to some extent, to mitigate this.
management is given responsibility for Corporation Tax was 24 per cent for 2013 Pastry sales grew particularly strongly, developing plans to deliver the objectives and 26 per cent for 2012.
The lower than albeit from a modest base, and there was a of the Group with particular emphasis on standard rate of tax in the current year growing contribution to revenues from the growing sales through product innovation relates to a deferred tax credit of 0.3 Groups export markets.
and high service levels, improving million following the substantial enactment operational efficiency and securing of the Finance Act 2013 which reduces the employee health and safety.
The role of the Operating profit corporation tax rate from 24 per cent to 23 Board is to oversee and support initiatives per cent in the year to 31 March 2014.
The aimed at achieving Group objectives, Group operating profit of 48.2 million is lower than standard rate in the previous including appraisal of capital projects and stated after a property impairment charge year related to the gain on sale of the identification and approval of acquisitions of 1.8 million.
This was a non-cash item Groups 49 per cent stake in FBD which did that will: take the Group into new and which followed a reassessment of the not attract a tax charge, together with a growing areas of the market: open up new carrying value of a mothballed production further credit of 0.7 million in relation to customer relationships to the Group: or facility in East Lancashire.
Group operating the planned reduction in the Corporation consolidate existing market positions.
profit before impairment at 50.0 million tax rate from 26 per cent to 24 per cent in increased by 7 per cent and at 5.7 per cent the current year.
of sales, operating margin was in line with Current and future the level achieved last year.
Earnings per share development and performance Share of results of associate Adjusted earnings per share, which exclude the effect of the property impairment Business development and The Groups share of the post-tax result charge this year and the effects of FBD and of its associate, Farmers Boy Deeside performance goodwill impairment from the prior year, Limited FBD, in the prior year was a loss increased by 6.0 pence from 72.9 pence to of 0.7 million.
On 30 March 2012 the The key features of the year have been 78.9 pence.
Basic earnings per share fell Group sold its 49 per cent holding in FBD the record sales and underlying operating by 4.5 per cent to 75.1 pence, reflecting a to Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC for a profit for the Group, continued capital strong increase in underlying profitability in cash consideration of 14.5 million.
The investment and strong cash generation.
the current year, offset by the impairment transaction gave rise to a profit on sale in charge and, in the prior year, the profit on The Group delivered record production the year to 31 March 2012 of 8.3 million.
and sales volumes across the Christmas sale of the Groups 49 per cent stake in FBD.
Further details of the disposal are disclosed trading period.
The trading environment The weighted average number of shares in note 15. in which the Group operates has remained in issue during the year was 48,257,000 challenging.
During the third quarter of the 2012: 47,709,000.
Again, the prior year Finance costs earnings per share figure benefited from the year, the business faced rapid raw material rd price inflation, which it managed through inclusion of a 53 week.
the support of the Groups customers Net finance costs of 0.8 million 2012: 1.0 and also through operational efficiency million were lower than the previous year Cash flow and net debt improvements.
The Group has experienced reflecting the strong cash generation in continuing competitor pressure, although the year which resulted in lower average The Group continues to deliver strong the efficiencies achieved through on-going borrowings.
Interest cover strengthened operational cash flows.
Cash generated capital investment and as extra volumes are from 49.2 times to 62.9 times.
from operating activities was 49.8 million put through its factories have mitigated to 2012: 45.5 million, with the increase some extent against these pressures.
compared to the previous year reflecting Profit before tax increased Group operating profits partly offset by an increase in working capital Revenue Profit before tax at 47.4 million 2012: reflecting growth of the business overall.
48.4 million was 2 per cent lower, but after Reported sales were 7 per cent ahead of last The net cash outflow from investing adjusting for the effects of the associate year reflecting growth across most product activities of 35.5 million is principally and goodwill impairment in the prior year sectors.
After adjusting for the revenue accounted for by capital additions, net of and the property impairment charge in the Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2013 | 9 fixed asset sale proceeds, of 30.5 million 2012: 15.8 million.
Pensions and the cash spent of the acquisition of Kingston Foods of 6.0 million, less loan Post balance sheet events The Group operates a number of repayments received of 0.7 million.
The defined contribution schemes, whereby previous years outflow was 3.3 million.
On 29 April 2013, the Group acquired the contributions are made to schemes The 26.0 million of net cash used in whole of the issued share capital of East operated by major insurance companies.
financing activities in 2013 is largely due Anglian Pigs Limited, a company involved in Contributions to these schemes are to interest paid of 0.9 million, dividends the breeding, rearing and finishing of British determined as a percentage of employees paid of 11.4 million and loan repayments pigs, for a net cash consideration of 10.7 basic salary.
Cranswick Country Foods plc of 14.0 million net of proceeds from issue million.
operates a defined benefit scheme which of share capital of 0.5 million.
The prior has been closed to further accrual since year cash outflow from financing was 20.8 Further details of the acquisition are 2004.
The overall result is a net decrease set out in the Chairmans Statement Standard IAS 19, the deficit at 31 March on page 2 and in note 30. in cash and cash equivalents of 11.7 million 2013 was 3.4 million 2012: 5.3 million.
Net debt The present value of funded obligations was reduced by 1.6 million to 20.1 million 21.5 million 2012: 21.2 million and the 2012: 21.7 million at the year end, and fair value of plan assets was 18.2 million gearing fell from 9 per cent to 7 per cent.
Capital structure The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise value for Shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Group regards its Shareholders equity and net debt as its capital and manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic conditions.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to Shareholders, return capital to Shareholders or issue new shares.
No changes were made to the objectives, policies or processes during the years ended 31 March 2013 and 31 March 2012.
The Groups capital structure is as follows: 2013 2012 m m Net Debt note 26 20.1 21.7 Cranswick plc Shareholders equity 273.7 245.9 Capital Employed 293.8 267.6 Distributions, capital raising and share repurchases The proposed final dividend for 2013 together with the interim paid in January 2013 amount to 30.0 pence per share which is 5 per cent higher than the previous year.
Share capital increased by 492,741 shares.
The increase comprised 182,958 of shares issued relating to share options exercised during the year and 309,783 of shares issued in respect of scrip dividends.
Business KPIs The Board has assessed that the following KPIs are the most effective measures of progress towards achieving the Groups objectives: Financial Underlying sales growth year on year increase in sales revenue excluding the impact of acquisitions and disposals Gross margin gross profit as a percentage of sales revenue Group operating margin Group operating profit as a percentage of sales revenue Free cash flow cash generated from operations less tax and net interest paid Non-financial RIDDOR accidents total number of accidents reportable to the Health & Safety Executive HSE per 1,000 employees RIDDOR accident ratio ratio of RIDDOR accidents to total accidents Performance against KPIs 2013 2012 Financial Underlying sales growth 5.3% 10.3% Gross Margin 12.2% 12.4% Group operating margin 5.7% 5.7% Free cash flow 49.0m 44.4m Non Financial Total RIDDOR accidents per 1,000 employees 16.1 18.9 RIDDOR accident ratio 12.3% 15.4% 2012 was a 53 week year Excludes the revenue contribution from business acquired during the year Before a property impairment charge of 1.8 million in the current year and a goodwill impairment charge of 4.9 million in the prior year 10 | Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2013 Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance The Group reported underlying sales of the Groups factories will be maintained Factories growth, which excluded the impact of at the highest level and further suitable acquisitions, of 5.3 per cent over the past acquisition opportunities will be pursued.
The Group has some of the best-invested, year driven by its expertise in product modern facilities in the industry, having development, service levels, quality and invested 125 million over the past five Resources, risks and value, with further sales growth anticipated years, and it intends to continue investing relationships in the next twelve months.
After adjusting to ensure that it maintains its competitive rd for the benefit of the 53 week in the edge and has sufficient capacity to meet its previous year, underlying, like-for-like sales Resources growth aspirations.
Gross margin was 12.2 per cent of sales compared to 12.4 The Group aims to safeguard the assets Employees per cent a year ago reflecting the on-going that give it competitive advantage, being challenge of dealing with input cost inflation.
its reputation for product innovation, The Group aims to recruit, train and Operating margin before impairment at 5.7 product quality, food safety and service retain employees who are valued for their per cent of sales was in line with the prior levels: its modern well-equipped factories: contribution and able to fulfil their potential year as improved operating efficiencies its operational management: and its skilled in meeting the business objectives of their offset gross margin pressure.
The Group companies each have strategies for retaining staff, including Reputation Principal cash flows are discussed the provision of competitive terms and on pages 9 and 10. conditions, share options and a stimulating It is the responsibility of local operational and challenging working environment.
The management assisted by their own product Group has had a savings-related share Future development development team, Group Technical and option scheme in place for over 10 years, Group Health & Safety to maintain and, which is open to all employees with 2 years The Group will continue to seek to increase where possible, enhance the Groups service and has proved very successful with sales through a combination of product reputation for product innovation, product many staff now also Shareholders.
development with existing customers and quality, food safety and service levels.
business gains with new ones.
The standard Principle Risks and Uncertainties There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties, which could have a material impact on the Groups long-term performance and cause actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results.
Effective risk management underpins the delivery of the Groups strategy and objectives.
The Board is ultimately responsible for Cranswicks system of risk management and internal control and sets the Groups overall appetite for risk.
This overarching risk appetite is cascaded down through the business to operational management.
Risk management processes are embedded throughout the Group at all levels.
Roles and responsibilities Board Responsible for the Groups system of risk management and internal control and for setting the Groups overall appetite for risk.
Audit Committee Review the systems of internal control which are in place and provide assurance to the Board that the process of risk management and internal control is operating effectively.
Risk Committee Provide oversight and advice to the Board and Audit Committee in relation to current and future risk exposures and future risk strategy including advice on determination of risk appetite and tolerance.
Site management Operate the risk management process within the approved risk management framework and ensure that it is implemented effectively and efficiently.
Identify and assess all key risks, properly allocate management responsibility and ensure that risks remain adequately identified, analysed and controlled.
Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2013 | 11 The principal risks and uncertainties facing Cranswick and the actions taken to reduce their impact are set out below: Risk area Nature of risk and potential impact Risk mitigation Industry risks State of the economy A deterioration in the world and, in particular, Although Cranswick is unable to influence general UK economies may adversely affect the activity economic conditions, the business offers a range Change in 2012 13 levels of consumers and the Groups immediate of products across premium, standard and value customers, leading to a fall in demand for the tiers which it is able to flex in response to consumer Groups products and ultimately lower profitability and market trends.
Pork remains an extremely and cash flow.
No change Competition, The Group trades in highly competitive markets The Group manages the risk of operating in a customer retention which tend to operate without long term contracts.
consolidated sector by maintaining strong customer and reliance on key Product innovation and changing consumer trends relationships.
This process is supported by delivering customers provide a constant challenge to the future success high levels of service and quality and by continued of the Group and its ability to compete effectively.
A focus on product development and technical Change in 2012 13 significant proportion of the Groups revenues are innovation.
The commercial teams continually look generated from a small number of major grocery for opportunities to expand the customer base across retail customers, loss of all or part of the Groups all product categories and work closely with key business with one or more of these customers customers to ensure service, quality and new product No change would adversely impact the Groups results.
development are of the highest standard.
Significant supply side consolidation seen in recent years further mitigates this risk.
Raw material price The major exposure the Group has to raw material Purchasing of pigs and pig meat is coordinated fluctuations price fluctuations is pig meat.
An increase in raw centrally and whilst the Group does not generally seek material input costs may impact Group profitability.
to hedge against pig price movements because of Change in 2012 13 the downside risk, longer term contracts have been negotiated in certain instances with key pig suppliers.
The Group further mitigates the risk of raw material Increased volatility in price inflation through on-going pricing discussions animal feed prices and with its customers and continued focus on improving impact of new 2013 EU operating efficiencies across all its production facilities.
welfare regulations Environmental The industry is subject to a range of UK and EU The Directors believe that good environmental matters legislation.
Environmental standards are being practices support the Boards strategy by enhancing tightened on a regular basis and require increasing the reputation of the Group, the efficiency of Change in 2012 13 levels of investment.
Compliance imposes costs production and the quality of products.
Further details and prolonged failure to comply could materially of these initiatives are set out in the Groups Corporate affect the Groups ability to operate.
Social Responsibility statement and on the Groups website under the Greenthinking banner.
No change Food scares As a food producer, Cranswick is subject to industry The risk of such events is mitigated by ensuring that and product related risks of contamination of products and or all raw materials are traceable to source and that the contamination raw materials and potential health related issues.
manufacturing, storage and distribution systems of Such an incident may lead to product recall costs, both Group sites and those of suppliers are continually Change in 2012 13 reputational damage and regulatory penalties.
audited and monitored by experienced and well qualified site based and Group technical teams.
Recent meat industry food scares Supplier standards Cranswick is reliant upon its suppliers meeting the The Group ensures all suppliers of key raw materials Groups high quality and welfare standards.
Failure have independent third party accreditations.
Detailed Change in 2012 13 on their part could lead to customer complaints technical specifications are in place for all products, and reputational damage.
and all sites have trained product inspection and Quality Assurance teams.
Recent meat industry food scares Operational Risks Food safety A breach of food safety legislation or the Cranswick conforms to all relevant food safety introduction of more stringent regulations may regulations and adopts best practice across its Change in 2012 13 lead to reputational damage and regulatory production facilities.
All of its production sites are penalties including restrictions on operations, subject to audits to ensure Group standards are damages or fines.
No change 12 | Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2013 Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2013 | 13 Risk area Nature of risk and potential impact Risk mitigation Operational Risks continued Business continuity The Group faces the risk of incidents such as a Business continuity plans are in place across the major fire, which may result in significant and Groups manufacturing facilities and appropriate Change in 2012 13 prolonged disruption to its operating facilities and insurance cover is in place to mitigate any financial ensuing loss of sales and reduced profitability.
Potential business disruption is limited due to multi-site operations across the majority of the Groups product lines.
No change Legislation Legislation in all the markets the Group serves Cranswick is committed to responding positively to changes on a regular basis, and interpretation new regulation and ensuring that the Groups views Change in 2012 13 of existing laws can also change to create ever are expressed during consultation exercises.
tightening standards, often requiring additional human resources and the provision of new assets and systems.
Failure to comply with existing or No change new legislation may adversely affect the Groups results.
Overseas markets Cranswick trades in a growing number of overseas Extensive research is carried out into new markets markets, and may not be familiar with local ahead of commencement of trade.
Change in 2012 13 practices and regulations.
Failure to comply could lead to prosecution and loss of raw material supply The Group uses reputable local contacts to ensure that or customer.
local laws are complied with.
Recent meat industry food scares Technology The Group is increasingly reliant on both IT and The Group has well trained, operational engineers operational technology and operations could be at each site who carry out regular checks, calibration Change in 2012 13 significantly impacted if these systems are not well and maintenance on all key machinery.
It also has maintained and updated on a regular basis.
central and site based IT teams to maintain computer systems.
No change Robust back-up procedures are in place, as are disaster recovery plans, both of which are tested regularly.
Business integration The Group has grown by acquisition as well as The Group ensures suitable incentives are in place to organically, and faces the challenge of integrating retain key management, who work closely with existing Change in 2012 13 new businesses into the Cranswick Group and Group management to help smooth the transition.
There is also rigorous review of operations and results by the Group Board.
No change A rigorous due diligence approach is adopted for all potential acquisitions which encompasses all legal, commercial, financial, technical and environmental matters.
Human Resource Risks Health & Safety A breach of Health & Safety regulations would leave A dedicated Group Health & Safety team, the Group exposed to reputational damage and supported by site based coordinators, proactively Change in 2012 13 regulatory penalties.
monitors, manages and improves performance.
All team members receive continual training to industry approved standards.
Quarterly reports on performance against KPIs are issued to site No change management and the Group Board.
Ethical management Good employee working conditions are core to The Group is a member of SEDEX and ALP, and has Cranswicks values however poor practice in this agreed to comply with the ETI base code.
Additionally, Change in 2012 13 area could lead to prosecution, industrial action all sites will undergo SMETA ethical audits at least once and adverse media attention.
every two years and carry out labour provider audits each year.
No change The Group also has an independent whistleblowing hotline in place so that employees can raise any concerns they might have anonymously if they so choose.
Staff recruitment and The success of the Group is dependent on The Group mitigates the risk associated with loss of retention attracting and retaining high quality senior key personnel through robust succession planning, management and staff.
strong recruitment processes, effective incentives Change in 2012 13 and retention initiatives and on-going training and development.
No change 14 | Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2013 Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Risk area Nature of risk and potential impact Risk mitigation Human Resource Risks continued Access to workforce The Group experiences periods of heightened All Group sites have access to multiple approved demand, and has the potential to experience mass agencies for the supply of temporary, skilled and Change in 2012 13 absence due to sickness.
Without flexibility in the unskilled labour.
Strict hygiene rules and return to workforce, customer orders may not be fulfilled.
work procedures are in operation at all sites.
No change Financial Risks Interest rates, The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on Interest rate and foreign currency risks are managed currency, liquidity and borrowings and foreign currency risk on purchases, using effective hedging policies, which are coordinated credit risk particularly of charcuterie products.
In addition the and controlled by the Groups treasury function.
Each Group needs access to funding for current business operation has access to the Groups overdraft facility Change in 2012 13 and future growth and bank positions are monitored on a daily basis.
All term debt is arranged centrally and appropriate headroom is maintained.
Treasury policies are discussed in more detail below.
No change Granting of credit and The majority of sales are made to major UK Control procedures over acceptance of new customers recoverability of debt retailers and practically all sales, to these and other and review of the level of credit granted with reference customers, are made on credit terms.
Granting of to external credit agencies take place at all sites.
Change in 2012 13 credit to inappropriate parties or failure to collect Debts are recovered on a pro-active basis and debts on a timely basis could leave the Group management teams aim to ensure customers trade exposed to losses.
Credit risks are also discussed No change in more detail below.
Business acquisitions Businesses may be acquired based on inaccurate Rigorous due diligence is carried out in advance of any information, unachievable forecasts or without new business acquisition, using internal and external Change in 2012 13 appropriate consideration being given to the terms specialists where required.
No change Treasury risk management policies of the liquidity management process.
In is made to resist advance payments to Functional currency contrast, whilst floating rate borrowings are suppliers for goods and services: where not exposed to changes in fair value, the this proves commercially unworkable, The functional currency of all Group Group is exposed to cash flow risk as costs arrangements are put in place, where undertakings is sterling.
increase if market rates rise.
The Group practical, to guarantee the repayment of the has reduced its borrowings significantly in monies in the event of default.
Foreign currency risk recent years and at 31 March 2013 gearing had fallen to 7 per cent 2012: 9 per cent.
Liquidity risk The foreign exchange risk facing the Group Given this conservative debt structure the is in the purchasing of charcuterie products.
Group has not fixed the interest rate on any The Group has historically been very cash The currency involved is the euro.
The part of its current facility.
The bank position for each policy of the Group is to seek to mitigate keep this situation under constant review site is monitored on a daily basis and the impact of this risk by taking out forward and will fix the interest rate on a proportion capital expenditure is approved at local contracts for up to 12 months ahead and for of the Groups borrowing at such time management meetings at which at least two amounts that commence at approximately as it becomes appropriate to do so.
The members of the main Board are present and 25 per cent of the requirement and move monitoring of interest rate risk is handled reported at the subsequent monthly main progressively towards full cover.
The Group entirely at head office, based on the monthly Board meeting.
Major projects are approved Finance Director is consulted about the key consolidation of cash flow projections and by the Main Board.
Each part of the Group decisions on currency cover.
has access to the Groups overdraft facility and all term debt is arranged centrally.
The Interest rate risk Credit risk Group renewed its bank credit facilities in March 2011.
The facility is made up of a The Groups current policy is to manage its Practically all sales are made on credit revolving credit facility of 100.0 million cost of borrowing using a mix of fixed and terms, the majority of which are to the including a committed overdraft facility variable rate debt.
Whilst fixed rate interest major UK food retailers.
The Group manages bearing debt is not exposed to cash flow are reviewed at monthly management the utilisation of the revolving credit interest rate risk, there is no opportunity for meetings.
The incidence of bad debts is facility through the monitoring of monthly the Group to enjoy a reduction in borrowing low.
For all major customers, credit terms consolidated cash flow projections and costs in markets where rates are falling.
are agreed by negotiation and for all the daily borrowings position.
The current In addition, the fair value risk inherent in other customers, credit terms are set by facility extends the maturity of the Groups fixed rate borrowing means that the Group reference to external credit agencies and available financing to more than two years, is exposed to unplanned costs should debt or commercial awareness.
Every attempt providing it with reduced liquidity risk and be restructured or repaid early as part Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2013 | 15 medium term funding to meet its objectives.
Unutilised facilities at 31 March 2013 were 78.1 million 2012: 75.8 million.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Review of activities.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described above, as are the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with strong trading relationships with its key customers and suppliers.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risk successfully.
After reviewing the available information, including business plans and making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Mark Bottomley Finance Director 20 May 2013 16 | Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2013 Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Mouth-watering Outdoor Reared British dry-cured back bacon on a thick cut white farmhouse loaf.
