Operating and financial review First Student First Student continues to respond well to the recovery programme which is now well established.
While there remains work to be done, we are confident of the prospects to build on the actions we have taken and we are on track to achieve $100m of annual cost savings from a more efficient model.
First Transit In First Transit, we continue to focus on our core segments which delivered strong growth during the year with new contract wins.
Tim OToole Chris Surch Consistent with that strategy, we completed the sale of First Chief Executive Group Finance Director Support Services, our military base facility management business, for a gross consideration of $10.2m.
We have grown to become one of the largest providers of shuttle bus services at airports and for Notwithstanding the prolonged universities, and are developing opportunities for further expansion.
economic weakness we are focused on our objectives of improved Greyhound performance and sustainable growth.
At Greyhound we have transformed the operating model to create a more flexible and agile business.
By investing in technology, right We have taken a series of comprehensive sizing or relocating terminals and modernising our network we will actions to address specific issues, provide customers with more attractive, affordable and reliable long distance travel.
Our unique national network underpins our success reform operating models to improve as we expand our popular, fast growing point-to-point services.
performance and strengthen our businesses.
UK Bus We are making good progress with our programme to transform our UK Bus business.
As we continue to work through our plans we are improving operating discipline, adjusting the commercial model to be more locally responsive and creating more effective partnerships with local stakeholders.
We are encouraged by positive signs in the markets where our transformation is furthest along.
UK Rail In UK Rail, we continue to focus on operating performance across our existing franchises while delivering major infrastructure and capacity upgrades in conjunction with our industry partners.
We are in discussions with the DfT in respect of contract extensions for two of our existing franchises, First Great Western and First Capital Connect.
We are poised to take part in the new franchising process as set out by the DfT and remain committed to retaining a leading position in the UK rail market.
16 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Performance Capital structure Dividends The continued strength of our balance sheet is critical to delivering In the short term, the Board proposes that no final dividend will the full potential of our businesses.
We believe that the rights issue bepaid in respect of 2012 13 and no interim dividend will be paid in announced in May 2013, to raise approximately 615m, will: respect of 2013 14. remove the constraints of our current balance sheet and provide Dividend payments will recommence with a final dividend for 2013 14, a sustainable capital structure going forward subject to performance in line with expectations, as a transition to re-establishing a progressive dividend policy thereafter.
A transitional support our objective to remain investment grade, and avoid final dividend of up to 50m for 2013 14 willbe recommended, the anticipated additional financing costs of becoming subject to the Board determining the exact amount and thereafter, a sub-investment grade dividend cover of 2.0 to 2.5 times will betargeted.
provide the necessary flexibility to continue our transformation plans and invest to create sustainable, long term value.
Investing for the future Over the next four years, we will invest approximately 1.6bn across the business to continue our transformation programmes and take advantage of growth opportunities.
This will be financed from existing cash resources, future cash generated from operations, and a portion of the proceeds of the rights issue.
In order to deliver our plans and underpin growth and returns, we will equip our divisions with appropriate levels of investment to achieve their key priorities.
Further details about specific priorities can be found in the Chief Executives strategic review on pages 4 and 5.
Over the next four years, Medium term targets Following the rights issue, we are targeting the following objectives we intend to invest over the next four years: Increase Group revenue excluding UK Rail at a faster rate than the approximately 1.6bn 1 economies we serve, improve margins in First Student and UK Bus to double digit levels, and achieve a post-tax return on capital employed ROCE in the range of 10% to 12% across our business to Maintain our investment grade credit rating and appropriate liquidity and covenant headroom continue our transformation Re-establish a progressive and sustainable dividend policy, aligned to business performance.
programmes and take advantage of growth 1 On a post-IAS 19 basis.
The estimated impact of IAS 19 is set out on page 39. opportunities.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 17 Operating and financial review Group results The net cash outflow for the year was 74.4m 2012: inflow of Group revenue increased by 3.3% to 6,900.9m 2012: 6,678.7m, 119.2m.
The exchange of contracts for the sale of eight of our or 4.5% excluding the extra week of trading in the non-Rail businesses London depots occurred just after the financial year end on 9 April last year.
Underlying operating profit was 335.4m 2012: 428.5m 2013 and had been included in our expectation of cash flow being reflecting the previously indicated reductions in UK Bus profits as a broadly neutral for the year.
The net debt to EBITDA ratio was result of reduced Government support for the industry and external 3.0 times 2012: 2.5 times.
The average debt duration at 31 March cost pressures, together with lower UK Rail profits as we entered the 2013 was 5.4 years 2012: 5.5 years and there was 1,215.5m new franchise extension period for First TransPennine Express at 2012: 795.8m of headroom under committed revolver facilities and margins closer to the industry average, as well as the impact of one free cash, prior to the repayment of the 300m April 2013 bond.
week less trading for the North American businesses.
Statutory During the year a new 325m bond was issued at an effective operating profit was 205.7m 2012: 448.0m reflecting the lower rate of 5.49% as part of our long term funding strategy.
underlying operating profit and a charge for exceptional items this year compared to a credit last year, largely driven by the UK Bus pension scheme changes.
3 Tram operations, central management and other items.
18 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Performance Operating and financial review First Student Revenue in our First Student division was $2,378.6m or 1,503.1m 2012: $2,497.9m or 1,567.2m.
Adjusting for the extra week last year US Dollar revenues were 2.8% lower, principally due to a reduced number of contracts reflecting our continued focus on retaining or winning business that delivers an appropriate level of return on capital employed, as well as the impact of Hurricane Sandy and further severe weather during the winter.
Underlying operating profit was Seattle $174.9m or 109.9m 2012: $169.5m or 107.1m with incremental Detroit Chicago savings from our recovery plan more than offsetting the profit impact of the reduced revenues.
New York Washington Cincinnati San Francisco A significant amount of our operations were disrupted by Hurricane Los Angeles Sandy in late October 2012.
The storm, which impacted the entire eastern seaboard, parts of the Midwest and Eastern Canada, affected approximately 130 of our locations and led to the closure of Miami schools for up to nine days.
This adversely impacted operating profit by approximately $13m and further periods of severe weather in early 2013 saw a further $8m impact.
A number of the lost operating days may potentially be recovered at the end of the summer term which occurs in our 2013 14 financial year.
Recovery programme Alaska We have made good progress in continuing our recovery First Student programmeinFirst Student to address performance and strengthen the operating model.
Although there remains significant work to be done, and we remain cautious in respect of the sustained weakness Revenue Number of employees ofthe US economy, we are seeing positive results from a more efficientmodel, and are on track to achieve our stated target of 1,503.1m 59,500 $100min annual savings.
2012: 1,567.2m 2012: 61,000 A key milestone in our recovery programme has been the rollout of uniform practices which are achieving consistency and greater Operating profit efficiency across our locations.
A detailed playbook setting out consistent operating procedures and best practices sourced from across the business is generating real and tangible benefits.
This also 109.9m gives First Student a more compelling, efficient and consistently high 2012: 107.1m standard offering.
We are extremely pleased to report that customer satisfaction scores are at the highest level for four years and we have seen a sustained improvement for the fourth year in a row.
com First Student FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 19 Operating and financial review First Student continued Contract wins and retention Our lean maintenance and engineering practices continue to be Although state and local finances have stabilised overall, a number of adopted, following the examples set by our 18 reference workshops large states and school districts continue to face substantial funding across the business.
92% of our workshops have now achieved the constraints.
Against that backdrop, our recovery is on plan and we initial level of lean certification.
We are consolidating our vehicle and are making progress by leveraging our existing relationships to parts purchasing processes and have developed a much more expand current operations, for example in Kansas City, Missouri and efficient online ordering system that has been well received across the Los Angeles Unified School District.
Recent new contract wins the business.
have included competitions in Indian River, New York and in The benefits of our transition to a more efficient organisation were Waukesha, Wisconsin where our winning proposal offered 150 particularly visible at the start of the school year in September.
This is propane fuelled buses and a system of swipe cards that allows traditionally a challenging time for school bus operators but this year parents to track when students get on and off the bus, which was we saw consistently high levels of operating performance, including welcomed by parents and the school district.
continued improvement in our safety metrics.
Our industry leading Interest in conversion from in-house operations to the private sector safety performance is entrenched in our culture, giving us a remains high as a result of a drive to improve municipal finances, competitive advantage and forming an important consideration when although we remain suitably cautious since only a relatively small bidding for contracts.
Illinois, for example, recently passed legislation proportion of these inquiries result in outsourcing.
Despite this, we adding safety as a criterion, alongside low cost, for contract award.
continue to be competitive in the conversion market.
New business, Outlook started in September 2012, included eight conversion contracts We are now well positioned to leverage our scale as the market leader totalling more than 450 buses out of a total amount of 860 new buses and deliver long term, sustainable growth.
Whilst there remains work that we started operating during the 2012 13 financial year.
to be done in our recovery programme, the actions we have taken Charter business and positive results we have seen so far give us confidence that we Our plans to increase the charter activity of our business are will be able to create a sustainable competitive advantage that we progressing well.
Amongst charter business we were awarded this can build upon for many years to come.
year was a contract to transport staff to Super Bowl XLVII in February in New Orleans, as well as work with the PGA golf tour and NASCAR auto racing.
Operating efficiency We continue to promote the use of innovative and environmentally friendly technology, with 134 propane fuelled buses also now in use for Seattle and Portland public schools.
Our FOCUS GPS software, which underwent an upgrade in October 2012, links on-board data to back office systems which helps to eliminate excess mileage and fuel usage and provides customers with access to real time data.
We completed the rollout of the system across our US locations during the year, as well as beginning our rollout in Canada which will complete during 2013 14.
High customer satisfaction Centenary of school buses For the fourth year in a row, First Student First Student, in one name or another, can saw improved customer service scores, trace its origins back to 1913 and Californias with increases achieved in all major first school bus, used to transport students categories, particularly the start up in the city of Newman.
A testament to its ofthenew school year.
strong customer relationships, First Student is proud to serve the same school district a century later.
20 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Performance Operating and financial review First Transit First Transit continues to deliver strong revenue growth from a diverse portfolio of related businesses.
Excluding the extra week last year and the First Support Services FSS business which has been sold, US Dollar revenues increased by 7.7%.
Underlying operating profit was $77.7m or 49.1m 2012: $89.1m or 55.8m with the reduction principally due to the agreement to settle a $13.5m historic Seattle legal claim in California.
Detroit Chicago In March we divested our First Support Services business, which New York provides military base operations support and facility management Washington Cincinnati San Francisco services, to Parsons for sale proceeds of $10.2m, allowing First Los Angeles Transit to focus on its core transportation segments.
First Transit and First Vehicle Services are the leading operators in their field with an unrivalled reputation for transport and fleet Miami maintenance expertise.
We operate a varied and extensive mix of approximately 340contracts across almost 40 US States, four Canadian Provinces and in Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands.
We are the largest, or near largest, private operator in each of our core business segments fixed route, paratransit, shuttle, transport call centres and vehicle maintenance services.
Puerto Rico and US Virgin Islands First Transit Our management team is highly experienced and has a strong reputation in the transit market.
This long established credibility andtrack record helps us to win new business across a range Revenue Number of employees ofprivate customers and public transit authorities.
We work collaboratively with our clients as they seek to improve their transit offering by helping them to generate greater efficiencies and using 814.6m 17,500 ourglobal expertise and best practice to deliver transport solutions 2012: 778.6m 2012: 19,000 on any scale.
Operating profit Strong contract growth We continued to develop new business from a healthy pipeline of opportunity during the year.
Key contracts won in the fixed route 49.1m business included Valley Metro in Mesa and Tempe, Arizona and 2012: 55.8m we expanded our contract with Foothill Transit in Arcadia, Southern California.
In the paratransit business we won new contracts with the Maryland Transit Authority and Washington DC Metropolitan Transport Authority.
com First Transit FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 21 Operating and financial review First Transit continued An area of strong growth and focus for us is the shuttle bus market, Innovative solutions and we were awarded further contracts at airports across the USA We continue to work with our clients to promote the latest including Detroit and Dallas Fort Worth.
We expanded our market technological and environmental innovation.
This includes the leading university shuttle bus portfolio, the largest in the USA, with DriveCam system, which monitors driving behaviour to provide real aneight year contract at Auburn University as well as further new time feedback and coaching data to improve safety and fuel business at the University of Tennessee, the State University of New economy.
Onrenewing our partnership with the University of Buffalo, York and the University of Alabama.
Following last years contract we worked with them to introduce a new fleet, powered by biodiesel winat Yale and our existing business at Princeton, this year we will fuel and including the latest in clean engine technology to produce bepartnering with another Ivy League university at Brown.
This follows our introduction of the Austin areas first environmentally friendly hydrogen fuel cell bus to University of Client relationships are key in this market and our reputation in one Texas students.
The introduction of this bus assists Austins Capital area of First Transit can be an important factor in winning business in Metro inpromoting its green initiatives to the community, as well as a another.
During the past year, we have secured a new contract for the new environmentally friendly form of local transit.
New York State Department of Transportation, building on the existing relationship we already had with the same authority.
We also continue College students are early adopters of new technology and we are to build on the strong relationships we have with companies in Fort working with our university partners to develop smart ticketing and McMurray, Alberta, as we add more contracts to complement the real time passenger information solutions where possible, including existing work we already undertake in this non-traditional market and joining with industry leading information provider Transloc.
This expanding oil industry location.
experience helps us develop and extend our offering across our other core operations.
During the year we also renewed several key contracts, including fixedroute contracts with Houston Metropolitan Transit Authority, Outlook thecity of Phoenix, Arizona, the Potomac and Rappahannock First Transit is well placed to use our knowledge and wide-ranging Transportation Commission in Virginia and further large fixed route experience to pursue growth opportunities in our core areas, contracts in Colorado, Washington State and British Columbia.
Other particularly the shuttle bus segment, going forward.
renewal contracts include paratransit work for NJ Transit AccessLink, Pierce Transit in Washington State and Chemung County in New York, as well as shuttle buses for the New York Department of Corrections.
In First Vehicle Services, we were pleased to renew a significant contract this year with Mount Pleasant, South Carolina, to maintain their fleet of 636 vehicles.
First Vehicle Services sets the highest standards in the industry and has more maintenance workshops with National Institute for Automotive Service Excellence Blue Seal certification than our competitors, with around a quarter of our locations certified so far.
Greener vehicles Helping veterans back to work We are introducing new We support the United States Armys environmentally friendly vehicles, Partnership for Youth Success PaYS including biodiesel and hydrogen fuel programme, a nationwide partnership cell buses, to locations across the helping provide jobs to returning or retiring United States such as the University soldiers.
More than 900 veterans have been of Buffalo, Capital Metro in Austin placed in a number of positions within First and Emory University in Georgia.
Transit and First Vehicle Services.
22 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Performance Operating and financial review Greyhound Greyhound continues to be affected by the ongoing weakness inthe sector of the US economy that it serves and during the yearlike-for-like revenue growth was 1.1% 2012: 4.1%.
Revenue was $1,022.0m or 647.1m 2012: $1,049.3m or 657.2m with thereduction principally due to the extra week last year as well asslimmed down operations in our Canadian business.
Underlying operating profit was $81.5m or 52.0m 2012: $81.0m or 50.6m with operating efficiencies and fixed cost savings more than offsetting the reduction in revenues.
While Greyhound remains a cyclical business, the actions we have taken over recent years have enabled us to better position the division to leverage the benefits of a more flexible and agile operating model.
This means that we have been able to mitigate the sustained softness in economic conditions in North America.
We are making Greyhound a more modern and efficient network as well as redefining the customer experience.
Greyhound Express Our Greyhound Express product continues to go from strength to strength.
We continue to develop these non-stop city to city services and saw passenger growth of around 10% in Greyhound Greyhound network in the US Greyhound Express Express markets during the second half of the year, as the Greyhound network in Canada Afliated carriers in concept continues to encourage a new passenger demographic Mexico and attract users back to bus travel.
Revenue Number of employees During the year we began operating Greyhound Express in new markets including California, Louisiana, Oklahoma, Nevada and Delaware as well as Ontario and British Columbia in Canada.
647.1m 7,500 Withfurther rollouts taking place in states where we already had 2012: 657.2m 2012: 8,000 apresence, the Express network now serves more than 900 city pairs available in nearly 100 markets.
As we continue to build Operating profit on this momentum further expansion is planned in the coming year.
ca Greyhound FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 23 Operating and financial review Greyhound continued Tailored brands for local markets As well as changes to our network and vehicles, we have also been Although Greyhound has a national scale, the division also offers transforming the way we interact with our customers.
An improved distinctive local products.
Our BoltBus service expanded into the website offers benefits for customers and we are encouraged by the Pacific Northwest during the year, offering customers a viable take up of our partnership with PayNearMe and retailers including alternative to Amtraks Cascades service in the region and our 7-Eleven and ACE Cash Express, which allows customers without subsidiary Crucero USA, serving the Hispanic market, also launched debit or credit cards to book attractive fares online and pay by cash its first direct, non-stop services connecting key locations in Southern in store.
This is now our fifth largest sales channel and we are California during the summer.
Our Chinatown connection service, developing relationships with further partners.
Bus, launched a direct service between New York and usage of our self service ticket kiosks and are rolling these out across Philadelphia in December 2012, providing a reliable alternative to the network, with ten further locations introduced this year.
After seeing impressive success We continue to right size or relocate our terminals where appropriate.
Bus we subsequently extended the service to Boston in During the year we completed the move of all of our Washington, DC March 2013. operations to the multi-modal hub at the citys Union Station, which Investing in fleet and operations allows customers from our networks to connect seamlessly to other We added 60 new vehicles to our fleet during the year, and we also transport modes.
refurbished more than 200 vehicles to introduce more modern Greyhound Canada amenities for our customers.
We have now refurbished more than In Canada, we have been working with the provincial government of 540 buses to date.
British Columbia to reduce uneconomic routes, and now that this is In April 2013 we announced the $100m purchase of a further 220 almost complete, we are aiming to return to profitability in the coming new buses, the largest order in the companys recent history.
We successfully launched Greyhound Express in Alberta, will beintroduced over the course of 2013 and 2014.
All the buses Ontario and British Columbia.
will feature our new look interiors with on-board amenities including Outlook Wi-Fi, power outlets, leather seats, three-point safety belts and extra Notwithstanding the economic backdrop, coach travel is the fastest legroom, and will be powered by clean diesel, low emission engines.
growing mode of intercity transportation in the United States.
Building on our experiences in First Student and First Transit, the new Greyhound is an iconic business which is synonymous with buses will also have the DriveCam video data and driver feedback affordable travel.
The 99-year old business is in a unique position system, helping to improve fuel efficiency and lower emissions.
The withthe only national network in North America.
Our focus is to introduction of these new vehicles will mean almost all of Greyhounds harness the commercial learnings and attributes from our smaller, fleet is now either new or refurbished.
faster growing point-to-point businesses in the operation of our legacy network.
Bus Investment in new fleet Taking advantage of a growing sector our We are investing $100m in 220 new buses new brand serving the Chinatown market for Greyhound, which will include modern between Philadelphia and New York City amenities such as Wi-Fi, power outlets proved highly successful, and was and leather seating.
They are powered by expanded to serve Boston.
clean diesel, low emission engines and feature the latest technology in safety and efficiency.
24 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Performance Operating and financial review UK Bus Revenue in our UK Bus division was 1,128.2m 2012: 1,157.2m andlike-for-like passenger revenue growth was 2.4% 2012: 1.6%.
Underlying operating profit was 90.7m 2012: 134.4m with the reduction, as previously indicated, principally down to a fall in Aberdeen Government funding available to the industry as well as external Stirling cost pressures, particularly fuel and pension costs.
Glasgow Falkirk Edinburgh In May 2012 we set out our clear and detailed strategy to fix and Galashiels restore sustainable growth to our UK Bus division.
Following a detailed review of our businesses we implemented comprehensive Belfast plans coordinated at a divisional level but tailored to each of our local York operations, focused around repositioning and rebalancing the Bradford Leeds Dublin Manchester portfolio, improving operating discipline and efficiencies and driving Shefeld increased revenue and patronage growth.
Stoke-on-Trent Birmingham Norwich Leicester Repositioning and rebalancing the portfolio Worcester Hereford Cork Northampton Ipswich The vast majority of our bus operations generate good returns or Chelmsford Bristol Bracknell havepotential for significant further improvement.
We have taken Cardiff Bath Slough action to reposition and rebalance the portfolio in order to concentrate Southampton Exeter Portsmouth Weymouth on these areas and throughout the year we have executed a targeted Plymouth disposal programme, selling 14 bus depots and outstations across Penzance the country for a total of almost 100m.
UK Bus operations Amongst the disposals we announced the sale of eight of our London In April 2013 we announced the sale of eight of our London bus depots.
Whilst we have been a presence in London for many years, we have decided to focus our business on the Revenue Number of employees deregulated market outside of the capital where we see greater opportunity for improved growth and returns.
We have a very constructive relationship with Transport for London and we will be 1,128.2m 22,000 working closely with them to ensure the transfer to the new operators 2012: 1,157.2m 2012: 22,500 goes ahead smoothly.
Operating profit Improving operating discipline and efficiencies We are making progress in restoring operating discipline across the business, and improving service quality and delivery through the 90.7m application of best practices and standardisation.
We have rolled out 2012: 134.4m upgraded diagnostic systems, improved our engineering and repair processes and are enhancing our training.
Our programme to transform our depots will raise operating performance and optimise processes, leading to greater efficiency.
This includes learning from the best practices that our First Student and Greyhound divisions have accumulated in recent years.
Areas under focus include optimising depot layout, leadership development and reducing vehicle defects.
Early positive outcomes across certain regions include a 22% reduction in breakdowns since these initiatives were launched, and mileage lost due to engineering has significantly reduced, by up to 50% in some areas.
com ukbus UK Bus FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 25 Operating and financial review UK Bus continued Driving increased revenue and patronage growth We have a strong platform Our strategy to drive increased revenue and patronage growth isfocused on developing tailored local solutions that are most appropriate for each of the areas in which we operate, based on the from which to grow in highest standards that we have established at a national level.
Our local management teams are introducing better value for money UK Bus.
Our networks fares structures in order to stimulate demand.
These include better value day and period tickets, such as eight days for the price of seven promotions launched in Aberdeen.
In Manchester we are the backbone of the announced a range of fare reductions and on certain routes we have seen passenger growth of up to 50%.
communities we serve Our local networks are also being redesigned to deliver volume growth.
For example, in Norwich our new colour coded routes are proving popular amongst existing customers as well as providing and contribute to additional impetus to attract new passengers.
In Glasgow we launched a wide-ranging consultation on SimpliCITY, a root-andbranch review of our network in the city, and after taking into account vibrant and sustainable feedback introduced a revised network in May 2013 that is both simpler and improved for the majority of passengers.
We have introduced 200 new vehicles in the Manchester and Yorkshire local economies.
markets and rebranded 750 buses on our high frequency inter-urban networks.
With strong local route branding and targeted marketing we have seen up to 3% passenger volume growth compared to the existing network.
High frequency network Networks reviewed and relaunched We have introduced 200 new vehicles After detailed analysis of market opportunities, and 750 rebranded buses on our high a number of our networks have been frequency inter-urban networks in relaunched to offer new, simpler, colour coded Manchester and Yorkshire.
With local routes, which are more accessible to existing route branding and targeted marketing, and potential customers.
we have seen passenger volume growth of up to 3%.
26 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Performance Smart ticketing and innovation We are developing close partnerships with all local authorities in Following the installation of smartcard enabled ticket machines areasin which we operate.
This will enable us to respond best to their acrossour regional fleet in England in 2012 13, we are now working needs as a reliable partner who can deliver solutions to congestion tointroduce smartcard applications across our networks.
We are and help stimulate economic activity in alignment with their aims.
party to a host of multi-operator ticketing schemes, which are all InSheffield we are working closely with South Yorkshire Passenger smartcard compatible, and we are keen to support the introduction Transport Executive, Sheffield City Council and other operators to of further such arrangements where they do not currently exist and radically improve bus services in the city, which has resulted in where a clear market need can be identified.
Government funding for fuel duty rebate being devolved back to thecity and supplemented by a top up fund of an additional 20%, Further innovation includes fitting Wi-Fi to our new buses as standard, thefirst award of this kind.
This money will be spent to tackle specific and we retro-fitted Wi-Fi to our fleet in certain areas during the year.
Our experience shows that partnership is by far The Eclipse Bus Rapid Transit network in South Hampshire, built on the quickest and most effective way to achieve the changes that bus a former railway line, has been a great success in its first year of users want to see and that will deliver growth.
Passenger numbers have risen steadily, with more than 1.3m journeys made since the service began.
The South Hampshire London 2012 Games area was also the pilot for our new mobile phone app which is now We were delighted that around 2,000 of our employees were directly live across the country providing up to the minute bus information involved in the positive transport story at the London 2012 Games, for passengers.
aswe provided successful spectator transport for hundreds of thousands of attendees.
The new buses that formed part of our Over the past year, the excellence and innovation of our UK Bus London 2012 offering have now been deployed into our networks, division has been recognised by various awards.
We picked up aspart of our 160m investment in 1,000 new vehicles over the last sixaccolades at the UK Bus Awards in categories which included two years.
We followed this up in February with a further order for 464 marketing and community initiatives, whilst our operations in new buses worth 76m for delivery in 2013 14, with interior designs Aberdeen won the team of the year prize at the Scottish taking into account feedback from passengers and employees.
Outlook Developing effective partnerships We have a strong platform from which to grow in UK Bus.
Our We have been working with local authorities to implement schemes networks are the backbone of the communities we serve and which were awarded money in the first phase of the DfTs Better Bus contribute to vibrant and sustainable local economies, although the Area BBA fund last March.
For instance, we have used BBA funds challenging economic environment continues to affect many of the given to the Transport for South Hampshire coalition of councils to urban areas in which we are based.
While there remains significant introduce Wi-Fi on all buses operating in the area.
Hybrid buses are work to doin order to transform our UK Bus business we are being introduced in services across the country, for instance in our pleasedby the progress so far and the early positive signs in park and ride services in Bath, Leeds and Glasgow.
Funding from the someofour markets.
Governments Green Bus Fund has been used to introduce hybrids on routes in Essex and around Heathrow.
Wi-Fi being rolled out across the fleet Bus Rapid Transit system Our new buses have Wi-Fi fitted as The Eclipse network in South Hampshire, standard and the technology is being built on a former railway line, has been a retro-fitted across large parts of our great success in its first year of operation.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 27 Operating and financial review UK Rail Our UK Rail division continues to benefit from strong demand with First Capital Connect First Capital Connect First Great Western like-for-like passenger revenue growth of 7.4% 2012: 8.4%.
Revenue First Great Western First Hull Trains First Hull Trains during the year was 2,795.1m 2012: 2,506.1m with the increase First ScotRail First ScotRail due to higher passenger receipts as well as higher subsidy receipts at First TransPennine Express First TransPennine Express First ScotRail, principally due to Network Rail changes, which meant that both subsidy receipts and operating costs were 128m higher than in the preceding year.
Underlying operating profit was 63.2m 2012: 110.5m reflecting the expected reduction in profits at First TransPennine Express in the three year extension period at operating margins closer to the industry average.
We have a diverse rail portfolio encompassing long distance, regional and commuter operations, and are the largest owning group in the UK with around a quarter of the market.
Our highly experienced management team has unrivalled knowledge in delivering major infrastructure improvements in partnership with stakeholders.
For example, First ScotRail has entered into an alliance agreement with Network Rail which is creating a more efficient working relationship between the two organisations in order to better align overall objectives, deliver value for money and increase focus on passenger requirements.
The first major project to be undertaken under this arrangement was electrification of the line between Glasgow Central and Paisley Canal.
This award winning project was delivered in just four months and at less than half of the original cost estimate as a result of the effective alliance.
Revenue Number of employees We have a strong track record of investment with more than 700 new vehicles introduced and punctuality and performance increasing 2,795.1m 13,500 across each of our franchises since we commenced operation.
2012: 2,506.1m 2012: 13,000 Our rail companies also played their part in the successful transport operation for the London 2012 Games, with First Great Western Operating profit running a shuttle service connecting to First Games Transports buses at Slough station for rowing events at Eton Dorney.
First Capital Connect ran over a million extra seats during the Games, including 63.2m later trains home after events, and established a successful 24 7 2012: 110.5m customer support centre which has now become a permanent feature of our customer service offering.
This year the rail sector has been subject to a great deal of scrutiny following the cancellation of the DfTs franchising programme.
We have the most experienced bidding team in the industry and our delight in being awarded the InterCity West Coast franchise in August 2012 was matched only by our disappointment in being notified in October that the DfT had cancelled the competition following the discovery of significant technical flaws in their internal processes.
The DfT made it clear that we were in no way at fault, having followed the due process correctly.
We submitted a strong bid, in good faith and in strict accordance with the DfTs terms.
com uktrain UK Rail 28 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Performance Our bid would have delivered a better service for West Coast First Capital Connect passengers, value for the taxpayer and an appropriate return for We continue to focus on performance at First Capital Connect, shareholders.
Following various inquiries the DfT announced in whereour Public Performance Measurement PPM of reliability and January 2013, as part of a new refranchising schedule, that it was to punctuality stands at 88.3% on a Moving Annual Average MAA extend our First Capital Connect and First Great Western franchises basis, a reduction of 1.6% from last year.
During the London 2012 by the 28 week period in the original contracts.
Further extensions of Games we recorded our highest ever PPM score of 94.6%.
six months for First Capital Connect and 33 months for First Great However, the main reason for the overall reduction has been Western, as well as ten months for First TransPennine Express, were significant disruption caused by infrastructure problems, with announced in March and we are progressing negotiations with the anumber of incidents relating to the failure during the winter of the DfT in respect of these.
The publication of the timetable setting out overhead line equipment supplying power to our trains.
We are the return to refranchising is an important development for the working with Network Rail to establish more effective cooperation industry, enabling the private sector to continue to provide effective going forward, for example on more efficient engineering practices and efficient passenger rail services with further performance and during improvement work.
We continue to work closely with our industry partners on the During the year the Scottish Government also announced that the Thameslink Programme of major improvement works which will First ScotRail franchise will now be extended to March 2015, from deliver much needed capacity on this key cross-London route.
itsprevious completion date of November 2014.
During the year, a significant highlight was the resumption of full service between Brighton and Bedford throughout the day, evening and at weekends following the completion of three and a half years ofengineering work.
Major improvements were made with longer 12-car trains introduced at peak times, later trains and new services.
First Great Western As the UKs largest and First Great Westerns PPM MAA score stands at 89.1%, a slight decrease on last year.
Severe weather, especially repeated flooding most experienced rail inthe West Country, caused a number of Network Rail infrastructure failures impacting punctuality over a total of 21 days, and we have been working with them to help overcome these issues.
operator, we remain During the year we completed the introduction of 48 new carriages aspart of the DfTs High Level Output Specification programme.
Refurbishments on the Class 180 fleet have also allowed us to trial committed to maintaining Wi-Fi provision.
In the past three years we have worked with the DfT to secure a total of 90 additional carriages, adding around 10% more a leading position in space on trains for customers.
This badly needed capacity increase has helped improve the customer experience and reduced the number of severely overcrowded trains.
Introducing new technology Tramlink success We are embracing new technology to Tramlink, which we operate on behalf of explore different ways to enhance the Transport for London, enjoys the best customer offering.
This includes mobile performance and customer satisfaction levels ticketing, apps for smartphones, of any of TfLs services.
It now carries 29m redesigned, user-friendly websites and people per annum, an increase of 11m since increased use of social media.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 29 Operating and financial review UK Rail continued Major infrastructure work including gauge and signalling upgrades First TransPennine Express now has the second highest seat continues on the route, including an 850m improvement package occupancy of any UK operator and has reduced taxpayer subsidy atReading station to ease this bottleneck and improve capacity at asa proportion of passenger revenue by 80% during the life of the this key junction.
From 2016 the vast majority of the eastern section franchise.
Carrying nearly 25m passengers in 2012 13, we have ofthe route will be electrified, providing the opportunity for cleaner, increased passenger income growth for the year by 10%, well ahead longer and more reliable trains, and we are working with the DfT as of the industry average.
We are investing 60m in 40 new carriages which will form First ScotRail longer trains from December this year on the Manchester-Scotland First ScotRail continues to perform well with a PPM MAA score routes.
The new trains will provide a 30% uplift in capacity and a of93.0%, considerably above the national average.
In Passenger 25% increase in luggage space and their introduction will in turn Focuss independent National Passenger Survey NPS category release carriages to increase capacity on the popular Manchesterofoverall customer satisfaction, we scored 90% in autumn 2012, Leeds route.
anincrease on 2011 and five points higher than the UK average.
First Hull Trains We began a 1m investment programme during the year into stations In 2012 First Hull Trains carried almost 750,000 people, a new which will see increased patronage during the 2014 Commonwealth high, on our 90 services a week between Hull and London Kings Games.
As a result of a further 1m of Scottish Government funding, Cross and our Class 180 fleet has seen improved performance.
free Wi-Fi will be rolled out by December 2013 at 25 stations across New initiatives such as M-Tickets, where travel documents are sent Scotland, and all 38 of First ScotRails Class 380 trains will have Wi-Fi directly to customers mobile telephones as well as a new, more by March 2014. interactive website and print at home tickets have all improved the journey experience.
First ScotRail and the Scottish Government are accelerating plans to offer smartcard season tickets to customers.
After a successful initial Partly as a result of these initiatives, we scored 95% in overall pilot, an investment of approximately 2m has seen the installation customer satisfaction in the latest NPS a 7% improvement on and or upgrade of equipment at 70 stations across the central belt, the autumn 2011 survey, and 2% better than the score achieved which will see key routes begin to accept smartcards.
in spring 2012 compared with the national average for long distance operators of 89%.
First TransPennine Express First TransPennine Express has continued to set and achieve high Outlook standards through 2012 13.
Our PPM MAA score is above the As the UKs largest and most experienced rail operator, we remain national average at 91.7%.
This result was achieved despite severe committed to maintaining a leading position in the market.
We look disruption caused by a landslip at a colliery near Scunthorpe in forward to reviewing the details of the upcoming franchise February 2013 causing that part of our route to be closed for several competitions, and submitting further high quality bids that deliver months.
We achieved a customer satisfaction rating of 88% in the value for passengers, taxpayers and shareholders.
latest NPS, a 14% increase since the start of the franchise, and during the year we achieved five star accreditation from the British Quality Foundation, the highest possible award.
Smartcards for First ScotRail Reading redevelopment First ScotRail and the Scottish First Great Western is working closely Government are accelerating plans to with partners including Network Rail and offer smartcard season tickets to the local authorities on this ground customers after a successful initial breaking 850m project to ease pilot with 12,000 cards on the congestion at this key bottleneck.
30 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Performance Operating and financial review Outlook We have a fundamentally attractive portfolioof market leading transport businesses, and our unrivalled scale and breadth gives us significant opportunities toshare best practice and expertise, to deliver outstanding services to our customers and to create long term, sustainable value for our shareholders.
We have delivered a resilient trading performance for the year, in line with our expectations.
We also achieved other significant goals we set ourselves, including our c. 100m UK Bus disposal programme and divesting ofother non-core assets such as First Support Services.
The real long term opportunity for us, however, arises from our business recovery programmes, particularly in First Student and UK Bus.
We have clear plans in place and, while there remains significant work to be done, our confidence continues to grow as aresult of the progress to date.
The rights issue announced in May 2013, to raise approximately 615m, will remove the constraints from our balance sheet and enhance our ability to invest in our businesses going forward.
We plan to invest approximately 1.6bn across our five divisions over the next four years to underpin growth and return our businesses to our target levels of profitability.
Through these actions, combined with our scale and expertise, we are positioning the business for improved growth and returning it to aprofile of consistent returns and cash generation.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 31 Operating and financial review Other financial matters Exceptional items and amortisation charges 2013 2012 m m Disposals UK Bus depot sales and closures 19.8 10.7 First Transit FSS disposal and exit from Diego Garcia operations 12.6 32.4 10.7 Onerous contracts impairments UK Rail First Great Western contract provision 9.9 UK Rail joint venture provision DSBFirst 5.0 First Student onerous contract 2.7 17.6 Legal claims First Student legal claims 19.8 First Transit legal settlements 5.9 First Transit Diego Garcia insurance claim 6.7 19.0 Other UK Bus Pension Scheme changes 73.3 UK Rail bid costs 6.0 10.2 Competition Commission costs 1.9 Other exceptional items 1.1 6.0 60.1 Total exceptional items 75.0 49.4 Amortisation charges 52.0 30.9 Loss profit on disposal of properties 2.7 1.0 Operating profit charge credit 129.7 19.5 Ineffectiveness on financial derivatives 5.5 11.0 Loss profit before tax 135.2 8.5 Tax credit 45.3 4.4 Loss on disposal of discontinued operations 9.2 Net exceptional items for the year 89.9 3.7 32 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Performance UK Bus depot sales and closures First Student legal claims UK Bus depot sales and closures relate to measures taken by the During the year, the Group incurred 2.6m of legal costs in defending Group to rebalance its portfolio in the UK Bus operations, which old contractual claims and other litigations.
In addition, the Group included selling or closing certain operations.
Shortly after the end of provided 17.2m to cover the estimated potential settlement amounts the year we announced the agreements to sell all of our London on certain of these historical claims.
depots with the exception of Dagenham.
The principal charge in First Transit legal settlements 2012 13 represents asset impairments and an onerous contract The Group settled certain historical legal claims during the year, provision for the remaining Dagenham depot.
The Group treated First Transit FSS disposal and exit from this cost as exceptional due to the size and age of the claims.
Diego Garcia operations The Group recognised an exceptional charge of 5.9m in respect During the year the Group disposed of the First Support Services of these settlements.
business realising a loss on disposal of 7.7m.
In addition operating First Transit Diego Garcia insurance claim profit to date of disposal of 1.0m has also been treated as part of the The Group settled a historical insurance claim in relation to the overall exceptional charge.
The Diego Garcia operations were exited Diego Garcia contract in 2012 13 and recognised exceptional income at the end of the year which resulted in a net exceptional charge of 6.7m.
UK Bus Pension Scheme changes UK Rail First Great Western contract provision UK Bus Pension Scheme changes relate to measures the Group The Group recorded a provision in 2010 11 in respect of the tookto mitigate the risk of the pension schemes covering UK Bus UK Rail First Great Western FGW franchise agreement.
As a result of these changes, future pension liabilities of provision reflected the Groups best estimate of the likely losses the Group decreased.
In 2011 12, the Group linked pension increases on the franchise over the two years to 31 March 2013, which would to consumer price inflation CPI rather than retail price inflation RPI, arise due to the accelerated write off of assets dedicated to the FGW which usually shows a higher rate of inflation, and also introduced a franchise due to the Groups decision not to exercise its option to pensionable pay cap, along with lower pension accrual rates.
extend the franchise agreement for a further three years beyond the Asaresult of these changes, future pension liabilities of the Group original franchise end date.
The Group recorded a further provision decreased in 2011 12, and the Group realised a one-off exceptional of9.9m in 2012 13 due to incremental losses following the DfT gain of 73.3m.
exercising their option to extend the franchise by a further seven rail periods to October 2013.
UK Rail bid costs The Groups net UK Rail bid costs during the year represented UK Rail joint venture provision franchise bid costs for all bids, less amounts recovered or recoverable The carrying value of 5.0m of the investment in DSBFirst, a joint from the DfT in respect of the InterCity West Coast franchise bid.
The venture with a Danish rail operator, was fully written-off during the Group incurred UK Rail bid costs in both 2012 13 and 2011 12 in yearas current and projected trading indicates that there will be no connection with the InterCity West Coast franchise bid as well as bids recovery of this amount at the end of the franchise.
for Great Western, Thameslink and Essex Thameside rail franchises.
First Student onerous contract Competition Commission costs During the year the Group provided a further 2.7m against a Competition Commission CC costs relate to costs incurred by loss-making contract that was taken on as part of the Laidlaw the Group in 2011 12 in responding to an investigation by the CC acquisition undertakings in 2007.
This contract is due to expire into the UK local bus market.
The CC issued their final report in earlyinthe year to 31 March 2014.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 33 Operating and financial review Other financial matters continued Other exceptional items Finance costs and investment income Other exceptional items include principally costs incurred Net finance costs, before exceptional items, were 163.0m in effecting the changes to the UK Bus Pension Scheme in 2012: 157.1m with the increase principally due to the issuance 2011 12 described above.
of a new 325m 10 year bond in November 2012.
Amortisation charges Profit before tax The charge for the year was 52.0m 2012: 30.9m with the increase Underlying profit before tax was 172.4m 2012: 271.4m with the mainly due to a higher level of contract amortisation at First Student decrease due principally to lower underlying operating profit.
as a result of a reassessment during the year of the remaining useful An overall charge of 135.2m 2012: 8.5m credit for exceptional economic lives of the contracts acquired with the Laidlaw acquisition.
items and amortisation charges resulted in statutory profit before Previously these contracts were being amortised over 20 years but tax of 37.2m 2012: 279.9m.
are now being amortised over ten years.
As a result of this, the Tax income statement charge increased by 24.8m during the year.
The tax charge, on underlying profit before tax, for the year was Loss profit on disposal of properties 34.7m 2012: 54.5m representing an effective rate of 20.1% During the year the Group realised 9.7m 2012: 40.3m on the 2012: 20.1%.
There was a tax credit of 43.3m 2012: 0.4m relating disposal of selected properties predominantly in Greyhound and to amortisation charges and exceptional items.
There was also a UK Bus operations.
These resulted in a net loss on disposal of one-off credit adjustment of 2.0m 2012: 4.0m to the UK deferred 2.7m 2012: profit 1.0m.
tax liability as a result of the reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 24% to 23% 2012: 26% to 24% which will apply from April 2013.
Ineffectiveness on financial derivatives This resulted in a total tax credit of 10.6m 2012: charge of 50.1m Due to the ineffective element and undesignated fair value on continuing operations.
movements on financial derivatives there was a 5.5m non-cash charge 2012: 11.0m to the income statement during the year.
The The actual tax paid during the year was 6.3m 2012: 17.7m.
North principal component of this non-cash charge relates to fixed interest American cash tax remains low due to tax losses brought forward rate swaps which do not qualify for hedge accounting but do provide and tax depreciation in excess of book depreciation.
We expect the a cash flow hedge against variable rate debt from 2013 to 2015.
North American cash tax rate to remain low for the near term.
The UK cash tax for the year was lower than last year principally Tax on exceptional items and amortisation charges due to lower profits in the Groups UK businesses.
The tax credit as a result of these exceptional items was 43.3m 2012: 0.4m.
In addition there was a one-off deferred tax credit of Discontinued operations 2.0m 2012: 4.0m as a result of the reduction in the UK corporation In September 2011 a loss on disposal of 9.2m arose on the sale of tax rate from 24% to 23% 2012: 26% to 24%.
FirstGroup Deutschland GmbH representing gross consideration of 5.5m less the carrying value of net assets, including goodwill, and transaction costs.
This, as well as the operating loss after tax to the date of disposal of 0.3m, was classified within discontinued operations in the consolidated income statement in 2011 12.
Dividends The interim dividend of 7.62p 2012: 7.62p per share was paid during the year and amounted to 36.7m 2012: 36.6m.
The Board proposes that no final dividend will be paid in respect of 2012 13.
EPS The underlying EPS was 26.9p 2012: 40.0p, a reduction of 33%.
Basic EPS was 7.3p 2012: 42.7p, a decrease of 83% principally due to lower underlying results and higher net exceptional items compared to last year.
2 Underlying operating profit less capital grant amortisation plus depreciation.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 35 Operating and financial review Other financial matters continued Cash flow The net cash outflow for the year was 74.4m 2012: inflow 119.2m.
This contributed to a net debt increase of 141.6m 2012: reduction 111.9m as detailed below: Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 m m EBITDA including discontinued operations 667.0 742.6 Exceptional items 75.0 49.4 Impairment charge 13.3 Other non-cash income statement charges 9.6 9.8 Working capital excluding FGW provision movement 6.8 20.5 Working capital FGW provision movement 23.0 48.7 FGW provision movement 48.7 Movement in other provisions 12.2 29.1 Pension payments in excess of income statement charge 94.0 87.1 Non-cash RPI to CPI pension gain 73.3 Cash generated by operations 478.9 632.8 Capital expenditure 338.1 293.6 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 14.7 57.7 Interest and tax 144.4 155.4 Dividends payable to Group shareholders 114.0 108.8 Dividends payable to non-controlling minority shareholders 10.7 19.0 Proceeds from sale of businesses 39.2 5.5 Net cash outflow inflow 74.4 119.2 Foreign exchange movements 63.1 7.7 Other non-cash movements in relation to financial instruments 4.1 0.4 Movement in net debt in year 141.6 111.9 The decrease in cash flow compared to last year was primarily due to: Higher pension payments in excess of income statement charge of 6.9m principally due to additional deficit contributions in EBITDA of 667.0m was 75.6m lower than last year.
Higher total exceptional items of 124.4m as set out on page 32.
Higher capital expenditure primarily reflecting further investment in UK Bus and First Student.
Working capital excluding FGW provision was 27.3m lower than last year principally due to the reversal of cost accruals created for Lower disposal proceeds of 43.0m with the reduction due to the the additional week of trading last year in the non-Rail businesses.
sale of several Greyhound properties last year the largest of which was in Washington DC.
Working capital FGW provision movement outflow of 23.0m being the 32.9m utilisation for the operating losses in the year partly Higher dividend payments to Group shareholders of 5.2m.
offset by the 9.9m increase in the provision due to incremental losses following the DfT exercising the option to extend the franchise by a further seven rail periods.
36 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Performance Partly offset by: After the end of the year, the 2013 300m bond was repaid in full, as planned.
The impact of the 2012 13 asset impairments in relation to the Dagenham depot.
The Groups main revolving bank facility expires in December 2015.
The average debt maturity was 5.4 years 2012: 5.5 years.
Movements in other provisions favourable by 16.9m primarily due to the additional First Student and First Transit legal claims provided The Group does not enter into speculative financial transactions for in the year but not paid out during the year.
anduses only authorised financial instruments for certain risk The impact of last years one-off non-cash benefit of 73.3m in management purposes only.
relation to the UK Bus pension scheme changes.
Interest rate risk Lower tax and interest payments of 11.0m principally due to lower The Group reduces exposure by using a combination of fixed rate UK tax payments as a result of lower profits in the UK businesses debt and interest rate derivatives to achieve an overall fixed rate and slightly lower interest rates compared to last year.
position over the medium term of more than 75% of net debt.
Lower dividends payable to non-controlling minority shareholders At 31 March 2013 100% 2012: 100% of net debt was fixed primarily due to lower First TransPennine Express profits in UK Rail.
and in excess of 81% of net debt is fixed for the next two years.
Higher proceeds from sale of business of 33.7m due to the impact Fuel price risk of the UK Bus depot sales primarily Wigan & Northumberland Park We manage the commodity price risk on fuel through a progressive and the sale of FSS in First Transit.
Capital expenditure Cash capital expenditure was 338.1m 2012: 293.6m and In the UK, 90% of crude oil costs were hedged at an average rate comprised First Student 127.7m 2012: 115.6m, First Transit of$102 per barrel during the year.
At the end of the year we have 18.0m 2012: 31.9m, Greyhound 51.3m 2012: 44.1m, UK Bus hedged 85% of our at risk UK crude requirements for the year to 72.4m 2012: 33.6m, UK Rail 66.1m 2012: 63.4m and Group 31 March 2014 1.9m barrels p. a. at $105 per barrel and 33% of our items 2.6m 2012: 5.0m.
requirements for the year to 31 March 2015 at $99 per barrel.
In addition during the year we entered into operating leases for In North America 69% of crude oil costs were hedged at an average passenger carrying vehicles in UK Bus and First Transit with capital rate of $94 per barrel during the year.
At the end of the year we have values of 21.6m 2012: 43.4m and 12.5m 2012: nil respectively.
hedged 69% of the at risk volume for the year to 31 March 2014 1.6m barrels p. a. at $93 per barrel.
In addition we have hedged 37% Gross capital investment was 404.3m 2012: 366.9m and of at risk volumes for the year to 31 March 2015 at $89 per barrel.
comprised First Student 150.8m 2012: 135.6m, First Transit 30.5m 2012: 29.7m, Greyhound 51.3m 2012: 44.2m, UK Bus Foreign currency risk 103.0m 2012: 88.5m, UK Rail 63.9m 2012: 64.5m and Group Group policies on foreign currency risk affecting cash flow, profits items 4.8m 2012: 4.4m.
andnet assets are maintained to minimise exposures to the Group byusing a combination of natural hedge positions and derivative Funding and risk management instruments where appropriate.
Translation risk relating to US Dollar The Group continues to have strong liquidity.
At 31 March there was earnings arising in the US is largely offset by US Dollar denominated 1,215.5m 2012: 795.8m of committed headroom and free cash costs incurred in the UK, principally UK fuel costs, US Dollar interest comprising 821.6m 2012: 631.8m of headroom under the and tax costs so that exposure to EPS on a year to year basis is committed revolving bank facility and free cash balances of 393.9m not significant.
Largely due to seasonality in the North American school bus business, committed headroom typically reduces during With regard to balance sheet translation risk, the Group hedges the financial year up to October and increases thereafter.
Treasury part of its exposure to the impact of exchange rate movements on policy requires a minimum of 250m of committed headroom at translation of foreign currency net assets by holding currency swaps alltimes.
and net borrowings in foreign currencies.
At 31 March 2013 foreign currency net assets were 39% 2012: 47% hedged.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 37 Operating and financial review Other financial matters continued Net debt The Groups net debt at 31 March 2013 was 1,979.1m 2012: 1,837.5m and comprised: 31 March 31 March 2013 2012 Fixed Variable Total Total Analysis of net debt m m m m 1 Sterling bond 2013 299.4 299.4 298.5 2 Sterling bond 2018 343.0 343.0 325.1 1 Sterling bond 2019 249.6 249.6 249.4 3 Sterling bond 2021 339.0 339.0 331.6 1 Sterling bond 2022 319.1 319.1 1 Sterling bond 2024 199.5 199.5 199.0 US Dollar bank loans 358.1 358.1 369.7 Canadian Dollar bank loans 15.5 15.5 113.9 Euro and other bank loans 11.8 11.8 11.7 Hire Purchase HP contracts and finance leases 330.4 87.8 418.2 335.3 Senior unsecured loan notes 98.3 98.3 93.3 Loan notes 8.7 1.0 9.7 9.7 Interest rate swaps 411.2 411.2 Gross debt excluding accrued interest 2,348.6 312.6 2,661.2 2,337.2 Cash 393.9 164.0 UK Rail ring-fenced cash and deposits 273.8 323.2 Other ring-fenced cash and deposits 14.4 12.5 Net debt excluding accrued interest 1,979.1 1,837.5 1 Excludes accrued interest.
2 Stated excluding accrued interest, swapped to US Dollars and adjusted for movements on associated derivatives.
3 Stated excluding accrued interest, partially swapped to US Dollars and adjusted for movements on associated derivatives.
Under the terms of the Rail franchise agreements, cash can only be Balance sheet distributed by these subsidiaries up to the lower of the amount of their Net assets have decreased by 61.7m since the start of the year.
retained profits or the amount determined by prescribed liquidity Theprincipal reasons for this are actuarial losses on defined benefit ratios.
The ring-fenced cash represents cash which is not available for pension schemes net of deferred tax of 48.7m, dividend payments distribution and any additional amounts required to satisfy the liquidity of 124.5m, unfavourable hedging reserve movements net of deferred tax of 45.1m, partly offset by favourable translation reserve movements ratios at the balance sheet date.
of 103.2m and the retained profit for the year of 47.8m.
Shares in issue As at 31 March 2013 there were 481.8m shares in issue Goodwill 2012: 481.4m, excluding treasury shares and own shares held The carrying value net assets including goodwill but excluding in trust for employees of 0.3m 2012: 0.7m.
The weighted average intercompany balances of each cash generating unit CGU was tested number of shares in issue for the purpose of basic EPS calculations for impairment during the year and there continues to be sufficient excluding treasury shares and own shares held in trust for headroom in all of the CGUs.
The First Student recovery plan is employees was 481.7m 2012: 481.4m.
progressing in line with expectations and as a result the headroom on this business has increased modestly compared to last year.
38 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Performance Assets held for sale Seasonality These comprise principally the assets of the eight London depots, the The First Student business generates lower revenues and profits disposal of which we announced on 9 April 2013. inthe first half of the year than in the second half of the year as the school summer holidays fall into the first half.
Greyhound operating Foreign exchange profits are typically higher in the first half of the year due to demand The most significant exchange rates to Sterling for the Group are as being strongest in the summer months.
follows: Year to Year to Going concern 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 The Group has established a strong balanced portfolio of businesses Closing Effective Closing Effective with approximately 50% of Group revenues secured under medium rate rate rate rate term contracts with government agencies and other large US Dollar 1.52 1.58 1.60 1.59 organisations in the UK and North America.
Canadian Dollar 1.55 1.59 1.60 1.59 The Group has a diversified funding structure with average debt duration at 31 March 2013 of 5.4 years 2012: 5.5 years and which The US Dollar rate was slightly lower in the year to 31 March 2013 islargely represented by committed medium to long term unsecured compared to last year.
bond debt and finance leases.
The Group has a $1,250m committed revolving banking facility of which $1,135m 2012: $1,011m was Pensions undrawn at the year end.
This facility expires in December 2015.
The Group has updated its pension assumptions as at 31 March 2013 for the defined benefit schemes in the UK and North America.
The Directors have carried out a detailed review of the Groups The net pension deficit of 268m at the beginning of the year has budget for the year to 31 March 2014 and medium term plans, decreased to 248m at the end of the year principally due to better withdue regard for the risks and uncertainties to which the Group actual returns on assets partly offset by lower discount rates and isexposed, the uncertain economic climate and the impact that higher inflation rates.
thiscould have on trading performance.
Based on this review, the Directors believe that the Company and the Group have adequate The main factors that influence the balance sheet position for resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable pensions and the sensitivities to their movement at 31 March 2013 are future.
Accordingly, the financial statements have been prepared set out below: on a going concern basis.
Movement Impact Discount rate 0.1% Reduce deficit by 33m Inflation 0.1% Increase deficit by 23m Tim OToole Chris Surch Chief Executive Group Finance Director The changes to the Accounting Standard IAS 19 will apply from 2013 14 onwards and will have significant impact on certain profit 20 May 2013 measures including operating profit and EPS.
We estimate the new rules would reduce operating profit in the current year as follows: 2012 13 m UK Bus 37 UK Rail 25 Greyhound 2 Total 60 The changes above have no cash impact and do not affect the Groups banking covenants as these are measured on a constant accounting basis.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 39
