Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Board development The following table summarises the key findings of the 2013 Board Evaluation reviews.
Following recommendations made during the 2013 Board Evaluation exercise the 2013 Board Evaluation, a number of initiatives have been The arrangements for expanding Information on precious metals further developed to give theNon-executive Directors more information the learning culture of the Board mining industry trends are now about the broader contextto the Companys activities.
These included: through industry updates and regularly circulated to Directors by Case study presentations by senior managers: and examples from other companies senior management.
Presentations on mining trends was presented at Regular distribution of industry briengs on technical, market and the March 2013 meeting and case sector issues studies from other listed mining Directors are encouraged to visit the Companys mines to familiarise companies were presented at the themselves with the Fresnillo Groups operations.
All Directors have received briengs from the Companys advisers, Report to the full Board the The Chief Executive officer has including presentations to familiarise them with their duties and detailed results of investigations circulated such reports for all of responsibilities as Directors of a UK listed company.
The Chairman into fatalities the fatalities and serious accidents ensures that the induction and training processes for new Directors in 2012 and 2013.
An in-depth continues to be developed.
discussion of the two fatalities in 2013 was undertaken at the July Board performance evaluation 2013 Board meeting.
The Board recognises that sound governance has a role to play in Reporting on risk The risk governance project has securing strategic success and strong performance as well as in been embedded in the Boards protecting the interests of its shareholders.
Key Risk Indicators have particular ownership structure, the Board has, during the Companys been developed.
Risk governance short history as a UK listed company, sought to use its annual Board is now a standard agenda item for evaluation exercise to develop and improve its effectiveness.
The Board every Board meeting and the Board isdetermined to make sure that it is working effectively to the long-term reviews the status of the Principal benefit of all shareholders and recognises the role the Directors Risks and Uncertainties as part of collectively have to play in maintaining this focus.
In 2011, the Board appointed Independent Audit Limited IAL to undertake the first externally facilitated independent review of Board A full externally facilitated Board evaluation exercise will be undertaken effectiveness.
Following the presentation of the recommendations that in 2014.
IAL made as a result of that process the IAL Recommendations, the Chairman consulted with Directors and management and presented a Committee evaluation reviews proposed action plan the 2012 Action Plan in response to those In 2013, each of the Board Committees reviewed its own performance and recommendations which was endorsed by the Board.
the adequacy of its terms of reference as they do annually.
The committees The Board agreed in July 2013 that its Board Evaluation exercise in 2013 concluded that their current terms of reference did not require amending.
would ensure that Board members were satisfied that the 2012 Action The number of meetings held, the adequacy of agenda materials presented Plan remained appropriate and continued tobe properly implemented.
and the scope of the individual committees in terms of any changes to Thus, the 2013 Board Evaluation was conducted using an in-house legislation were all considered as part of these reviews.
questionnaire-based approach and was facilitated by the Company Secretary.
This exercise demonstrated that there was a strong Individual performance reviews endorsement of the on going effectiveness of the 2012 Action Plan and that the benets of its implementation continued tobe seen.
It was also The Chairman meets with the Non-executive Directors informally from highlighted that a number of points arising from the2011 exercise which time to time without the executives present.
These meetings provide an were not fully implemented at the time of the 2012 review had now been opportunity for the Chairman to ensure that the Non-executive Directors fully implemented.
The key elements of the subsequent actions taken training and development needs are being satisfied.
The independent during 2013 are set out below.
Non-executive Directors met to evaluate the performance of the Chairman in October 2013 following which the Senior Independent Director discussed the views of the independent Directors with the Chairman.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 117
