strateGic cOrPOrate FiNaNciaL review GOverNaNce stateMeNts iNdePeNdeNt auditOrs rePOrt GrOuP FiNaNciaL stateMeNts independent auditors report to the members of Opinion on financial statements Genusplc In our opinion the Group Financial Statements: We have audited the Group Financial Statements of give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups Genus plc for the year ended 30 June 2013 which affairs as at 30 June 2013 and of its profit for the year comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group then ended: Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs Statement of Changes in Equity, the Group Balance Sheet, as adopted by the European Union: and the Group Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes have been prepared in accordance with the 1 to 37.
The financial reporting framework that has been requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 applied in their preparation is applicable law and of the IAS Regulation.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the companies act 2006 This report is made solely to the Companys members, In our opinion the information given in the Directors as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of Report for the financial year for which the financial the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been statements are prepared is consistent with the Group undertaken so that we might state to the Companys Financial Statements.
members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the Matters on which we are required to report by exception fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or We have nothing to report in respect of the following: assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
to you if, in our opinion: certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified respective responsibilities of directors and auditor by law are not made: or As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities we have not received all the information and Statement, the Directors are responsible for the explanations we require for our audit.
preparation of the Group Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the the Directors statement contained within the Directors Group Financial Statements in accordance with applicable Report in relation to going concern: law and International Standards on Auditing UK and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the relating to the Companys compliance with the nine Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and scope of the audit of the financial statements certain elements of the report to shareholders by An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts Board on Directors remuneration.
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements Other matter are free from material misstatement, whether caused by We have reported separately on the Parent Company fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether Financial Statements of Genus plc for the year ended the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups 30June 2013 and on the information in the Directors circumstances and have been consistently applied and Remuneration Report that is described as having adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant beenaudited.
accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material edward Hanson senior statutory auditor misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the For and on behalf of deloitte LLP implications for our report.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London, United Kingdom 2 September 2013 Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|77
