Investor information Shareholder information The definitions of political donations, political expenditure and Financial reporting calendar political organisations used in the legislation are very wide.
In particular, the definition of EU political organisations may extend to Publication Date bodies such as those concerned with policy review, law reform, the Results announcements representation of the business community and special interest groups Quarter 1 April 2014 such as those concerned with the environment, which the company Quarter 2 July 2014 and its subsidiaries might wish to support.
As a result, the definitions Quarter 3 October 2014 may cover legitimate business activities not in the ordinary sense Preliminary Quarter 4 February 2015 considered to be political donations or political expenditure.
Annual Report Summary February March 2015 Such activities are not designed to support any political party or independent election candidate.
The authority which the Board has Results announcements sought annually is a precautionary measure to ensure that the company Results announcements are issued to the London Stock Exchange and its subsidiaries do not inadvertently breach the legislation.
and are available on its news service.
They are also sent to the US Securities and Exchange Commission and the NYSE, issued Directors to the media and made available on our website.
Our Directors powers are determined by UK legislation and our Articles of Association, which are available on our website.
The Financial reports Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the members.
The company publishes an Annual Report and, for the shareholder The Directors may exercise all the companys powers provided that not needing the full detail of the Annual Report, a Summary.
the Articles or applicable legislation do not stipulate that any such These documents are available on our website from the date of powers must be exercised by the members.
The Summary is sent to all shareholders.
Shareholders The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors may elect to receive the Annual Report by contacting the registrar.
are contained in our Articles.
They provide that Directors may be Alternatively, shareholders may elect to receive notification by appointed by an ordinary resolution of the members or by a resolution of email of the publication of financial reports by registering on the Directors, provided that, in the latter instance, a Director appointed www.
in this way retires at the first AGM following his or her appointment.
Copies of previous financial reports are available on our website.
Our Articles also provide that Directors should normally be subject Printed copies can be obtained from our registrar in the UK and to re-election at the AGM at intervals of three years or annually if from the GSK Response Center in the USA, see pages 249 and they have held office for a continuous period of nine years or more.
However, the Board agreed in 2011 that all Directors who wish to continue as members of the Board should seek re-election annually in Donations to political organisations and accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Members may political expenditure remove a Director by passing an ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given, or by passing a special resolution.
With effect from 1 January 2009, to ensure a consistent approach to political contributions across the Group, we introduced a global A Director may automatically cease to be a Director if: policy to stop voluntarily all corporate political contributions.
he or she becomes bankrupt or compounds with his or her creditors generally In the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2013, the Group did not make any political donations to EU or non-EU organisations.
he or she ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies Notwithstanding the introduction of this policy, in accordance with the Act or the Articles Federal Election Campaign Act in the USA, we continue to support an he or she is suffering from mental or physical ill health and the employee-operated Political Action Committee PAC that facilitates Board resolves that he or she shall cease to be a Director voluntary political donations by eligible GSK employees.
he or she has missed Directors meetings for a continuous The PAC is not controlled by GSK.
Decisions on the amounts and period of six months without permission and the Board recipients of contributions are made by participating employees resolves that he or she shall cease to be a Director exercising their legal right to pool their resources and make political he or she is prohibited from being a Director by law contributions, which are subject to strict limitations.
In 2013, a total of US$484,810 US$565,630 in 2012 was donated to political he or she resigns organisations by the GSK employee PAC.
he or she offers to resign and the Board accepts that offer At the AGM in May 2001, shareholders first authorised the company all other Directors being at least three in number require to make donations to EU political organisations and to incur EU him or her to resign.
political expenditure, under the provisions of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000, of up to 100,000 each year.
This authority has since been renewed annually.
The Companies Act 2006 requires companies to continue to obtain shareholder approval before they can make donations to EU political organisations or incur EU political expenditure.
However, we do not make and do not intend to make donations to political parties or independent election candidates, nor do we make any donations to EU political organisations or incur EU political expenditure.
