Supply chain continuity Strategic priority: Simplify the operating model.
Deliver more products of value.
The failure of a small number of single-source, third-party suppliers or Risk definition service providers to fulfil their contractual obligations in a timely manner Failure to deliver a continuous supply of compliant finished product.
or as a result of regulatory non-compliance or physical disruption of logistics and manufacturing sites may result in delays or service Risk impact interruptions.
Any interruption of supply or exclusion from healthcare programmes could impact patient access to our products, expose us to litigation or regulatory Mitigating activities action and materially and adversely affect our financial results.
In particular, Our supply chain model is designed to help ensure the supply, quality the incurring of fines or disgorgement as a result of noncompliance with and security of our products globally.
We closely monitor the delivery manufacturing practice regulations could also materially and adversely of our products to help ensure that our customers have the medicines, affect the Groups financial results and result in reputational damage.
vaccines and products they need.
Safety stocks and backup supply arrangements for high revenue and medically-critical products are Context in place, where practical, to help mitigate this risk.
In addition, the Our supply chain operations are subject to review and approval by standing of manufacturing external suppliers is routinely monitored various regulatory agencies that effectively provide our licence to operate.
in order to identify and manage supply base risks.
Failure by our manufacturing and distribution facilities or by suppliers of Where practical, dependencies on single sources of critical items are key services and materials could lead to litigation or regulatory action removed.
During 2013, our reliance on single source components was such as product recalls and seizures, interruption of supply, delays in reduced for several key products through qualification of alternative the approval of new products, and revocation of our licence to operate materials that will help improve supply chain robustness.
pending resolution of manufacturing or logistics issues.
Materials and services provided by third-party suppliers are necessary During 2013, our supply chain operating model was modified to strengthen the link between commercial forecasting and manufacturing.
for the commercial production of our products, including active pharmaceutical ingredients API, antigens, intermediates, commodities This action will over time decrease the risk associated with demand fluctuations impacting ability to supply or write-offs associated with and components necessary for the manufacture and packaging of many of our Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare Products.
Under the new model, each node of the supply chain is being optimised to help ensure adequate safety Some of the third-party services procured, such as services provided by clinical research organisations to support development of key products, stock while balancing working capital associated with the end-to-end supply chain.
are important to the continuous operation of our businesses.
Although we undertake business continuity planning, single sourcing of certain components, bulk API, finished products, and services creates a risk of failure of supply in the event of regulatory non-compliance or physical disruption at the manufacturing sites and to logistics.
Financial reporting and disclosure Strategic priority: Simplify the operating model.
Risk definition Mitigating activities Failure to report accurate financial information in compliance with The Group maintains a control environment designed to identify material accounting standards and applicable legislation.
errors in financial reporting and disclosure.
The design and operating effectiveness of key financial reporting controls is periodically tested.
This provides us with the assurance that controls over key financial Risk impact reporting and disclosure processes have operated effectively.
Non-compliance with existing or new financial reporting and disclosure requirements, or changes to the recognition of income and expenses, We keep up-to-date with the latest developments in financial reporting could expose us to litigation and regulatory action and could materially requirements by working with our external auditor and other advisors and adversely affect our financial results.
to help ensure adherence to relevant reporting and disclosure requirements.
Context There is shared accountability for financial results across our New or revised accounting standards, rules and interpretations issued businesses.
Financial results are reviewed and approved by regional from time to time by the International Accounting Standards Board management and then reviewed with the Financial Controller and the could result in changes to the recognition of income and expense that Chief Financial Officer CFO.
This allows our Financial Controller may materially and adversely affect our financial results.
and our CFO to assess the evolution of the business over time, and to evaluate performance to plan.
Significant judgments are reviewed and The Group is also required by the laws of various jurisdictions to confirmed by senior management.
publicly disclose its financial results, and regulators routinely review the financial statements of listed companies for compliance with accounting and regulatory requirements.
The Group believes that it complies with the appropriate regulatory requirements concerning our financial statements and disclosures.
However, should we be subject to an investigation into potential non-compliance with accounting and disclosure requirements there is potential for restatements of previously reported results and we could be subject to significant penalties.
