Review of operations and finance FINANCIAL RESULTS FOR 2013 with the 4% to 5% seen since Selling and distribution costs, and 1 CONTINUING OPERATIONS late 2009, it grew by around 10% administrative and other operating in the second half of the year as expenses before exceptional The information presented here volumes increased.
items increased by 22.2m to relates to the 52 weeks to 28 447.7m.
The increase reflects the December 2013 and the 53 weeks to This growth was achieved through a costs of new depots, investment in 29 December 2012, unless otherwise number of factors and is a testament growth, and the impact of inflation, stated.
The inclusion of a 53rd to the strength of the business particularly on payroll costs.
As well as seeing an increase had no impact on revenue, as the in revenue growth in the second half Operating profit before exceptional business did not trade that week.
of the year, the business continued items increased by 22.7m to It is estimated to have increased to focus on price discipline and 142.5m.
operating costs by around 5m, margin see below.
In addition, we reducing 2012 operating profit The net interest charge fell by 3.6m have continued to see an increase in and profit before tax by the same to 4.1m, due to a lower finance the number of customer accounts.
amount, and reducing profit after expense in respect of pensions.
Sales by our French depots of The net result was profit before 15.8m saw a small increase on tax and exceptional items rose by The financial performance of a same depot basis in constant 26.3m to 138.4m.
the Group during 2013 benefited currency terms.
from the Groups competitive position and the continuing focus Gross profit rose by 44.9m to Profit before tax m Gross profit m on improving performance.
The gross profit margin Change Change second half of the year saw an for the year increased slightly to 26.3m 44.9m improvement in trading conditions.
This reflected the continuing focus on price Total Group revenue increased by discipline and margin achievement 69.4m to 956.5m.
2013 2012 Revenue m m Profit before tax m Gross profit m Group 956.5 887.1 Change Change 26.3m 44.9m comprising: Howden Joinery UK depots 940.7 872.5 The tax charge on profit before tax Howden Joinery and exceptional items was 34.6m, French depots 15.8 14.6 an effective rate of tax of 25.0%.
Howden Joinery UK depot revenue Basic earnings per share from rose by 7.8% to 940.7m, increasing continuing operations excluding by 5.6% on a same depot basis.
exceptional items were 16.3p 2 Having seen underlying revenue in 2012: 14.0p.
the first half of the year grow in line 18 1 D iscontinued operations in 2013 were immaterial and have therefore been included within continuing operations.
In 2012, there was a loss before tax from discontinued operations of 4.4m, arising from the closure of two non-core support businesses.
2 Excluding the impact of the different number of trading weeks in the first half and second half of 2013 compared with the same periods in 2012.
2012 545.3 Price 2012 revenue 24 545.3 Volume & mix Price revenue 45 revenue 24 Volume & mix Currency -5 revenue 45 Volume & mix Currency -5 COGS -21 Cost savings, etc.
Volume & mix net 4 COGS -21 Cost savings, etc.
Other -2 net 4 2013 Other -2 590.2 2013 590.2 2012 112.1 2012 Gross 112.1 profit 44.9 Gross profit Operating costs 44.9 -22.2 Operating costs -22.2 Interest, etc 3.6 Interest, etc 3.6 2013 138.4 2013 138.4 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 As previously reported, an Reflecting the above, there was a net appropriate for the Group to be exceptional operating cost before cash inflow of 44.1m in 2013, the able to operate throughout the tax of 4.5m was incurred.
This was Group having net cash of 140.5m working capital cycle without in relation to the reconfiguration of at the end of the year 29 December incurring bank debt.
our transport operations to better 2012: 96.4m net cash.
The Board has reviewed the Groups reflect the geographical mix of our At 28 December 2013, the pension dividend policy and has decided that sales in the UK and improve service deficit shown on the balance sheet it will move to an earnings per share to our depots.
This restructuring was 54.3m 29 December 2012: dividend cover of between 2.5x and involved one-off closure, relocation 154.5m.
The reduction in the deficit 3x, with one third of the previous and reorganisation costs.
partly reflected an increase in the years dividend being paid as an Basic earnings per share were 15.7p schemes assets, arising from the interim dividend each year.
Groups contribution to fund the Given the operational performance deficit and better than expected We saw strong cash flow in 2013. of the business and the cash asset returns.
In addition, an generation in the year, in light of increase in the net discount rate the There was a net cash inflow from this policy, the Board has decided difference between the discount rate operating activities of 87.2m.
This to recommend to shareholders a and inflation rate assumptions used was after payments relating to final dividend of 4.5p, giving a total to calculate liabilities reduced the legacy properties totalling 10.4m dividend for the year of 5.5p 2012: schemes liabilities.
and a cash contribution to the 3p.
This equates to a dividend cover Groups pension scheme, in excess Dividend of just under 3x.
of the operating charge, of 34.7m.
As previously stated, the Board The Board continues to monitor intends to target a capital structure Excluding the legacy property the cash balances in light of that is both prudent and recognises payments, underlying working the Groups future investment the benefits of financial leverage, capital increased by 11.8m.
opportunities, expected peak and, after considering all other uses Increases in stock and debtors were working capital requirements and of capital, to return surplus capital partly offset by an increase in trade the trading outlook.
To the extent to shareholders, by way of either creditors.
The increase in debtors the Group has sustainable levels ordinary dividends or alternative arose from the last two days of of capital in excess of expected returns of capital.
period 11 falling into November in requirements, the Board expects 2013, the due date being after the The Group has significant property to return it to shareholders.
leases for the depot network, and currently has a material deficit Also included within net cash flows in the Group pension fund and a from operating activities was tax small number of remaining legacy paid totalling 21.0m.
liabilities related to the Groups former ownership of MFI.
Taking Payments to acquire fixed and into account this underlying level intangible assets totalled 24.7m of gearing, the Board believes it is 2012: 24.2m.
19 Review of operations and finance continued OPERATIONAL REVIEW designed to support product sales.
guarantee on our kitchen cabinets Often, this will be accompanied by a to 25 years and extended our twoThe business model of Howden refurbishment of the office in which year Lamona appliance guarantee Joinery is To supply from local stock the designers work.
These are now to include lighting products.
nationwide the small builders everbeing rolled-out across our depots, changing routine, integrated kitchen Supporting our sales effort, as well around 350 having been completed and joinery requirements, assuring as regularly updating our collection so far, with the remainder due for no-call-back quality and best of product literature, we have completion by the middle of 2014. local price.
introduced a flooring catalogue Our account base continues to further promote this product Since it started in autumn 1995, to grow, having increased by category.
With the builder in mind, the business has opened new over 20,000 net new accounts we have also introduced two smaller depots and increased turnover in 2013.
While there has been a format kitchen brochures: a quick continuously, except for a 12-month significant increase in accounts in reference guide and a pocket guide.
period in 20089. recent years, our debt collection A new version of the Howdens Even today, with over 550 depots performance continues to improve.
across the UK, we continue to Product and marketing com was launched.
Major see the opportunity to transform We continue to enhance our improvements to this included the the scale of the business, seeing product offering, having introduced automatic resizing of the website to scope for at least 700 depots.
We a number of new products during suit the device on which it is being continue to invest in all aspects of 2013 across all our product viewed and improved navigation the growth and performance of the categories.
Notable amongst these around the site, making it easier for business, including new depots and were: six new kitchens three users to use.
The content has also depot operations, new and existing shaker options in our Greenwich been enhanced, with the addition employees, product development, family, a gloss graphite option in our of further product movies designed and manufacturing and distribution.
Glendevon and Integrated Handle to help bring the kitchen to life.
The Depot network and operations families, and a stone option in our new website coincided with the During the course of 2013, 30 new Tewkesbury family, which has been launch of the Howden App.
depots were opened in the UK, further enhanced as our premium Manufacturing and bringing the total trading at the end range by a number of additional logistics operations of the year to 559.
In addition, seven decorative elements and glazed Our UK-based manufacturing depots were extended and one wall units: and black and white and logistics operations play a depot was relocated.
single fan Lamona ovens, with key role in ensuring that we are matching hobs and extractors.
To In the summer of 2012, we began able to supply our small builders ensure we cater for all budgets and trials of a virtual showroom that customers from local stock price points, a number of lower is designed to support our 1,000 nationwide.
We continue to invest priced accessories, sinks, taps depot-based kitchen designers.
in these operations so as to ensure and joinery door options, based on When working with our builder that this key aspect of the Howdens already successful designs, have customers clients in our depots, this model is never compromised.
To support our allows kitchen designs to be shown builder-customers, we introduced The 20m two-year programme on a large HD television screen or a range of cabinets that have of investment in new production projected on to a wall in the depot pre-fitted accessories.
Reflecting facilities at our two manufacturing in a large high definition format, our confidence in the quality of sites has been completed.
The as well as showing other material our products, we enhanced the 20 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 new cabinet production lines at our CURRENT TRADING the business.
These are shown in the Howden and Runcorn factories have AND OUTLOOK FOR 2014 financial highlights on the first page been installed and commissioned, of this Annual Report.
Non-financial Howden Joinery UK depot sales and are fully operational.
indicators are discussed further in in the first two periods of 2014 the corporate social responsibility to 22 February were up 7.3% on The new 1.5m painted skirting report on pages 25 to 32. the same periods last year, in line board and architrave production with our expectations.
While fewer facility at our Howden factory is Total sales growth trading days and other one-off also fully operational.
Growth in sales of the UK factors contributed to this being Howden Joinery depots is key to lower than the underlying 10% sales We have reconfigured our transport enhancing shareholder value.
This growth seen in the second half of operations to better reflect the measure, along with monitoring last year, taking these factors and geographical mix of our sales in our programme of depot openings, the evidence we have of trading the UK and improve service to tracks the ability of the Group to prospects into account would our depots.
suggest that market conditions We are currently undertaking a remain unchanged.
Operating profit two-year project to replace obsolete The Group targets steady growth in We will continue to invest in the boilers and the associated heating operating profit before exceptional infrastructure at our Howden site.
long-term growth and development items over the medium-term.
This will ensure that we continue to be compliant with environmental Earnings per share EPS The Group remains committed to emissions legislation.
The costs We believe that EPS, while not its view that the number of depots of this will be offset by renewable perfect, is an accessible measure of in the UK can be increased from its energy incentives.
the returns we are generating as a current level of 559 and believes that Group for our shareholders, and also this number could be at least 700.
GROUP DEVELOPMENTS has the merit of being auditable and During the course of 2014, we are Legacy properties well understood.
The key measure currently planning to open up to The Group continues to reduce its of short-term financial performance 30 depots as part of our investment legacy property portfolio.
is basic earnings per share before in the next stage of Howdens exceptional items.
Six leases were terminated in 2013, at a cost of 7.5m.
In addition, Depot openings We are well positioned and look the lease of one property expired The business model is based on forward to continued growth.
Since the end of the individual depots providing kitchens recent years, we will act quickly and year, a property, with less than six to small builders within a local appropriately adapt our business months of the lease remaining, was community.
The continuing drive to model to the market and economic released early.
open new depots in new localities conditions we encounter.
is therefore key to the Groups This means that there are now eight growth prospects.
Howden Joinery KEY FINANCIAL legacy properties remaining, with currently intends to open between PERFORMANCE INDICATORS net annual rent and rates of less 20 and 30 depots in 2014: we have than 2m.
The Group uses a number of financial the ability to adjust the rhythm of performance indicators to measure the opening programme in line with operational and financial activity in economic conditions.
21 Review of operations and finance continued PRINCIPAL RISKS consequently, that we should have If the growth opportunities are AND UNCERTAINTIES sufficient cash and borrowing not understood and exploited in facilities for business needs and line with our business model, or if The Board considers that the adequate covenant headroom.
current structures and skills within Groups principal risks and the Group are not aligned to meet uncertainties, together with an Failure to implement the Groups the challenges of growth, there may indication of actions taken to business model and culture be an adverse effect on the Groups manage and mitigate them, are The future success of the business ability to obtain maximum benefit as detailed below.
They do not depends on the successful from this growth potential.
comprise all risks associated with implementation of the Groups the Group and are not set out in any business model and locally-enabled, The Group places continuing focus order of priority.
Additional risks not entrepreneurial culture.
on the opportunities, challenges and presently known to management or additional requirements related to currently deemed to be less material In particular, if the Group fails to growth.
The potential for growth is may also have an adverse effect on implement its business model in incorporated into Group strategic the Groups business in the future.
the locally-enabled, decentralised plans and budgets, and existing manner envisaged, there may structures and skills are reviewed in Market conditions be an adverse effect on the the context of growth, and adjusted The Groups products are Groups future financial condition where necessary.
predominantly sold to small local and profitability.
builders for installation in public Continuity of supply and private housing, mainly in Led by the actions of the Board and The Groups business model the repair, maintenance and Executive Committee, the business requires that every depot can improvement markets.
model and the Howdens culture are supply product from local stock.
at the centre of the activities and The Groups results are the decision-making processes Any disruption to the relationship consequently dependent on levels of the Group, and are continually with key suppliers or interruption of activity in these markets, which emphasised.
The Executive and to manufacturing operations could are impacted by many factors senior management regularly visit adversely affect the Groups ability including general economic our depots and factories, and to implement the business model.
conditions, consumer confidence, hold regular events during which interest rates and credit availability, With suppliers, the Group tries they reinforce the importance of unemployment, demographic to maintain dual supply wherever the Groups business model and trends and, in the short-term, possible to mitigate the effects if a culture.
A severe downturn in key supplier was unable to deliver successful implementation of the market conditions could impact on goods or services.
We also enter Groups business model and our ability to achieve our sales and into long-term contracts to secure culture forms the basis of the profit forecasts.
This could in turn supply of our key materials.
put pressure on our cash availability supplier relations are maintained and banking covenants.
Failure to maximise exploiting the by prompt settlement of invoices, growth potential of the business regular communication and an We monitor the market closely The Group considers that there is annual supplier conference.
Within and can take swift management significant potential for growth, and our manufacturing operations, we action as necessary in response has identified this as a strategic adopt best practice health & safety to adverse changes, with the opportunity and aim.
aim that the business is aligned Business continuity plans are in to market conditions and, 22 place for key production processes.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 The Group has recently made The main risks arising from the have a separate covenant test significant investment in its Groups financial instruments are around the EBITDA of Howden manufacturing facilities, to enable funding and liquidity risk, interest rate Joinery Limited.
manufacturing capacity to match our risk, counterparty risk and foreign The Groups latest forecasts and expected growth as well as providing currency risk discussed below.
projections have been stress-tested further cabinet production capacity No speculative use of derivatives, for reasonably possible adverse which now provides additional cover currency or other instruments is variations in trading performance in the event of an interruption to permitted.
The Treasury function and show that the Group will operate manufacturing operations.
does not operate as a profit centre within the terms of its borrowing Loss of key personnel and transacts only in relation to the facility and covenants for the The skills, experience and underlying business requirements.
performance of key members of Funding and liquidity The cash drawdown against the the Groups management team The Groups objective with respect bank facility at the year-end was make a large contribution to the to managing capital is to maintain 0.4m and, after taking into account Groups success.
a balance sheet structure that is other utilisation of the facilities The loss of a key member of both efficient in terms of providing for terminable indemnities, the the Groups management team long-term returns to shareholders Group was left with 123.4m of could adversely affect the and safeguards the Groups ability available funds.
to continue as a going concern.
As Interest rate risk appropriate, the Group can choose The Group uses the Remuneration The Groups exposure to interest to adjust its capital structure by Committee to ensure that key rate fluctuations on its borrowings varying the amount of dividends paid team members are appropriately may be managed when necessary to shareholders, returns of capital to compensated for their contributions by borrowing on a fixed rate basis shareholders, issuing new shares or and incentivised to continue their and entering into rate swaps, rate the level of capital expenditure.
caps and forward rate agreements.
During 2013, the Group had a 160m The Groups policy objective has USE AND MANAGEMENT OF asset-backed bank facility which is been to undertake transactions FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS, AND due reduce to 140m in May 2014, of this nature only when net debt EXPOSURE TO FINANCIAL RISK and to expire in July 2016. exceeds 150m.
Net debt has not exceeded 150m during the year.
The Group holds financial The Groups committed borrowing instruments for one principal facility contains certain financial Counterparty risk purpose: to finance its operations.
covenants which have been met Group Treasury policy on investment The Group does not currently use throughout 2013.
The covenants restricts counterparties to those with derivative financial instruments to are tested every four weeks and are a minimum Standard and Poors reduce its exposure to interest or based around: i fixed charges: ii Moodys long-term credit rating of exchange rate movements.
The tangible net worth: and iii earnings AAand a short-term credit rating Group finances its operations before interest, tax, depreciation and of A-1 P-1.
It also places limits on by a mixture of cash flows from amortisation EBITDA for Howden the maximum amount which can be operations and longer-term loan Joinery Limited.
Treasury Investments mainly consist of bank operations are managed within In addition, our pension trustees, deposits, UK Treasury bills and policies and procedures approved who carry a charge over the share liquidity funds.
capital of Howden Joinery Limited, 23 Review of operations and finance continued The Group continuously reviews NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT the credit quality of counterparties, No new accounting standards Certain statements in this Annual the limits placed on individual which have a material implication Report are forward-looking.
credit exposures and categories for the Group came into effect Although the Group believes of investments.
that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements Foreign currency risk GENDER METRICS, are reasonable, we can give no The most significant currencies ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS, assurance that these expectations for the Group are the US dollar EMPLOYEES, SOCIAL AND will prove to have been correct.
It is difficult to pass COMMUNITY MATTERS, AND Because these statements contain the prescribed tests under FRS to HUMAN RIGHTS risks and uncertainties, actual ensure the ability to hedge account results may differ materially from As stated in the Directors report, for derivative currency transactions.
those expressed or implied by our annual report and accounts have As the resultant volatility cannot be these forward-looking statements.
been drafted in order to make them avoided in the income statement, it We undertake no obligation to as accessible as possible.
Some is the view of the Board that routine update any forward-looking information has therefore been transactional conversion between statements whether as a result disseminated from this report when currencies is completed at the of new information, future events we have determined that it would be relevant spot exchange rate.
presented in a more connected way.
policy is reviewed on a regular basis.
The strategic report is approved To that end, information in relation The net impact of exchange rates by order of the Board to our employees can be found in on currency transactions in the the Corporate Governance report year was 5.0m.
The Group does Mark Robson on pages 58 to 64 and our gender not have many overseas assets Chief Financial Officer diversity statistics are located in liabilities, so the impact of currency the Nominations Committee report translation is not material.
All information Set out in the table below are the in relation to environmental, social, principal exchange rates versus community and human rights the UK pound affecting the profits matters are contained in the CSR of the Group.
Principal exchange rates 2013 2013 2012 2012 versus UK pound Average Year-end Average Year-end United States dollar US$ 1.56 1.64 1.58 1.61 Euro 1.18 1.19 1.23 1.22 24
