Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Contents Overview Strategic report Directors report Governance Financial statements Directors report Governance Corporate governance continued Company Secretary The Board has determined that each Non-Executive Director Leadership Chairman, Executive and Non-Executive Directors The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that correct isindependent in accordance with the Code criteria.
The Board of Directors Board and governance procedures are followed, and advises lengthof service of each of the Non-Executive Directors is The Board is committed to good corporate governance and is the Board on all corporate governance related matters.
The setout below: aware of its responsibility to be accountable to shareholders, 1 Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Board and its and to demonstrate that the Company is properly governed Length of service of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors years principal Committees, and his advice and services are available 7 and delivers its strategy.
There is a schedule of matters that are to all Directors.
Edward Astle specifically reserved for the Board, which includes consideration 4.0 and approval of: Board meetings 2 Alan Brown 2.5 Board meetings are scheduled in advance, and during 2013 the the Companys overall strategy, medium-term plans and Board met seven times.
Directors are expected to attend all Christopher Knight 7.5 annual budgets: Board meetings and relevant Committee meetings.
A schedule financial statements: Chairman of Directors attendance at Board meetings during the year is Louise Makin 1.5 dividend policy, recommendation of any final dividend Executive Directors set out below.
Details of the Directors Committee attendance anddeclaration of interim dividends: Non-Executive Directors Sir David Reid 2.0 are set out in their separate reports.
major acquisitions: major changes to the Groups capital structure: Michael Wareing 2.5 Eligible Role of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer the Groups corporate governance arrangements: to attend Attendance There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Mark Williams 0.3 the appointment and removal of Directors and the Company Sir David Reid 7 7 Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, and these Secretary: and Chairman responsibilities have been formalised in writing.
The Chairman, Lena Wilson 1.5 major changes to accounting policies or practices.
Wolfhart Hauser 7 7 Sir David Reid, is responsible for the leadership and governance Chief Executive Officer of the Board.
He is also responsible for creating the conditions The Board has delegated certain responsibilities through an Lloyd Pitchford 7 7 Directors conflicts of interests for overall Board and individual Director effectiveness.
Authorities Matrix, which is regularly reviewed and was updated Chief Financial Officer All Directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 The Chairman also meets with major shareholders on a regular during 2013 to keep pace with dynamic business needs.
Edward Astle 7 7 toavoid conflicts of interests and to disclose any outside basis, and is available to all shareholders at the Companys The overall powers of Directors are set out in the Companys Independent Non-Executive Director appointments.
The Board has a formal system to deal with AGM.
On his appointment, the Chairman was deemed Articles of Association, which are available on the Companys Alan Brown 7 7 conflicts of Directors interests.
Directors are requested to independent by the Board.
website, and may be amended by special resolution of the Independent Non-Executive Director complete a questionnaire each year to ensure that any potential The Chief Executive Officer, Wolfhart Hauser, is responsible shareholders.
The Board may exercise all powers conferred on conflicts are disclosed and to identify any new potential conflicts Christopher Knight 7 7 forthe day-to-day operation of the business, in line with the itby the Articles, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 of interests.
The Directors are advised of the process for dealing Independent Non-Executive Director strategy and commercial objectives agreed by the Board.
He is and other applicable legislation.
with conflicts of interests upon appointment and they are Louise Makin 7 7 also responsible for promoting and conducting the affairs of reminded of this obligation at subsequent Board meetings.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the management, Independent Non-Executive Director the Company with the highest standards of ethics, integrity and 1 strategic direction and performance of the Group.
There is Michael Wareing 7 6 corporate governance.
The Chief Executive Officer leads the Any authorised decisions are reviewed on an annual basis or aclear division of responsibility between the running of Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Executive Management Team, and details of this team, which when a new Director is appointed, or if a new potential conflict theBoard and the executive responsibility for running the Mark Williams 3 3 includes the Chief Financial Officer, are set out on pages 18 arises.
The conflicts register is maintained by the Company Companys business.
The Board also monitors risks, financial appointed 1 September 2013 and19.
Secretary, and is reviewed annually by the Board.
Directors performance and internal controls.
The materials for Board Independent Non-Executive Director abstain from voting when there is a vote to approve their own Non-Executive Directors meetings are supplied in a timely manner and in a quality Lena Wilson 7 7 reported conflicts.
In 2013 this process operated effectively.
The Companys Non-Executive Directors provide a strong, waythat helps the Board discharge its duties.
Independent Non-Executive Director Diversity independent and external insight to the Boards proceedings, Board composition 1.
Michael Wareing was unable to attend one meeting due to illness.
The Board has endorsed the recommendations made by and bring with them a wealth of experience and knowledge The Board consists of 10 Directors the Chairman, seven LordDavies of Abersoch in his report issued in 2011 on from other business sectors and industries.
The Letters of Board balance and independence independent Non-Executive Directors and two Executive Women on Boards: recognises the benefits of having a Appointment of the Non-Executive Directors, as well as the The Board comprises an appropriate balance of Executive Directors.
The Company Secretary is available to advise diverse Board: andis committed to achieving a Board which service agreements of Executive Directors, are available for Directors and independent Non-Executive Directors.
theChairman and the Board on all governance matters.
includes and makes the best use of differences in culture, inspection at the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
All Directors also have access to independent advice at the Sir David Reid, the Chairman, met the independence criteria gender, skills, background, regional and industry experience, Senior Independent Director Companys expense.
Biographical details of individual Directors, upon appointment to the Board, and as prescribed by the Code.
All of these factors are considered The Board has appointed Michael Wareing as the Companys including their Committee memberships, are set out on bythe Nomination Committee in determining the composition There is a process in place for the appointment of new Senior Independent Director.
In addition to his responsibilities pages38 and 39. of the Board.
TheCompany hasalready made significant Directors, and during the year, Mark Williams was appointed as as a Non-Executive Director, he is responsible for leading the progress towards achieving LordDavies recommendations.
Further details on this are Directors review of the Chairmans performance, and holding included within the Nomination Committee report on page 54. discussions with the other Non-Executive Directors and external The Boards Diversity Policy can be found on the auditors without management present.
In addition, the Senior Companyswebsite.
Independent Director is available to major shareholders who feel that they are unable to raise issues through the usual channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or the ChiefFinancial Officer.
44 45 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Contents Overview Strategic report Directors report Governance Financial statements Directors report Governance Corporate governance continued The areas considered during the evaluation were: Board diversity by gender Board visit to China Board composition and diversity: Intertek Group plc Shareholders In October the Board visited Board performance: the Intertek business in China, Information and Board agendas: 1 which provided an excellent Board expertise: Intertek Board of Directors opportunity for the Directors 2 Risk management oversight: and to meet local management Senior management succession planning.
and to visit a number of key The results of the evaluation were considered by the Board facilities.
There was also time atits meeting in January 2014.
No significant issues were for interaction between the 5 2 Audit & Risk Nomination Remuneration highlighted, and the review clearly indicated that the Board Board and the management in Committee Committee Committee continues to work efficiently and effectively, and that the an informal setting.
The local Chairman male contribution and commitment of each Director, and their management team presented Non-Executive Directors male Executive Risk Control interaction with each other, is well developed.
As a result Investment about their business in China, Non-Executive Directors female Management and Assurance oftheevaluation, the Board agreed to focus more time on: Committee the local market and the Executive Directors male Team Committee drivers of the local operations people capability, talent mapping and succession planning and businesses.
Divisional & Country atfuture Board meetings to ensure that the Groups talent Support Functions Effectiveness Management pool continues to match the requirements and aspirations Board activity during the year ofthe Group: During the year, in addition to its regular business, the Board Board development operational transformation and productivity across all considered the following matters: All new Directors receive a comprehensive induction business lines: programme tailored to meet their needs.
The induction customer relations and development including customer Group strategy: Risks Controls programme is managed by the Chairman and the Company satisfaction with operational delivery: and 2014 annual business budget: Secretary.
As part of the programme, briefings are provided health & safety policies, frameworks and reporting.
full year results and half year results, Annual Report from senior management including updates on key business andrelated announcements: As part of the evaluation process, the Chief Executive Officer Board Committees matters, internal audit activities, Group risks, and management acquisitions: carried out a performance review of the Chief Financial Officer.
Operational Committees processes and procedures.
On-going development is provided key governance matters: In addition, the Directors, led by the Senior Independent to all Directors.
In particular the Board was briefed on the risk and internal controls: Director, conducted a performance review of the Chairman.
following key areas during 2013: people matters: The Board has confirmed that the contribution of each of Board Committees significant capital expenditure and material contracts: company law, corporate governance, changes to financial the Directors continues to be effective and recommends The Board operates the following three principal Committees dividend policy: and reporting, remuneration reporting and other key that shareholders should be supportive of their election or tooversee the workings of the Group: tax and treasury policies.
developments: re-election to the Board.
The Board will continue to review Audit & Risk Committee: health & safety: and its procedures, effectiveness and development during the year The Board also received regular updates in respect of business Nomination Committee: and financial reporting processes.
ahead, and the Chairman will use the output of the most recent performance, market activity, legal matters, risk, health & Remuneration Committee.
Board evaluation in his individual meetings with Directors safety, analysts forecasts and other business information.
All Directors have access to advice and information from the during the year.
Information relating to the composition and workings of Company Secretary.
In addition, all Directors are entitled to Non-Executive Directors are given the opportunity to visit key eachof these Committees is set out within the following request and obtain independent legal advice to assist in the In 2012, the performance evaluation of the Board and its sites and operations.
During the year, a number of site visits Committeereports.
fulfilment of their duties at the expense of the Company.
Committees was facilitated by Consilium, an independent were organised for Non-Executive Directors, including key TheCompany has also granted an indemnity to the extent external third party firm.
The Board plans to conduct a further operational sites in China.
permitted by law to each of the Directors and to the Company externally facilitated evaluation in 2015.
Strategy setting Secretary, and holds an insurance policy for Directors and Governance Framework During the year, the Board devoted additional time to review Officers liability insurance to the extent permitted by law.
The Groups governance and decision-making framework is set the business plans and the development of the Companys Performance evaluation out below.
The responsibilities, activities and membership of strategic direction.
As part of this process, the senior The Board conducts a formal review of its performance each each of the Boards principal Committees are set out within management team and the Board held a number of off-site year.
During the year under review, and with support of the theCommittee reports on pages 49 to 69. meetings to focus on strategic opportunities and conducted Company Secretary, the Board evaluated its effectiveness using reviews on key areas of business.
an internally facilitated questionnaire and a series of one-to-one interviews between each Director and the Chairman.
Responses to the questionnaire were collated and the output was used bythe Chairman in his individual meetings with Directors.
46 47 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Contents Overview Strategic report Directors report Governance Financial statements Directors report Governance Corporate governance continued Operational Committees Risk Control and Assurance Committee RCA Executive Management Team This Committee has the remit of overseeing the development Audit & Risk Committee The Executive Management Team comprises the Executive ofthe internal control framework.
Its work covers: Directors, the senior Vice-Presidents and other senior The Committee is a vital component reviewing risk registers and risk management procedures: management.
It meets regularly to discuss and decide business monitoring issues: and of the Groups overallGovernance and operational issues.
Biographical details of the Executive providing a conduit of information to senior management.
Management Team are set out on pages 18 and 19. and controlstructure.
In 2013, the Committee comprised the Chief Financial Officer, Investment Committee Company Secretary, Chief Information Officer, Executive Vice A key component of the Groups Governance Framework is the President Human Resources, Group Financial Controller, Head Investment Committee, which is regulated by its own Terms of Legal and Head of Internal Audit.
The Committee meets on ofReference.
The Investment Committee monitors capital aquarterly basis.
expenditure and investments as defined in the Authorities Matrix.
In particular, the Committee: Each operating division and support function is responsible for the identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable reviews all expenditure and contracts: to that area of business, together with the design and conducts post investment appraisals: operation of suitable internal controls.
These risks are assessed Dear Shareholder, The following information provides detail about the business approves tenders and bids: and on a continual basis and are reviewed by the RCA.
The risks I am pleased to present the report for the Committee and covered and the operation of the Committee.
reviews the Authorities Matrix and any changes.
may be associated with a variety of internal or external factors tohave welcomed Lena Wilson to the Committee during I will be available at the forthcoming Annual General During 2013, the Investment Committee established including control breakdowns, disruption of information theyear.
Lena brings with her a wealth of experience and Meeting to answer any questions about the Committee RegionalInvestment Committees to review and approve systems, litigation, loss of key facilities, retention of key staff, she has already made valuable contributions since joining andits activity.
proposals for their regions in accordance with their respective competition, natural catastrophes and regulatory requirements.
The following table shows the Operation of the controls is designed to minimise the The Committees main duty is to provide governance and InvestmentCommittee Structure.
The matters decided at occurrence of risk or its consequences.
assurance oversight on internal controls, management of Regional Investment Committee meetings are recorded, risk, review of the Annual Report and Accounts, Half Year and are made available to the Group Investment Committee.
Financial Statements and to monitor the effectiveness of the external and internal auditprocess.
Michael Wareing Our meetings are also joined by key people within the Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee Investment Committee business, who are not formal Committee members.
Duringthe year they have included the Chairman of the Group, the Chief Executive Officer, the ChiefFinancial Regional Investment Committees Officer, the Group Financial Controller, the Head of Legal, the Head of Internal Audit and the audit partner from KPMGAudit Plc, theCompanys auditors.
Australasia, Middle East SE Asia Europe and North Africa Membership and attendance All of the Committee members are considered to be and Africa Membership and attendance at meetings of the Committee independent in accordance with the Code criteria.
during the year was as follows: India New Committee members receive an appropriate induction, China Sub-continent consisting of the Companys financial and operational risks.
Eligible New Committee members also have access to senior to attend Attendance 1 operational staff and the Groups internal and external auditors.
Michael Wareing Committee Chairman 5 4 Latin America North East Asia Edward Astle 5 5 The business of the Committee is linked to the Groups financial Christopher Knight 5 5 calendar of events and the timetable for the annual audit.
Lena Wilson appointed to the Committee Atthe invitation of the Committee, the Chief Executive Officer, on 1 September 2013 2 2 the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Financial Controller, the Head of Legal, the Head of Internal Audit and the external 1.
Throughout 2013, the composition of the Committee was incompliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the The terms of reference of the Committee are available on Code.
Michael Wareing, Edward Astle and Christopher Knight the Companys website.
all have recent and relevant financial experience, as detailed in their biographies onpages 38 and 39.
Lena Wilson was appointed to the Committee from1September 2013.
48 49 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Contents Overview Strategic report Directors report Governance Financial statements Directors report Governance Corporate governance continued Role and activity of the Committee External audit Effectiveness of external audit Non-audit work The Committee is authorised by the Board to review the The Committee monitors the relationship with the external The Company has used KPMG as its auditors since it was listed It is a key requirement that the external auditors remain effectiveness of the Companys financial reporting and internal auditors, including any non-audit services.
During the year, and at the request of the Committee, independent to avoid being compromised when reporting.
controls together with procedures for the identification, ensure that there is continued independence and objectivity of KPMG provided an update on their work and re-submitted In particular, the Company has a list of services that the assessment and reporting of key risks.
A summary of the the external auditor.
The Committee discusses any fees paid to aformal request for re-appointment.
In order to assess the auditors may not provide.
The Committee reviews the keymatters considered by the Committee during 2013 is set KPMG Audit Plc KPMG for non-audit work and the reasons effectiveness of the audit, the Committee considered the framework of restrictions on audit services and makes sure out below: why they were appointed for such work.
During the year, feedback provided through an internal questionnaire that had that it reflects best practice and any current legislation.
KPMG met with the members of the Committee without any been circulated by the Company to those within Intertek who The award of any non-audit work requires pre-clearance Audit & Risk Committee Executive Directors being present.
were involved in the audit process.
The questions asked about agenda items 2013 Feb May Jul Sep Nov by theCommittee and can only be for specified matters.
resources, the audit timetable and other information deemed The Committee is provided with reports of all non-audit work Group risk register Financial statements and financial issues necessary to make anassessment.
and afull breakdown of non-audit fees incurred.
A summary In preparation for each year end, the Committee reviews the Risk management strategy of thefees paid for non-audit work is set out in the note to significant accounting policies, estimates and judgements The Committee makes a recommendation, through the Board, Compliance and operational risk theFinancial Statements on page 86 see the table below.
tobeapplied in the financial statements, and discusses their to shareholders to consider at the Annual General Meeting Corporate governance controls sign-off application with management.
The external auditor also AGM, on the appointment, re-appointment or removal Fair, balanced and understandable assurance 2013 2012 considers the appropriateness of these assessments as part ofthe external auditors.
Following the internal review, and Group-wide finance transformation Auditor fee breakdown m m ofthe audit.
having reviewed the performance of the external auditor, Full year Report Total audit fee 2.1 2.0 the Committee has recommended to the Board a resolution Management highlights In accordance with the Code, the external auditor prepares Total non-audit fee 0.7 0.9 to re-appoint KPMG as the external auditor.
The Board has KPMG highlights areport for the Committee on both the half year and full year % of non-audit to total 33% 45% accepted the recommendation and agreed that the resolution Annual Report 2012 results, which summarises the approach to key risks in the be included in the Notice of the 2014 AGM.
Annual results announcement external audit and highlights any issues arising out of their work Committee effectiveness Letter of representation to the auditors on those risks, or any other work undertaken on the audit.
KPMG has been the Companys external auditor since its During the year, the Committee conducted an internally Non-audit fees review of policy, demerger from Inchcape in 1996 17 years.
Whilst the Group facilitated review of its effectiveness.
The results of the review spend and budget The main issues reviewed in the year ended 31 December 2013 has not formally tendered the audit since then, the Committee were considered and it was agreed that the Committee were as follows: Going concern assessment undertakes an annual review of the independence, objectivity continued to operate effectively, and that it provided strong Half year Results the Committee reviewed and challenged the provisions and effectiveness of the audit firm in considering whether to support for the Board.
Management highlights held with respect to claims, ensuring the provisions were recommend the re-appointment of the external auditors at the In addition, and as part of the Committees role in KPMG review report appropriate.
Although there are very few significant legal AGM.
The Committee has also been monitoring and, through understanding how the Group operates, the Committee Letter of representation to the auditors claims, the provisions for legal risks are reviewed to ensure its Chairman, contributing to the debate on external audit received reports around financial controls and other matters Update on principal risks & uncertainties that they reflect any changes arising in respect of the claims tendering.
The Committee has noted the changes to the from the Chief Financial Officers in China and the UK, and the Draft half year results due to the judgmental nature of the provisioning process: and UKCorporate Governance Code introduced by the FRC in Head of the Finance Transformation programme regarding the Update on non-audit fees the Committee reviewed the calculation of the effective tax September 2012 and, in particular, the requirement contained work of the Shared Service Centre.
Internal audit rate for the year, including the impact of deferred tax in the Guidance on Audit Committees to put the external audit 2014 audit plan balances and the valuation of current tax liabilities, ensuring contract out to tender at least every ten years.
The new Code Internal control and risk management Review of audit charter the rate was appropriate.
became effective for the Company on 15 September 2013.
During 2013, following the restructuring of Interteks Internal audit report TheCommittee has also considered the subsequent proposals management teams across relevant business lines and country Internal audit effectiveness During the year, the Committee also considered the of both the UK Competition Commission and the European management teams, the organisation of the Legal, Risk KPMG Audit matters followingissues: Commission.
The Committee will continue to monitor Management and Compliance Teams was restructured along Audit fee proposal year end 31 12 2013 developments in this area.
Stephen Wardell was appointed the same lines.
the presentation of the Groups restructuring programme Audit strategy & plan year end 31 12 2013 asGroup Audit Partner in 2011, and under the requirement in2013, ensuring that the costs had been recorded The risk register process follows the global organisation, and KPMG effectiveness torotate this position every 5 years, is due to rotate off the appropriately: and risk registers are produced for each business line and then Engagement letter Companys audit after completing the 31 December 2016 the classification of Separately Disclosed Items to ensure the consolidated at Group level.
The time commitment and breadth External audit update on strategy financial year end audit engagement.
adjusted operating profit provides a clear and consistent view of data gathering in completing the risk registers have been andnew audit pro forma of the underlying performance of the Group.
Subject to the continued satisfactory performance of KPMG expanded.
This has helped to validate the previous process and Other matters and the outcome of the final regulatory rules, itis our current no significant changes were made to the Group Risk Register.
IT security & cyber-risk In all cases the Committee was satisfied that the judgements intention to tender the external audit prior to 31 December Key claims report We have implemented a verification programme to check that made by management were reasonable, and that appropriate 2017 financial year end.
Key litigation level all the statements made in the Annual Report and Accounts disclosures have been included in the financial statements.
Overview of internal control environment are accurate and the verification files for this process have been Operational risk review electrical prepared and presented to the Committee.
Interteks Manual ofAccounting Policies and Procedures is issued to all finance Presentation on China staff and gives instructions and guidance on all aspects ofaccounting and reporting that apply to the Group.
50 51 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Contents Overview Strategic report Directors report Governance Financial statements Directors report Governance Corporate governance continued Anymaterial breaches of the Groups systems of internal and Training Internal Audit Priorities for 2014 risk management controls that are identified by the Groups The Group has a programme of training and on-line courses for As part of its annual programme, the Committee reviewed The priorities for the Committee over the next 12 months control review procedures are reported to the Committee compliance matters, covering topics such as health & safety, the Group internal audit function and considered findings are as follows: and corrective action is taken.
The Compliance Code and the from Internal Audit as part of its programme of reviews.
continue to support the efforts of the external auditor and Codeof Ethics are available on the Groups website.
The Group Reports from the internal audit function to the Committee The Audit & Risk Committee endeavours to ensure that the the Internal Audit and Risk Management functions with has a zero-tolerance policy to all bribery.
Every employee is included reference to the Group risk management systems, Group has in place the most appropriate and effective controls, respect to the ongoing development of the Groups total required to sign a zero-tolerance document confirming their findings from reviews in particular countries and the annual checks, systems, and risk management techniques so as to be assurance and risk management framework: understanding that any breaches of the Groups Code of Ethics plan of Internal Audit.
The annual plan of action for Internal in line with best practice.
The control environment within the prepare for any relevant changes in the corporate governance will result in disciplinary action that may include summary Audit is set by the Committee.
In addition, management Group is further strengthened by two internal Committees.
arena, in particular the tendering of the external audit: and dismissal.
Each year as part of the appraisal process every provided presentations on their risk mitigations approach.
continue to monitor the impact of external economic factors The Risk Control and Assurance Committee RCA has the employee is asked to confirm their understanding of and Quality assurance audits on the Group and its financial position.
remit of overseeing the development of the internal control adherence to the Code of Ethics.
Looking forward, we are in The Company carries out quality assurance audits in its business framework, reviewing risk registers and risk management theprocess of reviewing our Code of Ethics to reinforce the Going concern lines and divisions, and the findings are reported to divisional procedures, monitoring issues, and providing a conduit of Intertek Compliance principles in respect of integrity, conflicts After making diligent enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable management.
Each business line has at least one compliance information to senior management.
of interest, confidentiality, anti-bribery and fair marketing.
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue officer who undertakes investigations of issues that arise either Weare also looking to strengthen our approach to protecting in operation for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they During the year, the RCA reviewed: from quality assurance audits or from other sources, such as our environment.
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the routine compliance questions.
the Companys health & safety programme: Groups financial statements.
Confidential hotlines the risk management strat egy: As part of our quality assurance and assessments, internal The Group runs a system of confidential telephone hotlines whistle-blowing mechanisms: quality audits are undertaken.
Reports of significant findings forwhich there is a programme in place to streamline to one key policies: are presented to the Committee which monitors and reviews provider.
These confidential hotlines, along with email and web data security, protection and new policies on Information, the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
The Internal addresses, enable staff or third parties to report anonymously Security and Global Data Protection: Audit department was awarded ISO 9001 accreditation in 2003 any perceived inaccurate or unethical working practices.
This the Core Controls Framework: which was successfully renewed for a further three years in underpins the ethics programme and also helps the business verification of sign-offs: 2009 and more recently in 2012.
An external accreditation protect itself against any unethical behaviour.
All reports are divisional input into the Group Risk Registers: and body conducts surveillance audits of the Internal Audit investigated thoroughly with action taken as appropriate.
department every year, and conducts a more detailed review Reports of significant matters raised on the hotlines are also every three years.
provided to the Committee, if appropriate.
Detailed statistics In addition, it created a sub Committee to cover the subjects about such issues are provided to each meeting of the ofquality, health & safety and the environment.
Reports are made of resolutions for all matters membership of the RCA are on page 48. together with information about any employees who have An Investment Committee IC is in place with the remit of leftthe Group due to wrong-doing.
reviewing and approving material expenditure and other key Internal controls and reporting actions throughout the business within certain limits as outlined In order to provide assurance that controls and policies are in the Board Approval Matrix.
Further information on the being followed, a process of self-assessment and hierarchical membership and remit of the IC is on page 48. reporting has been established which provides a documented Audit and Risk Strategy trail of accountability.
These procedures are applied across The Audit and Risk Strategy was presented to the Committee Group operations and provide for continuing assurances to be during the year.
This was then presented to the Board for given at increasingly higher levels of management and finally, discussion and approval.
The strategy has focused on ensuring tothe Board.
This process is facilitated by Internal Audit which that the programme is annually strengthened and enhanced also provides assurance as to the operation and validity of the toreflect the size and global reach of the Intertek Group.
system of internal control and risk management.
Planned corrective actions are monitored for timely completion.
