3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 12 Strategic report How we create value Our business model 3is expertise and proprietary capital differentiates itsinvestment proposition and underpins its capability todeliver growth and returns for shareholders.
1 2 Our resources Identify and invest in assets that and relationships will meet our return objectives Expert people Our investment professionals have deep A disciplined sector knowledge in their core markets.
We are committed to offering our people approach to investing the best training and development underpins our returns opportunities to ensure that they can operate at the highest level.
Network Private Equity Infrastructure Essential to support our businesses, wehave a well-developed network of business leaders across our chosen Grow portfolio Cash income markets.
Together they assist us to identify opportunities and carry out due diligence, earnings andcapital returns as well as being invaluable to the management of our investee companies.
from3iN Realisations at Strong balance sheet and proprietary capital investment capability 2x cash-to-cash Our strong balance sheet allows us the exibility to invest in Private Equity and multiples Infrastructure opportunities as well as to support regulatory capital requirements and business development opportunities in Debt Management.
Reputation An investment company, established for over 70 years, listed on the London Stock 83% 17% 12% 35% Exchange and a member of the FTSE 100.
3i Group Proprietary capital portfolio value 3i Group Proprietary capital portfolio value 3i Group Fund management fee income 3i Group Fund management fee income 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 13 Overview Strategic report Corporate Governance Audited financial statements Portfolio and other information 3 Deliver results Strong cash-to-cash returns efficient operating platform that does not dilute shareholder returns Robust and exible capital allocation strategy that is focused on generating long-term capital growth and increasing cash distributions Investment process Debt Management A strong investment process is the foundation of our reinvigorated business.
Generate strong Our institutional investment platform ensures a centralised approach tomaking cash income investment and divestment decisions.
Robust monthly portfolio monitoring through the cycle helpsus to address issues promptly.
efficient operating platform Diversied businesses that generate both income and capital proceeds.
Recurring cash income and a disciplined approach tocost management avoid dilution of capital returns.
5% 48% 3i Group Proprietary capital portfolio value Our strategic objectives 3i Group Fund management fee income p14
