3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 79 Overview Strategic report Corporate Governance Audited financial statements Valuations Committee report Portfolio and other information A robust valuations process is fundamental to the integrity of the Groups financial reporting.
The Committee plays an important role in providing the Board with assurance that the valuation process is solid and independently challenged.
David Hutchison Chairman, Valuations Committee The Valuations Committee reports to the Audit and Compliance In advance of the full year and half-year reporting, management Committee and the Board on the valuation of the Groups hold individual portfolio company reviews with the respective investment assets.
It meets quarterly, to coincide with the investment teams.
Non-executive Directors, including members Groupsexternal financial reporting calendar.
It reviews and of the Valuations Committee, attended a significant proportion challenges the assumptions behind managements proposed ofall the meetings held in September 2015 and March 2016 and investment asset valuation.
were represented at all of the top five Private Equity portfolio company review meetings.
The Committees activity is principally focused on the Private Equity investments as a high level of judgement is required to As part of its external audit, Ernst & Young LLP undertakes a value the unquoted portfolio.
In light of the Groups increased separate review of the proposed investment portfolio valuation to capital allocation to Debt Management and the market volatility determine that the valuation policy is being complied with and seen in the second half of the year in particular, the Committee that there is consistent application and support for the underlying also focused on the Groups Debt Management CLO equity assumptions.
As part of their year-end audit, Ernst & Young LLPs portfolio and the principal drivers behind its valuation.
As in specialist valuations teams independently reviewed a selection previous years, the Committee devoted limited time to ofPrivate Equity and Debt Management investments to provide Infrastructure due to the fact that its principal investment is its further assurance on their overall audit conclusion on the shareholding in the quoted 3i Infrastructure plc.
The Committee is responsible for keeping the Groups valuation Membership during the year policy under review and recommending any changes to the policy to Audit and Compliance Committee and the Board.
The policy Name Membership status isreviewed at least annually with the last update in January 2016.
David Hutchison Chairman Chairman and Member since The Groups valuation policy is based on the International Private December 2013 Equity and Venture Capital IPEV Guidelines which set out Sir Adrian Montague Member until June 2015 recommended practice for fair valuing unquoted investments Simon Thompson Member since April 2015 within the IFRS framework.
Peter Grosch Member since January 2016 Martine Verluyten Member since 2012 Overview of the Valuation Process Simon Borrows Member since 2012 The Committee receives a detailed report from the Group Julia Wilson Member since 2009 Finance Director recommending a proposed valuation of the Groups investment portfolio.
This report highlights the key Meetings are also attended by other members of the Executive themes by business line and the main drivers of value movement Committee as required, the Group Financial Controller and analysed between performance, multiple movements and other theexternal Auditor.
In addition the Chairman also met privately factors.
At each meeting the Committee also reviews selected with the external Auditor to discuss their approach to the yearassets for detailed discussion: examples of such assets covered end audit.
during the year included Action, Basic-Fit, Scandlines, AES, JMJand Dynatect.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 80 Corporate Governance Valuations Committee report FY2016 update The Committee focused on the following significant issues in the year: Areas of judgement What the Committee did Private Equity Earnings and multiple assumptions The majority 74% of the portfolio is valued using a multiple of earnings.
Earnings data is received monthly from Private Equity portfolio This requires judgement as the earnings of the portfolio company may companies and monitored closely by management.
Actual earnings be adjusted so that they are considered maintainable.
may then be adjusted in managements proposed valuations, for example, to reect a full years trading of an acquired business, There is also a significant degree of judgement in selecting the removing profit from discontinued activities or excluding exceptional appropriate set of comparable quoted companies to determine the transaction costs.
Material adjustments are highlighted to the appropriate multiple to generate an enterprise value.
Multiples are Committee in the quarterly report for review and approval.
selected by reference to quoted comparable companies, M&A transactions and input in certain cases from corporate finance advisers.
Management continued to adjust a significant proportion of multiples Management also take into account growth prole, geographic used if the longer-term view exit or multiple supports the use of a location, diversication and leverage renancing risk.
Notable changes in multiples in a quarter are implied by the quoted comparable may be adjusted if the longer-term presented to the Committee and adjustments are reviewed by the view cycleor exit plan supports the use of more conservative multiples.
Ernst & Young LLP also specifically review Thishas been a particularly important exercise in light of the increased and consider the appropriateness of a sample of these adjustments volatility experienced in the quoted equity markets over the period andreports to the Committee.
Imminent sale assets At any point in time a number of potential exit processes from the Assets that are within active sales processes are reviewed by the portfolio may be underway.
Judgement is applied by management as Committee including details such as the timeline to potential to the likely eventual exit proceeds and certainty of completion.
This completion, the number and make-up of bidders for investments, means that in some cases the valuation of an asset may not be moved execution and due diligence risks and regulatory or competition to an imminent sales basis until very shortly before completion: in other clearance issues.
Management propose a treatment for each asset cases the switch may occur on signing.
However as a general rule the which the Committee reviews.
valuation of an asset moves to an imminent sale basis only when a process is materially complete and the remaining risks are estimated tobe minimal, taking into account the normal completion risk around unquoted equity transactions.
Assets valued using a DCF basis For assets valued using DCF techniques the key valuation judgements Material assumptions and significant changes to these assumptions relate to longer-term assumptions that drive the underlying business arereviewed by the Committee.
This may include third-party support plan and cash ows and appropriate discount rates.
Sensitivity to assumptions is also noted.
Discount rates are selected by management with reference to market transactions, weighted average cost of capital calculations and other public data.
Any material changes are reviewed by the Committee andexternal advice is sought from time to time.
Debt Management CLO equity valuation process The level of capital deployed into Debt Management investments at Reecting the market volatility in the second half of the year, 31March 2016 was 229 million 31 March 2015: 176 million.
66% of this management increased the level of information provided to the relates to investment in CLO equity where there is infrequent trading Committee to allow it to assess the appropriateness of the valuations.
and therefore little third-party evidence of value.
Consequently, This included input from the relevant credit teams regarding the judgement is required on the choice of basis to use for CLO valuations, underlying assets.
The use by management of independent data, such including use of broker marks and internal DCF models.
as broker marks supporting the proposed valuations increased and broker marks are the primary data point to determine fair value.
The quarterly valuation report includes a range indicated from all available data points, including internal DCF models, against the proposed valuation.
The range and actual values are reviewed by the Committee.
Ernst & Young LLP also selected a sample of CLOs for valuation by their valuation specialists in order to review the appropriateness of managements valuation and included their results in a report to the Committee.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 81 Overview Strategic report Corporate Governance Audited financial statements Portfolio and other information As part of its challenge and review process, the Committee: Considered the management information provided to support the Committees review of the portfolio valuation, including the strength and operation of the internal controls and managements responses to any challenges raised by the Committee members or Ernst & Young LLP: Sought assurance from the external Auditor as to whether and how it had considered each of these areas: Reviewed the consistency of the views of management and the external Auditor.
The Committee was satisfied that the application of the policy and process was appropriate during the applicable period, and recommended the portfolio valuation to the Audit and Compliance Committee and the Board at each quarter end for approval by the Board.
Portfolio trends As noted in the prior years report, at least annually the Committee Chairman and management conduct a review of the valuation outcomes in the portfolio over the preceding three years.
The Committee Chairman and Group Finance Director reported to the Board in May 2016 on the key observations.
By order of the Board D A M Hutchison Chairman, Valuations Committee 18 May 2016 Further information on the Valuation Committees terms of reference can be found at www.
