Strategic report Investment Advisers review Phil White and The portfolio continued to perform well in FY16, underpinning Ben Loomes Managing Partners strong NAV growth and portfolio income progression, in line and Co-heads, Infrastructure, with the Companys objectives.
This performance builds on 3iInvestments plc the strong long-term performance of the Company, which has 11 May 2016 delivered an annualised total shareholder return of 11.3% since its IPO in 2007.
We were pleased to have made anumber of new investments during the year, demonstrating our ability to access attractive opportunities within the Companys target markets.
These investments further diversify the Companys portfolio.
The Company is well positioned for the future and we begin FY17 with three new investments announced and a healthy investment pipeline.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 15 Strategic report Investment Advisers review Continued The team leveraged its partnerships, international network and local About the Investment Adviser knowledge to invest or commit to invest a total of 193.4 million 3i Investments plc 3i Investments, a wholly-owned subsidiary across the Companys target markets during the year.
Of this of 3i Group plc 3i Group, acts as the investment adviser the amount, 111.1 million was invested in ESVAGT, 52.6 million in two Investment Adviser to the Company through its infrastructure further oil storage terminals alongside Oiltanking and 23.5 million investment team the investment advisory team.
The investment in the West of Duddon Sands WODS Offshore Transmission advisory team provides advice to the Company on the origination Owner OFTO.
These new investments have been performing and execution of new investments, on the management of the well and contributed to portfolio income in the second half of the portfolio and on realisations, as well as on funding requirements.
In addition, on 15 March 2016 the Company announced it had 3i Group was among the subscribers to the Companys Initial Public committed to invest 6.2 million in the Condorcet Campus primary Offering in 2007 and subsequent Placing and Open Offer in 2008, PPP project in France and, as is usual with primary PPP investments, and owns approximately 34% of the equity in the Company.
3i Group this commitment will be drawn at the end of the construction of has undertaken irrevocably to subscribe for its pro rata entitlement the project, which is expected in 2019.
These new investments under the Open Offer announced on 12 May 2016 and will retain are complementary additions to the Companys existing portfolio, its34% holding upon the completion of that Offer.
providing further geographical and sector diversification.
The investment advisory team is managed as a separate business Since the year end, 3i Infrastructure announced that it had signed line within 3i Group and operates from offices across 3i Groups an agreement to acquire a 36% economic interest in Wireless European network, focusing on origination, execution and portfolio Infrastructure Group, investing approximately 75 million and joining management.
The Investment Adviser also has a dedicated team existing majority shareholder Wood Creek Capital Management and in Mumbai to manage the assets in the India Fund.
The team of the management team as shareholders.
It also announced it had investment professionals has significant experience of investing agreed to invest approximately 200 million to acquire up to 50% in, and managing, infrastructure assets.
The investment advisory in TCR, in a consortium with Deutsche Asset Management.
Finally, team can also draw on 3i Groups broader network of investment it committed to invest 5 million in the Hart van Zuid primary PPP professionals and relationships to originate infrastructure project in the Netherlands.
These investments provide further sector investment opportunities.
and geographical diversification, adding exposure to high quality There have been a number of new appointments to the investment economic infrastructure businesses with attractive opportunities for advisory team over the recent months.
Bernardo Sottomayor joined growth and to a further Dutch primary PPP project.
the team as a Partner from Antin Infrastructure in October 2015, The new investments in WIG, TCR, Condorcet Campus and Hart van with a focus on the origination, execution and asset management Zuid are profiled on pages 6 to 9. of investments across Europe.
In addition, James Dawes was appointed as Chief Financial Officer of 3is Infrastructure business, The Investment Adviser continues to develop the Companys pipeline in succession to Stephen Halliwell from January 2016.
A number of future investment opportunities and is assessing a number of of other appointments were also made, focused on the origination, potential investments across the UK and Europe.
execution and asset management of investments, as well as finance, Driving value from the economic operations and strategy.
 The profiles of the senior members of the investment advisory team The publication of the new regulatory settlement for Elenia was are on page 18. an important feature in the year.
In December 2015, the Finnish Energy Authority, which regulates electricity distribution in Finland, Implementation of the Companys strategy issued the final determination for the sector covering the next duringthe year two regulatory periods from January 2016 to December 2023.
In highly competitive markets, and in line with the Companys This included several changes to address the low allowed return on strategic priorities, the Board and the Investment Adviser capital experienced by all distribution companies over recent years, focused on: and was in line with our expectations following the publication of draft guidelines in June 2015.
The Investment Adviser worked with Diversifying the Companys portfolio with attractive Elenias management team throughout the year to assess the impact investments in the Companys target markets, of the regulators draft proposals and to frame Elenias response to whileremaining disciplined in our approach to these proposals.
The publication of the final determination formed newinvestment part of the year-end valuation review of the Companys holding in Elenia, including a reduction in the discount rate used to value the Competition for large Core economic infrastructure businesses investment, reflecting the reduced regulatory risk over the next remains strong, as evidenced by a number of recent transactions eight years.
Against this backdrop, the Investment Adviser has remained disciplined in its approach to new investment, targeting more attractive risk-adjusted returns in areas of the infrastructure market, such as mid-market economic infrastructure businesses as well as greenfield projects, consistent with the Companys investment focus outlined on pages 10 to13.
16 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report The 20152020 regulatory period for AWG AMP6 commenced Continuing to manage the assets intheIndiaFund on 1 April 2015.
The AWG management team is now focusing The Investment Adviser aims to realise value from the assets in the on the implementation of the capital expenditure and efficiency India Fund over the next few years and is making progress towards programmes to drive value through AMP6.
As part of the regulatory that objective.
During the year, the India Fund sold its entire holding settlement for AMP6, AWG also has a set of Outcome Delivery in Ind-Barath Energy.
The Company expects to receive proceeds of Incentives.
These are key operational performance parameters approximately 7 million from that sale in the first quarter of FY17.
against which AWG will be judged and which carry material This builds on the progress in FY15, when the India Fund achieved financial incentives and penalties.
The business, with input from the sale of approximately 54% of its holding in Adani Power.
The India the Investment Adviser and other shareholders, is implementing Fund represented 4.1% of the Companys portfolio at 31 March 2016, initiatives to optimise performance against these parameters.
or 3.6% excluding the value of Ind-Barath Energy, which was valued at the sales proceeds at that date.
Market conditions in the oil and gas sector have been challenging, with a material decline in oil prices over the year.
ESVAGTs Managing the Companys balance sheet efficiently performance has remained resilient in this environment, given the medium-term nature of its contracts with producing platforms.
The Investment Adviser ensured the implementation of the We believe that these difficult market conditions could provide Companys objective of managing its balance sheet efficiently, while growth opportunities for ESVAGT, which has the advantages maintaining liquidity to fund investment opportunities.
The Company of a strong market position, scale, a younger fleet and better had low levels of cash throughout the year, following the payment profitability compared to some of its competitors and we have of a special dividend of 150 million to shareholders and the been engaging actively with ESVAGTs management to assess a redeployment of substantially all of the retained proceeds from the number of development opportunities.
We also believe that ESVAGT sale of Eversholt Rail in the new investments described above.
is well positioned to continue to grow in the offshore wind energy To ensure financial flexibility, the Company negotiated a new RCF support market.
The business made good progress against that in May 2015, increasing the size of the Facility from 200 million objective in the last financial year, signing an agreement with MHI to 300 million on attractive terms.
In April 2016, to accommodate Vestas to provide a bespoke service operation vessel in support of further investment activity, the Company increased the size of the two offshore wind power developments in Belgium for a period of Facility from 300 million to 500 million on a temporary basis to 10years from vessel delivery in mid-2017.
The maturity date of the Facility was extended by The Companys investments in the Oiltanking terminals continued one year to May 2019. to perform well.
Their performance is not directly correlated to the oil price, but more to the forward curve.
Market conditions Outlook for Oiltankings trading customers improved during the year, with The Company delivered a strong total return during the last financial periods of contango in key product markets.
This was offset in part year, underpinned by the robust performance of the portfolio.
by a reduction in demand for storage of certain products in parts Demand for large Core economic infrastructure investments in of Europe and by additional storage capacity coming on line in the Europe continues to be strong, with recent transactions providing Singapore region.
However, the strong market position of the five further evidence of low projected returns in this area.
The Company terminals continues to ensure that capacity at each terminal remains has reinvested the proceeds from the sale of Eversholt Rail in a substantially let and that contract renewals are achieved on good number of attractive investments across the Companys target terms.
Following the completion of the investments in the Oiltanking markets, which are performing well and contributed positively to the Ghent and Oiltanking Terneuzen terminals in June 2015, the overall return for the year.
Investment Adviser has been working to embed these investments We continue to develop the Companys investment pipeline and within the Oystercatcher vehicle and governance framework.
As a are assessing a number of investment opportunities across our result, the discount rate used to value Oystercatcher was reduced at target sectors and geographies.
In this highly competitive market, the end of March 2016, reflecting the fact that the vehicle now owns we will remain disciplined in the assessment and pricing of alarger and more diverse set of terminals.
In the favourable debt market conditions over the recent years, the optimisation of portfolio companies capital structures has been a key driver of value creation by the Investment Adviser.
Elenia was able to refinance the last tranche of its acquisition debt during the period, on attractive terms.
The Investment Adviser is heavily involved in strengthening the boards and management teams of its investee companies.
In August 2015, Elenia appointed Tommi Valento as CFO, replacing Aapo Nikunen.
Tommi was formerly Group Treasurer at Pohjolan Voima Oy, a Finnish power company, and has significant debt capital markets experience.
Stephen Billingham, former CFO of British Energy and currently chairman of Punch Taverns, took over as chairman of AWG from Robert Napier in April 2015.
On 2 November 2015, ESVAGT announced the appointment of Jesper Lok, formerly CEO of the Danish Railroads and of Falcks Emergency Division, as chairman.
The Investment Adviser continues to work with the Companys portfolio to assess new investment and capital expenditure programmes, as well as value accretive investments.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 17 Strategic report Investment Advisers review Continued Profiles of senior members of the investmentadvisory team James Dawes Ben Loomes Phil White CFO, Infrastructure Managing Partner and Co-head, Managing Partner and Co-head, James is Chief Financial Officer for Infrastructure Infrastructure 3iGroups Infrastructure business and Ben is a Managing Partner and Co-head Phil joined 3i in 2007 and is Managing joined in January 2016.
He manages of 3is Infrastructure business.
Ben is Partner and Co-head of 3is Infrastructure the operational, financial and reporting a member of 3is Executive Committee business and a member of 3is Executive requirements for the Infrastructure and Investment Committee and has Committee and Investment Committee.
business within 3i Group, as well as experience across all of 3is business lines.
Prior to joining 3i, he was Division Director performing CFO duties for 3i Infrastructure Ben is responsible for the management, in Macquaries Infrastructure Funds plc.
Prior to joining 3i, James was with Legal origination activities and strategic business where he managed investments & General Investment Management where development of 3is Infrastructure business in the transport sector.
Phil has over 20 he held a number of senior finance roles, and leads the relationship with the Board years of investment, advisory and finance including Finance Director of LGV Capital of 3i Infrastructure plc.
Ben led the sale experience from earlier roles at Barclays and WestLB.
Phil leads asset management from 2007 to 2015. of Eversholt Rail and is currently a board for 3is Infrastructure business and holds director of ESVAGT.
He was involved board positions at Anglian Water Group, in the recent investments in Wireless Elenia and the Oiltanking companies.
Ben has over 15 years of experience in investment, advisory and finance, including from earlier roles at Goldman Sachs, Greenhill and Morgan Stanley.
Stphane Grandguillaume Nigel Middleton Scott Moseley Partner, Infrastructure Partner, Infrastructure Partner, Infrastructure Stphane is a Partner in 3is Infrastructure Nigel is a Partner in 3is Infrastructure Scott joined 3i in 2007 and is a Partner in team in Paris and joined 3i in November team in London and joined 3i in November the Infrastructure team with a focus on 2013, following 3is acquisition of Barclays 2013, following 3is acquisition of Barclays originating and executing investments in Infrastructure Funds Management Limited, Infrastructure Funds Management Limited.
He has 15 years which he joined in 2006.
Stphane leads He joined that business in 2002, having of experience in European Infrastructure, 3is Infrastructure team in Paris and is previously been head of PFI PPP Advisory spanning utilities, transportation and social involved in the origination and execution Services at PwC.
Nigel led the involvement infrastructure.
Whilst at 3i, Scott has led of investment opportunities in PPP and of that business in the formation and the investments in Elenia, Thameslink low-risk energy projects across Europe.
management of Infrastructure Investors and ESVAGT, and was a senior deal 2 Previously, Stphane was head of Egis I, a pioneering secondary market team member on Eversholt Rail.
infrastructure fund, in which Barclays also responsible for the successfully Infrastructure Funds Management had exited junior debt investments in Arqiva, a joint venture interest alongside Socit Associated British Ports, Tldiffusion fide Gnrale and 3i.
He was also instrumental France, Thames Water and Viridian.
He is a in establishing, and continues to manage, board director at ESVAGT.
BIIF, a long-term buy and hold PPP fund 2 which acquired I in 2009.
Bernardo Sottomayor Partner, Infrastructure Bernardo is a Partner in 3is Infrastructure team in London and joined 3i in October 2015, with a focus on originating and executing investments in economic infrastructure.
He was involved in the recent investment by 3i Infrastructure in TCR.
Bernardo was most recently a Partner at Antin Infrastructure, which manages funds investing in infrastructure opportunities across Europe.
Prior to Antin, Bernardo was Managing Director, Head of Acquisitions for Deutsche Banks European infrastructure fund.
His prior experience was in utilities, as Head of M&A at Energias fide Portugal, and in infrastructure advisory with UBS andCitigroup.
18 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Portfolio Table 1 summarises the valuation and movements in the portfolio, as well as the return for each investment, for the year.
As a result of the adoption of accounting standards, Investments at fair value through profit or loss, as reported in the Consolidated balance sheet includes, in addition to the portfolio asset valuation, the cash and other net assets held within intermediate unconsolidated holding companies.
These amounts are set out at the foot of the table below, to provide a reconciliation between the Directors valuation of the portfolio assets and Investments at fair value through profit or loss reported in the Consolidated financial statements.
The basis of the portfolio information set out below is consistent with analyses in previous periods.
3 Investments in the Mersey Gateway Bridge, Ayrshire College, A12, A9, La Sant, RIVM and Condorcet Campus primary PPP projects.
4 Income statement adjustments explained in Table 4 and Balance sheet adjustments explained in Table 7 in the Financial review.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 19 Strategic report Investment Advisers review Continued The Companys acquisition of a 45% interest in each of Oiltanking Investment and realisation activity Terneuzen B. V. OTT in the Netherlands and Oiltanking Ghent The Company was active in its target markets, investing a total of N. V. OTG in Belgium from Oiltanking GmbH completed on 5 June 187.2 million during the year.
Of this amount, 163.7 million was 2015.
The total consideration for this investment was 77.8 million invested in two mid-market economic infrastructure investments, including transaction costs, including 52.6 million in equity provided with the balance of 23.5 million invested in a low-risk energy by the Company and 25.2 million of additional debt funding raised in project.
In addition, the Company announced in March it had Oystercatcher, which now holds these two investments alongside its committed to invest an additional 6.2 million in a primary PPP existing 45% stakes in Oiltanking Amsterdam, Oiltanking Malta and project in France.
In an environment of increased competition and Oiltanking Singapore.
The investments are complementary additions to rising prices, the investments are a strong endorsement of the the Oystercatcher portfolio which diversified its portfolio of oil storage Companys investment strategy and the Investment Advisers ability terminals investment review: page 44. to source attractive investment opportunities that are capable of delivering attractive risk-adjusted returns, in line with the Projects portfolio Companys objectives.
The West of Duddon Sands WODS OFTO project reached financial In April 2015, as announced with the Companys full year results, close on 21 August 2015, with 3i Infrastructure investing 23.5 million the Company completed the sale of its investment in Eversholt Rail, for its 50% holding.
The project involves the acquisition, financing and crystallising an exceptional return for shareholders, and generating operation of power transmission cables and associated electrical net cash proceeds of 365 million.
equipment connecting the WODS offshore wind farm in the Irish Sea to the onshore grid investment review: page51.
During the year, the 3i India Infrastructure Fund completed the sale of its holding in Ind-Barath Energy.
The transaction generated On 15 March 2016, the Company announced that it had committed proceeds to the Company of approximately 7 million, an uplift to invest 6.2 million to acquire an 80% interest in the Condorcet of 14% over the underlying carrying value at 31 March 2015.
Campus PPP project in France, in a consortium also comprising The proceeds from this sale are expected to be received in the first entities of the VINCI Construction France and ENGIE groups.
The divestment is consistent with the India Funds This investment is profiled in the new investment case study on strategy of realising its investments over the next few years.
Economic infrastructure businesses Investment activity post year end 3i Infrastructure and AMP Capital announced the joint acquisition Since the year end, the Company announced the investment of of 100% of ESVAGT from Maersk on 7 July 2015.
The transaction approximately 75 million in WIG, approximately 200 million in TCR completed on 17 September 2015, following EU Merger Regulation and a commitment to invest approximately 5 million in the Hart van clearance.
The Company invested 111.1 million including Zuid primary PPP project, as outlined in the new investment case transaction costs to acquire its 50% interest.
For more information studies on pages 6 to 9. on this investment, please refer to the investment review on page 46.
Chart 1: Reconciliation of the movement in portfolio value year to 31 March 2016, m 1,500 187.2 1,400 1,300 1 1,223.1 48.7 1,222.1 138.6 1,200 1,100 1,000 375.5 900 Total: 187.3m 800 700 Opening Investment Divestment Unrealised Exchange Closing portfolio capital value movement portfolio value at repayment movement value at 1 April 2015 31 March 2016 1 Excludes movement in the foreign exchange hedging programme see Table 3.
20 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Movements in portfolio value Total value movement As set out in Chart 1, the portfolio assets were valued at The total value movement in the year was 187.3 million 1,222.1 million at 31 March 2016, compared to 1,223.1 million at 2015: 229.7 million.
Value movement represents the change in the beginning of the financial year.
The movement in portfolio value the portfolio valuation within a measurement period.
Changes to was driven principally by investments and realisations during the portfolio valuations arise due to several factors, as shown in Table 2. period, as well as by good value growth for the European portfolio, The key driver of the value movement during the year was the robust offset in part by a decline in the value of the Companys holding in the performance of the portfolio.
Discount rates were reduced for Elenia, India Fund.
The main driver of the changes in macroeconomic assumptions was lower inflation.
Investment Economic infrastructure portfolio The Company invested a total of 187.2 million in the period in four The economic infrastructure portfolio was valued at 1,034.6 million new investments.
These investments are described on page20.
at 31 March 2016 2015: 1,050.9 million and generated an Divestment proceeds capital repayments unrealised value gain of 144.0 million in the year or 194.4 million after exchange movements.
This was driven by the continued The Company received total proceeds from investments of robust operational performance of the underlying investments, and 381.1 million in the year 2015: 22.4 million, comprising principally principally by the valuation uplift for the Companys holding in Elenia.
proceeds of 365.2 million relating to the sale of its holding in Eversholt Rail, which completed on 16 April 2015.
The asset was Elenia was valued at 362.4 million at March 2016 valued on a sales basis at 31 March 2015.
2015: 238.5 million, including foreign exchange gains of 28.8 million.
In December 2015, the Finnish Energy Authority, Other proceeds received by the Company during the year included: which regulates electricity distribution in Finland, issued the final 14.8 million from Elenia relating to income capitalised in determination for the sector covering the next two regulatory the previous financial year and to the partial repayment of a periods from January 2016 to December 2023.
This included shareholder loan: several changes to address the low allowed return on capital 0.1 million from NMM relating to income capitalised in the experienced by all distribution companies over recent years, previous financial year: and was in line with our expectations following the publication of draft guidelines in June 2015.
In addition, in February 2016 Elenia 0.1 million in respect of a partial shareholder loan repayment announced that it would increase its distribution tariffs by 9.4% from from Elgin: and the beginning of April.
The discount rate used to value Elenia at the 0.9 million in respect of a partial shareholder loan repayment year end was reduced to reflect the increased regulatory certainty from the WODS OFTO project.
over the next eight years.
The combined positive effect of these developments and the increase seen in the Finnish Government bond yield, to which the allowed return remains linked, resulted in anuplift of 109.7 million over the opening value.
Table 2: Components of value movement year to 31 March 2016, m Value movement component Value movement in the year m Description Planned value growth 24.6 Net value movement resulting from the passage of time, consistent with thediscount rate and cash flow assumptions at the beginning of the period less distributions received in theperiod.
Asset performance 68.7 Net movement arising from actual performance in the period and changes to future cash flow projections, including financing assumptions and changes to regulatory determination assumptions.
It also includes uplift to sales basis from last valuation.
Discount rate movement 45.0 Value movement relating to changes in the discount rate applied to thevaluations.
Macroeconomic assumptions 0.3 Value movement relating to changes to macroeconomic out-turn or assumptions, eginflation, interest rates on deposit accounts and taxation rates.
This includes changes toregulatory returns that are directly linked tomacroeconomic variables.
Total value movement before exchange 138.6 Unrealised foreign exchange retranslation 48.7 Movement in value due to currency retranslation to period-end rate.
Total value movement 187.3 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 21 Strategic report Investment Advisers review Continued Projects portfolio AWG was valued at 255.0 million at March 2016 The PPP and low-risk energy projects portfolio was valued at 2015: 242.3 million.
The business performed well during the 134.6 million at March 2016 2015: 109.0 million reflecting the year, with operational performance and income levels in line with new investment in the WODS OFTO during the period, as well as the expectations.
The business is currently focused on implementing its continued robust operational performance of the portfolio.
This was efficiency and capital spending programmes and has made a good offset in part by income receipts in the year and by the impact of start against the targets for the 20152020 regulatory period, or lower than expected inflation.
The discount rate used to value NMM AMP6, which began on 1 April 2015.
The valuation at the end of the was reduced during the year as the project became operational in year reflects the lower inflation assumptions for 2016 and a more the last financial year, contributing to a value uplift for this asset of prudent approach to gearing through the remainder of AMP6.
1.6 million, including foreign exchange gains, or 35%.
Oystercatcher was valued at 186.9 million at March 2016 3i India Infrastructure Fund 2015: 110.5 million, including foreign exchange gains of The India Fund was valued at 52.9 million at March 2016 12.3 million.
Much of the value increase over the year was 2015: 63.2 million, after exchange losses of 2.1 million as the attributable to the new investments in the Oiltanking Terneuzen Indian rupee declined against sterling in the period, as shown in and Oiltanking Ghent terminals 52.6 million cost, which are now Table 3.
The negative value movement was due to a number of held through the Oystercatcher vehicle, alongside the existing investments in Oiltanking Amsterdam, Oiltanking Malta and factors, including continued delays in project execution and funding Oiltanking Singapore.
The five terminals continue to perform well constraints for the road projects, and the pricing and availability of both operationally and financially, with capacity substantially let fuel for the investments in the power sector.
During the year, the and a good level of throughput.
The discount rate used to value share price of Adani Power fell by 28%, resulting in a reduction in Oystercatcher at the end of March was reduced, to reflect the fact thevalue of the Companys holding of 2 million.
that the vehicle now owns a larger and more diverse set of terminals.
Foreign exchange impact The valuation of Oystercatcher is affected by the euro and Singapore dollar exchange rate against sterling.
The euro and Singapore dollar There was significant volatility in exchange rates in the financial year, exposures are partially hedged, as described below.
with foreign exchange translation losses incurred in the first half of the year more than reversed in the second half, as the euro, Danish ESVAGT was valued at 121.6 million at March 2016, against an krona and Singapore dollar all increased against sterling.
The business has continued to perform robustly since acquisition.
While the lower oil price In March 2014, the Board extended the Companys existing hedging environment is beginning to impact new oil and gas exploration policy to partially cover the Singapore dollar exchange rate risk activity, it has not yet impacted producing platforms, to which the that arises from the underlying investment in Oiltanking Singapore.
majority of ESVAGTs revenues are tied.
Since investment, ESVAGT More recently, the Board also extended the Companys hedging has progressed in diversifying its business away from its core oil and policy to partially cover the Danish krona exchange rate risk that gas client base and secured a new, 10-year contract with MHI Vestas arises from the investment in ESVAGT, which completed in July 2015. to provide a bespoke service operation vessel in support of the As shown in Table 3, the reported net foreign exchange gain on Belwind 1 and Nobelwind Belgian offshore wind farms.
This contract investments of 48.9 million related mainly to the Companys euro had not been included in the original investment case.
and Danish krona portfolio, albeit those gains were largely offset XLT was valued at 108.7 million at March 2016 2015: 99.8 million, through the respective hedging programmes.
reflecting continued progress in the manufacturing of the trains and The Indian rupee depreciated against sterling in the period, resulting offset in part by income receipts in the year.
There are some initial in a small foreign exchange loss.
The Indian rupee exposure is delays in the acceptance programme and the Investment Adviser is not hedged.
working closely with XLT management, Siemens and GTR to address these.
The conditional acceptance of the first unit by GTR took place in March 2016, with the delivery programme scheduled to complete in 2018.
Table 3: Impact of foreign exchange movements on portfolio value year to 31 March 2016, m SGD rupee DKK Net impact Translation of unhedged assets rupee 2.1 2.1 Translation of partially hedged assets SGD DKK 51.0 51.0 Reported foreign exchange losses gains on investments 2.1 51.0 48.9 Movement in the fair value of derivative financial instruments SGD DKK hedging 44.6 44.6 Net foreign exchange losses gains 2.1 6.4 4.3 22 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 3i India Infrastructure Fund and Dalmore Capital Fund Summary of portfolio valuation methodology The Companys investments in the India Fund and in the Dalmore Investment valuations are calculated at the half year and at the Capital Fund were valued as the Companys share of net assets held financial year end by the Investment Adviser and then reviewed and by those funds.
Investments are reported at the Directors estimate of fair value at the reporting date.
Within the India Fund valuation, Adani Power, which has been a listed company since August 2009, was valued on a mark-to-market basis The valuation principles used are based on International Private using closing bid prices, Krishnapatnam Port was valued on the Equity and Venture Capital valuation guidelines, generally using a basis of consideration due under a put option, and Ind-Barath Energy discounted cash flow DCF methodology except where a market was valued based on the sales proceeds to be received by the India quote is available, which the Board considers to be the most Fund in the first quarter of FY17.
All other investments were valued appropriate valuation methodology for unquoted infrastructure on an underlying DCF basis.
All of Dalmore Capital Funds underlying investments were valued Where the DCF methodology is used, the resulting valuation is ona DCF basis.
checked against other valuation benchmarks relevant to the particular investment, including, for example: Investment track record earnings multiples: As shown in Chart 3 on page 24, since its launch in 2007, 3i recent transactions: Infrastructure has built a portfolio that has provided: quoted market comparables: and significant income, supporting the consistent delivery of the regulated asset base multiples.
Companys annual dividend objective: strong capital profits from realisations: and Chart 2 shows the movement in the weighted average discount rate applied to the portfolio at the end of each year since the Companys consistent capital growth.
During the year, the weighted average discount rate was These have underpinned an 18% annualised gross portfolio asset updated to reflect the addition of the investments in ESVAGT, the two IRR since the Companys inception.
The economic infrastructure and further Oiltanking terminals and of the WODS OFTO in the portfolio.
projects portfolio, in particular, have generated strong returns, in line In addition, the following changes were made during the year: with, or in many cases ahead of, expectations.
These returns were the discount rate used to value Elenia was reduced at the year underpinned by substantial cash generation in the form of income or end to reflect the increase in regulatory clarity over the next eight capital profits.
Indeed, most investments have returned a significant years following the publication of the final determination for the proportion of their cost through income in a relatively short time.
next two regulatory periods in December 2015: The value created through this robust investment performance the discount rate used to value AWG was reduced to reflect was crystallised in a number of instances through well managed revised gearing assumptions: realisations, shown as Realised assets in Chart 3.
While the the discount rate used to value Oystercatcher was reduced at the Company is structured to hold investments over the long term, it year end, as the vehicle now owns a larger and more diverse set has sold assets where compelling offers have generated additional ofterminals: and shareholder value.
This was the case with Eversholt Rail in 2015, which generated an IRR in excess of 40%, as well as through the the discount rate used to value the NMM PPP project was reduced 2 realisations of Alma Mater in 2008, I in 2009, the junior debt portfolio at the end of September 2015 as it became operational during the in 201112 and Alpha Schools in 2013, generating an aggregate IRR last financial year.
The net impact of these movements was to reduce the weighted The valuation of the India Fund has, however, been volatile, and has average discount rate from 10.2% at 31 March 2015 to 9.9% at continued to be affected by currency and macroeconomic issues, 31 March 2016. aswell as a number of issues related to specific investments.
Chart 2: Portfolio weighted average discount rate 31 March 2016, % 13.8 13.2 12.6 12.5 12.4 12.0 11.8 10.2 9.9 Mar 08 Mar 09 Mar 10 Mar 11 Mar 12 Mar 13 Mar 14 Mar 15 Mar 16 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 23 Strategic report Investment Advisers review Continued Chart 3: Portfolio asset returns throughout holding period since inception, m Existing portfolio Elenia 18% 195 Annualised asset IRR from IPO 367 86 to 31 March 2016 AWG 173 25612 138 Oystercatcher 137 187 85 ESVAGT 111 127 68 Cross London Trains 62 110 13 Projects 103 2 136 48 3i IIF 107 53 11 Realised assets Eversholt Rail 151 391 114 Projects 173 250 22 Junior debt portfolio 120 135 24 T2C and Novera 18 10 Total cost Value including accrued income Proceeds on disposals capital returns Cash income 24 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016
