Review of investments ESVAGT Performance in the year Cost 111.1m Closing value 121.6m Equity interest 50% Opening value Investment in the year 111.1m Income in the year 5.4m Value movement in the year 1.2m 1 Net exchange movement in the year 0.9m Asset total return in the year 7.5m Valuation basis DCF 1 Exchange movement of 9.3 million net of allocated foreign exchange hedging movements of 8.4 million.
46 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Review of investments The agreement builds on an existing it provides an essential service Description for the offshore energy industry in five-year partnership with MHI Vestas Headquartered in Esbjerg, Denmark, light of regulatory health and safety and demonstrates the companys strong ESVAGT is a leading provider of emergency requirements, which constitutes a small customer relationships, its best in class rescue and response vessels ERRV and component of the overall production cost, operations and its partnership approach.
related services to the offshore energy resulting in lower price sensitivity: industry in and around the North Sea and The Investment Adviser has developed a it operates in a market with high barriers the Barents Sea.
ESVAGT has been operating strong working relationship with members to entry, as customers require bespoke since 1981, employs over 900 people and of the management team and is working vessels, manned by experienced crews owns a fleet of 43 vessels.
Its services closely with them to drive the business with a strong safety track record.
mainly involve the rescue and recovery of forward.
As part of this process, the The harsh weather conditions and personnel, but also include the dispersion Investment Adviser assisted with the language barriers also inhibit new market and recovery of oil spills, crew transfers, appointment of a new Chairman, Jesper entrants based outside the region: and towing, and the warning of vessels that Lok, who took office on 1 November 2015. approach platforms too closely.
It has an with its leading market position, strong Jesper is a strong addition to the Board and established position as a leading provider of safety track record and state-of-the-art brings over 25 years of experience from the emergency response and rescue services in fleet, ESVAGT is optimally positioned to A. P. Moller-Maersk Group, having worked in offshore Denmark and Norway, with market exploit growth opportunities in the UK and Japan, Taiwan, Pakistan and Nigeria before shares of approximately 100% and 50% potentially further afield, as well as in the heading SVITZER, the Maersk subsidiary that respectively, as well as a growing presence offshore wind energy market.
was formerly ESVAGTs parent company, in the UK and high growth offshore wind as CEO.
In 2012, he joined DSB, the Danish services segments.
Approximately 80% of railroads, as CEO and led the companys Developments in the year ESVAGTs ERRV revenues are associated turnaround.
Most recently, he was CEO of ESVAGT performed in line with our with North Sea oil and gas production Falcks Emergency division.
investment case during the year.
support, with the balance associated The market conditions in which ESVAGT with North Sea oil and gas exploration operates have been challenging, with oil expenditure and offshore wind services.
prices declining since the Company invested, but ESVAGTs performance has remained Investment rationale resilient against this backdrop.
While lower 3i Infrastructure acquired ESVAGT from oil prices may have affected oil majors AP Mller-Maersk and other minority short-term exploration plans, they have shareholders in September 2015, in a not affected producing platforms, which consortium with AMP Capital.
ESVAGT services through medium and ESVAGT has strong infrastructure long-term contracts, with high contract characteristics and operates in an renewal rates.
In addition, these challenging attractive market: conditions could provide some growth opportunities for ESVAGT, which has the it is a market leader in Denmark and advantages of scale, a younger fleet and Norway, and has a small but growing better profitability in comparison with some presence in the UK offshore oil and gas of its smaller competitors.
market and in the expanding North Sea offshore wind sector: ESVAGT is well placed to leverage its strong market position to capitalise on growth it is an asset intensive business, with a opportunities in the UK market as well as the modern state-of-the-art fleet of purposeoffshore wind energy support market, and built vessels: made good progress towards that objective a high proportion of its revenues are during the year.
On 7 December 2015, it contracted over the medium term with a announced that it had signed an agreement diverse customer base featuring limited with MHI Vestas to provide a bespoke customer concentration, underpinning service operation vessel in support of the stable and predictable cash flows: Belwind 1 and Nobelwind Belgian offshore wind power developments.
Under the terms of the agreement, ESVAGT will operate the vessel for the exclusive use of MHI Vestas on-site wind park engineering team for a period of 10 years from vessel delivery, which is expected in mid-2017.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 47 Review of investments Cross London Trains XLT Performance in the year Cost 61.8m Closing value 108.7m Equity interest 33.3% Opening value 99.8m Income in the year 4.8m Value movement in the year 8.9m Asset total return in the year 13.7m Valuation basis DCF 48 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Review of investments The Company and the Investment Adviser Description Investment rationale have built a strong working relationship Cross London Trains is a company The investment has strong infrastructure with Siemens and Innisfree, the other established to procure and lease the rolling characteristics and fits well within 3i shareholders in XLT.
stock for use on the Thameslink passenger Infrastructures investment mandate as: rail franchise.
As part of a wider upgrade of The investment was immediately accretive it is a strategic asset, operating in the Thameslink rail network, XLT is investing to the Company through interest payments, the capacity-constrained London 1.6 billion in a fleet of new Siemens and generates an attractive yield.
commuter market: Desiro City commuter rail carriages to be it will generate high quality, low-risk leased to the Thameslink rail franchise Developments in the year cash flows, with rentals due on a hell operator, with the continued leasing of the During the year, Siemens made good or high water basis and lease revenues trains underpinned by the Department for progress with the manufacturing of the underpinned for 20 years by the DfT: Transport DfT for a period of 20 years trains.
In total, 23 trains were completed the s54 period.
it will retain ownership of the trains and delivered for testing in Germany, following this initial 20-year period, eight of which have been delivered for Siemens is manufacturing and will deliver with their residual value supported by testing in the UK.
The focus is now on the the trains over a period of five years, with favourable market dynamics: and acceptance of units for passenger service the first delivery into service expected in it allows the Company to partner with in the UK, a complex process driven by GTR 2016.
The fleet will comprise 1,140 Desiro Siemens, a market leader in UK rolling as franchise holder, which also involves City commuter rail carriages, capable of stock manufacture and maintenance.
multiple third-party stakeholders, as well running on both overhead and third rail lines.
as Siemens, XLT and Eversholt Rail.
GTR is The fleet will be maintained by Siemens Achievements in the period ultimately responsible for the safe operation under a long-term service agreement.
of the trains, while NR has to deliver the ofownership Following the initial 20-year s54 period, XLT underlying infrastructure.
There are some A senior management team was installed at will retain the ownership of the fleet and will initial delays in the acceptance programme XLT, comprising a new executive chairman be free to lease the trains for the remainder and the Investment Adviser is working and a managing director with relevant of their useful life.
The Company owns closely with XLT management, Siemens and industry experience.
Andy Pitt, executive 33.3% of the equity in XLT, in consortium GTR to resolve the issues.
The provisional chairman, was previously managing with Siemens Project Ventures GmbH and acceptance of the first unit by GTR took place director of South West Trains.
in March 2016, with the delivery programme managing director, was previously a scheduled to complete in 2018. commercial principal at Transport for London.
They have successfully set up all necessary business functions and built a strong working relationship with Eversholt Rail, which provides technical engineering and administrative services to the business under a long-term management services contract.
XLT, supported by its shareholders, has engaged proactively with a number of stakeholders, including Siemens, the DfT, Network Rail NR and the franchise holder, Govia Thameslink Railway GTR.
GTR has been the holder of the Thameslink franchise since September 2014 and XLT has built a good working relationship with itsmanagement team.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 49
