Review of investments Anglian Water Group AWG Performance in the year Cost 161.9m Closing value 255.0m Equity interest 10.3% Opening value 242.3m Income in the year 11.1m Value movement in the year 12.7m Asset total return in the year 23.8m Valuation basis DCF 42 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Review of investments supply resilience at the heart of decisionA new management incentive scheme Description was put in place post investment, aligning making in the sector, extending competition Anglian Water Group Limited is the parent compensation with long-term value growth, for business customers and changing the company of Anglian Water, the largest water asset quality and customer service rather abstraction regime to encourage more and water recycling company in England and than short-term earnings and share price efficient use of water resources.
Most of Wales by geographical area and the fourth performance.
The management team now the changes in the Water Act had been well largest as measured by regulatory capital balances long-term planning, for example, to signalled and, as a top performing company value.
The majority of the groups revenue respond to the challenges of climate change, AWG is well placed to accommodate the is earned through tariffs regulated by Ofwat with a clear focus on operational efficiency proposed changes.
However, the structural and linked to RPI.
nature of market liberalisation means that The investment is held through 3i Osprey increasing amounts of management time LP, an intermediary limited partnership will be consumed over the next year as AWG Developments in the year whose partners comprise other third works towards the non-household retail AWG performed well during the year, with parties including 3i Group, which has a market opening in April 2017.
In December operational performance and income levels small interest and which is managed by 2015, Ofwat published its Water 2020 in line with expectations.
consultation document, which sets out its is currently focused on implementing proposals for the regulatory framework its cost efficiency and capital spending Investment rationale for wholesale markets and the 2019 price programmes to drive value through the review, including opening up of the sludge AWG was taken private in 2006 by a group 20152020 regulatory period, which began and water resources markets and the of investors, including 3i Group, which on 1 April 2015.
As part of the regulatory introduction of CPI indexation.
The proposals seeded part of its AWG holding into 3i settlement for AMP6, AWG also has a set in Water 2020 had largely been well Infrastructure when the Company was of Outcome Delivery Incentives.
These are trailed and AWG is engaging proactively set up in 2007.
The business has strong key operational performance parameters in this consultation along with the rest of infrastructure characteristics: against which AWG will be judged and the industry.
which carry material financial incentives a regulated near-monopoly position in and penalties.
The business, with input In the current environment of low inflation its geographical area for the provision of from the Investment Adviser and other and in order to preserve greater financial water and water recycling services: shareholders, is currently implementing flexibility, the board of AWG has decided stable and predictable earnings and cash initiatives to optimise performance against to manage gearing downwards slightly flows through RPI-linked tariffs: and these parameters.
through the end of this AMP.
This will reduce largely predictable operating costs.
dividends to the Company from those The core water business continues to previously anticipated, and reduced the In addition, AWG has perform well operationally.
Ofwat did not yearend value accordingly.
attractive fundamentals: produce its Service Incentive Mechanism survey for the year ending 31 March 2015 Anglian Water has diverse sources of a strong and well-established as the industry had just received its final funding, and successfully refinanced its management team: settlement for AMP6.
However, Anglian bank facilities and certain long dated bonds a well maintained asset base: Water ranked third qualitatively in Ofwats during the year on attractive terms.
operations in a geographic region with survey for the financial year to March 2016, On 1 April 2015, Stephen Billingham, high population growth and relatively the first to be measured under the new former CFO of British Energy and currently low industrial exposure, limiting cyclical regime, with the quantitative results still chairman of Punch Taverns, took over correlation: and to come.
as chairman of AWG from Robert Napier.
a track record of strong As expected, revenues were lower during In addition during April, John Hirst, formerly operational performance.
the year due to the reduction in average CEO of the Met Office, Steve Good, former bills following the regulatory settlement CEO of Low & Bonar, and Polly Courtice, Achievements in the period and a slight reduction in demand from a Director of the University of Cambridge ofownership residential customers.
Also, as expected, Institute for Sustainability Leadership, were operating costs were slightly higher as AWG AWG has flourished under private appointed to the Board of the regulated implements measures in response to the ownership.
It has refocused on its core water company as non-executive directors.
new Outcome Delivery Incentive targets.
business, selling Morrison Utilities Services, Christopher Garnett and John Watkinson There were no major operational incidents Morrison Facilities Services and much of stepped down as non-executive directors and water resource levels are normal for its property portfolio.
The company has of the regulated water company at the end this point in the year.
been able to optimise its capital structure of 2015. compared to listed peers and to distribute During the second half of the year, Anglian a higher proportion of cash flows to Water completed its IRIS programme, shareholders, resulting in a strong yield.
which involved upgrading the telemetry The regulated capital value has grown system across its entire asset base.
steadily, underpinned by a comprehensive The new system will give Anglian Water a capital expenditure programme, which will much greater level of oversight of its asset be maintained for the 20152020 regulatory base and operations, which will assist it period AMP6.
in planning and implementing its asset maintenance programme.
The Water Act became law in 2014, setting out a number of changes to the structure of the industry, including placing water 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 43
