Overview Economic infrastructure Case study of Wireless InfrastructureGroup: New investment since the year end Wireless Infrastructure Groupand its market A strong investment case On 7 April 2016, 3i Infrastructure signed an agreement to This investment diversifies the Companys portfolio with acquire a 36% economic interest in the Wireless Infrastructure exposure to a growing communications infrastructure business Group WIG investing approximately 75 million and joining and access to recurring, inflation-linked cash flows that are existing majority shareholder Wood Creek Capital Management underpinned by long-term contracts: and the management team as shareholders.
Completion of the wireless broadband data usage in the UK is forecast to transaction is conditional upon receiving clearance from the increase significantly over the coming years as 4G becomes European Commission under the EU Merger Regulation and is the standard technology in mobile devices and demand for anticipated by the end of June 2016. mobile TV, video on demand and other data intensive services WIG is an independent communications infrastructure provider continues to rise.
As usage grows, increased coverage and headquartered in Bellshill, Scotland.
The business builds densification of the mobile network is required, creating and operates communications towers in rural and suburban demand for further infrastructure: areas.
It also operates fibre based networks, to improve wireless towers are critical pieces of infrastructure that mobile coverage in large buildings and on city streets.
WIG is are largely agnostic to technological change and there is no independent of any network operator and invests in shareable feasible alternative method of wireless data transmission: infrastructure that is made available to all networks to access.
WIGs towers are attractively located in areas of high It generates revenues by leasing capacity on its towers through demand and are typically taller than the towers owned by long-term RPI-linked contracts.
Mobile Network Operators, which gives them greater reach Wireless broadband is now an essential service and substantial and capacity to carry equipment: investment is required in the years ahead to build out coverage the cash flows of the business are inflation-linked and are in rural areas and to keep pace with demand in urban centres.
underpinned by long-term contracts with low historic churn WIG provides the enabling infrastructure to support mobile rates: and operators and other wireless networks as they connect with with its established and growing market position, scalable their customers.
Independent tower operators account for only platform and track record of making accretive acquisitions, approximately 25% of European tower ownership compared to WIG is well placed to target further growth in the UK and over 60% globally and over 80% in the US.
A solid foundation for furthergrowth The transaction is part of a strategy to scale up WIG.
The business has ambitions to expand its footprint in the UK through building new infrastructure and acquiring under-managed infrastructure from third parties, as well as to participate in the expansion of the sector in Europe.
3i Infrastructure is well positioned to support this growth through its long-term capital and the Investment Advisers engaged asset management approach and European presence.
6 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Economic infrastructure Case study of TCR: New investment since the year end TCR and its market A strong investment case On 29 April 2016, 3i Infrastructure announced it had agreed to TCR fits with the Companys strategy of investing in companies invest approximately 200 million in TCR in a consortium with with good asset backing, strong market positions and barriers Deutsche Asset Management.
3i Infrastructure and Deutsche toentry, yet with operational levers to achieve attractive returns Asset Management will each acquire economic interests in for shareholders through active asset management: TCR of up to 50% from current owners Chequers Capital and GSE is a scarce resource that is critical to the functioning of Florac.
The remaining equity will be retained by the existing an airport: through first mover advantage, TCR has benefited management team.
Completion of the transaction is conditional from securing the largest independent GSE fleet in Europe.
upon receiving EU Merger Regulation clearance and is TCR has access to maintenance workshops in prime locations anticipated by the end of August 2016. at airports, many of which are located airside.
This means that Headquartered in Brussels, Belgium, TCR is Europes largest a high quality maintenance and asset management service independent asset manager of airport ground support can be provided, resulting in high availability of TCRs fleet: equipment GSE and operates at over 100 airports.
TCR is able to offer full-service rentals on a pan-European Since inception, TCR has defined the market for leased GSE, basis.
This creates competitive advantages against providing high quality assets and a full service leasing, competitors, which tend to offer either dry leases or only maintenance and fleet management offering to its clients, repair and maintenance services.
TCRs network means whichare predominantly independent ground handling it canoffer pan-European solutions at multiple locations, companies, airlines and airports.
This enables GSE operators matching the footprints of its customers: toconcentrate on their core business of ground handling.
outsourcing ownership of GSE equipment makes economic The GSE that TCR provides is critical infrastructure, without sense for independent ground handlers, as it allows them which some of Europes busiest airports could not operate.
tomanage the mismatch between short-term handling contracts and the typically 10-15 year useful life of equipment: Potential to grow the business further TCRs rental contracts are aligned with the ground Operational leasing makes up a small, but growing, proportion handlers contracts with the airlines and are typically of the overall market for GSE in Europe, since most equipment 3-5 years in duration.
TCR has experienced a high level of remains owned by airlines and ground handlers.
However, contract renewal: leasing is becoming an increasingly attractive funding model, as the business has a diversified portfolio and is present at it offers greater flexibility than ownership and provides ground over100 airports across 12 countries with a diverse contract handlers with an external source of capital for investment.
and customer base meaning the revenues of the business are As the largest lessor in Europe, we expect TCR to benefit from not materially reliant on a single client or geography: and continued expansion of the overall market.
3i Infrastructures investment is also part of a strategy to support TCR not only in its the investment will provide exposure to the long-term growth growth in Europe, but also as it expands further internationally.
in the aviation market, which is fundamentally GDP driven, yet it is expected to be insulated from short-term shocks to demand due to its exposure to aircraft movements rather thanpassenger numbers.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 7 Overview Projects portfolio Case study of Condorcet Campus and Hart van Zuid primary PPP project investments Growing our Projects portfolio The Company continues to make progress in building its Projects portfolio and recently Whilst economic infrastructure remains its key area of focus, the Company has been growing its primary PPP and low-risk announced two new primary PPP investments energy projects portfolio where it is able to access attractive in France and the Netherlands.
The Investment Adviser enhanced its capabilities in the PPP and low-risk energy markets with the acquisition, in November 2013, of the Barclays European infrastructure funds management business.
Since this acquisition, the Company has invested in eight primary PPP projects, one of which, the National Military Museum in the Netherlands, became operational in the last financial year.
In addition, during the year the Company completed the investment in the West of Duddon Sands OFTOproject, in the low-risk energy sector.
Development of the Projects portfolio over the last three years FY14 FY15 FY16 Commitments in the year: Commitments in the year: Commitment in the year: Mersey Gateway Bridge UK, Ayrshire College UK, 4.6 million Condorcet Campus FR, 7.9 million 13.1 million RIVM NL, 4.8 million Investment in the year: NMM NL, 6.3 million A12 NL, 5.3 million West of Duddon Sands OFTO UK, A9 NL, 22.3 million 23.5 million La Sant FR, 11.7 million Breakdown by project Breakdown by sector Breakdown by country I H D C G A F A C A E D B B C B A WODS 26% E Condorcet 7% A Transport 40% A UK 46% B A9 20% F NMM 7% B Low-risk energy 26% B Netherlands 36% C Mersey Gateway G Ayshire College 5% C Government and social accommodation 22% C France 18% Bridge 15% H A12 5% D Educational facilities 12% D La Sant 11% I RIVM 4% Note: Data above includes investment commitments.
8 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Condorcet Campus Sada Dalmau, SBDA, Campus Condorcet, 2015 On 15 March 2016, 3i Infrastructure announced that it had The 170 million project involves the design, build and finance committed to invest 8 million to acquire an 80% interest in the of new buildings for a campus in Aubervilliers, north of Paris, Condorcet Campus primary PPP project in France.
A consortium aswell as the provision of facilities management services.
comprising 3i Infrastructure and entities of the VINCI Construction Classrooms, student housing, a faculty club, cafeterias and other France and ENGIE groups was selected aspreferred bidder student living facilities will be built for the use of social sciences following a tender run under the supervision of the Ministry students, faculty and research staff.
Construction is expected to ofHigher Education and Research.
be completed by the summer of 2019.
Hart van Zuid On 29 April 2016, the Company announced it had committed In addition, the Zuidplein shopping centre will be renovated 5million to acquire a substantial majority interest in the andexpanded and the new Charlois swimming pool will be Hart van Zuid primary PPP project in Rotterdam, the Netherlands incorporated into the current city hall.
Furthermore, the metro in a partnership with Heijmans Capital and Ballast Nedam.
and bus transportation hubs will be renewed.
200 million project involves the renewal and revitalisation Construction work will commence in the second quarter of 2016. of thearea surrounding the Zuidplein and Ahoy centres.
During the multi-year project, the Ahoy convention centre will be significantly expanded to include an international conference centre, a musichall, a cinema and a hotel.
An art building withalibrary andtheatre will be constructed on the new PleinopZuid square.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 9
