Governance Board of Directors Richard Laing Philip Austin MBE Doug Bannister Non-executive Chairman Non-executive Director, Senior Independent Director Non-executive Director Richard Laing was Chief Executive of CDC Group plc, Philip spent most of his career in banking with HSBC in Doug has over 25 years of experience in the from 2004 to 2011, having joined the organisation in the UK and Jersey and, from 1997 to 2001, was Deputy transportation sector, having led businesses trading 2000 as Finance Director.
Prior to CDC, he spent 15 Chief Executive of the banks business in the Offshore around the world for P&O Nedlloyd and Maersk years at fide La Rue, where he held a number of positions Islands.
In 2001, he became the founding CEO of Jersey Line.
He became Group CEO of the Ports of Jersey in the UK and internationally, latterly as the Group Finance Ltd, the body set up as a joint venture between Airport & Harbours in 2011, with responsibility for Finance Director.
He wasalso a non-executive Director the government of Jersey and its Finance Industry, the Islands strategic aviation and maritime assets.
He previously worked in agribusiness and to represent and promote the Industry in Jersey and Skilled in turnaround, restructuring and transformation at  andMarks & Spencer.
Between 2006 and 2009, he was at of capital intense transportation businesses, he has His current non-executive appointments include Equity Trust where he had direct responsibility for been responsible for business improvements in a wide JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc Jersey, Guernsey and Switzerland as well as being a variety of transport and logistics activities in both the and Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust member of the Group Executive Committee.
He has freight and passenger segments.
Board member since plc: MiroForestry, which operates in Ghanaand since taken a number of directorships in companies 1 January 2015, resident in Jersey.
Sierra Leone and which he chairs: the Overseas in the financial services sector.
He is a Fellow of Development Institute: and Plan UK, the international the Chartered Institute of Bankers and a Fellow of childrens charity.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of the Institute of Management.
Board member since CharteredAccountants in England and Wales FCA.
Boardmember since 1 January 2016, resident in the UK.
Wendy Dorman Ian Lobley Paul Masterton Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Wendy is a chartered accountant who began her career Ian joined 3i in 1987.
He has been a Partner since Paul spent most of his career in the printing and as an auditor and went on to specialise in financial 1994 and an active investor and board member communications industry, holding various appointments services taxation.
In 2001, she moved from London to across Europe, Asia and the USA.
In his role as in the UK, the US and Asia.
From 2008 to 2013, Paul was Jersey and she led the Channel Islands tax practice Partner Asset Management, Ian has responsibility the chief executive of the Durrell Wildlife Conservation of PwC until June 2015.
Wendy has over 25 years for investments in companies across a variety of Trust, an international wildlife charity.
Paul has a experience in taxation gained both in the UK and the sectors and is an experienced board member across number of directorships in banking, insurance and offshore environment, working both in practice and in multiple geographies.
He is a member of the 3i Group property development and, in 2012, was appointed as industry.
Wendy is Chairman of the Jersey branch of Investment Committee and is a member of the BVCA UK the founding chairman for Digital Jersey, a partnership the Institute of Directors and was awarded the 2011 IOD and European Capital Committee.
Board member since between the Government of Jersey and the digital sector Jersey Female Director of the Year.
She is also a non- 6 May 2014, resident in the UK.
to represent and promote the industry.
Board member executive director of Jersey Finance and CQS New City since 4 April 2013, resident in Jersey.
She is a former President of the Jersey Society of Chartered and Certified Accountants.
Board member since 1 March 2015, resident in Jersey.
Steven Wilderspin Non-executive Director, Chairman of Audit and RiskCommittee Steven has been the Principal of Wilderspin Independent Governance, which provides independent directorship services, since April 2007.
He was previously a director of fund administrator at Maples Finance Jersey Limited.
He has served on a number of private equity, property and hedge fund boards as well as the boards of special purpose companies engaged in structured finance transactions.
Before that, from 1997, he acted as Head of Accounting at Perpetual Fund Management Jersey Limited.
He also sits on the boards of two of 3i Infrastructure plcs Luxembourg subsidiaries, 3i Infrastructure Luxembourg Holdings S. r. l. and 3i Infrastructure Luxembourg S. r. l. He is a qualified Chartered Accountant.
Board member since 20 September 2007, resident in Jersey.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 55
