Review of investments Oystercatcher Performance in the year Cost 137.1m Closing value 186.9m Equity interest 45% Opening value 110.5m Investment in the year 52.6m Income in the year 14.2m Value movement in the year 11.5m Net exchange movement in the year1 0.6m Asset total return in the year 26.3m Valuation basis DCF Note: Opening cost was 84.5 million.
1 Exchange movement of 12.3 million net of allocated foreign exchange hedging movements of 11.7 million.
44 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Review of investments Description Achievements in the period Developments in the year Oystercatcher Luxco 2 S. r. l. ofownership During the year, 3i Infrastructure completed Oystercatcher is the holding company its acquisition of 45% interests in two further The investment case has largely been through which the Company holds 45% Oiltanking terminals in Ghent in Belgium confirmed, with the investments performing interests in five subsidiaries of Oiltanking and Terneuzen in the Netherlands.
Storage capacity has been substantially GmbH Oiltanking, located in Belgium, total 77.8 million consideration for these let throughout the period of investment, and Malta, the Netherlands and Singapore.
investments, 25.2 million was funded by throughput levels have been high.
additional debt in Oystercatcher, which holds These businesses provide over five million The Investment Adviser was actively the two investments alongside its existing cubic metres of oil, petroleum and other involved in the assessment of a range of 45% interest in Oiltanking Amsterdam, oil-related storage facilities and associated capital expenditure project proposals that Oiltanking Malta and Oiltanking Singapore.
services to a broad range of clients, have delivered long-term value accretion.
including private and state oil companies, The market conditions for trading customers In Singapore, a 160,000 cubic metre refiners, petrochemical companies improved during the year, with periods of expansion project was approved in 2008 and traders.
contango when the spot or cash price of a to accommodate increasing demand from commodity is lower than the forward price adjacent refineries and petrochemical Oiltanking is one of the worlds leading in key product markets.
This was completed in June independent storage partners for oils, by a reduction in demand for storage of 2009, with the capacity let on a use-or-pay chemicals and gases, operating 73 terminals certain products in parts of Europe, and by basis under a long-term contract to an in 22 countries with a total storage capacity additional storage capacity coming on line existing customer.
In Amsterdam, a 42,000 of 19 million cubic metres.
in the Singapore region, which has led to cubic metre expansion project to provide some pressure on the storage rates at the dedicated storage for biodiesel products for Investment rationale point of contract renewal.
The strong market a new production facility adjacent to the site The investment in the Amsterdam, Malta position of the five terminals continues was completed in June 2011.
This capacity and Singapore terminals was completed to ensure that capacity at each terminal was pre-let on a use-or-pay basis.
Several in August 2007, while the investment remains substantially let and that contract smaller investments were approved to in the Ghent Belgium and Terneuzen renewals continue to be agreed on good upgrade throughput and customer service.
Netherlands terminals was completed terms.
Overall, the terminals performed In Malta, investment in a new 13,000 cubic inJune 2015. well during the year and faced no significant metre tank was approved in 2011, completed operational issues.
The key elements of the investment case in February 2012, and let on a use-or-pay basis forthe terminals are: to an existing customer.
Since investment, A number of capital investment projects, to total capacity at these three terminals has expand capacity and or to improve further there is strong projected demand for oil increased by 28%.
the operational capabilities of the terminals, and oil-related products: are currently being explored.
Oystercatchers portfolio of investments was storage capacity remains scarce and is a diversified further in June 2015 through the key component of the oil and oil product The discount rate used to value acquisition of 45% stakes in the Oiltanking supply chain, resulting in high occupancy: Oystercatcher was reduced at the end Ghent and Oiltanking Terneuzen terminals, of March 2016, to reflect the fact that the the businesses provide essential located in the strategically important vehicle now owns a larger and more diverse services and the terminals benefit from  region.
set of terminals, which also contributes facilities and operational capabilities that to reducing the refinancing risk, as the make them attractive to existing and Oystercatcher completed a refinancing debt is now serviced by cash flows from potential clients: of its acquisition debt facilities in March five businesses.
2013, and a further refinancing in October the terminals are defensively located in 2014.
Both achieved good terms, extending key trading hubs and continue to benefit the maturity date and lowering debt from high utilisation levels: servicing costs.
contracts are let on a use-or-pay basis with fixed terms of up to 10 years, often with tariffs linked to local inflation rates, resulting in reliable cash flows: and the transactions allowed 3i Infrastructure to partner with a leading player in the oil storage market, with a strong operational reputation.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 45
