Review of investments Elenia Description Elenia owns the second largest electricity distribution network in Finland.
Headquartered in Tampere, it serves around 417,000 customers in the south west of the country and has a market share of approximately 12%.
The business is regulated on a four-year cycle, delivering a set return on its regulated asset base.
The electricity distribution business accounts for approximately 90% of Elenias overall value.
Elenia Lmp owns and operates 16 local district heating networks, each with strong market shares in their local areas.
District heating, which involves the pumping of hot water directly into homes and businesses from central hubs, is not regulated in Finland.
This business accounts for approximately 10% of Elenias overall value.
The investment is held through 3i Networks Finland LP, an intermediary limited partnership which is managed by the Investment Adviser.
Investment rationale The Company purchased Elenia from Vattenfall AB in January 2012 in a consortium with 3i Group plc, GS Infrastructure Partners and Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company.
Elenia has strong infrastructure characteristics and operates in an attractive market: the electricity distribution business operates in a stable and transparent regulatory environment, with regulatory Performance in the year incentives providing opportunities for value-accretive growth: Cost 194.8m the businesses are profitable and provide inflation linkage.
This is likely to support Closing value 362.4m a robust yield to 3i Infrastructure over the long term: and Finland is an attractive market, providing Equity interest 39.3% opportunities for consolidation over the Opening value 238.5m medium term.
Income in the year 18.8m Divestment in the year1 14.6 m Value movement in the year 109.7m Net exchange movement in the year2 4.9m Asset total return in the year 133.4m Valuation basis DCF 1 Capitalised income repaid in the year.
2 Exchange movement of 29.0 million net of allocated foreign exchange hedging movements of 24.1 million.
40 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Review of investments In July 2014, Elenia became the first Elenia was able to continue to take Achievements in the period electricity distribution network in Europe advantage of the favourable credit market ofownership and second in the world to receive ISO conditions during the year, issuing new The businesses were rebranded with the 55001 certification.
ISO 55001 is a set of bonds, with maturities to 2030 and 2031, on Elenia name in May 2012, reinforcing international standards establishing best attractive terms, which it has used to repay the separation from Vattenfall to practice for the systems and operations of bank debt and fund capex.
Elenia, supported by the consortium, The business successfully completed the continues to monitor potential acquisition Developments in the year post-acquisition corporate reorganisation in opportunities in the fragmented electricity early January 2013.
This allowed Elenia to Overall, both businesses continued to distribution market.
Consolidation of the begin distributing dividends to shareholders.
perform well operationally and financially, existing network would allow Elenia to In December 2013, Elenias original despite warmer than average weather leverage its operational expertise.
acquisition debt was fully refinanced through conditions reducing demand and the impact On 1 August 2015, Tommi Valento, formerly a Whole Business Securitisation, the first of of a number of severe storms throughout Group Treasurer at Pohjolan Voima Oy, was its kind to be applied to a non-UK European the year, which resulted in power disruptions appointed as CFO of the business, replacing utility.
This was an important milestone for and higher than average regulatory Aapo Nikunen.
the business, with positive implications for outage costs.
value, as it provided a platform for access to Elenia revised its long-term business plan In December 2015, the Finnish Energy the long-term capital markets and reduced to reflect the impact of the new regulatory Authority, which regulates electricity the ongoing cost of debt.
Together with the reduction in the distribution in Finland, published its final was enhanced through the appointment of discount rate used to value the investment, determination for the 20162019 and new independent chairmen to the boards of this led to a value uplift in the Companys 20202023 regulatory periods.
The new each business, as well as through a number holding in Elenia of 109.7 million over guidelines include several changes to of management appointments to further the year.
address the issue of the low allowed return strengthen the executive teams.
In addition, on capital experienced by all distribution As announced on 15 January 2016, management incentives were put in place companies over recent years, with the and further to the announcement by to align management incentivisation to the objective of incentivising distribution Elenia Finance Oyj on the same date, the objectives of the shareholders.
companies to improve the security of supply.
shareholders in Elenia are undertaking a The consortium has engaged with the The determination is broadly in line with the strategic review of their interests in the management team of Elenia to update and draft guidelines published earlier in the year.
The shareholders continue to enhance its capital expenditure plans to explore their options, and no decisions have In February 2016 Elenia announced that it improve network reliability.
would increase its distribution prices by an in January 2012, Elenia has invested more average of 9.4% with effect from 1 April 2016 than 340 million in developing its electricity in order to support further investment in the network, with a particular emphasis on reliability of its network.
improving service reliability and weather proofing.
The rate of underground cabling Following the proposed distribution has improved from 23% at acquisition to price increases announced by certain 34% as at 31 December 2015.
A number of other Finnish distribution companies, the acquisitions have also been examined, with Energy Authority issued a memorandum the first bolt-on acquisition of an adjacent at the request of the Finnish Ministry of network completed in August 2012.
Employment and the Economy proposing that the Ministry consider legislative steps Throughout the period of ownership, the to: i define a limit on one-off increases consortium has supported the management in the electricity distribution tariff and team in its dialogue with the regulator.
minimum intervals between such increases: The regulator introduced a new security of and ii ensure that a sufficient share of supply incentive, aimed at improving the the income deriving from the electricity reliability of electricity supply in response distribution tariffs is directed to network to outages caused by severe weather investments.
The Ministry has confirmed conditions in 2011 and 2012, effective from that these proposals serve as the basis for January 2014, and more recently confirmed the Governments further assessment of the a revised approach to asset depreciation.
potential legislative changes and indicated During the year, the regulator published its that it anticipates that such potential final determination for the two regulatory changes could enter into force by the periods beginning on 1 January 2016. beginning of 2017.
We do not expect this new As described below, this is favourable legislation to impact materially the value of for the industry and for Elenia, and has the Companys holding in Elenia.
had a positive impact on the value of the Companys holding in the business.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 41
