Overview Our largest investments Elenia owns the second largest electricity distribution network in Finland.
Elenia Headquartered in Tampere, it serves around 417,000 customers in the south west of the country and has a market share of approximately 12%.
The business is regulated on a four-year cycle, earning a set return on its regulated asset base.
The current regulatory period commenced on 1 January 2016 and the regulator has confirmed that most of the regulated parameters will remain the same for the following fouryear period.
Elenia Lmp owns and operates 16 local district heating networks, each with strong market shares in their local area.
District heating, which involves the pumping of hot water directly into homes and businesses from central hubs, is not regulated in Finland.
4041 For more information Anglian Water Group Limited AWG is the parent company of Anglian Water, the Anglian Water Group largest water and water recycling company in England and Wales by geographical area and the fourth largest as measured by regulatory capital value.
The majority of the groups revenue is earned through tariffs regulated by Ofwat and linked to RPI.
The current regulatory period started on 1 April 2015 and runs to 31 March 2020.
4243 For more information Oiltanking GmbH Oiltanking is one of the worlds leading independent storage Oystercatcher partners for oils, chemicals and gases, operating 73 storage terminals in 22 countries, with a total storage capacity of 19 million cubic metres.
Oystercatcher is the holding company through which the Company invested in 45% interests in five subsidiaries of Oiltanking, including two acquired in the year.
The businesses, which are located in the Netherlands, Belgium, Malta and Singapore, provide over 5 million cubic metres of oil, petroleum and other oil-related storage facilities and associated services to a broad range of clients, including private and state oil companies, refiners, petrochemical companies and traders.
4445 For more information ESVAGT, a new investment in the year, is a leading provider of emergency rescue ESVAGT and response vessels and related services to the offshore energy industry in and around the North Sea and the Barents Sea.
Headquartered in Denmark, ESVAGT has been operating since 1981, employs over 900 people and owns a fleet of 43 vessels.
It has an established position as a leading provider of emergency response and rescue vessels in offshore Denmark and Norway, as well as a growing presence in the UK and offshore wind services segments.
4647 For more information Cross London Trains XLT is a company established to procure and lease the Cross London Trains rolling stock for use on the Thameslink passenger rail franchise.
As part of a wider upgrade of the Thameslink rail network, XLT is investing 1.6 billion in a fleet of new Siemens Desiro City commuter rail carriages to be leased to the Thameslink rail franchise operator, with the continued leasing of the trains underpinned by the Department for Transport for a period of 20 years.
Siemens will manufacture and deliver the trains over five years, with the first delivery into service in 2016.
4849 For more information 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 5
