Review of investments Projects portfolio Description Projects in construction Mersey Gateway Bridge, a project involving the design, build, finance, operation and maintenance of a 1km tolled bridge across the river Mersey in Liverpool, as well as 9km of approach roads, against availabilitybased payments commencing from 2017.
Construction commenced in April 2014, with completion expected in September 2017.
3i Infrastructure, alongside partner FCC, a Spanish construction company, is invested in a vehicle that holds a 25% interest in the project.
Ayrshire College, a project to build a newcampus for Ayrshire College in Kilmarnock, Scotland.
The project involves the design, build, finance, operation and maintenance of a new college campus, against availability-based payments over aconcession period of 25 years.
Completion of construction is expected inthesummer 2016.
3i Infrastructure has a100% interest in the project.
RIVM, a project to build the new premises of the National Institute for Public Health and the Environment and the Dutch Medicines Evaluation Board in Utrecht, the Netherlands.
The project scope involves the design, build, finance, maintenance and 2 operation of 70,000m facility comprising an office building and laboratories on the site of Utrecht Science Park.
Completion of construction is expected in 2019.
3i Infrastructure has a 28% interest in this project through Heijmans Capital BV, a joint venture in which 3i Infrastructure has an 80% interest, with the balance held by Heijmans NV, the Dutch construction group.
Performance in the year A12, a project involving the refurbishment, widening and maintenance of an 11km Cost 100.7m section of the A12 motorway in the Netherlands, as well as the maintenance of Closing value 134.6m an additional 8km section.
Construction is expected to be completed by the end of 2016.
Opening value 109.0m 3i Infrastructure has an 80% interest in the project, through Heijmans Capital BV.
Investment in the year 23.5m 1 A9, a project involving the design, build, Divestment in the year 1.1 m management, maintenance and financing Income in the year 8.4m of the existing and new infrastructure Value movement in the year 2.8m of the A9 motorway between Diemen 2 Net exchange movement in the year and Holendrecht in the Netherlands.
The project will reconstruct and expand Asset total return in the year 11.2m the A9 motorway between these junctions, Valuation basis DCF and LP share of funds for Dalmore including a bridge over the river Gaasp.
Notes: In addition to the value of the investments shown above Elgin, Octagon, It will also include the construction of an Dalmore, NMM and WODS, the Company also has undrawn commitments to approximately 3km overground tunnel.
primary PPP projects totalling 58.8 million.
The total invested and committed 3i Infrastructure has a 45% interest in portfolio value at 31 March 2016 was 193.4 million.
the project, with the balance held by Opening cost was 78.3 million.
Heijmans NV, Ballast Nedam and Fluor 1 Partial shareholder loan repayments and capitalised income repaid in the year.
2 Exchange movement of 0.4 million net of allocated foreign exchange hedging Infrastructure BV.
50 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Review of investments National Military Museum is a project La Sant, a project involving the design, Developments in the year procured by the Dutch Ministry of Defence build, refurbishment, finance and All assets in the operational PPP portfolio comprising the design, build, finance and maintenance of various buildings for La performed well operationally during the maintenance of a museum facility on the Sant prison in Paris.
The project will period, delivering good levels of income: site of the former Soesterberg Airbase, also include the provision of facilities located approximately 60km south east of Overall, the projects in the Elgin portfolio management services once construction Amsterdam.
The construction of the project are performing in line with expectations.
is complete, which is expected to be by the was completed in September 2014, and There is a construction defect in one of end of 2018.
3i Infrastructure has an 80% the project became operational in the last the schools which is being rectified by the interest in the project, with the balance held financial year.
by subsidiaries of Vinci Construction France and GDF-Suez.
Octagon continues to perform in line The facility exhibits military equipment with expectations.
and holds various related events including Condorcet Campus, a project involving the workshops and symposia on military NMM is performing well and in line with design, build and finance of new buildings research.
The project is owned by Heijmans expectations.
The discount rate used for the Condorcet Campus, as well as the Capital BV, a joint venture between 3i to value NMM was reduced during the provision of facilities management services, in Aubervilliers, France.
The project will and Heijmans.
year to reflect it moving from a project also include classrooms, student housing, in construction to an operational project, Low-risk energy projects a faculty club, cafeterias and other student generating a value uplift of 1.6 million, living facilities to be built for the use of or 35%.
WODS OFTO is a project jointly owned social sciences students, faculty and by 3i Infrastructure and PPP Equity PIP The Dalmore portfolio is performing research staff.
Construction is expected L. P. a fund managed by Dalmore Capital.
to be completed by the summer of 2019.
The project involves the acquisition, The Investment Adviser continues to be 3i Infrastructure has an 80% interest in the financing and operation of power active in sourcing and making investments project, with the balance held by entities transmission cables and associated on behalf of the Company in greenfield of the VINCI Construction France and electrical equipment connecting the WODS projects.
In March 2016, the Company ENGIE groups.
offshore wind farm to the onshore grid in committed to invest a total of 6.2 million the Irish Sea.
The OFTO assets include one inthe Condorcet Campus in France.
Operational projects offshore substation platform, two 40km Elgin is a portfolio of PFI project long subsea cables, two 3km land cables In August 2015, the Company reached investments, comprising five schools and a new onshore substation.
The project financial close on its 23.5 million projects and 11 community healthcare operates under a licence awarded by Ofgem, investment in a 50% holding in the WODS schemes, all of which are fully operational, with a 20-year revenue entitlement period.
This is the first OFTO to have The project was fully commissioned at under concessions of up to 32 years.
been acquired by the Company.
However, acquisition and is generating good levels The portfolio companies receive inflationthe Investment Adviser has extensive of income.
linked payments to cover services and experience of managing OFTOs as a member buildings maintenance, which are subject of the Blue Transmission consortium, of to performance deductions for service Investment rationale which it has been a member since 3i Groups failures and unavailability.
Facilities services acquisition of the Barclays Infrastructure Exposure to PPP and low-risk energy are sub-contracted to Robertson Facilities platform in November 2013. projects provides the Companys portfolio Management in 15 projects and Carillion with low risk, index-linked cash flows.
The Companys greenfield projects Facilities Management in one project.
Investments in primary PPP projects tend to portfolio is generally performing well, generate capital uplifts as the investments Octagon is a concession company under with construction proceeding broadly are managed from the construction phase a 35-year PFI contract to build, operate to plan and within budget.
and maintain the Norfolk and Norwich commencement of construction of the RIVM University Hospital.
Construction of the project is significantly delayed and there is Achievements in the period hospital was completed in August 2001. a risk of termination.
The authority, SPV and Octagon receives RPI-linked payments ofownership contractor are working together to address from the NHS Trust to cover services and the issues causing delay, which relate to All operational assets in the PPP portfolio buildings maintenance, which are subject to the suitability of the building design to meet have performed well through their period performance deductions for service failures the specification.
The Investment Adviser of ownership, in line with, or ahead of, and unavailability.
Octagon sub-contracts isclosely involved in the negotiations.
expectations, providing a good return to the the provision of facilities services to Serco.
This has been due principally to engaged portfolio management Dalmore Capital Fund is a 25-year LP on the part of the Investment Adviser and fund managed by Dalmore Capital Limited, other shareholders.
The Investment Adviser investing in equity and subordinated debt has a strong track record in managing the in secondary PFI transactions which are development and construction risks for the operational and do not have volume-based primary PPP portfolio.
The fund can invest across the social infrastructure sector The Investment Adviser generated and targets gross returns of 10% for its significant value through the sale of the investors.
The fund was fully drawn at 2 Companys holdings in Alma Mater, I and 31 March 2015 with total commitments Alpha Schools at material uplifts over of249 million.
cost in 2008, 2009 and 2013 respectively, generating an aggregate IRR of 30%.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 51 Review of investments 3i India Infrastructure Fund Description The 3i India Infrastructure Fund the India Fund is a US$1.2 billion fund which closed in 2008, investing in a diversified portfolio of equity or equivalent investments in India, focusing on the port, road and power sectors.
3i Infrastructure committed US$250 million to this fund.
The investment period for the India Fund ended on 30 November 2012 and the Board expects that the Companys remaining commitment of US$37.5 million will not be substantially drawn.
As at 31 March 2016, the India Fund was invested in a portfolio of six assets in the power and transportation sectors.
Transportation The investments in the transportation sector accounted for 68% of the India Funds value at 31 March 2016.
Krishnapatnam Port has a concession to develop, operate and maintain the port of Krishnapatnam in the state of Andhra Pradesh.
KMC Roads has a portfolio of  BOT road projects, comprising projects which are both operating and under construction, among the largest portfolios of its kind in India.
Supreme Roads is building a portfolio of BOT road projects.
Soma Enterprise is an infrastructure developer in India, which focuses mainly on BOT road projects, but also on projects in the hydro power, irrigation, railways, power transmission and urban Performance in the year infrastructure sectors.
Power Cost 91.9m The investments in the power sector accounted for 32% of the India Funds value Closing value 52.9m at 31 March 2016.
Adani Power focuses on the development Partnership interest 20.9% and operation of power plants and the Opening value 63.2m sale of power generated.
With operational capacity of 10,440MW, it is currently the Value movement in the year 8.2 m largest independent private power producer Exchange movement in the year 2.1 m in India in terms of operating capacity.
Asset total return in the year 10.3 m GVK Energy is developing a portfolio of Valuation basis LP share of funds power generation projects 4,047MW, diversified by fuel type, stage of development and geography.
Ind-Barath Energy has built a 700MW coal-fired power plant in the state of Odisha.
This investment was sold by the India Fund in the year, but is included in the India Funds valuation at the year end, pending the receipt of the proceeds from the sale.
52 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Review of investments Investment rationale Developments in the year Power The investment case underpinning the Overall the performance of the investments The power sector investments were valued Companys commitment to the India Fund in in the India Fund remained weak in the in aggregate at 17.0 million at 31 March 2007 can be summarised as follows: year.
The Modi government, elected in May 2016 2015: 20.3 million.
The factors 2014, has made a number of important affecting their performance have remained there was much need for infrastructure policy statements in support of investment broadly unchanged, and include: investment in India, with the infrastructure in the infrastructure sector.
However, deficit in the country providing opportunity the availability of domestic coal: Coal India these statements have yet to translate into for private investment: continues to struggle to match supplies concrete initiatives that can improve the with the contracted demand from power the Indian Government was actively performance of the portfolio materially.
producers and the resulting shortfall is seeking and encouraging private During the year, the Indian rupee depreciated being made up with expensive imports.
investment in infrastructure development: against sterling, resulting in a foreign In addition, in 2014, the Supreme Court the investment in the India Fund offered exchange loss of 2.1 million.
cancelled over 200 coal licences awarded 3i Infrastructure exposure to a diversified to private sector operators, which has pool of assets and larger investments Transportation exacerbated the problem in the short than the Company could access on its term: and The India Funds transportation assets own account, at no additional cost to the were valued in aggregate at 35.9 million at the availability of gas: production from Company: and 31 March 2016 2015: 42.9 million.
Indias main gas fields has declined the India Fund was well positioned, with dramatically in recent years and today The road investments continue to be an established presence in its market little gas is available for power production.
adversely impacted by slow project through its investment manager.
execution and cash flow constraints for The Indian government has been working many companies in the construction sector.
Achievements in the period to resolve some of these issues, increasing A number of the construction companies the regulated price of gas to encourage ofownership have restructured their debt obligations.
increased exploration and production and The India Fund reached the end of its These pressures are affecting all three of developing a mechanism to allow power investment period in November 2012 and the road assets.
The Investment Adviser producers to pass through increased fuel now has a diversified portfolio of assets in continues to work with Soma Enterprise, costs through higher tariffs under existing the power, ports and roads sectors, in line KMC Roads and Supreme Roads to address long-term power purchase agreements with its mandate.
3i Investments, which their ongoing issues.
However, the Supreme Court has manages the India Fund, is focused on ruled against these proposed changes Krishnapatnam Port is performing well.
monitoring the portfolio and on realising to PPA tariffs, and the matter has been On 30 September 2013, the India Fund value from the portfolio over the next two referred to the Regulator.
exercised a put option over its holding in to three years, as market conditions allow.
The consideration due under To date, the Fund has sold approximately In FY15, the India fund sold approximately the put option has not been paid and the 54% of its holding in Adani Power, and during 54% of its holding in Adani Power, at an India Fund is seeking to enforce its rights the year sold its entire holding in Ind-Barath average price of 54 rupees per share.
through legal action, including arbitration Energy, the proceeds from which are During the year, shares in Adani Power proceedings.
The first hearing of the expected to be received in the first quarter declined from 47.3 rupees per share at arbitration panel took place during the year, of FY17.
31 March 2015 to 34.2 rupees at 31 March the outcome of which was satisfactory 2016.
This poor performance reflects The valuation of the India Funds assets has for the Fund.
There have been several the ongoing tariff renegotiation dispute, been affected by a number of market and subsequent hearings in the Indian Supreme high fuel costs and the impact of the other external factors over its life, including Court, as a result of which the next hearing depreciating rupee.
the depreciation of the Indian rupee against of the arbitration panel is now expected to sterling.
At 31 March 2016, the India Funds GVK continues to face gas availability re-hear the matters it previously considered.
net asset value was 0.75x its investment shortages, further delays and cost This is scheduled for May 2016. cost in rupee terms, and 0.59x in sterling escalations affecting the completion of terms.
Overall, the Board is satisfied that its construction projects and was one appropriate action is being taken to manage of the companies to have a coal mining the performance of the India Funds assets licence withdrawn by the Supreme Court.
within the constraints of the macroeconomic These factors together have increased and market challenges.
However, during the year the Alaknanda hydro power project was fully commissioned and is nowoperating well.
During the year, the India Fund sold its entire holding in Ind-Barath Energy.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 53
