Governance Directors report Strategy, performance and principal risks The Directors report contains statutory and corporate governance information for the year The Strategic report on pages 10 to 38 provides a review of the performance and position of the Company, together with a to31 March 2016 the year.
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Principal activity Operations 3i Infrastructure is a closed-ended investment company that invests The Company has a non-executive Board of Directors and no in infrastructure businesses and assets.
The Directors do not employees.
The Board acts as the Companys Investment Committee anticipate any change in the principal activity of the Company in the and is responsible for the determination and supervision of the foreseeable future.
Its principal subsidiaries are shown on page 92. investment policy and for the approval of investment opportunities sourced by the Investment Adviser.
Regulation The Board also supervises the monitoring of existing investments 3i Infrastructure is incorporated in Jersey and is regulated as and approves divestments and further financing of portfolio assets.
a collective investment fund under the Collective Investment Funds Jersey Law 1988.
It has a Premium Listing on the London Advisory arrangements Stock Exchange.
3i Investments plc 3i Investments, a wholly-owned subsidiary of AIFMD 3i Group plc 3i Group, acts as Investment Adviser to the Company The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive the Directive through its Infrastructure business.
The investment advisory team entered into force on 22 July 2013.
The Company is a non-EU provides advice to the Company on the origination and completion Alternative Investment Fund AIF and is internally managed, which of new investments, on the realisation of investments, on funding means that the Board of the Company also performs the functions of requirements, as well as on the management of the investment an Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM under the Directive portfolio.
It provides its services under an Investment Advisory and the AIF and the AIFM are the same entity.
As a non-EU AIFM, Agreement the IAA, which includes an investment exclusivity the Company is currently outside the full scope of the Directive, but arrangement in respect of investment opportunities within the will be subject to a number of the Directives requirements should it Companys investment policy.
wish to market the Companys securities within the EU, depending on when and how such marketing of securities is performed.
Other significant service arrangements In addition to the arrangements described above, 3i plc and NMPI 3iInvestments, in relation to certain regulatory services, have been On 31 January 2014, the Company issued a statement noting the appointed by the Company to provide support services to the Group, changes to the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA rules to including treasury and accounting services, investor relations the restrictions on the retail distribution of unregulated collective and other back office support services.
The amounts payable investment schemes and close substitutes non-mainstream pooled under these arrangements are described in more detail in Note 18 investments, or NMPIs, which came into effect on 1 January 2014. onpage91.
In this statement, the Company asserted that its shares are excluded Capita Financial Administrators Jersey Limited acts as the from these rules and therefore the restrictions relating to NMPIs will Administrator and Company Secretary to the Company.
Revolving Credit Facility It is the Boards intention that the Company will continue to conduct At the start of the year, the Company was party to a 200 million its affairs in such a manner that the Companys shares will continue multicurrency Revolving Credit Facility Agreement, which ran to to be excluded from the FCAs rules relating to NMPIs.
This Facility was renewed on 7 May 2015 for a threeyear term to 7 May 2018, with the size increased to 300 million to Results and dividends facilitate the management of the Companys liquidity requirements.
The Financial statements of the Company and its consolidated The Company has a right to request oneor two-year extensions to subsidiary together referred to as the Group for the year appear the maturity date of the Facility, which request s may be granted on pages 72 to 75.
Total comprehensive income for the year was at the discretion of each lender individually.
An interim dividend of 3.625 term was extended by a further year to 7 May 2019.
The Facility is pence per share 2015: 3.38 pence in respect of the year to 31 March secured by a fixed and floating charge over the directly held assets 2016 was paid on 7 January 2016.
The Directors recommend that a of the Company, and is subject to cancellation by the Company final dividend of 3.625 pence per share 2015: 3.62 pence be paid in or termination by the banks in certain circumstances, which are respect of the year to 31 March 2016 to shareholders on the register market standard for such a facility, including if there is a change of at the close of business on 20 May 2016.
The distribution of the investment adviser to the Company.
Under the Facility agreement, dividend payments between interim and final dividends is evaluated the Company has the right to increase the size of the Facility by up by the Board each year, according to the Companys performance, to a further 200 million on the same interest margin and other portfolio income generation and other factors, such as profits terms and conditions, with the existing lenders having a right of generated on the realisation of portfolio assets.
The Company will first refusal.
The Company exercised this right and on 25 April 2016 betargeting a dividend for FY17 of 7.55 pence per share.
increased the Facility size to 500 million on a temporary basis until During the year, the Company paid a special dividend of 17 pence per 31 December 2016, with the increase provided by existing lenders.
share following the sale of Eversholt Rail, which completed in April 2016.
The special dividend was paid on 31 July 2015.
56 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Governance Share capital and share consolidation Directors authority to buy back shares The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 March 2016 was The Company did not purchase any of its own shares during the year.
In conjunction The current authority of the Company to make market purchases of with the payment of the special dividend to shareholders described up to 14.99% of the issued ordinary share capital expires at the next on page 31, during the year the Company implemented a share Annual General Meeting AGM, to be held on 7 July 2016 the2016 consolidation that was intended to maintain comparability, as far as AGM.
The Company will seek to renew such authority until the end possible, of the Companys share price before and after the payment of the AGM in 2017, specifying the maximum and minimum price at of the special dividend.
The share consolidation replaced every 10 which shares can be bought back.
Any buyback of ordinary shares existing ordinary shares with nine new ordinary shares on 8 July will be made subject to Jersey law and the making and timing of 2015 following approval by a majority of the shareholders at the any buybacks will be at the absolute discretion of the Directors.
Extraordinary General Meeting EGM convened on 7 July 2015.
Such purchases will also only be made in accordance with the Listing Rules of the FCA which provide that the price paid must not Major interests in ordinary shares be more than the higher of: i 5% above the average middle market quotations for the ordinary shares for the five business days before Notifications of the following voting interests in the Companys the shares are purchased: and ii the higher of the last independent ordinary share capital as at 31 March 2016 and 30 April 2016, which trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock are disclosable in accordance with Chapter 5 of the FCAs Disclosure Exchange at such time.
and Transparency Rules, are as follows: Number of Directors conflicts of interests ordinary % of Number of % of Directors have a statutory duty to avoid conflicts of interest with the 1 shares as issued ordinary issued 1 Company.
The Companys Articles of Association enableDirectors Interest in at 31 March share shares as at share ordinary shares 2016 capital 30 April 2016 capital to approve conflicts of interest and include other conflict of interest provisions.
The Company has implemented processes to identify 3i Group plc potential and actual conflicts of interest.
Such conflicts are then andsubsidiaries 269,375,960 34.0 269,375,960 34.0 considered for approval by the Board, subject, if necessary, Schroders plc 42,454,395 5.4 43,102,070 5.4 toappropriate conditions.
1 Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote.
Directors indemnities Directors interests The Companys Articles of Association provide that, subject to the In accordance with FCA Listing Rule 9.8.
6 R 1, Directors interests provisions of the Statutes, every Director of the Company shall be in the shares of the Company in respect of which transactions are indemnified out of the assets of the Company against all liabilities notifiable to the Company under FCA Disclosure and Transparency and expenses incurred by him or her in the actual or purported Rule 3.1.
2 R as at 31 March 2016 are shown below: execution or discharge of his or her duties.
Statutes here refers to the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and every other statute, Ordinary shares regulation or order for the time being in force concerning companies 1 Directors interests and beneficial interests at 31 March 2016 registered under the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
In addition, the 2 Richard Laing 20,000 Company has entered into indemnity agreements for the benefit Philip Austin 9,000 of its Directors and these remain in force at the date of this report.
The Company also had Directors and officers liability insurance in Doug Bannister place in the year.
Wendy Dorman Ian Lobley Statement of Directors responsibilities Paul Masterton 9,000 The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and accounts in accordance with applicable law and regulations and Steven Wilderspin 25,000 those International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs which 1 No options have ever been granted since the inception of the Company.
have been adopted by the European Union.
As a company listed on the London Stock Exchange, 3i Infrastructure In the period from 1 April 2016 to 30 April 2016, there were no is subject to the FCAs Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency changes in the interests of each serving Director.
Rules, as well as to all applicable laws and regulations of Jersey, where it is incorporated.
Jersey company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial period in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
The Financial statements of the Company are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company at the period end and of the profit or loss ofthe Company for the period then ended.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 57 Governance Directors report Continued In preparing these Financial statements, the Directors should: Going concern The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely select suitable accounting policies and then apply to affect its future development, performance and position are set them consistently: out in the Strategic report on pages 10 to 38 and in the Financial make judgments and estimates that are reasonable: statements and related Notes on pages 72 to 93.
The financial specify which generally accepted accounting principles have been position of the Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and adopted in their preparation: and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial statements and prepare the Financial statements on the going concern basis, related Notes on pages 72 to 93.
In addition, Note 9 to the Financial unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will statements includes the Companys objectives, policies and continue in business.
processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities, The Directors are responsible for keeping accounting records which and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and are such as to disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the The Company has liquid financial resources and a strong investment financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that portfolio providing a stable and robust income yield and an the Financial statements prepared by the Company comply with the expectation of medium-term capital growth.
As a consequence, requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
They are also the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for business risks successfully.
After making enquiries, the Directors taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate other irregularities.
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis The Directors are also responsible for preparing the Annual report inpreparing the Annual report and accounts.
and accounts and the Directors confirm that they consider that, taken as a whole, the Annual report and accounts is fair, balanced By order of the Board and understandable and provides the information necessary for Authorised signatory shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Capita Financial Administrators Jersey Limited In accordance with the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules, Company Secretary theDirectors confirm to the best of their knowledge that: 11 May 2016 a the Financial statements, prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, Registered Office: liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group taken 12 Castle Street asawhole: and St. Helier Jersey JE2 3RT b the Annual report and accounts include a fair review of the Channel Islands development and performance of the business and the position of the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Company.
The Directors of the Company and their functions are listed on pages 54 and 55.
The Directors have acknowledged their responsibilities in relation tothe Financial statements for the year to 31 March 2016.
58 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016
