Directors report The directors have pleasure in submitting their annual report and expires at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
This authority financial statements for the year to 30 September 2016. was not required during the year, however, at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, shareholders will be asked to renew the Principal activity and business review Companys buy-back authority for a further year.
The principal activity of the Group is the provision of asset management services.
Further information on the Groups Going concern business, which is required by section 414c of the Companies The strategic review discusses the Groups business activities, Act 2006, can be found in the following sections of the annual together with the factors likely to affect its future development, report, which are incorporated by reference into this report: performance and position and sets out the financial position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity.
Note 28 of the financial Chairmans statement on pages 4 to 6 statements sets out the Groups objectives, policies and processes Strategic report on pages 9 to 49 for managing capital and its financial risk management objectives, together with details of financial instruments and exposure to Financial credit risk and liquidity risk.
The results for the year are shown in the Group income statement on page 99.
An interim ordinary dividend of 7.5p per share was The Group has considerable financial resources and a strong cash paid on 16 June 2016.
The directors recommend a final ordinary position.
The Board has prepared forecasts, including rigorous dividend of 12.0p per share, making a total of 19.5p per share for sensitivity analysis, which demonstrate that the Group will the year to 30 September 2016. continue to operate within its available resources.
After making these enquiries, the Board considers that the Group has adequate The proposed final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 9 February resources to meet its business needs and it is therefore 2017 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these 9 December 2016.
A dividend of 2.5 million will also be paid to financial statements.
holders of the 2016 non-voting preference shares on 9 February 2017.
Coupon payments of 19.8 million in total have been paid Acquisition of shares by the employee benefit trust on the 7.0% perpetual cumulative capital notes.
During the year, the Employee Benefit Trust, funded by the Company, purchased a net 12,144,702 ordinary shares in the Directors Company, which have an aggregate nominal value of 10p each, The names and biographical details of the present directors of for a net consideration of 43.5 million.
The shares were the Company are given on pages 54 to 55.
Gerhard Fusenig, purchased in order to hedge the Groups future commitment who was appointed to the Board during the year, will retire and in relation to the vesting of awards under the Groups deferred being eligible, offer himself for election at the forthcoming Annual share scheme.
All other directors, except Roger Cornick, who served throughout the year, will retire and, being eligible, offer At the date of this report, the Employee Benefit Trust holds themselves for re-election.
Directors interests in the share capital 32,999,940 shares in the Company.
The shares held by the and equity of the Company at the year-end are contained in the Employee Benefit Trust are registered in the nominee name remuneration report on page 74.
Wealth Nominees Limited and a dividend waiver has been signed by Estera Trust Jersey Limited to cover all of the shares Substantial interests held by the Trust.
At 27 November 2016, the Company has been notified of the following interests, other than the directors, of 3% or more in the Directors indemnities ordinary shares: The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance which provides appropriate cover for any legal action brought Number % of class against its directors.
Mitsubishi UFJ Trust & Banking Responsible business practices Corporation 224,985,892 17.07 We are committed to embedding the ten UN Global Compact Lloyds Banking Group plc 129,033,779 9.79 principles throughout our organisation and this year have further developed the way in which we integrate ESG considerations into Capital Research & Management 125,962,820 9.56 our investment processes across all asset classes, in line with the BlackRock 71,681,931 5.44 requirements of the Principles for Responsible Investment PRI.
M&G Investment Management 36,618,460 3.01 On an annual basis we refine our approach and continue to make progress in embedding responsible business practices throughout Share capital the organisation.
This process is led by Andrew Laing, the Deputy Details of the Companys share capital and changes to that share Chief Executive, who in turn is responsible for reporting to the capital are set out in note 20 of the financial statements.
Board on developments, risks and opportunities.
The authority for the Company to purchase, in the market, up to Further information on our approach to responsible business can 131,791,444 of its ordinary shares, representing approximately be found in our annual corporate stewardship report.
10% of its issued ordinary share capital at 27 November 2015, 86 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Environmental disclosure Audit information Our largest environmental impact results from the investments The directors who held office at the date of approval of this we hold, rather than our direct activities.
However as a responsible Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, business we look to manage and reduce our environmental there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys impacts and improve our environmental performance.
auditor is unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director to make themselves Energy consumption and associated emissions, waste and aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the business travel, remain our key areas of focus.
Our Environmental Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Management System EMS is certified to ISO14001:2004 across our UK offices and we use this platform to engage with our offices Corporate governance globally.
Part of this engagement has involved an assessment of all A report on corporate governance which forms part of this our offices to understand their contribution to our environmental Directors report, is set out on pages 52-60. performance and where we can improve.
Political donations This year we have achieved an overall 5% reduction in our scope 1 It is the Groups policy not to make donations for political purposes.
and 2 carbon emissions which has been attained through changes 2017 Annual General Meeting in building use and improved systems at some of our key offices.
A separate document, the Notice of Annual General Meeting We have improved our recycling rate across our UK offices to over 2017, covering the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be 68% and are working on initiatives to further improve on this.
In an held on 2 February 2017 at noon, will be sent or made available effort to reduce our business travel, we have increased availability to all shareholders and will contain an explanation of the business and use of videoconferencing facilities and have realised a 44% before that meeting.
increase in calls held over last year and have noted a decrease in Electronic proxy voting our business travel scope 3 emissions.
Registered shareholders have the opportunity to submit their Total global emissions for carbon reporting votes or abstain on all resolutions proposed at the Annual General Meeting by means of an electronic voting facility operated CO e emissions tonnes 2 by the Companys registrar, Equiniti Limited.
This facility can be 2016 accessed by visiting www.
CREST members Scope Emissions source Location Market 2015 may appoint a proxy or proxies by using the CREST electronic 453 452 appointment service.
1 Natural gas 414 172 172 Group owned 118 Electronic copies of the annual report and financial statements vehicles and other publications Copies of the 2016 annual report and financial statements, the - - Diesel notice of Annual General Meeting, other corporate publications, 28 28 Refrigerant gas loss 28 press releases and announcements are available on the Groups 653 652 website at aberdeen-asset.
Shareholders are encouraged 560 to take advantage of the provisions allowing the Group to deliver 4,493 5,748 2 Electricity and 4,885 notices of meetings and associated documentation electronically district heating by email, or via the Groups Investor Relations web pages at 5,146 6,400 Total 5,445 aberdeen-asset.
Intensity ratio: Emissions Company Information per FTE for Scope 1 and The Company is registered in Scotland No.
SC082015 and Scope 2 1.68 2.09 1.86 its Registered Office is located at 10 Queens Terrace, Aberdeen, AB10 1YG.
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition for our methodology and have used operational control as our boundary for reporting.
We have adopted dual reporting, and applied residual mix emissions factors on European sites and grid mix emissions factors for all other sites, for the calculation of market based emissions.
Location based emissions have been calculated applying grid mix emissions factors for all sites.
We have gathered data from invoices on energy By order of the Board consumption, register of refrigerants and service logs of owned vehicles.
The residual mix is the mix of energy generation resources and associated attributes such as GHG emission in a defined geographic boundary left after contractual instruments have been claimed retired cancelled.
Scott E Massie Group Company Secretary 10 Queens Terrace Aberdeen AB10 1YG 27 November 2016 aberdeen-asset.
