AuM overview AuM has grown to 312.1 billion, an increase of 10% from September 2015.
We have benefited from stronger markets and the weakening of sterling.
Whilst outflows were 32.8 billion, the trend has been for quarterly outflows to decline from their peak in the second half of 2015.
Overview Beyond equities outflows, there were also net outflows of The strength of markets and the weakening of sterling have been 7.1 billion from multi asset and 2.8 billion from quantitative the major contributors to the increase in our AuM.
Much of these flows 8.0 billion were of 32.8 billion are marginally lower than last year 33.9 billion, from the assets managed for insurance clients, especially the but the trend has been for these to fall from peak quarterly closed book which is in run-off.
We consider these outflows to be redemptions in the second half of 2015. structural and we expect this level of attrition from the insurance book.
The fee margins associated with these AuM are lower margin.
As we explain in the finance review, revenues and margins were impacted by net outflows and our blended fee rate reduced due to a change in product mix as outflows principally came from Approximately 8.0 billion of multi asset and equity portfolios.
quantitative investment outflows were from AuM declining insurance books.
Closing AuM is 312.1 billion, 10% higher than 283.7 billion in September 2015.
We have a good performance track record in the diversified Gross new business inflows for the period were 39.0 billion growth fund, which has helped to win a number of buy 2015: 42.5 billion and gross outflows were 71.8 billion recommendations from consultants during the year and while this 2015: 76.4billion, resulting in net outflows of 32.8 billion has not yet turned into significant inflows, we are confident of 2015: 33.9 billion.
The annualised revenue impact of these future growth.
Negative net flows of 0.8 billion from property were a result of Of the net outflows, 13.6 billion relates to equities 2015: a reduction in appetite for UK property, especially after the Brexit 16.4 billion.
While macroeconomic factors and investor vote and the end of life of some Nordic funds.
We had a number of sentiment towards Asia and emerging markets continued to wins in residential property, of which 0.2 billion out of 1.0 billion significantly impact investor decisions, performance in our key of new commitments has funded.
funds has recovered strongly, as markets have again begun to favour the high quality stocks which populate our portfolios.
Fixed income experienced positive flows in money markets 0.8 billion, but unfortunately there were losses in all other categories.
The negative sentiment towards emerging market debt Equities outflows declined from 16.4 billion -1.3 billion continued for the second year, whilst investment performance contributed to outflows from high yield -1.1 in 2015 to 13.6 billion.
More significantly, billion, specifically the US mutual fund range.
In a low yield outflows declined each quarter.
H2 accounted environment there is strong competitive pressure from lower fee for 28% of annual flows.
margin products, especially in capabilities such as Australian fixed income -1.4 billion and US fixed income -1.6 billion.
Whilst we have seen the rate of outflows reduce - and we have continued to win new money - we are not yet seeing positive flows.
We are encouraged by the trend of reducing net outflows in each quarter of 2016, but we expect that there may continue to be fluctuation quarter on quarter.
26 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Breakdown of AuM By asset class By client domicile By client type Equities % Americas % Insurance % Fixed income % Asia Pacic % Open-ended funds % Multi asset % Europe ex.
UK % Pension funds % Alternatives % Middle East & Africa % Other institutional % Quantitative investments % UK % Closed-end funds % Property % Central banks & government agencies % Total.
