Business model Who we are Aberdeen Asset Management is a full-service, pure-play asset management group.
We are focused on meeting the worldwide investment needs of institutions, private investors and the advisers who serve them.
Formed in 1983, we have around 2,700 employees, manage 312.1 billion of assets as at 30 September 2016, and are one of Europe's largest investment managers.
What we do Who our clients are We have grown and developed into a full-service asset manager, We manage assets solely on behalf of third-party clients who span with capabilities across a range of traditional and non-traditional the full spectrum of institutional to retail investors.
Today the Group has six asset classes covering We are the chosen investment partner of pension funds, insurers, equities, fixed income, multi asset, alternatives, quantitative sovereign wealth funds, governments and local authorities, investments and property.
charities and financial institutions, to which we provide both Our Aberdeen solutions team works across all six asset classes to pooled and segregated investment management.
help clients achieve their investment objectives.
In the retail investment market, we support wealth managers, This year we have added a digital distribution capability in the UK private banks, financial advisers, as well as making our investment following our acquisition of Parmenion.
products available directly to private investors in some markets.
Our skills across all investment classes enable us to meet the The role of our distribution team is to access potential investors increasingly diversified needs of our clients.
and develop trusted, long-term relationships founded on high quality client service.
The role of our product team is to ensure we have the right products to meet client demand.
Overall AuM Assets by client type Insurance % Equities % Open-ended funds % Fixed income % Pension funds % Multi asset % Other institutional % Alternatives % Closed-end funds % Quantitative investments % Central banks & government agencies % Property % Total.
bn Investment divisions Equities Fixed Income Multi asset Alternatives Quantitative Property investments Specialist markets Global reach Unconstrained Counter-cyclical Bond-like risk: equity-like returns Index Proprietary Wide range Strategic and Specialist insights research tactical Local and Low cost active Liability driven Universal provider macro view investments LDI Top-down and Enhanced beta bottom-up First-mover Global market Riskand costReturns despite Value for money Income in low-yield advantage in new exposure across the control market cycle environment markets risk spectrum 10 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Where we operate With a network of 38 offices in 26 countries, we are close to our clients.
Our global operating model allows us to manage assets locally, while enabling teams to apply consistent processes globally.
AuM by client domicile UK 57% Europe ex.
UK Americas 19% Asia Pacific 16% 6% Middle East & Africa 2% Bandung Shanghai Bangkok Singapore Hong Kong Surabaya Boston So Paulo Aberdeen Copenhagen London Paris Jakarta Sydney Kaohsiung Taipei New York Stamford Abu Dhabi Edinburgh Luxembourg Stockholm Kuala Lumpur Tokyo Philadelphia Toronto Amsterdam Frankfurt Madrid Zrich Bristol Helsinki Milan Melbourne Budapest Jersey Oslo Seoul Americas Europe, Middle East and Africa Asia Pacific Philadelphia is our hub for North America Our headquarters are in Aberdeen, Singapore is the Asia Pacific headquarters and includes fixed income, US equities and where we locate many Group functions.
We have other full-service property teams.
Our New York office is Our largest investment offices are in offices located in Bangkok, Hong Kong, growing and is the home of our high yield London and Edinburgh where we have our Jakarta, Kuala Lumpur, Sydney and Tokyo with distribution teams also based in team, as well as being an important office investment teams for global emerging Korea and Taiwan.
We are also working for many of our clients.
The acquisitions markets equities ex.
Asia, UK, European through the necessary regulatory approvals of FLAG and Arden strengthened our and global equities: european, global required for our Wholly Foreign Owned alternatives capability in the US.
and emerging market fixed income: Enterprise in Shanghai to enable us to alternatives, multi asset and quantitative The Toronto office services our Canadian manage and market privately placed funds investments: and UK property teams.
The Brazilian office in So in China.
Paulo, an investment office for our We have a significant presence across emerging market equity and debt teams, Continental Europe with 12 regional In line with the Groups diversification has its own fund range.
Our Americas team offices in 12 countries.
Luxembourg is the strategy, Asia Pacific is now also home to also cover Latin American clients investing domicile for the flagship Aberdeen Global investment professionals for property, multi in our Luxembourg fund range.
fund range which has AuM of 23.6 billion asset solutions and a range of alternative at the end of September 2016. asset classes, in addition to the investment We manage 16% of our AuM on behalf of teams for equities and fixed income.
clients throughout the Americas and have The Middle East and Africa are important developed a strong platform on which to sources of institutional funds and we Our Asian client base, which accounts for service institutional and wholesale channels.
have a recently opened an office in Abu around 6% of our AuM, compromises of Dhabi to build on our existing client base.
institutions, private banking and wholesale Around 2% of our AuM was managed for clients.
In Thailand, where the Aberdeen institutional and sovereign wealth entities brand is well known and well regarded by in those regions.
retail investors, we also distribute through our direct to consumer channel.
com 11 Business model continued How we generate value Clients We manage assets on behalf of third-party clients who span the full spectrum of institutional to retail investors Enhance, develop and grow Provide high levels of client Achieve long term business Recruit, develop and retain our investment capabilities service and access new pools efficiencies and maintain a talented and motivated to meet the changing profile of capital healthy balance sheet employees and needs of our clients and Product specialist Rigorous cost management Focus on collaboration end-customers distribution teams and openness Adoption of improved Full-service capability and Proactive client engagement technology where appropriate Continuous personal disciplined investment development Global operating model Commitment to invest in the processes business to enhance longer Innovation and Long term view term efficiency challenge promoted Breadth of expertise and first hand research Team approach These link through to our strategic priorities on pages 17 to 21.
Value generated for our clients, end-customers and shareholders Revenue We gain and retain clients through our investment processes, Our revenues are principally generated from the management fees long-term focus, client service, full-service capability and track we charge based on the value of AuM managed for clients.
These record for managing assets and generating long-term performance.
fees are expressed as basis points bps and largely depend on the Along with organic growth, we may acquire businesses to add investment strategy, amount of money managed and the channel.
scale, develop new products or add new products or add new Product mix therefore has an impact on levels of revenue growth.
Our policy is to recognise revenues as services are provided and this is described in more details on page 94.
Cost and efficiency The costs we incur in running the business vary with the level of AuM AuM but are not directly correlated.
Our objective is to achieve AuM growth organically and through selective acquisitions, recognising that it may also increase and Staff salaries, variable pay and related staff costs comprise 62% decrease due to market movements.
For the remaining non-staff costs, our largest suppliers include the major outsourcing providers for investment We aim to grow organically by increasing the assets we manage for back office and transfer agency: software and market data costs: existing clients and by offering capabilities, products and solutions and marketing and sponsorship costs to promote the brand and that meet the needs of new and existing clients.
AuM and average management fee margin One of the challenges asset managers face is that revenues vary bn bps with markets and investor appetite for certain products, whereas most costs remain relatively fixed.
Given the risks of market volatility, we seek to control our costs... to be efficient across different cycles.
We have a strong track record of managing costs in a controlled manner and increasing.
long-term business efficiency.. On an ongoing basis we review, develop and deepen our capabilities to meet our clients needs.
We also make selective acquisitions and recruitment decisions to diversify our expertise, markets, channels and clients to deliver a more resilient business model.
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Management fee margin 12 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report What makes us different Our culture Breadth of expertise The scale of Aberdeens operations, locally and internationally, We are a full-service asset manager, ready to harness all asset has changed dramatically since it was founded in 1983. classes to create optimal solutions for our clients.
We offer Through multiple acquisitions and organic growth, our strong distinctive investment strategies, founded on high quality culture of supporting investment quality, long-term focus, proprietary research, aimed at maximising investment high standards of service and fostering an inclusive, supportive performance net of charges whilst meeting the risk tolerance and rewarding working environment has prevailed.
We seek and investment parameters of our clients.
to recruit talented and motivated people and give investors Breadth of expertise is important especially for multi asset worldwide the confidence to entrust their financial future to us.
products, where we offer diversified portfolios which blend We are committed to adding value everywhere: being the best we together a broad range of asset classes aiming to provide investors can: pooling collective talent: doing the right thing: and bringing a with income and long-term growth.
We follow investment processes that are clear and systematic and Unlike many of our competitors, Aberdeen is not part of a big bank believe that our team approach leads to better outcomes than if or life assurer.
We are able to concentrate on doing what we do star fund managers were in charge.
best, without the distractions of other activities.
We are passionate Focus on value about being clear and straightforward which is a key part of our We are focused on providing products which deliver demonstrably competitive offering.
good value for our clients and end-customers be that a specific First hand research return, outperforming an index or achieving returns at lower risk.
With a network of 38 offices and investment centres in 26 countries, we are situated close to our clients and our investment Through achieving value for the clients whose assets we professionals are always in or near to the territories in which they manage, efficiently controlling our costs and operating as a invest.
We have the scale to provide global coverage of financial responsible business, we deliver value to our shareholders and markets, yet are flexible enough to focus on each and every wider stakeholders.
Long-term view Investing for the long-term may seem like an obvious strategy but Our skill as an asset manager lies in our willingness to ask it is surprising how few investors adopt it fully.
In our fast-paced questions, to challenge consensus if needs be and do our own world, the desire for instant gratification can overwhelm.
research to arrive at clear judgements.
It can take a long period of time to establish credibility and demonstrate that expertise to Equally, the urge to crystallise profits can cause quality assets to clients.
Long-term performance track record, as well as consistency be sold significantly before they reach fair value.
An investment and sustainability of our approach, are some of the features that approach that weathers market ups and downs over years, not just clients value as indicators of our investment expertise.
weeks, almost always proves more fruitful as well as cheaper in the long term.
By conducting first hand research, we get a complete picture of financial trends, risks and opportunities from the local level up.
While always retaining flexibility to be tactical, we take a long-term view of companies, markets, and economic trends.
That is how we built our historical track record and how we Across all asset classes, we seek to use will continue to generate value for our clients, end-customers our information advantage to increase and shareholders.
potential return, reduce risk or both.
