Asset class review Our focus is to deliver clear and disciplined processes to every investment strategy, so performance is accountable and repeatable.
How we invest Every asset class and every strategy within it has a transparent investment process developed over multiple market cycles.
A robust focus on long-term value creation is at the heart of the investment approach.
Although the processes vary, common features include: First hand research Team based investing Risk focus Long-term view Our investment We believe talented, Our goal is always to While retaining the professionals are always diverse and close-knit deliver return at an flexibility for tactical in or near to the territories teams deliver consistently acceptable level of risk.
investing, we realise in which they invest.
better results than Diversification, risk returns for our clients By conducting first individuals.
All stages of analysis at each stage, plus primarily by taking longhand research, we get our investment processes robust knowledge of every term, high-conviction a complete picture of rely on collegiate thinking.
holding, help us smooth positions in quality financial trends, risks and volatility and minimise investments.
opportunities from the potential loss.
Stewardship: integrating Environmental, Social and Our golden rules of investing: Governance ESG factors into our investment processes across all asset classes Understand limitations We invest on behalf of thousands of individuals who entrust their Appreciate what is predictable and, more importantly, savings to us to protect and enhance over the long term, and act as what is not stewards of their monies.
Increasingly, this requires us to integrate ESG factors both the risks they pose and the opportunities they Research investments thoroughly and understand what provide into our products and services.
we are buying While our approach differs by asset class, a review of the material Be benchmark agnostic ESG considerations impacting every investment decision is now a Stick to established processes fundamental element of our investment processes.
Invest for the long term, accepting that periods of short In addition to the integration of material factors, we also offer term poor performance may arise clients bespoke ESG solutions to meet their investment needs.
This process is led by our Stewardship Centre together with Be wary of over ambition ESG specialists on each investment team to ensure a fully Make sure any competitive advantage is sustainable integrated approach.
Commitment to stewardship 28 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Equities Fixed income UK % Asia Pacic % Money markets % Emerging markets % US % Global % EMD % UK % Australian % US % High yield % Europe % Global % Asia % European % Total.
bn Investment process: Investment process: We believe, given the inefficiency of markets, that superior We follow three simple investment principles: research, relative returns are achieved by identifying good quality stocks at a value and risk oversight.
reasonable price and holding for the long term.
Intensive forward looking fundamental research is used to We estimate a companys worth in two stages, quality then identify issuers with strong fundamentals while minimising the price.
Quality is defined in reference to management, business risk of deteriorating investment quality.
focus, balance sheet and corporate governance.
Price is We use relative value to determine the best portfolio construction.
calculated relative to key financial ratios, market, peer group When we invest, we look beyond market indices and and business prospects.
benchmarks as they provide little meaningful guidance to the We enforce a disciplined evaluation of companies.
No investment prospects of the market or how securities might perform.
is made without having interviewed the companys management.
Using a combination of qualitative and quantitative inputs, Indices are not used as a starting point for building a portfolio we have a disciplined and rigorous process for managing risk.
and we are comfortable taking decisive positions away from the Review of the year: benchmark, underpinned by convictions from first hand Fixed income investors globally remain challenged by the proprietary research.
In a difficult operating environment We place an emphasis on traditional buy-and-hold, with we focused on our capabilities which can deliver superior top-slicing or topping up preferred to outright trades, resulting in client outcomes.
Performance improved through the course of the year across All ideas are shared via formal committees and common most areas.
Our credit franchise is strong, supported by good databases, with desk heads enforcing consistency.
performance data and we have a robust track record in emerging Review of the year: market debt and European high yield.
While we have recently Against a backdrop of macro and political uncertainty, the experienced performance challenges in US and Global high yield, performance of our equity funds improved as our investment style we have taken steps to address these.
emphasising quality and value came back into favour.
Fund flows We believe that with the clearer articulation of a common remained negative, but the scale of outflows declined, helped by approach across all fixed income desks and a period of more improving performance and sentiment towards emerging markets.
consistent and strong investment performance, there is a We have remained committed to our bottom-up investment stable base for this asset class to make a steady and improving process, and the very active role we play, behaving as owners of contribution to the Group in future years.
our investee companies, not just investors.
Our key initiatives to deliver growth over the next three years are Engagement, risk focus, and an in depth understanding of what to: enhance our external profile with both consultants and clients: we are buying, remain as central tenets of our global approach.
further develop our global fixed income product suite with the Last year, we held more than 4,600 meetings with the companies addition of global loans and unconstrained capabilities: extend our in which we invest and voted at more than 4,400 shareholder emerging market debt and high yield capabilities: grow and market meetings worldwide.
In addition to core offerings, we also have our ESG offering: and support the development of Aberdeen's strong capabilities in Japanese equities, US and Australian small insurance business by helping to deliver better solutions.
cap which continued to have robust performance during the year.
Our equity teams are experienced, stable and well resourced: our investment process is clear and has yielded results over the long term: and we remain confident in the ability of our investment teams to negotiate a world of increasing uncertainty.
com 29 Asset class review continued Multi asset Alternatives Insurance % Private equity % Wealth % Hedge fund solutions % Pooled funds % Property multi manager % Other institutional % Infrastructure % Pension % Total.
bn Investment process: Investment process: Our teams focus on markets and managers, rather than individual All teams are focused on providing strong risk-adjusted returns stocks or bonds which enable us to build genuinely diversified and quality, cost effective solutions for our clients throughout multi asset portfolios to meet a range of client objectives.
We utilise the full universe of traditional and alternative asset We undertake in depth proprietary research to identify best-inclasses, and actively manage the blend of assets to meet class managers and opportunities from across our network of client needs.
Our insights are shared within and across research groups.
We are diversified and dynamic top down insights coupling with the breadth of Aberdeens bottom up investment capabilities.
We recognise that risks in a portfolio are dynamic and multidimensional, and should therefore be continually assessed We are not tied to a benchmark mix of assets, nor forced to hold in multiple ways.
investments we believe are unattractive.
This flexibility is a core part of our ability to target consistent long-term growth.
We maintain independence in operational due diligence and if the legal, governance or administrative structure is not We leverage the insights of our quantitative investment and acceptable we do not invest.
alternatives specialists, as well as the experts within other teams.
Review of the year: Review of the year: We are now a significant global alternatives investor with With the broadening mandate and cross divisional activity of 21.8 billion of AuM covering private equity, infrastructure, our broader Aberdeen Solutions team, we took the decision to hedge funds and liquid alternatives.
make our multi asset team more visible as a separate investment division.
This capability is divided between diversified multi asset After some years of acquisition activity, this year has been one portfolios and more traditional, benchmark-driven portfolios.
The additional capabilities acquired from FLAG, Arden and Advance serve to round our alternatives offerings by In line with our strategy to grow our offering in this area we have both investment capability and geographic coverage.
significantly expanded our fund range.
In the UK, the Aberdeen Diversified Growth Fund DGF continues to generate good The integration has gone very well and we are pleased to report risk-adjusted performance and we extended this approach into our good stability across the investment teams, and importantly Luxembourg offering with multi asset growth and income funds retention of the focus and expertise that we have acquired in areas available in the Aberdeen Global range.
such as venture capital, real assets, lower mid-market private equity, liquid alternatives and managed account solutions.
Our diversified multi asset funds are built around a clear philosophy of diversification and the teams expertise in managing The diversification of our capabilities has naturally led to the market risks of traditional and alternative assets.
The team diversification of our fundraising pipeline across the globe, has continued to generate steady performance and, although where we see many opportunities to grow assets in all of the not yet reflected in flows, this capability is well positioned to win areas noted above.
Against this, the structural outflow from the Looking forward to where and how we expect to deploy capital closed insurance book acquired with SWIP will continue for the in the coming months, our clients are looking for investment foreseeable future.
exposures across the liquidity spectrum.
For some, we are focused on customising liquid alternatives, using our managed account Aberdeen solutions expertise to provide more liquidity and transparency than has Our Aberdeen solutions team broadened its role within traditionally been available in hedge fund strategies.
For others, and across the business and is now a distinct function from we see investors embracing the illiquidity premium in areas such multi asset.
as property secondaries, energy and resources, and smaller-sized private equity allocations.
The team works across all six investment departments to provide bespoke solutions and strategic research to our clients to help them achieve their investment objectives.
30 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Quantitative investments Property Insurance % UK % Pooled funds % Nordic % Continental Europe % Total.
bn Investment process: Investment process: We are active in nature but our approach to alpha generation Our disciplined, team-based process focuses on quality then differs markedly from traditional active equity managers.
price with quality defined in terms of potential for durable and growing income.
We employ quantitative strategies to tilt our portfolio exposure towards attributes which our research has identified as being We focus on risk, not on market returns which we cannot drivers of outperformance and against those attributes control.
At the core of our processes are the concepts of risk associated with underperformance without taking large stock tolerance and risk budgeting and their use to define the extent specific risks.
of the risks which should be taken at different points in the cycle, within the context of our investors objectives.
We offer a full range of systematic investment capabilities providing risk-adjusted performance, transparency, liquidity, Our investment process has three phases: the allocation, and efficiency.
selection and management of risk.
We build high-conviction portfolios and our process does not allow distraction from Our systematic investment process focuses on smart factor long-term goals.
design, combining factors through portfolio construction to maximise risk-adjusted returns, efficient implementation and Advanced top-down research guides our local structured rebalancing, and ongoing risk management.
Review of the year: Review of the year: While our quantitative investment capabilities currently represent In the UK, Brexit grabbed the headlines across the property sector.
a relatively small proportion of total AuM this is a key growth Following the result, the Aberdeen UK Property Fund was one of area for Aberdeen.
With the firm evolving into a full-service only a few open end funds which remained open for investment.
asset manager, alongside an ongoing industry wide structural Our focus was to treat all customers fairly by providing liquidity to shift into passive and quantitative orientated strategies, we have those who requested to redeem, whilst protecting the interests of given greater priority to externalising our systematic investment long-term investors.
capabilities and plan to launch a number of multi-factor smart More generally, we continued to develop our direct property beta strategies in the near future.
investment offering in Asia and increased our capabilities in the Our quantitative investment team has a demonstrable track residential sector across Europe.
Residential property includes record of success in managing passive and active systematic private renting, student halls, social housing, care homes and strategies together with smart beta fundamental indexation serviced apartments.
These assets offer secure income streams with strategies, for both external investors and internal multi minimal vacancy risk and the probability of long-term rental growth.
For example, we launched a new pan-European fund which invests During the year, we extended our range of constrained active in assets which have been changed from office use to residential quantitative Enhanced Index with the launch of the Aberdeen and, in the UK, we introduced structure pension schemes to invest UK Equity Enhanced Index Fund and Aberdeen Asia Pacific Equity in the UK private rented housing sector.
In Germany we created a Enhanced Index Fund, taking the range to a total of six which has new fund to invest in mixed use assets.
seen growing interest from the UK insurance channel.
Enhanced We also harmonised our operating model so that the same index strategies are employed to outperform traditional indexing parts of the value chain are completed in house, and outsourced and endeavours to generate modest excess returns compared to property management.
This ensures we are able to focus on the index funds and other passive management techniques, but with areas where we are best placed to add value, without distraction.
Performance of mainstream products remains robust and As with our alternatives proposition, a key priority for the coming investors appetite reasonably strong.
Pricing of assets remains year is to raise awareness of our size, scale, and capability and to a concern but with a systematic approach it is still possible to continue to innovate our product offerings to be relevant to asset find value at the individual property level.
We continue to look owners who are increasingly seeking more outcome-oriented favourably at markets which offer positive structural demand products, greater portfolio diversification and less expensive characteristics such as residential and logistics and we retain a products in core categories.
largely conservative approach to our strategies, favouring property with appropriate levels of durable income over capital speculation.
