The market context The changing profile and needs of clients, growing popularity of passive funds, a shift to diversified investment solutions, and the impact of regulation remain some of the most pressing issues shaping asset management.
These are not new trends, but the momentum behind them continues to grow.
Macro overview This year has been one of relative calm punctuated by dramatic In this environment, dominated by macro themes and government bouts of volatility.
No one element was solely responsible, but the and central bank policies, the performance of an asset can have year has been characterised by surprise.
While low growth, low more to do with liquidity flows than the genuine investment case.
inflation and low interest rates prevailed, shock waves resulted But amidst all the turmoil, it is possible that the very real strengths from the stock market rout at the start of the year, the UKs of the developing world are finding favour on fundamental grounds.
decision to leave the European Union EU and the strength of For Aberdeen, the macro environment has a significant impact reaction to the explosive campaigns for the next US President.
on the demand for our products and investment performance.
The common threads across many of the trends show little sign of This year, our equities performance has recovered, and the abating.
This was the year in which simmering income inequality short-term impact of the weakening pound has been a boost broke into the open with the rise of populist, anti-establishment to revenues.
Ageing populations in the West, an excess of Changing client needs savings over investment, weak productivity and shrinking interest Large global institutions still represent the majority of our rates are all prevailing themes.
However, glimmers of hope exist: clients but the landscape is changing, forcing us to broaden our China stabilising, Brazil and Russias impending exit from recession focus.
There is a gradual withdrawal of governments as pension and potential pick up in the US are all possible in the months providers and increasingly the need for individuals to save for to come.
In the UK, the single most influential event was Brexit.
With the move towards individual wealth management, However, until formal negotiations commence the resulting the removal of assets from third-party managers by large impact is largely unknown.
Much of current sentiment is driven sovereign wealth funds, and insurers and larger institutions by uncertainty, not by a considered assessment of the posttaking capabilities in house.
There are opportunities as well as referendum realities.
Breaking a bond of more than forty years challenges for us to access new and growing sources of assets.
- one that encompasses trade and economic ties as well as legislative, environmental, educational, research and a whole These shifts mean that increasingly the buyers of asset host of other connections - to move to a new and yet unclear management services are individuals rather than the institutions relationship, is a long-term economic issue.
In the US and the UK, changes in legislation have also empowered retirees to make more of their own investment In the US, the impact of the Trump administration will start to be decisions.
And individuals are increasingly demanding immediacy, felt in 2017.
There are many uncertainties ahead.
One concern simplicity, transparency and personalisation.
is the possibility of increased trade barriers and winding back of trade agreements.
The other pertinent factor will be the impact on the US dollar and the Feds monetary policy.
But most emerging Our clients want access to capital markets economies are in a better position to weather the uncertainty than for three reasons: capital preservation, they were during the taper tantrum in 2013.
In addition, income and growth.
Additionally, they want many of these countries such as Brazil, India, and Indonesia still have room to ease rates to help spur economic activity.
this access within their own risk parameters, determined by both liquidity and volatility.
14 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Yet trackers have had it good in a period of unprecedented easy Different generations have different needs and expectations.
money and low market dispersion.
They are untested in down The worlds wealth currently lies with the baby boomer generation, markets and there are concerns some may not be liquid enough who are focused on capital preservation.
Younger generations, to meet redemptions when the appetite for cheap market however, unlikely to receive much state support when they retire, exposure turns.
will have to start saving for their future as early as possible.
They want outcome oriented products designed to accumulate When there is greater dispersion among companies' investment and grow their contributions over a thirty to forty year period so returns, it is easier for active managers to outperform.
The period they have a sizable pot of money when it comes to retirement.
since the financial crisis has not been such a time.
Interest rates They also have a different approach to technology, transparency fell near to zero and have stayed at record lows, resulting in and risk, which cannot be ignored.
Customisation of services and lower dispersion among stock returns.
If interest rates normalise, products is therefore essential.
dispersion among company returns should increase and the Advances in innovation and technology quality of individual companies should become a more important While historically the costs of accessing the mass market were driver of investment returns.
prohibitive, advancements in technology allow this market to be One evolution over recent years, which seeks to bridge the gap more easily served, at low cost in large volumes.
Our acquisition in the active versus passive debate, has been the emergence of of the Parmenion platform illustrates our belief that technology is smart beta products.
They offer some of the benefits of both, likely to have a transformative impact on the asset management using factor based attributes such as style biases or volatility.
industry and the means by which investments are made available Multi factor models, where the manager chooses which 'tilt' to to investors.
apply, are especially popular in Europe.
The factors are selected to Applying data to investment processes and risk management be different from the market cap indices such as FTSE or S&P, is also a competitive advantage.
As the range of capabilities but seek to match attributes such as volatility, quality, value which needed broadens to meet diversification, continued investment are tailored to needs of clients.
For Aberdeen, offering leading products across the active - smart beta - passive spectrum, is a strategic priority.
Active versus passive The growth in passively run index trackers continued to gain pace New solutions to provide diversification this year, propelled by the US market and the inability of many Investment markets are inherently cyclical and different asset active strategies to consistently outperform their benchmarks net classes perform well at different times.
Multi asset investments of fees.
Market access to passive investing is cheap and ubiquitous provide a strategy to capitalise on this, offering a range of benefits through passive funds and ETPs.
Low cost products are attractive to investors, including greater confidence in being able to generate in a low return environment.
long-term growth, enhanced returns, reduced volatility and, in This shift is also being driven by the move towards outcome some cases, additional tail protection.
They also allow investors to oriented investments.
Many institutions such as pension funds and move away from regular equities and bonds, making them a key insurers are liability driven.
They have fixed obligations which must part of corporate strategy across the investment management field.
be met on a regular basis and so delivering performance against a The demand for multi asset strategies has fuelled a growth specific need has become far more pressing than simply beating in alternative products.
Alternatives covers a broad range of the benchmark.
This trend is resulting in a move in focus away capabilities.
Whereas once investing in hedge funds used to from investment performance towards asset allocation.
dominate discussions, increasingly favour has turned to private In the UK, the unbundling of fee structures for Independent investments notably private equity, infrastructure and private Financial Advisers IFAs has also had an impact.
It is now vital to have these skills to provide a truly diversified paid directly, rather than through receiving rebate commissions, offering to clients and meet the wide spectrum of needs.
they may have a greater incentive to look for more cost effective The question for many asset management groups is whether to ways to deliver returns, especially in an environment in which pursue these opportunities, and if so, how?
For Aberdeen there there is an ever increasing number of funds to choose from.
Following our purchase of SWIP in 2014, we have made a series of acquisitions which clearly show our In the US too, the Department of Labour has provided guidance to belief that incorporating a far wider universe of asset classes into advisors on their fiduciary requirements when providing retirement our investment proposition will allow us to serve our clients better.
If implemented, like the retail distribution review in the UK, this is expected to facilitate a shift to fee based Strategic acquisitions have allowed us to obtain the particular advice, rather than commission sharing arrangements, and may skills in funds screening, sourcing, portfolio modelling and support lower cost strategies.
execution that cannot be built in-house overnight.
com 15 The market context continued Regulation Aberdeens response The financial crisis changed the regulatory landscape for asset We face many challenges a change in the profile and managers.
Globally, regulators are focused on protecting investors demands of clients: a move towards passive: and a shift to and trying to restore confidence in the integrity of markets.
multi asset and alternatives investment solutions, all in an But the uptick in regulatory scrutiny, across common themes such increasingly scrutinised operating environment.
as market abuse, investor protection, transparency, cyber security, culture and governance, is also adding to industry complexity and Our key response to these challenges is to become a requiring managers to be agile in responding to change.
full-service asset manager with the breadth and depth of capabilities across active and passive, multi asset and In the UK, the FCAs extensive review into competition in the asset alternative investments to serve all investor audiences.
management industry sought to address whether the industry operates in the most efficient and effective way possible for To stay competitive we must invest in the business.
We know the benefit of clients and end-customers.
It covered how asset some trends may prove short-lived while others are here to managers compete to deliver value: how they manage costs along stay.
Listening and responding to client needs is critical to the value chain: and the impact of consultants on competition.
The FCA's suggested remedies should help to strengthen In an uncertain political and economic environment, we confidence and competition in the UK asset management industry, are convinced investors will need more diversification not making it more attractive on the global stage by leading the way in less: that they will need more guidance: and that aligning best practice.
investment results to real-life goals not an unrelated market In Europe, the updated Markets in Financial Instruments Directive benchmark will become the acid test against which asset MiFID II comes into force in 2018.
These new rules are the most managers will be measured.
comprehensive the industry has ever seen and include transaction We aim to be honest, upfront and to say what we believe and trade reporting, market, research, product development and really matters to investors.
We are confident that a fulldistribution changes which will improve transparency to the market, service Aberdeen is the answer to the commercial challenges regulators and clients and will bring improved investor protection.
facing our industry and to what investors require in todays We are preparing for the application of the Senior Managers and investment climate.
Certification Regime, which currently applies to the banking sector and is to be extended across investment companies in 2018.
This work will support our continuing drive to strengthen conduct principles throughout the business and accountability within the first line.
16 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016
