143471 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 143471 ASCOT Txt V9 27 01 2017 14:26 Page 8 Managers Report Introduction ASCoTs total return in the twelve months to 31 December 2016 was 5.8%.
This was below the benchmarks return, with the NSCI XIC up by 11.1%.
Both ASCoT and small companies in general were some way behind large companies: the FTSE All-Shares total return was 16.8%.
The year under review also marks the end of a continuation vote cycle.
Over the three years, ASCoTs total return was 15.8%, which may be compared with 20.6% for the NSCI XIC and with 19.3% for the FTSE All-Share.
This represents a disappointing relative performance.
The following paragraphs describe the general influences on ASCoTs returns over the three years, summarise specific issues on an annual basis and look in greater depth at performance in 2016.
Performance review Over the three year period, politics started to exercise greater influence on financial markets than has been the case for some time.
From the Scottish independence referendum in 2014, through Brexit and the election of Donald Trump, political risk rose and remains elevated.
The themes of populism, inequality and a challenge to the liberal elite are cited to link unexpected electoral developments around the world.
Hand in hand with this come the threat of protectionism and challenges to the central bank orthodoxy of quantitative easing and ultra low interest rates.
Over the course of the continuation vote cycle, the underlying problems facing the UK and global economies were unchanged namely sluggish real growth, high indebtedness and deflation but the means of addressing them might be on the point of transformation.
Inspired by Brexit and encouraged by both US presidential candidates promising greater fiscal stimulus, the financial markets were starting to toy with the possibility of a more inflationary turn of events in the middle of the year.
It was, however, Trumps victory that prompted a decisive re-evaluation of the outlook.
Resources companies, whose share prices had begun a rebound in February following five years of extreme weakness, were given renewed impetus on the expectation of infrastructure investment.
Meanwhile, the inflationary implications of populist policies drove bond yields sharply higher to challenge the consensus deflationary positioning that has held sway for much of the time since the financial crisis.
Against the background sketched in the preceding paragraphs, ASCoTs investment returns varied widely year to year.
The following summaries of individual years describe the principal influences on performance, starting with 2013, which, though not in the most recent continuation vote period, provides useful context.
2013 ASCoT 52.4% NSCI XIC 36.9% FTSE All-Share 20.8% This was the year in which the financial markets last attempted to embrace the great rotation: still buoyed by Mario Draghis bravado in 2012, investors contemplated an acceleration in economic growth that would favour equities over bonds.
Government bond yields thus rose sharply, which favoured the value investment style.
2014 ASCoT -0.7% NSCI XIC -1.9% FTSE All-Share 1.2% The optimism about economic progress of 2013 petered out, which was reflected in a relapse in government bond yields.
This represented a complication for the performance of the value investment style.
A good level of M&A activity protected ASCoT from the worst of a poor year for the asset class.
2015 ASCoT 10.2% NSCI XIC 10.6% FTSE All-Share 1.0% This turned out to be a difficult twelve months for the value investor: indeed, within the context of the NSCI XIC it was the fourth worst year for the broad value style in sixty years.
ASCoT managed to keep pace with the benchmark thanks to a further improvement in the incidence of M&A activity and to a relatively low exposure to resources companies, which continued to struggle in the face of high debt levels and falling commodity prices.
2016 ASCoT 5.8% NSCI XIC 11.1% FTSE All-Share 16.8% As can be seen from the annual performance numbers above, ASCoTs relative performance over the three year continuation vote period is down to what happened in 2016.
An important influence on relative returns was the bounce in the resources sectors, which started in the middle of February and without which the NSCI XIC would have been up by 5% in 2016.
This resources rebound played to the relative strengths of the FTSE All-Share against the NSCI XIC, with 8 Strategic Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 143471 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 143471 ASCOT Txt V9 27 01 2017 14:26 Page 9 Managers Report large companies possessing a much greater exposure than small to resources companies.
Similarly, ASCoTs low exposure compared with the NSCI XIC hampered returns through 2016.
That low exposure came through the miners rather than the oil companies.
Indeed, the portfolios weighting in the latter was higher than that of the index and thus ASCoT benefited as the oil prices recovery gathered pace.
In total, the miners accounted for 316 of the 528 basis points under-performance in 2016 shown in the following table.
For the 12 months ended 31 December 2016 Basis points Stock selection 505 Sector selection 6 Attributable to the portfolio of investments, based on mid prices 499 after transaction costs of 16 basis points Movement in mid to bid price spread 21 Cash gearing 17 Purchase of Ordinary Shares 9 Management fee 70 Other expenses 6 Total attribution based on bid prices 528 Note: 100 basis points 1%.
Total Attribution is the difference between the total return of the NAV and the Benchmark Index i. e. NAV 5.80%: Benchmark Index 11.08%: difference is -5.28% being -528 basis points.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Managers do not ignore the mining sectors: they are analysed in the same detail and depth as other parts of the stockmarket.
However, the subset of miners available within the NSCI XIC has certain characteristics that complicate investment from the Managers perspective.
First, the subset is highly indebted: a majority of the mining companies included in the NSCI XIC on its 1 January 2016 rebalancing had stretched balance sheets that threatened their survival and certainly prevented dividend payments.
A second important factor is that many of the small miners remain controlled by oligarchs or family interests.
This introduces an additional level of risk for minority shareholders and makes it difficult for the Managers to engage with the chairman in a useful fashion.
In the rare cases where the Managers see these characteristics discounted by stockmarket valuations, they are willing to invest.
Indeed, two of ASCoTs biggest winners last year were miners.
Beyond resources, large companies also benefited relative to small from the effects of Junes EU referendum.
The out vote was seen to be to the disadvantage of businesses addressing the domestic economy.
The NSCI XIC has a greater exposure to such companies: roughly 59% of the accumulated historical sales of the indexs constituents were generated in the UK, which compares with approximately 25% for large companies.
The portfolios exposure is around 53%.
From this perspective, ASCoT was less affected than the benchmark by Brexit.
However, the share prices of many domestic companies notably retailers, property companies and housebuilders were down over the year as a whole and therefore the referendum did affect ASCoTs absolute returns.
A more significant influence on ASCoTs relative performance was the Managers value investment style.
Thanks to the powerful rebound of the resources sectors, the value style, as defined by the London Business School and Style Research, pulled ahead of the growth style in 2016.
However, this was due to the out-performance of the resources companies.
This underlying style performance was consistent with the downward pressure on bond yields over the twelve months.
Since the financial crisis, the correlation between falling bond yields and weaker returns for the value investor has been high.
One of the reasons for this is that lower yields tend to be associated with a poorer outlook for economic growth.
This is to the disadvantage of value since in todays market the typical value stock is cyclical, whereas bond-like equities, producing low but steady growth, have been re-rated to very high valuations that are more in keeping with those of traditional growth stocks.
This state of affairs is unusual and, as described in the Conclusion of this report, gives the Managers cause for optimism: a move towards the inevitable normalisation of monetary conditions, such as was experienced in 2013 and has been seen since the US elections, would be to the benefit of the value investment style and by extension to ASCoTs returns.
Strategic Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 9 143471 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 143471 ASCOT Txt V9 27 01 2017 14:26 Page 10 Managers Report The portfolio Though meaningful, top-down influences on performance are somewhat removed from the Managers day-to-day focus on stock selection.
This is not to gloss over the impact of weak share performances that resulted from company specific issues: as is the case in any twelve month period, the portfolio contained several companies that did not perform as expected, both negatively and positively.
However, the Managers preference not to focus in any one year on the attribution to ASCoTs performance of individual companies reflects an important aspect of their investment approach.
The Managers attempt to divorce the name of a stock, with all its baggage and history, from the valuation accorded to it at any point in time by a capricious stockmarket.
The failure of an underlying business to meet expectations is reflected in some measure by its share price almost instantaneously: what the Managers have to do is work out whether the disappointment is indicative of on-going pressures on the business that will result in a permanent loss of value or whether the stockmarket has over-reacted and is thus presenting an incremental investment opportunity.
In the Managers experience the latter is often the case, particularly in the financial conditions of recent years when the certainty of returns from those bond-like equities have been so highly prized.
Additionally, some of the best contributors to ASCoTs performance over its history have been stocks where the Managers initial purchases proved poor but where the discipline has been exercised to reassess after a disappointment and then judiciously to invest incremental capital often over a period of years.
For ASCoT to generate superior returns for its shareholders, getting more investment decisions right than wrong on average year after year probably does the job.
Following the reasoning of the previous paragraph, this aspiration, which may come across as deceptively unambitious, is not about identifying more high quality businesses than low quality businesses and owning them forever that is an approach followed by the growth investor.
Rather, the aspiration is about retesting the value of companies both within and outwith the portfolio in relation to the share prices accorded to them by a volatile stockmarket, and, from this, it is about encouraging the circulation of ASCoTs capital over time from those stocks with low upsides to those with high upsides.
In 2016, the opportunities to put this process into practice were fewer than usual.
This is reflected in an unusually low level of portfolio turnover.
With situations, such as M&A, in which ASCoT is effectively a forced seller excluded, the underlying rate of turnover was just 12%, half the long term average.
This reflected the mood of the stockmarket: general interest in the sort of stocks owned by ASCoT was low, which meant that they were not revalued and that there was little reason to exit existing positions.
A similar phenomenon was witnessed in 2012: in the annual report for that year the Managers expressed a desire for turnover to return to more normal levels.
Given the unexpectedly sharp rebound in the following year, a re-run of 2013 would be welcome.
The Managers investment decisions resulted in a portfolio at 31 December 2016 with an active share of 76% assessed against the NSCI XIC.
Active share is a gauge of how different a portfolio is from an index.
The higher the ratio, the higher the likelihood that the performance of the portfolio will differ, for better or worse, from that of the index.
The Managers target a ratio of at least 70%, though would tolerate a temporarily depressed number.
This target is assessed without the benefit of holdings that are not constituents of the index, since such holdings would flatter the ratio.
The Managers believe that, with an active share of 76%, the portfolio is well placed to exploit a turn in the stockmarket back in favour of the value investment style.
In contrast to its lacklustre capital performance, the portfolio generated a good rate of income growth in 2016: 3.8% in headline terms.
This number was affected by the receipt of several special dividends in 2016 and by an even larger contribution from special dividends in 2015.
In underlying terms, with those lumpy special dividends excluded, the rate of increase rises to 12.5%.
Adjusted for inflation this is far ahead of the 2.5% long term real dividend growth from small companies.
These numbers highlight what was another good year for dividends from small companies in general.
Encouraging boards to increase dividends are strong balance sheets: for illustration, companies with net cash on their balance sheets represent 29% of ASCoTs portfolio.
Another factor is relatively high dividend cover, which for the portfolio is 3x, well above the long term average of 2.6x.
Additionally, trading conditions through 2016, while not buoyant, were sufficiently benign to allow small companies to move their profits ahead, notwithstanding the uncertainties engendered by the EU referendum and other big picture issues.
Nevertheless, the above average pace of small company dividend growth enjoyed in recent years has to decline close to that long term average.
The Valuations section below gives consideration to the risk of a downturn in the domestic economy, brought on by the uncertainties stemming from the EU referendum.
10 Strategic Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 143471 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 143471 ASCOT Txt V9 27 01 2017 14:26 Page 11 Managers Report Valuations The years since the financial crisis have seen valuation relationships develop within and between financial markets to levels that are unusual in a long term historical context.
Most fundamentally, quantitative easing and zero interest rate policy resulted in the re-establishment of the yield gap: for the first sustained period of time since the 1950s, equities yield more than government bonds.
Lower bond yields have been a handicap to the returns of the value investor, on the whole.
The qualification is necessary since it is likely that ASCoT has enjoyed some mitigation by virtue of the above average yields of its typical holdings.
Those yields became more sought after as bond yields declined and starved the investment world of income.
This dynamic aside, the evolution of todays valuation relationships has been a headwind to the Managers value investment style.
More positively, a normalisation of the valuation stretches, which are illustrated below, will be of benefit to ASCoTs future returns.
31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Characteristics ASCoT NSCI XIC ASCoT NSCI XIC Number of companies 87 349 86 349 Weighted average market capitalisation 617m 800m 567m 750m Price earnings ratio or PE historic 11.3x 12.5x 12.5x 14.6x Dividend yield historic 3.0% 2.8% 3.1% 2.7% Dividend cover 3.0x 2.9x 2.6x 2.5x Small against large The table shows the historical price earnings ratios of the portfolio and of small companies as a whole: consistent with the Managers value investment style, ASCoTs PE is lower.
Over the course of 2016, the PE of small companies has dropped from 14.6x to 12.5x.
In contrast, the PE of the FTSE All-Share has risen from 16.6x to 18.6x.
This leaves small companies on their widest PE discount to large since 2000.
The re-rating of large companies reflects the substantial exposure of the FTSE All-Share to the resources sectors, which rebounded strongly in 2016, and to other international companies, which benefited from sterling weakness following the EU referendum.
Small small against large small Market cap.
range Below 100m 100m - 250m 250m - 750m Above 750m ASCoT exposure 4% 17% 45% 34% Tracked universe exposure 1% 7% 34% 58% Tracked universe EV EBITA 9.4x 9.6x 11.6x 12.2x The table shows that the UK stockmarket is presently characterised by a continuous size effect: the smaller the company, the lower the valuation within the tracked universe representing 96% by value of the NSCI XIC.
This is unusual in a longer term context: smaller companies have traditionally justified a higher valuation owing to their scope for superior, if more volatile, growth.
Todays state of affairs would appear to reflect elevated concern about illiquidity, which has been in evidence since the financial crisis.
ASCoT, as a closed-end fund, is able to take a longer term view and to exploit the opportunity to own companies with better growth prospects on lower valuations.
Value against growth EV EBITA Growth Other Tracked ASCoT Number of stocks 40 244 284 87 2017 on prevailing estimates 16.4x 11.0x 11.7x 10.1x 2017 with a downturn 18.6x 13.0x 13.7x 11.9x The ratio of enterprise value to earnings before interest, tax and amortisation EV EBITA is the Managers preferred valuation metric.
The table shows the 2017 ratios for ASCoT, for the tracked universe and for two subdivisions of the tracked universe, i. e. 40 growth stocks and the 244 other companies.
Two scenarios are set out for 2017.
The first is based on prevailing estimates and reveals a wide gap between the valuation of the growth stocks and ASCoTs portfolio, with the former on a 62% premium to the latter.
Strategic Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 11 143471 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 143471 ASCOT Txt V9 27 01 2017 14:26 Page 12 Managers Report The second basis acknowledges the risks of a slowdown in the UK economy, as Brexit takes its toll on spending decisions and weak sterling affects purchasing power.
For the sake of simplicity, the downturn is assumed to start on 1 January 2017.
A second main assumption is that the downturn reduces the EBITA of companies reliant on the domestic economy by 25%, which is roughly in line with the experience in 2009.
Under this scenario, and as should be expected, the profits of ASCoTs portfolio companies decline by more than those of the growth stocks, the effect of which is to reduce the EV EBITA premium of the growth stocks over the portfolio to 56%.
While a recession in 2017 is by no means certain, the scenario analysis highlights an important facet of the UK stockmarkets valuation at the current time.
The outperformance and re-rating of growth stocks since the financial crisis have been justified by concern about the vulnerability of cyclical value stocks to another recession.
However, growth stocks emerge from a recession model still on a large valuation premium.
For the Managers biased value investors that they are this suggests that some of the risk of a downturn may already be captured by todays share prices.
Conclusion It is disappointing to have to report on a year of poor performance, which has also undermined returns over the three years of the continuation vote period.
It is particularly frustrating that this comes against a background in 2016 that is ostensibly more favourable to the value investor.
However, values nascent fightback was concentrated in the highly indebted mining companies, at least in the early stages of the year.
Intriguingly, the year ended with a welcome broadening of the stockmarkets appetite for value stocks.
The catalyst would appear to have been Donald Trumps victory in the US election.
His rhetoric and, presumably, his policies may mark a turn from austerity towards a reflationary strategy.
The promise of tax cuts, fiscal stimulus and protectionism have challenged the positioning of financial markets, which reflected an expectation of low rates, deflationary pressure and subdued growth.
Government bond yields have responded: ten year yields in the US ended the year at 2.4%, up from a mid year trough of below 1.4%, while ten year gilt yields moved up from 0.5% in August to 1.2% at the year end.
As talk builds again of the great rotation, small value stocks in the UK have been caught up in the repricing of a reflationary outcome and ASCoT duly benefited as 2016 drew to a close.
The power of the rotation so far probably says more about how extreme some of the valuation stretches within financial markets had become.
For the rotation to continue the new president has to deliver on his promises, while other familiar macro economic issues, not least Brexit, need to be negotiated.
However, the valuations of ASCoTs holdings already reflect much of the top-down risk and the underlying characteristics of these companies offer encouragement.
Though cyclical, they are well managed, robustly funded and resilient enough businesses to have weathered the financial crisis and severe recession eight years ago.
Stockmarket investors in general may still be reluctant to embrace these qualities, but it was notable that the year ended with an upsurge in takeover activity: once again bigger companies are exploiting the valuation anomalies on offer among the lower reaches of the UK stockmarket, with overseas predators given additional encouragement by the weakness of sterling.
For the Managers, the weight of history together with the underlying progress of the businesses in the portfolio give confidence that todays valuations are anomalies and that over time these will be addressed to the benefit of ASCoT and the value style more generally.
Given how powerfully turns in financial markets can play out, the Managers believe that ASCoTs contrarian positioning remains as compelling and as relevant as at any point in the trusts twenty six year history.
Aberforth Partners LLP Managers 27 January 2017 12 Strategic Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc
