governAnce other inforMation The Companies act 2006 requires acacias Directors global ghg emissions data for period 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2016 unaudited to prepare a Directors Report for the financial year according to the GHG Protocol developed by the World Business Council under review.
The uKLas Listing Rules and Disclosure for Sustainable Development and the World Resources Institute, GHG Guidance and Transparency Rules also require acacia emissions are classified as either direct or indirect, and from there are to make certain other disclosures.
The information divided further into Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions.
Direct contained on pages 97 to 101 inclusive together GHG emissions are emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by the reporting entity.
Indirect GHG emissions are emissions that are a with all other information in the annual Report which consequence of the activities of the reporting entity but that occur at has been specifically incorporated into these pages sources owned or controlled by another entity.
Each scope is classified by reference constitutes acacias Directors Report.
as follows: Scope 1 emissions: direct emissions from sources owned or operated legal form of the company by our Company.
acacia is a public listed company incorporated in England and Wales with the registered number 7123187.
It conducts limited business Scope 2 emissions: indirect emissions attributable to our Company activities itself and trades principally through its subsidiaries and due to its consumption of purchased electricity, notably our subsidiary undertakings in various jurisdictions.
Further information as consumption of electricity from TaNESCO.
regards acacias subsidiaries is provided in Note 1 to the consolidated Scope 3 emissions: all other indirect emissions associated with financial statements on page 119. activities that support or supply our Companys operations.
Strategic report unlike previous years, for 2016, we have calculated acacias Scope 1 The requirements of the Companies act 2006 as regards the production and Scope 2 emissions footprint on the basis of carbon dioxide of a strategic report are satisfied in the Strategic report contained equivalent CO e emissions.
Going forward, we will also look at 2 at pages 2 to 33.
The Strategic report provides an overview of the opportunities to monitor and calculate Scope 3 emissions.
development and performance of acacias business for the financial year-on-year year ending 31 December 2016 and also provides information relevant Percentage of total percentage, to likely future developments in the business.
Total tonnes of CO e emissions % change % 2 2016 2015 2016 2015 In addition, for purposes of compliance with the Disclosure Guidance Scope 1 and Transparency Rules, the required content for the Management report emissions 231,754 223,180 80 78 2 can be found in the Strategic report and the Directors Report.
Scope 2 emissions 55,852 62,293 20 22 -2 directors total 287,606 285,473 100 100 0 The names and biographies of the Directors serving as at 31 December 2016 are provided on pages 62 to 65. an overview of Directors Total CO e emissions for 2016 amounted to 287,606 tonnes, a marginal 2 appointments, by reference to current terms under appointment increase on 2015 285,473 CO e. The increase is due to a slightly lower 2 letters, is provided on page 87.
Details of Director re-election consumption of purchased electricity from hydropower sources due to requirements are provided on page 67. low availability.
directors indemnity and insurance CO e emission intensity for the year was 0.0293 per tonne of ore milled, 2 In accordance with acacias articles of association and to the extent this being an 5% decrease on 2015 0.0308.
Further information as permitted by the Companies act 2006, acacia may indemnify its regards our GHG emissions reporting for 2016 is provided on page 27.
Directors out of its own funds to cover liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
The relevant provision contained in the articles can be categorised as a qualifying third-party indemnity provision under the Companies act 2006. acacia has adopted Directors and Officers liability insurance, which provides insurance cover for any claim brought against Directors or officers for wrongful acts in connection with their positions.
The insurance provided does not extend to claims arising from fraud or dishonesty and it does not provide cover for civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed by law.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 97 other inforMation CONTINuED directors interests major shareholdings Details of the interests of Directors and their connected persons in The following persons as at 31 December 2016 are interested in the acacias Ordinary Shares or in related derivatives or financial instruments following percentages of acacias issued Ordinary Share capital: are outlined in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Percentage of issued Number of share employee share schemes Name shares capital % Details of acacias employee share plans and long-term incentive plans 1 Barrick International Barbados Corp 179,609,530 43.80 are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report.
1 PDG Sona Cayman Ltd 45,258,970 11.04 1 PDG Bank Limited 37,378,450 9.11 employee diversity an overview of female representation percentages across our workforce Blackrock Inc 24,404,732 5.95 is provided on page 57.
In addition, the total breakdown of male and M&G Investment Management 17,152,222 4.18 female employees as at 31 December 2016 was as follows: Total 303,803,904 74.08 Female Male 1 Members of the Barrick Group.
Board of Directors 1 8 Executive Leadership Team 0 5 Following year end, Blackrock Inc increased its interest in acacias Other employees 270 2,801 issued share capital to 24,732,014 shares, equivalent to 6.03%.
There were no other changes as of 1 March 2017. dividends relationship with major shareholder an interim dividend of uS2.0 cents per share was paid to shareholders an overview of acacias relationship with Barrick and the Relationship on 30 September 2016.
The Directors recommend the payment of agreement that has been executed in respect of their ongoing a final dividend of uS8.4 cents per Ordinary Share.
This represents relationship is provided on page 69. a total dividend of uS10.4 cents for 2016.
Subject to the shareholders approving this recommendation at the aGM, the final dividend will be political and charitable donations paid on 31May 2017 to shareholders on the register at 5May 2017. acacia does not make political donations.
Information as regards The ex-dividend date is 4May 2017. acacia will declare the final dividend acacias social and community contributions for the year is provided in uS dollars.
unless a shareholder has elected or elects to receive as part of our Sustainability and Financial reviews.
dividends in uS dollars, dividends will be paid in pounds sterling with the uS dollar amount being converted into pounds sterling at exchange information required by lr 9.8.
4r rates prevailing on or around 10May 2017.
Currency elections must be There is no information required to be disclosed under LR 9.8.
4R save made by return of currency election forms.
The deadline for the return in respect of LR 9.8.
4R 10 Contracts of significance with controlling of currency election forms is 8May 2017. shareholder in which director interested, LR 9.8.
4R 11 Contracts for the provision of services by a controlling shareholder and LR 9.8.
4R 14 Share capital Relationship agreement with controlling shareholder which can be as at 31 December 2016, the Companys issued share capital found on pages 69 and 99 of this annual Report.
Details of interest comprised 410,085,499 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each.
The voting capitalised by the Group are provided in Note 11 of the consolidated rights of all acacia Ordinary Shares are identical, with each share financial statements on page 137. carrying the right to one vote.
The Company holds no Ordinary Shares in Treasury and does not have any class of share other than its Ordinary policy on derivatives, financial instruments and financial Shares.
Further details on voting rights and rights relating to the transfer risk management of shares are provided below.
acacias policies on financial risk management, derivatives, financial acacias articles of association provide the authority for the Company to instruments and information on its exposures to foreign currency, purchase its own shares including any redeemable preference shares, commodity prices, credit, equity, liquidity and interest rates can be provided that it complies with any applicable requirements contained in found in Notes 29 and 30 to the consolidated financial statements the Companies act 2006, the CREST regulations or any other applicable contained on pages 147 and 149 of this annual Report.
as part of resolutions passed at the 2016 aGM, the Company obtained information is incorporated by reference into this Directors Report shareholder approval to make market purchases of up to 4,100,854 of and is deemed to form part of this Directors Report.
its Ordinary Shares, equivalent to 10% of the issued share capital at the time of approval.
The authority was granted subject to stated upper and lower limits in accordance with Listing Rule requirements and expires at the forthcoming aGM.
The authority was not exercised during the year under review.
an equivalent shareholder resolution will be sought as a matter of ordinary business at the forthcoming aGM.
Details of acacias issued share capital and any movements during the year are included in Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements on page 144.
98 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 governAnce material agreements containing change of control Certain employment contracts for members of the Companys Executive provisions significant agreements with directors Leadership Team, excluding the current CEO, contain change of control controlling Shareholders provisions, which provide entitlements to severance payments in the The Directors consider the following as material agreements event of being dismissed without cause or resigning for good reason in arrangements for acacias business and operations, which alter or the 12 months following a change of control.
any payment made under terminate on a change of control of acacia and or significant agreements these arrangements would replace the entitlement to receive payment with Directors Barrick: under applicable contractual notice periods in each case.
Special provisions also allow the early exercise of awards made under the relationship agreement: see page 69 of this report for an overview of Companys Stock Option Plan SOP and early vesting of awards made the Relationship agreement.
In addition to the Relationship agreement, under the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP, in the event of a takeover, acacia entered into a Services agreement with Barrick in February reconstruction or winding up.
In such circumstances, the Compensation 2010 as part of arrangements for the IPO, under which Barrick Committee determines whether and to what extent options or awards provides certain services to the acacia Group for the ongoing become exercisable, by taking into account all relevant facts and operation of the business.
These services include support for circumstances including, but not limited to, satisfaction of any applicable information technology, technical services and other administrative performance condition.
When determining the vesting of LTIP awards or and corporate functions.
The agreements termination events include options, the Compensation Committee may proportionately reduce the a basis for either party to terminate the agreement with immediate award depending on the time which has elapsed between the first day of effect in the event of specified breaches of the agreement, insolvency, the performance period and the date of change of control.
alternatively, analogous events or a change of control.
Whilst this agreement awards may be exchanged for new equivalent awards where appropriate.
remains in force, limited services are provided under it and no services provided are deemed to be material or significant.
going concern credit agreement: an overview of the Credit agreement between, The Directors statement on Going Concern is contained on page 51 among others, the Company and Citibank International plc as of this annual Report.
administrative agent, is provided in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements on page 136. a change of control is a mandatory corporate governance compliance prepayment event under the Credit agreement and, subject to certain The corporate governance statement as required by Rule 7.2.
1 of the exceptions, a termination event.
uKLas Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules is set out in the corporate governance report on pages 60 to 76 of this annual Report.
acacias mining concessions are held by its operating companies in all information detailed in the corporate governance statement is Tanzania.
under applicable law, a change of control of the operating incorporated by reference into this Directors Report and is deemed companies requires the consent of the Minister of Energy and Minerals to form part of this Directors Report.
In addition, each acacia Group operating mine has a Mineral Development agreement MDa with the Tanzanian Government.
The articles of association material terms and conditions of each MDa are substantially similar and The Companys articles of association may be amended by special include provisions governing royalty payments, taxes and other charges, resolution of the shareholders.
banking arrangements, local procurement obligations, and import rights.
The MDas also provide for no expropriation or nationalisation rights.
Shareholder rights Broadly, these rights provide that the Tanzanian Government will not The rights and obligations attaching to the Ordinary Shares contained nationalise or compulsorily acquire the whole or any part of acacias in the articles of association are as follows: interest in the applicable special mining licences or any of its property or its contractors or subcontractors property used for the purpose of voting rights mining operations or in relation to the applicable special mining licences, Subject to any special rights or voting restrictions contained in the without adequate compensation.
Each MDa is governed by Tanzanian articles of association for any class of share, at any general meeting law.
adherence to the terms and conditions of the MDas is of significant every member who is present in person or by proxy shall, on a show of importance to acacias business, given the agreements overall hands, have one vote and every member present in person or by proxy importance to our operations.
shall, on a poll, have one vote for each share of which he or she is the holder.
a resolution put to a vote of the meeting shall be decided on a show of hands, unless a poll is duly demanded.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies act 2006, a poll may be demanded by the Chairman: by at least five members who have the right to vote at the meeting: by a member or members representing not less than one-tenth of the total voting rights of all the members having the right to vote at the meeting: or by a member or members holding shares conferring a right to vote at the meeting, being shares on which an aggregate sum has been paid up equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares conferring that right.
unless the Directors otherwise determine, a shareholder is not entitled to vote at a shareholders meeting, either in person or by proxy, or to exercise any other right conferred by membership in relation to a shareholders meeting, unless and until all calls or other sums presently payable by him or her in respect of that share with interest and expenses if any have been paid to the Company or if he she or any other person appearing to be interested in shares has been issued with a notice pursuant to Section 793 of the Companies act 2006 requiring disclosure of interest in shares and has failed to provide the required information within 14 days from the service of the notice.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 99 other inforMation CONTINuED dividend rights The Directors may, in their absolute discretion and without giving any The Board may declare and pay dividends on any class of shares carrying reason, refuse to register any transfer of a share in certificated form a fixed dividend expressed to be payable on fixed dates and may from or renunciation of a renounceable letter of allotment unless: time to time pay interim dividends as it thinks fit.
Final dividends shall i it is in respect of a share which is fully paid up: be declared by Ordinary Shareholder resolution, in accordance with Board ii it is in respect of only one class of shares: recommendations.
No dividend declared by shareholders shall exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
Provided that the Board acts in iii it is in favour of not more than four joint transferees: good faith, it shall not incur any liability to shareholders for any loss that iv it is lodged duly stamped if so required at the transfer office: they may suffer by the lawful payment of any fixed or interim dividend v it is accompanied by the relevant certificate for the shares to which on any shares ranking after or pari passu with those shares.
Except as it relates and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably otherwise provided by the rights attached to shares, all dividends shall require to prove the title of the transferor and the due execution be apportioned and paid proportionately to the amounts paid up on the of the transfer or, if the transfer is executed by some other person shares during any portion or portions of the period in respect of which the on his behalf, the authority of that person to do so: and dividend is paid, but if any share is issued on terms providing that it shall vi in the case of partly paid shares listed on the London Stock rank for dividend as from a particular date, it shall rank for dividend Exchange, such refusal would prevent dealings in such shares from accordingly.
No amount paid up on a share in advance of the date taking place on an open and proper basis.
on which a call is payable shall be treated as paid up on the share.
Payment of any dividend declared may be satisfied wholly or partly by unless the Board otherwise determines, a transfer of shares will not the distribution of specific assets, and in particular of paid up shares or be registered if the transferor or any other person appearing to be debentures of the Company, with shareholder approval.
The Directors may interested in the transferors shares has been issued with Section 793 retain any dividend or other money payable on or in respect of a share on shares in respect of shares representing at least 0.25% of their class which the Company has a lien and may apply the same towards satisfaction and the relevant information has not been supplied within 14 days.
This of the monies payable to the Company in respect of that share.
restriction on transfer will not automatically apply if the member is not personally in default as regards supplying the information required and unless the Directors otherwise determine, the payment of any dividend the proposed transfer is only part of the members holding, provided that or other money that would otherwise be payable in respect of shares certain requirements are satisfied at the time of presenting the transfer will be withheld, and the Company shall have no obligation to pay for registration.
interest on it, if such shares represent at least 0.25% of the nominal value of the issued share capital of their class and the holder, or any division of assets on a winding up other person appearing to be interested in those shares, has been If the Company is wound up the liquidator may, with the sanction of issued with a Section 793 notice and has failed to supply the information a shareholder special resolution, divide the whole or any part of the required by such notice within 14 days.
Furthermore, such a holder Companys assets between shareholders.
In such circumstances shall not be entitled to elect to receive shares instead of a dividend.
the liquidator may value any assets and determine how the division The payment by the Board of any unclaimed dividend or other monies shall be carried out as between the shareholders or different classes on or in respect of a share into a separate account shall not constitute of shareholder.
Subject to certain requirements, the liquidator may also acacia a trustee in respect thereof.
all dividends unclaimed for a period vest any part of the assets in trustees on such trusts for the benefit of 12 years after having been declared or become due for payment of the shareholders, but no shareholder shall be compelled to accept shall be forfeited and shall revert to acacia.
any assets on which there is a liability.
transfer of shares variation of rights Subject to any applicable restrictions, each member may transfer all If at any time the share capital of the Company is divided into shares or any of his or her shares, which are in certificated form, by instrument of different classes, rights attached to a class may only be varied in of transfer in writing in any usual form or in any other form acceptable such manner if any as may be provided by prescribed rights or, in the to the Board and may be under hand only.
Such instrument shall be absence of any such provision, either with the consent in writing of the executed by or on behalf of the transferor and in the case of a transfer holders of not less than three-quarters in nominal value of the issued of a share which is not fully paid up by or on behalf of the transferee.
shares of the class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed The transferor shall be deemed to remain the holder of such share until at a separate general meeting of the holders of shares of the class duly the name of the transferee is entered in the register in respect of it.
all transfers of shares which are in uncertificated form shall, unless the CREST regulations otherwise provide, be effected on a relevant system.
100 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 governAnce powers of directors appointment and replacement of directors managing the business Shareholders may appoint any person who is willing to act as a Director acacias business is managed by the Board, and the articles of by ordinary resolution and may remove any Director by ordinary resolution.
association permit the Board to exercise all of the Companys powers The Board may appoint any person to fill any vacancy or as an additional in this regard.
These powers may be exercised by any meeting of the Director, provided that they are submitted for re-election by the Board at which a quorum of two Directors is present.
The power of the shareholders at the aGM following their appointment.
Board to manage the business is subject to any limitations imposed Specific conditions apply to the vacation of office, including cases where by the Companies act, the articles of association or any directions a Director becomes prohibited by law or regulation from holding office, given by special resolution of the shareholders applicable at a relevant or is persistently absent from Directors meetings, or if three-quarters time.
The articles contain an express authority for the appointment of appointed Directors request his or her resignation or in the case of of Executive Directors and provide the Directors with the authority to mental incapacity or bankruptcy.
Barricks rights to appoint Directors delegate or confer upon such Directors any of the powers exercisable are summarised on page 69. additional information regarding Director by them upon such terms and conditions and with such restrictions re-election requirements is provided on page 67 as part of the corporate as they see fit.
The articles contain additional authorities to delegate governance report.
powers and discretions to Board committees and subcommittees.
related party transactions borrowing powers Details of related party transactions undertaken during the year are Subject to the provisions of the Companies act 2006, the CREST contained in Note 34 on page 155 of the consolidated financial regulations and any other applicable law, the Directors may exercise statements.
all the powers of the Company to borrow money, guarantee, indemnify, mortgage or charge its undertaking, property present and future and post-balance sheet events uncalled capital or any part or parts thereof and issue debentures and Particulars of any important events affecting the Company or the other securities, whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, Group since the year end are contained in Note 36 on page 156 of the liability or obligation of acacia or of any third party up to a maximum consolidated financial statements.
Such information is incorporated amount of two times the aggregate of the Groups adjusted total equity, into this Directors Report and is deemed to be part of it.
calculated in accordance with the procedure contained in the articles of association.
Borrowings in excess of this amount require prior audit information shareholder approval.
Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined by Section 418 3 new issues of shares of the Companies act 2006 of which the auditors are unaware and Subject to the provisions of the Companies act 2006, the CREST each Director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as regulations and every other enactment for the time being in force relating a Director to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information to the Directors authority to allot shares and or the disapplication and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
of pre-emption rights and to any resolution of the Company in general meeting regarding the same, the Directors may allot with or without auditors conferring a right of renunciation, grant options over or otherwise The Companys auditors are  LLP PwC.
dispose of them to such persons, at such times and on such terms a resolution to reappoint PwC as auditors will be proposed at the as they think appropriate.
Refer to page 109 as part of the consolidated financial acacias shareholders passed the following resolutions relating to statements for the Independent auditors report on such statements.
the allotment and pre-emption right disapplications at the 2016 aGM: The Directors were granted authority to allot new shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares up to a nominal value of 13,532,821, equivalent to approximately 33% of the total issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company, exclusive of treasury shares, at the time of passing the resolution.
In addition to this, the Directors were also granted authority to allot additional new shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares up to a further nominal amount of 13,532,821, but only in connection with a rights issue.
Pre-emption rights were disapplied over new shares allotted for cash pursuant to the authority granted at i above, but only: a in connection with a pre-emptive offer or rights issue: or b otherwise up to a nominal value of 4,100,854 equivalent to approximately 10% of the Companys total issued Ordinary Share capital at the time of passing the resolution.
These authorities have not been exercised during the reporting period and will expire on the date of the forthcoming aGM.
Equivalent resolutions for a renewal of these authorities will be put to the shareholders at the forthcoming aGM.
The resolution sought as regards pre-emption right disapplication reflects the requirements of the Pre-Emption Groups revised Statement of Principles that provide for certain non-pre-emptive allocations in the context of acquisitions and specified capital investments.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 101
