audit coMMittee activitieS in 2016 and planS for 2017 our activities during the year were wide ranging, comprising in particular the following: objective achieved Reviewing Committee composition based on succession planning, skill set and qualification requirements.
Reviewing our terms of reference and our remit of responsibilities in light of corporate governance developments.
Reviewing the external auditors terms of engagement, plans, scope of work, compensation, the findings arising from all external audit work and external auditor performance.
andre falzon Reviewing acacias periodic financial reporting.
COMMITTEE CHaIRMaN Reviewing key accounting policies and developments in 2016 membership financial reporting and regulatory environment.
percentage Reviewing the internal audit plan together with internal audit meetings of meetings reports, findings and monitoring related action plans.
attended attended Reviewing enterprise risk registers, tax disputes and andre Falzon Chair 7 100% other litigation.
Peter Tomsett 7 100% Reviewing the progress of the annual anti-corruption Rachel English 6 86% compliance programme.
Reviewing whistleblowing arrangements to support reporting introduction requirements under acacias Code of Conduct and anti-Fraud I am the Chairman of the Committee and a CPa, Ca, CGa Canada, and anti-Corruption policies and other reports from the with over 25 years of financial and management experience within the Companys compliance function.
During the year, Rachel English and Peter Tomsett Receiving periodic risk management reports and updates as acted as the other members of the Committee.
as part of ongoing regards the principal risks for which the Committee has Committee composition reviews, for 2017 Peter Tomsett will step delegated oversight on behalf of the Board.
down from the Committee and Steve Lucas will join the Committee.
Participating in the Committees annual performance Details of members experience and qualifications are provided on assessment.
pages 62 to 65 as part of the Board of Directors biographies.
The 2016 edition of the uK Corporate Governance Code and revised In 2017, the Committee will continue to focus on the majority of the FRC audit Committee Guidance published during the year introduced above matters, these being core to its remit of responsibilities.
various enhancements to audit Committee composition.
Requirements primarily focus on ensuring that committee composition continues to provide for appropriate recent and relevant financial experience and competence in the sector in which a company operates.
Whilst the enhanced requirements do not strictly apply to acacia until 2017, given that all Committee members have a wide range of experience, with an emphasis on financial and audit committee experience across the extractive industry, we note that acacia already meets the enhanced standards.
Our terms of reference require us to meet at least four times a year, and in 2016 we met seven times, holding meetings in person and by conference call.
The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Compliance Officer, the Head of Risk and Internal audit, members of the Companys finance function and the external auditors also attend Committee meetings on a regular basis by invitation.
We also hold individual meetings with acacias external auditors and the Head of Risk and Internal audit without management present to discuss matters within our remit of responsibilities.
key responsibilities Our key responsibilities include oversight of financial reporting and internal controls over financial reporting, overseeing the Groups relationship with its external auditors and acacias internal audit function, overseeing the external and internal audit processes generally and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control, including its risk management framework.
In addition, we receive reports from the Chief Compliance Officer as regards anti-fraud, anti-bribery and anti-corruption compliance programmes, these being directly related to our oversight of whistleblowing arrangements and related policy reviews.
72 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 governAnce Significant issues considered by the committee in 2016 going concern review In addition to carrying out the activities referred to above, we reviewed In addition to the matters stated above, all of which are relevant to and considered the following in the context of significant issues relating the Boards assessment of acacias position as a going concern, the to the Group financial statements: statement relating to which is provided on page 51, the Committee also reviewed other matters relevant to acacias liquidity, namely the ongoing indirect tax recoverability availability of net cash balances, acacias hedging strategy and policy, as part of ongoing monitoring and review of taxation matters, we have material contingent liability exposure and the availability of funds under reviewed the status, recoverability and classification of the Companys existing credit facilities.
Management reported to the Committee on each indirect tax receivables relating to VaT charged on imports and the of these matters and was questioned accordingly.
In this regard, the domestic supply of goods and services.
In this regard, we have received Committee has also taken into account the views of the external auditors reports from management on the status of discussions and negotiations in order to satisfy itself of the position taken by the Board as regards to of such matters between management and the Tanzanian Revenue the appropriateness of the going concern assumption contained in this authority TRa : we have reviewed managements ongoing calculations annual Report.
of amounts so outstanding: the procedure established to recover risk reviews refunds and amounts due under the escrow account established to Throughout the year, the Committee has continued to have delegated fund refunds due in respect of portions of the receivable: the audit oversight of certain financial-related principal risks and the Companys process followed to confirm such refunds: and the overall time frame risk management framework itself, as a component of internal controls for the receipt of such refunds against amounts outstanding under systems generally.
Further information regarding risk management and the receivable from time to time.
The Committee has also taken into risk governance is provided on pages 28 to 29 and the principal risks for account the views and contributions of the external auditors regarding which the Committee retains oversight are identified on pages 30 to 33. recoverability and classification of relevant indirect tax receivables.
In this regard our risk monitoring activities involve receipt of periodic Based on the foregoing, the Committee has satisfied itself that the risk reports and the monitoring of trends and development relevant Companys indirect tax receivables remain recoverable and appropriately to risk environment, as supported by managements oversight and classified in the circumstances and is satisfied with the suitability of the implementation of day to day risk management across our operations.
related disclosures contained in this annual Report.
fair, balanced and understandable review uncertain tax positions and taxation litigation at the request of the Board, the Committee has also reviewed a number of tax assessments have been raised by the TRa covering the narrative content of the annual Report in order to make a existing and prior years which have been challenged by members of the recommendation that the report satisfies revised narrative reporting Group.
We have reviewed the basis of these assessments and discussed requirements in that the annual Report, when taken as a whole, is fair, with management their views as to why the assessments are incorrect, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary along with the status of ongoing disputes and appeals procedures.
We for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, also discussed these matters with the external auditors and legal business model and strategy.
In this regard the Committee has taken counsel where relevant.
advice from the Companys legal function to satisfy itself of the relevant legal and regulatory framework underpinning this disclosure standard.
Based on this review the Committee concluded that the Company had The Committee, in conjunction with reviews conducted by PwC, performs sufficiently provided for any uncertain tax positions and that any material a similar assessment in the context of half-year reports.
contingent liabilities had been adequately disclosed.
In addition, the Committee reviewed the amount of deferred tax recognised with respect In terms of wider reviews, the FRC Corporate Reporting Review Team to losses incurred in previous periods and was comfortable with the reviewed the taxation disclosures contained in our 2015 annual Report amounts recognised.
and accounts as part of a wider review conducted of FTSE 350 tax disclosures in annual reports and accounts.
The objective of the review impairment assessment was to encourage more transparent reporting of the relationship between as part of ongoing monitoring of impairment assessments, during tax charges and accounting profit and the factors that could affect that the year the Committee has reviewed and examined key assumptions relationship in the future, in accordance with existing requirements.
used by management for impairment testing, in particular the long-term Following this review, we were informed that certain of our 2015 average gold price used and the factors relevant to this selection, such disclosures relating to the measurement of uncertainties relating to tax as: the Companys operating cash cost levels, the basis on which these liabilities and assets would be used by the FRC as an example of good assumptions were made, and related factors underpinning relevant practice in its publication entitled Corporate Reporting Thematic Review: mine planning, budgets and forecasts.
Views and contributions of the Tax Disclosures, which was published in October 2016 and is available external auditors as regards the impairment testing procedures and on the FRCs website.
We have had no engagement with the FRCs audit key assumptions used formed part of the Committees review of all Quality Review Team during the year.
Following these reviews, the Committee satisfied itself that key assumptions used to ascertain the carrying value of the Companys cash generating units had been appropriately reviewed and challenged and were therefore sufficiently robust for use.
The Committee also reviewed the disclosure contained in this annual Report and, in particular, the disclosure contained in the notes to the consolidated financial statements as regards impairment in order to satisfy itself of the accuracy and suitability of the disclosures so made.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 73 audit coMMittee CONTINuED internal and external audit reviews With respect to non-audit services provided by the external auditors, Throughout the year, the Committee received regular reports on the Committee reviews the status of all non-audit services on a quarterly matters under review by the internal audit function, and has reviewed basis and is required to consider, and where appropriate provide prior such matters and raised questions with the Head of Risk and Internal approval for, the provision of all non-audit work by the external auditors audit accordingly.
We also reviewed the internal audit charter, mandate to ensure that any such work can be conducted without adversely and performance in order to assess ongoing effectiveness, following affecting auditor independence.
The Committee also reviews the which the Committee concluded that the internal audit function remains proposed provision of non-audit services against the backdrop of uK effective and performs in accordance with requirements of the business.
and Eu prohibitions regarding the provision of non-audit services to We have also assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process ensure the Company complies with all restrictions and requirements via responses to surveys received from the Chief Financial Officer, applicable to it.
members of the finance and treasury function, and in particular The auditors are precluded from engaging in non-audit services that members of the Companys financial reporting team and the would compromise their independence, objectivity or violate any Company secretariat.
The survey comprised a range of factors professional requirements or regulations affecting their appointment as including the following: auditors.
The auditors may, however, provide non-audit services which Progress achieved against the agreed external audit plan do not impair their independence, and where their skills and experience make them a logical supplier, subject to pre-approval by the Committee.
Competence with which the external auditors handled key accounting For example, this may include the conduct of certain matters relating and audit judgements and communication of the same between to Tanzanian taxation assessments, given the materiality of taxation management, the Committee and the external audit team considerations to the financial assessment and external audit of the Compliance with relevant regulatory, ethical and professional Company.
The Companys procedures require that any non-audit services guidance on rotation of lead audit partners proposed to be provided by the auditors be supported by a justification as to why the appointment of the external auditors to provide the Qualifications, expertise, resources and the external auditors services is in the Companys best interests, and how auditor own assessment of their quality control procedures independence would be safeguarded in the specific context of the The stability and continuity provided to the business as a result of proposed services.
In addition to this, the lead audit partner rotates the continued appointment of  LLP PwC at least every five years.
as external auditors Fees for non-audit services incurred during the year amounted to Based on this assessment, the Committee concluded that the approximately uS0.4 million 2015: approximately uS$0.2 million external auditors remain effective and we will be recommending the representing 37% of the 2016 audit fees.
audit related and non-audit reappointment of the external auditors at the forthcoming aGM in light of services provided by the external auditors included their review of this assessment.
as regards external audit tender considerations, PwC the Companys half-year report.
Further information on audit and have acted as external auditors for the Group since its listing on the non-audit fees paid to PwC can be found in Note 10 to the London Stock Exchange in March 2010.
The Committee has reviewed consolidated financial statements.
the requirements of the Statutory audit Services for Large Companies as a Company we also maintain a strict discipline on the recruitment of Market Investigation Mandatory use of Competitive Tender Processes any former employees of the external auditors to ensure independence is and audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 Order, which not undermined.
The Committee has adopted a formal written policy requires mandatory tendering of audit services every ten years by FTSE regarding the recruitment of former employees of the external auditor.
350 companies, and determined that an audit tender will be required The policy prohibits the hiring of any former member of the external audit in respect of the 2019 financial year at the earliest.
We are therefore team into any financial oversight role or as an officer of the Company compliant with the requirements of the Order.
for a period of two years following their association with the audit, save in instances where the appointment has been pre-approved by the Committee.
Between meetings, the Committee Chairman has delegated authority to deal with such appointments at his discretion.
any such interim approval must be ratified at the next meeting of the Committee.
In addition, any employee of the external auditor who accepts employment with the acacia Group whatever the role must cease all audit activity immediately and tender their resignation to the audit firm.
74 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 governAnce ehs&s coMMittee activitieS in 2016 and planS for 2017 our activities during the year were wide ranging, and comprised the following in particular: objective achieved Reviewing Committee composition, based on succession planning, skill set and qualification requirements.
Reviewing our terms of reference and our remit of responsibilities in light of ongoing developments within the Companys business and operating environment.
Reviewing Group-wide EHS&S and SC strategies and priorities, performance, metrics, trends and incident reports.
aMbassador JuMa v. Mwapachu Overseeing the development of a sustainable communities COMMITTEE CHaIRMaN strategy and programme as a driving component of our approach to SC and the operation of the acacia Maendeleo Fund.
2016 membership Reviewing key risks in the Groups operating environment percentage regarding EHS&S and SC.
meetings of meetings Reviewing key regulatory and other developments relevant to attended attended the EHS&S and SC operating environment.
ambassador Juma V. Mwapachu Chair 4 100% Reviewing and monitoring the status of occupational, health Rachel English 4 100% and safety targets and systems.
1 Brad Gordon 2 100% Identifying and reviewing specific focus areas in the context of 1 B rad Gordon joined the Committee officially mid-year.
performance and strategic reviews, as relevant to EHS&S and SC matters.
introduction Receiving periodic risk management reports and updates I am the Chairman of the Committee, a position that I assumed as a regarding the principal risks for which the Committee has result of my experience within an african socio-economic and political delegated oversight on behalf of the Board.
context, having served in a number of public and private sectors in Participating in the Committees annual performance Tanzania and within the East african Community over the years.
During the year, Graham Clow stepped down from the Committee at the time of stepping down from the Board at the 2016 aGM, and was replaced by Brad Gordon.
Rachel English continued to act as a In 2017, the Committee will continue to focus on the majority of the above member of the Committee throughout the reporting period.
as part of matters, these being core to its remit of responsibilities.
From a risk periodic composition reviews and in consultation with the Nomination management and oversight perspective, the specific EHS&S-related & Governance Committee, we have decided to appoint Peter Tomsett principal risks for which the Committee has delegated oversight are as a Committee member in 2017 to replace Brad Gordon.
This identified as part of the principal risks and uncertainties table on pages decision was taken to reflect our preference to have Board 30 to 33.
In this regard our risk monitoring activities involve receipt of Committees comprised of Non-Executive Directors and to ensure periodic risk reports and the monitoring of trends and development that the Committee comprises appropriate mining operational relevant to risk environment, as supported by managements oversight skill sets relevant to our remit of responsibilities.
and implementation of day to day risk management across our operations.
Details of members experience and qualifications are provided on pages 62 to 65 as part of the Board of Directors biographies.
Our terms of reference require us to meet at least twice a year, and in 2016 we met four times.
Those involved in the Companys environmental, health, safety and security EHS&S and sustainable communities SC functions also attend Committee meetings on a regular basis by invitation, in order to report on EHS&S SC developments and performance.
key responsibilities Our key responsibilities focus on the oversight and review of activities that are of core importance to acacias social licence to operate.
These include acacias strategy and policy on environmental, occupational health and safety, SC and security matters: reviewing the effectiveness of Group EHS&S systems and controls: and generally overseeing managements monitoring and evaluation of emerging SC issues to assess the potential impact on acacias business and operations.
In addition, we also have delegated oversight of human rights from the Board, in line with similar oversight responsibilities assumed by EHS&S Committees or their equivalent in peers across the mining industry.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 75 noMination & governance coMMittee activitieS in 2016 and planS for 2017 our activities during the year were wide ranging, and comprised the following in particular: objective achieved Reviewing Committee composition based on succession planning, skill set and qualification requirements, leading to proposed changes to our EHS&S Committee and audit Committee for 2017 onwards.
an overview of changes is provided on page 60.
Reviewing our terms of reference and our remit of responsibilities in light of ongoing developments within the Companys business and operating environment and Kelvin dushnisKy developments within a corporate governance context.
COMMITTEE CHaIRMaN Reviewing the Boards structure, size and composition in the 2016 membership context of the Companys strategic and business objectives.
Reviewing the Companys core corporate governance percentage policies in line with best practice developments and meetings of meetings attended attended recent trend developments.
Participating in the Committees annual performance Kelvin Dushnisky Chair 2 100% assessment.
ambassador Juma V. Mwapachu 1 50% Providing oversight and review of the Boards and Board Peter Tomsett 2 100% Committees annual performance evaluation and overseeing introduction the adoption of recommendations for 2017 work plans.
In this In addition to acting as the Chairman of the Board, I also act regard an overview of the 2016 performance evaluation is as Chairman of the Nomination & Governance Committee.
provided on page 70. ambassador Juma V. Mwapachu and Peter Tomsett act as the Reviewing periodic training and development requirements other members of the Committee.
Details of members experience for Directors.
and qualifications are provided on pages 62 to 65 as part of the In 2017, the Committee will continue to focus on the majority of the Board of Directors biographies.
Our terms of reference require above matters, these being core to its remit of responsibilities, and will us to meet at least twice a year, and we did so in 2016.
The Chief continue to assess Board succession requirements, particularly in the Executive Officer and members from the Company secretariat also context of the FRCs continuing reviews and consultations around attend Committee meetings by invitation to discuss matters within succession planning as a driver of Board effectiveness.
In the context of diversity, whilst the Company has not adopted a key responsibilities formal policy, we base all recruitment on the premise that we strive to We play a leading role in reviewing the structure, size and composition attract a broad mix of individuals from both the traditional and nonof the Board and in reviewing prospective new Board appointments traditional mining labour markets in order to create a diverse workgroup and succession planning requirements.
We also have primary and maintain a unique company culture.
above all, we aim to hire all responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the individuals on the basis of the best candidate for all positions, at all composition of Board Committees and we manage recommendations levels, including Board and senior management positions, irrespective for the retirement and replacement of Directors.
In addition, our remit of gender.
of responsibilities includes delegated authority from the Board to oversee and review acacias corporate governance policies and Save for appointments made by Barrick under nomination rights procedures, including independence reviews and the monitoring contained in the Relationship agreement, Board appointments are of Company procedures for the management of actual and or made on the basis of pre-determined job descriptions which include, potential conflicts of interest.
as regards independent Non-Executive Directors, estimates of time commitment requirements.
From a recruitment and candidate search perspective, our existing Directors provide access to a wide network of potential Board appointment candidates, particularly within the extractive industry, as a result of their collective experience and standing within the extractive sector.
In addition to this, we look to retain external search consultants to assist us in identifying potential candidates for Board positions, when appropriate to do so.
We did not make any new appointments to the Board in 2016 and, as such, no external recruitment consultants were retained for Board recruitment purposes.
76 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016
