Corporate Governance: Directors Remuneration Report Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report Gender diversity annual staff survey, 84% of staff were happy and the audited financial statements for the with the amount of information they receive The table below provides a breakdown of the year ended 31 December 2016. about the company 2015: 85%.
gender of Company Directors and employees at the end of the financial year: Statutory disclosures The transparency of our communication philosophy extends to senior managers Group results and dividends Male Female and Directors, who sit amongst their teams The profit for the year, after tax but before 1 Company Directors 6 4 which encourages a dialogue between staff dividends, amounted to 214.1 million 2015: 2 of all levels of seniority across all areas of our Other senior managers 38 15 291.8 million.
Furthermore, our Chief Executive All employees 4,372 4,625 The Directors declared and paid dividends Officer operates an open door policy so of 349.8 million during 2016 2015: 274.6 if any member of our staff wants to ask Notes million refer to note 11b for further details.
him a question, they can email him directly 1 C ompany Directors consists of the Board of Directors, as detailed on pages 46 and 47. through our Ask David intranet initiative.
The Directors have proposed a final dividend 2 O ther senior managers is as defined in the Our senior managers and Directors also of 144 million 51.5 pence per share Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and participate in regular online chats with staff.
Directors Report and includes persons responsible payable on 2 June 2017. for planning, directing or controlling the activities Contractual arrangements of the Company, or a strategically significant part Employee policies of the Company, other than Company Directors.
The Group considers its co-insurance and Any other Directors of undertakings included in Detailed information on the Groups reinsurance contracts, as described in the the consolidated accounts that are not considered employment practices is set out in the Strategic Report, to be essential to the strategically significant have not been included.
Strategic Report and on the corporate running of the Groups business.
The Group purchases appropriate Disabled employees contractual arrangements are considered liability insurance for all staff and Directors.
Admiral Group gives full and fair to be essential.
consideration to applications for Diversity, ethics and human rights Financial instruments employment made by those with disabilities, Admiral Group respects and values the The objectives and policies for managing having regard to their particular aptitudes individuality and diversity of every employee.
risks in relation to financial instruments held and abilities.
The Group was recently The Groups Equality, Diversity and Dignity by the Group are set out in note 6 to the accredited the Two Ticks symbol by at Work policy ensures that every employee financial statements.
Jobcentre Plus for meeting five key standards is treated equally and fairly and that all of conduct regarding the recruitment, employees are aware of their obligations.
The Directors and their interests training, retention and career development Group is fully committed to the health and The present Directors of the Company are of disabled employees.
safety and the human rights of its employees shown on pages 46 and 47 of this Report, regardless of their background.
In addition, whilst Directors interests in the share The Group will support any employee who is the Group maintains a number of employee capital of the Company are set out in the disabled or has a life threatening illness and codes of conduct regarding appropriate Remuneration Report on page 76. help them to contribute to the Group as long ethical standards in the workplace.
Greenhouse gas emissions The Groups principles of respect for human Managers in the Group are sensitive to health The annual level of greenhouse gas rights, diversity, health and safety and concerns and special needs and will not emissions, resulting from activities for workplace ethical standards not only apply to knowingly allow any employee with a disabling which the Group is responsible, in 2016 was staff directly employed by Admiral, but also or life threatening illness to suffer from 4,424 CO e 2015: 3,691 CO e, equivalent 2 2 to staff employed by the Groups outsourced discrimination at work.
The Group provides to 0.53 tonnes 2015: 0.55 tonnes per partner in Bangalore, India.
To meet this 1 staff with access to the EAP Care First employee.
In accordance with GHG commitment, Admiral Group maintains confidential helpline which offers advice Protocol Scope 2 guidance released regular contact with its outsourcers and support on a range of health issues.
20 January 2015, Admiral is exempt from management team and the Groups senior reporting greenhouse gas emissions from Communication managers visit the outsourcer on a regular electricity supply to the three largest UK basis, whilst the Group also provides training There are a wide range of communication offices which meets the GHG Protocol and development to ensure that the team tools used by the Group to communicate Corporate Standard.
Note that the election uphold these principles.
In addition, Admiral to employees which assists in the to apply the exemptions available in the Group has appointed a manager based understanding of business goals and GHG Protocol Corporate Standard was not permanently at the outsourced operation, objectives including: the staff portal Atlas, taken in the 2015 Annual Report and so the who is responsible for ensuring that the internal newsletters, videos, team briefings, comparative figures have been updated Groups principles are adhered to by the suggestion schemes, staff forums, updates from the previous disclosure made.
outsourced partner, and that the wellbeing on the staff share scheme and the annual 1 A verage employee number excludes employees of outsourced staff is monitored.
In the 2016 from three offices for which data could not be collected.
78 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The data has been prepared with reference Following consideration of the above, the On a poll, every member present in person or to the WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol: Directors have reasonable expectation that by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one A Corporate Accounting and Reporting the Group has adequate resources to continue vote for every ordinary share held.
The notice Standard Revised Edition and in accordance in operation for the foreseeable future, a of the general meeting specifies deadlines with the guidance for corporate reporting period of not less than 12 months from the for exercising voting rights either by proxy issued by the Department for Environment, date of this report, and that it is therefore notice or present in person or by proxy Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA.
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in relation to resolutions to be passed at in preparing the financial statements.
All proxy votes are counted There are no material exclusions from and the numbers for, against or withheld in this data.
Exclusions include figures for Share Capital, AGM and relation to each resolution are announced at air conditioning from all sites because related matters the Annual General Meeting and published on the information is not available from the Major Shareholders the Companys website after the meeting.
managing agents of the Groups multiple Other than as stated below, as far as the office locations.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of Company is aware, there are no persons ordinary shares in the company other than: with significant direct or indirect holdings Detailed information on the Groups in the Company.
Information provided to environmental performance and the Certain restrictions may from time to time the Company pursuant to the Financial methodology for the measurement of be imposed by laws and regulations for Conduct Authoritys FCA Disclosure and greenhouse gas emissions is available on the example, insider trading laws.
Transparency Rules DTRs is published on a corporate website, www.
Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the FCA Regulatory Information Service and on the whereby certain employees of the Company Going concern Companys website.
require the approval of the Company to Under Provision C. 1.3 of the 2014 UK deal in the Companys securities.
At 31 January 2017, the Company had Corporate Governance Code, the Board is received notifications in accordance with required to report on whether the business The Company has not purchased any of its the FCAs DTRs of the following notifiable is a going concern.
In considering this own shares during the period.
interests in the voting rights in the requirement, the Directors have taken into Companys issued share capital: There are no agreements between the account the following: Company and its Directors or employees Number The Groups projections for the next 12 providing for compensation for loss of of shares % months and beyond, in particular the profit office or employment whether through forecasts, regulatory capital surpluses and Munich Re 28,843,212 10.1% resignation, purported redundancy or levels and sources of liquidity.
otherwise that occurs because of a BlackRock Inc 13,806,859 4.9% takeover bid.
The risks included on the Groups risk register that could impact on the Groups The interests of Directors and Officers and There are a number of agreements that alter financial position and performance, levels their connected persons in the issued share or terminate upon a change of control of the of liquidity and solvency over the next capital of the Company are given in the Company following a takeover bid, such as 12 months.
None are considered The risks on the Groups risk register that to be significant in terms of their impact on Additional information for shareholders could be a threat to the Groups business the business of the Group as a whole except Where not provided previously in this model and capital adequacy.
for the long term co-insurance agreement in Directors Report, the following provides place with Great Lakes Insurance SE.
Details the additional information required The Groups business activities, together relating to this agreement are contained in for shareholders as a result of the with the factors likely to affect its future the Strategic Report.
implementation of the Takeovers development, performance and position are Directive into UK law.
set out in the Strategic Report.
The Strategic Report also includes the Groups principal At 31 December 2016, the Companys issued risks and uncertainties.
In addition, the share capital comprised a single class of governance report includes the Directors shares referred to as ordinary shares.
Details statement on the viability of the Group over of the share capital and shares issued during a three year period.
the year can be found in note 11d.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 79 Corporate Governance: Directors Remuneration Report Directors Report continued Power to issue shares However, in accordance with the Annual General Meeting AGM requirement under the UK Corporate At the last Annual General Meeting, held It is proposed that the next AGM be held at Governance Code the Code for annual on 28 April 2016, authority was given to City Hall, Cardiff on Wednesday 26 April 2017 election of Directors, all Directors will submit the Directors to allot unissued relevant at 2.00pm, notice of which will be sent to themselves for re-election at the Groups securities in the Company up to a maximum shareholders with the Annual Report.
Annual General Meeting on 26 April 2017. of 93,049, equivalent to one third of the Reporting, accountability and audit issued share capital as at 18 March 2016.
This Articles of Association UK Corporate Governance Code authority expires on the date of the Annual The Articles may only be amended by special General Meeting to be held on 26 April 2017 Admiral is subject to the UK Corporate resolution of the shareholders.
and the Directors will seek to renew this Governance Code the Code, published authority for the following year.
by the Financial Reporting Council FRC Power of the Directors in September 2014 and available on their The Directors are responsible for managing A further special resolution passed at that website, www.
The Companys the business of the Company and may meeting granted authority to the Directors Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a exercise all powers of the Company subject to allot equity securities in the Company whole, addresses the requirements of the to the provisions of relevant statutes, to any up to a maximum of 5% of the issued share 2014 Code.
directions given by special resolution and to capital of the Company for cash, without the Companys Memorandum and Articles.
regard to the pre-emption provisions of the During the year to 31 December 2016, the The Articles, for example, contain specific Companies Act 2006.
This authority also Company has in all respects complied with provisions and restrictions concerning the expires on the date of the Annual General the provisions of the 2014 Code.
Companys power to borrow money.
Powers Meeting to be held on 26 April 2017 and the The Directors confirm that the Annual relating to the issuing of new shares are also Directors will seek to renew this authority for Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, included in the Articles and such authorities the following year.
balanced and understandable and provides are renewed by shareholders at the Annual In line with the new principles published by the information necessary for shareholders General Meeting each year.
the Pre-Emption Group in March 2015, and to assess the Companys position and Directors indemnities and insurance their template resolutions published in May performance, business model and strategy.
Directors and Officers insurance cover is 2016, allowing a company the ability to seek Directors responsibilities in place for all Directors to provide cover authority over a further 5% of the issued The directors are responsible for preparing against certain acts or omissions on behalf ordinary share capital on a non-pre-emptive the Annual Report and the Group and parent of the Company.
A Deed Poll of Indemnity basis subject to certain conditions, it is the company financial statements in accordance was executed in October 2015, indemnifying intention of the Company, at the AGM on 26 with applicable law and regulations.
each of the Directors, and Company April 2017, to seek this additional authority Secretary, in relation to certain losses and by special resolution and will confirm in the Company law requires the directors to liabilities that they might incur in the course Notice of AGM that such additional shares prepare Group and parent company financial of acting as Directors of the Company.
The are only issued in connection with a specified statements for each financial year.
Under Deed Poll of Indemnity is categorised as acquisition or capital investment.
that law they are required to prepare the qualifying third party indemnity provisions Group financial statements in accordance Appointments of Directors as defined by section 234 of the Companies with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and The Companys Articles of Association the Act 2006 and remains in force for all past and applicable law and have elected to prepare Articles give the Directors power to appoint present Directors of the Company.
the parent company financial statements and replace Directors.
Under the Terms of The Board is of the view that it is in the in accordance with UK Accounting Reference of the Nomination Committee, best interests of the Group to attract Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced any appointment must be recommended and retain the services of the most able Disclosure Framework.
by the Nomination Committee for approval and experienced directors by offering by the Board of Directors.
The Articles competitive terms of engagement, including also require Directors to retire and submit the granting of such indemnities.
Neither themselves for election at the first Annual the Deed Poll of Indemnity nor insurance General Meeting following appointment and cover would provide any coverage in the all Directors who held office at the time of event that a Director is proved to have acted the two preceding Annual General Meetings fraudulently or dishonestly.
to submit themselves for re-election.
80 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Under company law the directors must not Responsibility statement approve the financial statements unless they The Directors confirm that to the best of are satisfied that they give a true and fair their knowledge: view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit or loss for the financial statements, prepared in that period.
In preparing each of the Group accordance with the applicable set of and parent company financial statements, accounting standards, give a true and fair the directors are required to: view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company select suitable accounting policies and and the undertakings included in the then apply them consistently: consolidation taken as a whole: and make judgements and estimates that the Strategic Report includes a fair review are reasonable and prudent: of the development and performance of for the Group financial statements, the business and the position of the issuer state whether they have been prepared and the undertakings included in the in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by consolidation taken as a whole, together the EU: with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable Disclosure of information UK Accounting Standards, including FRS to auditors 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, have The Directors who held office at the date of been followed, subject to any material approval of this Directors Report confirm departures disclosed and explained in the that, so far as they are each aware, there parent company financial statements.
is no relevant audit information of which The directors are responsible for keeping the Companys auditor is unaware: and adequate accounting records that are each Director has taken all the steps that sufficient to show and explain the parent they ought to have taken as a Director to companys transactions and disclose make themselves aware of any relevant with reasonable accuracy at any time the audit information and to establish financial position of the parent company that the Companys auditor is aware and enable them to ensure that its financial of that information.
statements comply with the Companies Act Change of auditor 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open At the Annual General Meeting on 28 to them to safeguard the assets of the April 2016, shareholders approved the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditor other irregularities.
to the Company and its subsidiaries.
Deloitte LLP have indicated a willingness Under applicable law and regulations, to continue in office and resolutions to the directors are also responsible for reappoint it and to authorise the Directors preparing a Strategic Report, Directors to fix its remuneration will be proposed at Report, Directors Remuneration Report the Annual General Meeting.
and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
By Order of the Board, The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from Mark Waters Geraint Jones legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company Secretary C hief Financial Officer 7 March 2017 7 March 2017 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 81
