Strategic Report: Price Comparison review Price Comparison review UK Investing in our future Confused.
com Cardiff Martin Coriat Launched in 2002 CEO, Confused.
com has seen a lot of changes in motor-related products and services.
As a the market since it pioneered insurance result, Confused.
coms revenue, profit and Price Comparison comparison back in 2002, creating a profit margin all increased to 86 million, strategy growing and profitable industry while 16.1 million and 19% respectively.
2015: Admirals strategy is to develop websites offering transparency and savings to 75 million: 12.5 million: and 17%.
that allow consumers to compare a range British consumers.
A number of significant projects have been of general insurance, financial services The UK car insurance price comparison completed in the last 18 months, including and other products.
The international market is characterised as mature and highly investment in our platform to improve strategy is to exploit the UK expertise in competitive, with 70% penetration of annual conversion with a redesign of our website price comparison and export it overseas.
new business car insurance sales and four to allow better customer experience.
In leading players spending in excess of 150 addition, we have reviewed our online million on marketing each year.
marketing capabilities and established a new brand position as a car savings specialist In 2016 the high level of competition was to improve acquisition costs and grow our further evidenced by the closure of Googles customer base.
However, 2016 was profit also a year of strong growth for the market.
The regulatory agenda was quite busy in Rising car insurance premiums, 14% as per 2016 and we are constantly working with the 3m the Confused.
com Willis Towers Watson regulator to build an even more consumer 2015: loss 7m Car Insurance Price Index, coupled with an focused product and offer in an ever all-time high in car sales for both new and changing technological landscape.
used cars, helped to stimulate shopping.
com successfully Current estimates indicate the market grew focus its attention on what it does best: by around 8% in the year.
saving customers money on their car Confused.
com benefited from this market insurance.
Looking to 2017, I know that every European Price growth but also its new strategic direction, day, every week and every month is a battle Comparison quotes taken half way through the year, to focus on that we must work hard to try and win.
10% growth Spain Rastreator Madrid Fernando Summers Launched in March 2009 CEO, Rastreator Confused.
com profit During 2016 we continued with our growth, We continue to work on our data strategy 16.1m in terms of traffic, quotes and sales and and we are well placed to be a strategic 2015: 12.5m therefore in results.
We have consolidated partner in terms of information and data our leadership position not only in car not only for our partners, but also for other insurance comparison but also in other companies linked to our products.
insurance products, and in our other For 2017 we will continue working on verticals, telephony and finance.
growth, converting our leads into sales, We are already working with more than 150 consolidation of our role as the multiproduct partners, which include most of the biggest price comparison leader of the market service providers in Spain - insurers, telecoms and improving our existing products and and banks.
We have increased our reach value proposition.
and site visit frequency across all product lines, building on our brand awareness and preference.
36 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information USA compare.
com Virginia Andrew Rose CEO, compare.
com Launched in March 2013 While there are some differences among policies, which is how many US consumers While delivering a smaller than planned loss the 51 distinct auto insurance markets, an prefer to shop.
Over the same period this in 2016 it was on a smaller than planned overall steady economy with sustained low year, our acquisition costs have dropped business.
We remain very cognizant that gas prices has led to an increase in miles by nearly two thirds proving that we can we are one of Admirals largest investments driven among US consumers.
In 2016, that compete on acquisition economics at a and while we do have the great opportunity led to higher frequency for many of our level only achieved by a few large personal to transform the US market we do not yet insurance partners and they took action lines insurance carriers in the US market.
have the guarantee of doing so.
In fact we with higher rates for consumers.
This was We outgrew our office building this year anticipate delivering continued losses in both an opportunity as rate increases drive and moved our staff into a new space three 2017 depending on the dynamics and scale more consumers to shop and a challenge times the size and customized to support the of the business and the overall behavior of for us as carriers shrink risk appetite and growth of our open and fun culture.
We continued In early 2016, we also saw our largest auto While the US price comparison market starts optimizing both our national and state-byinsurance comparison competitor Google 2017 still in its infancy, the potential remains state advertising investments in light of the make the decision to withdraw for their enormous.
A recent survey by Acxiom shows market conditions and our product offering own strategic reasons, which gave us the consumers are six times more likely to buy to take advantage of this swing in the auto opportunity to use earmarked IT resources their insurance via a comparison site than insurance pricing cycle.
to broaden our relationships with key in the past.
com has built the compare.
com made significant strides this partners into even more states.
We even carrier network as well as the acquisition year on both the quality of our product added a partner in Hawaii, so we can now funnel to be the leading player as consumers offering and the efficiency of our customer quote in 50 of the 51 markets.
Other players continue to adopt this better way to shop for acquisition.
We nearly doubled our number continued to press into the comparison insurance products.
We remain cautiously of auto insurance brands under contract, market with similar, but different, models.
optimistic about our opportunity for success our average number of rates returned The state-by-state and carrier-by-carrier in transforming the landscape of the US nationwide and the number of policies we nature of the US insurance market gives us a insurance market.
helped our carrier partners bind.
We also solid foothold as the largest auto insurance launched a second product for customers comparison site in the US.
looking for bundled auto and property France LeLynx Paris Elena Bets Launched in January 2010 European Price Comparison Director 2016 was a challenging year for LeLynx.
In an effort to unblock the market and as A great customer experience a way to build trust, LeLynx launched a TV Based on the 2015 results, our expectations campaign based on a well known celebrity.
of the impact of Loi Hamon, in terms of Thanks!
Im going to contract changing behavior in 2016, were optimistic, Our vision is still positive on the French the insurance.
Its been however, the aggregator market only grew market and we remain competitive in an great checking your website, by 1%.
The French consumer has not yet increasingly crowded environment.
We are taken advantage of the opportunity to focused on maintaining our position as one Ive saved 300, you can change their insurance provider, even if the of the market leaders, based on delivering a suppose that I have been process has been simplified substantially.
superior product and customer experience.
pleasantly surprised Rastreator Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 37 Strategic Report: Price Comparison review Price Comparison review continued The Group continues to invest in compare.
Price Comparison financial review com, its US comparison operation based m 2014 2015 2016 in Virginia.
During 2016 Admirals share of Revenue compare.
coms loss reduced to 16.2 million Car insurance price comparison 81.0 82.3 97.7 before tax 2015: 21.5 million reflecting a focus in key states on efficient advertising Other 26.5 25.8 31.5 and reducing acquisition costs.
Statutory Total Revenue 107.5 108.1 129.2 loss before tax decreased to 22.8 million Expenses 110.3 123.6 132.1 2015: 30.3 million.
The Group plans Loss before tax 2.8 15.5 2.9 continued investment in compare.
com during 2017 and anticipates that the Groups Confused.
com profit 15.8 12.5 16.1 share of compare.
coms losses for 2017 will International price comparison result 18.6 28.0 19.0 be in the range of $15-25 million.
2.8 15.5 2.9 The combined result for International Price 1 Groups share of profit loss before tax Comparison was therefore a loss of 13.4 Confused.
com profit 15.8 12.5 16.1 million 2015: loss 19.7 million the profit International price comparison result 12.2 19.7 13.4 from the European operations offset by investment in compare.
Statutory 3.6 7.2 2.7 loss before tax was 19.0 million 2015: 1 Alternative performance measures refer to the Glossary on page 141 for further detail and explanation.
Preminen, the Groups newest price compare.
Admiral Group owns 75% UK Price Comparison comparison operation continues to explore of Rastreator, with the remaining 25% Confused.
com the potential of price comparison in new owned by Mapfre.
Admiral Group owns 71% The UK price comparison market remained markets overseas, in partnership with Mapfre.
com, with the remaining 29% very competitive in 2016, but favourable owned by White Mountains and Mapfre.
market conditions rising prices and more shopping activity saw more visitors to The combined revenue from the European Regulatory environment Confused.
coms website and consequently operations in 2016 increased to 36.2 million Confused.
com is regulated by the higher quote volumes.
Despite this 2015: 28.6 million, reflecting nearly 10% Financial Conduct Authority FCA as an competitive environment, Confused.
com more quotes provided to customers and insurance intermediary and is subject achieved a strong result, with revenue 14% improved conversion rates.
Both Rastreator to all relevant intermediation rules, higher than 2015 at 85.7 million 2015: 75.4 and LeLynx have strong brand recognition including those on solvency capital.
million from growth of 8% in the UK price in their respective markets.
The Groups comparison market as well as a new drivershare of the combined result for Rastreator The European operations are all centric strategy supported by new marketing.
and LeLynx was a profit of 2.8 million structured as branches of UK Profit increased by 29% to 16.1 million 2015: 2015: 1.8 million, the increase reflecting companies, with the UK insurance 12.5 million.
strong performance from Rastreator which intermediary permission passported continues to build on its multi-product into Europe.
coms operating margin improved to strategy covering insurance, telephony and 19% 2015: 17%.
com is a regulated insurance utilities, amongst other product lines, and agency domiciled in Virginia, US, and which doubled its profits in 2016, offset by International Price Comparison licensed in all other US states.
Statutory Admiral operates three price comparison profit before tax increased to 3.9 million businesses outside the UK: in Spain 2015: 2.3 million.
Rastreator, France LeLynx and the US 38 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Brexit also brings additional risks including: Other Group items financial review potential further market volatility, m 2014 2015 2016 particularly in interest and exchange rates UK Commercial Vehicle operating profit 2.2 1.5 2.0 the potential for the uncertainty or the Other interest and investment income 3.7 6.5 13.4 emerging terms of exit regarding Brexit Share scheme charges 21.2 27.2 31.9 to trigger or exacerbate less favourable Business development costs 0.7 1.9 5.8 economic conditions in the UK and other Other central overheads 3.9 5.6 4.1 countries in which Admiral operates though it is worth noting that car Finance charges 4.6 11.1 11.4 insurance has tended to be resilient to The Group operates a UK Commercial Vehicle economic downturns UK Exit from the European Union insurance broker Gladiator offering van Brexit potential changes to or withdrawal of the insurance and associated products, typically right of UK financial services firms to trade On 23 June 2016, the UK voted in a to small businesses, via telephone and the in Europe without the need for locally referendum to leave the EU.
At the date of internet, including price comparison websites.
regulated entities passporting this report, the timetable for and details Gladiator has increased customer numbers of the implementation of this decision potential changes to the rules relating from 146,600 to 170,800 at the end of 2016 remain unclear.
to the free movement of people between and operating profit increased to 2.0 million the UK and EU member states 2015: 1.5 million.
Market volatility, including that which resulted from the Brexit vote notably very The Group is making plans to be able to deal Other interest and investment income significant reductions in risk free interest with the withdrawal of passporting, should includes 4.9 million 2015: nil of unrealised rates adversely impacted the Groups this transpire, after the UKs exit from the gains on forward foreign exchange contracts solvency position reported in the interim EU is finalised and will continue to closely which have been impacted during 2016 by results in August 2016.
This was due to an monitor developments over the coming downward movements in the value of sterling.
increased regulatory valuation of claims months and years.
These gains have the potential to reverse over liabilities, in particular in relation to longer time if the sterling rate recovers before the At the current time the Group does not dated potential PPO claims, and hence contracts expire.
foresee a material adverse impact on day to reduced capital.
Since August 2016, market day operations including customers or staff, volatility has reduced, risk free interest rates Share scheme charges relate to the Groups whilst recognising that other issues may have increased and the Group has received two employee share schemes refer to note emerge over time.
approval to use a volatility adjusted yield 8 to the financial statements.
The increase curve in discounting claim liabilities.
This has in the charge is due to an increase in the led to a reduced regulatory valuation of claims number of awards reflecting the increasing A great customer experience liabilities and a stronger solvency position.
As discussed above, the solvency ratio Business development costs include remains very strong at 212% after the costs associated with potential new I would like to express my proposed final dividend is accounted for.
The ventures, including investment in Admiral deepest satisfaction for this Directors are satisfied this represents a very Loans and Preminen, the Groups price Insurance Company.
After satisfactory level of surplus above regulatory comparison incubator.
having been involved in an requirements and buffers.
Finance charges of 11.4 million 2015: accident with a complicated 11.1 million mainly represents interest evolution, I have received on the 200 million subordinated notes the total reimbursement issued in July 2014 refer to note 6 to the of the damages.
like to point out the work conducted by your agent who with competence, courtesy and non common helpfulness satisfied my needs completely.
UK New Business Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 39
