Strategic Report: How we do it our model How we do it our model Every day revolves around attracting, keeping and satisfying customers.
We value customers above everything else and strive to design products that customers want and that represent value for money.
Shareholder Great place Efficient capital Focus on Controlled test returns to work employment profitability and learn We go out of our way Sharing risk with coand We are committed to Admiral continues to All our growth, at home to make Admiral a reinsurance partners returning excess capital focus on bottom-line and overseas, has been GREAT place to work is an important part of to shareholders.
We profitability both in organic.
We have built and believe that if Admirals business and believe that keeping the short, medium and each business from the people like what they these relationships are management hungry long term, and this ground up, identifying do, theyll do it better.
underpinned by strong for cash keeps them perspective guides and understanding the We have created an underwriting results.
focused on the most the decisions we opportunity, taking environment where Sharing risk allows important aspects of make across all of our measured steps to test Admiral employees Admiral to only provide the business.
how well we understand look forward to coming capital backing for a starve our businesses, The Groups strategy is the challenge ahead to work and providing minority of its business: but neither do we allow to build profitable and and the effectiveness great service to this results in a superior them the luxury of sustainable business of our solutions, and customers.
return on capital for excess capital.
operations for the then to learn from that Admiral shareholders long term.
experience and from whilst also providing the experience of those protection for losses.
who have tried other strategies.
Motivated Risk Focused Sustainable Effective employees mitigation management team operations solutions Satisfied customers Valued loyal customers 12 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Customer feedback Customers who would renew following a claim % 95% 2016 95 2015 94 2014 94 Target: 85% Customer Service feed back score max.
10 9.2 2016 9.2 2015 9.1 2014 9.2 Target: 8.0 Complaints per 1,000 vehicles 1.0 2016 1.0 2015 1.0 2014 A great customer experience 1.0 Target: 1.4 Abbey was amazing throughout the calls she made for several days to get me a better deal for my two cars and home insurance, Shes definitely a good sales person, very enthusiastic and intelligent.
UK New Business Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 13
