Strategic Report: People and culture People and culture A great customer experience I can honestly say that the chap I spoke to today on the phone was the politest, most helpful, non-robotic in conversation individual I have Come across from any car insurance provider I have ever had.
To build a great company you need great employees and in my opinion Admiral have one in him.
UK Renewals 34 34 A Adm dmi ir ra al l G Gro roup up p pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 16 6 I In nt tr ro od du uc ct tio ion n S St tr ra at te egi gic c R Rep epor ort t C Cor orp por ora at te e Go Gov five er rn na an nc ce e F Fin ina an nci cia al l S St ta at tem emen ent ts s A Ad dd di it tio ion final al I In nf fo or rm ma at tio ion n What a great place to work Happy people make happy customers and happy customers make for a successful, thriving company.
Our success goes hand-in-hand with having a strong culture.
So our philosophy is a simple yet effective one: People who enjoy what they do, do it better.
Communication Reward and Recognition In the last year we achieved recognition We believe that it is really important for We believe in sharing Admirals success with for creating an exceptional working everyone to understand what is happening our staff, but reward and recognition is more environment and picked up 12 national in the business and we share information than just money: it is about praising people and international awards for best in a number of ways, but communication is for good performance, providing feedback or work place.
two-way and we remain impressed by the simply saying thank you for a job well done.
openness of our staff and their willingness to Fun share their experiences and suggestions for improvements for customers.
We encourage our staff to take part, to have fun, to do something a bit wild or to Equality just spend some time with their colleagues We want every member of staff to feel part outside of work.
We firmly believe that of the Admiral collective endeavour: after all people who enjoy what they do deliver everyone is a shareholder, no matter what outstanding performance for our customers their role or location.
There are no obvious and Admirals success is built upon that.
signs of separation or inequality and everyone values each staff members contribution.
Our annual staff survey Believe this is a friendly place to work 96% All staff 8,997 Believe the Admiral Group is truely customer focused 87% People care about each other here 89% Male: 4,372 Management is approachable, easy to talk with 88% Female: 4,625 A Adm dmi ir ra al l G Gro roup up p pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 16 6 35 35
