Corporate Governance: The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee A Statement to Shareholders from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 2016 has been another strong year for the Admiral Group One of the two Executive Directors, CEO The Committee considered the following Dear Shareholder, David Stevens is a founding Director matters during the year ended I am pleased to introduce the Directors and receives remuneration that only 31 December 2016: Remuneration Report the Report for comprises salary and modest benefits.
the year ended 31 December 2016, which Reviewing the salary arrangements and The Committee continues to hold the view has been prepared by the Remuneration fee proposals for the Executive Directors, that this is appropriate, as his significant Committee the Committee and approved the Chairman and senior management: shareholding provides a sufficient by the Board.
Reviewing the appropriateness of alignment of his interest with those of the performance conditions for the 2016 has been another strong year for other shareholders.
In order to provide Discretionary Free Share Scheme DFSS the Admiral Group, though key metrics full transparency of pay arrangements for and Free Share Incentive Plan SIP awards: were materially impacted by the Ogden the other Executive Director, CFO Geraint discount rate change.
Earnings per share Jones, this Report includes single figure Reviewing the Companys performance in the year were 78.7 pence 2015: 107.3 and comparative data for him as well as for against the performance conditions pence and Return on Equity was 37% our CEO, as the pay arrangements for the applicable to the DFSS and SIP awards 2015: 49%.
Total dividends for the CFO are more reflective of those for nonand where appropriate authorising the financial year including the proposed final founder executives.
vesting of awards: dividend of 51.5 pence per share will be Reviewing and authorising the grant of During the year, the Committee held a 114.4 pence per share.
awards under both the DFSS and SIP: strategy session in which the Committee considered all aspects of the Groups Reviewing the Committees Terms current remuneration arrangements of Reference and recommending together with a consideration of trends amendments to the Board for approval: in UK corporate governance and the Considering and approving the Groups most recent AGM season.
The Groups Material Risk Takers in accordance with remuneration consultants also provided a the requirements of Solvency II regime: comprehensive update on remuneration Reviewing the impact of the Living trends at sector comparators and across Wage on the Groups current the broader UK market.
Following this remuneration structure: meeting, the Committee concluded that Reviewing the new Gender Pay the Groups Remuneration Policy continued reporting requirements.
to remain appropriate and that it supported the view, held by the Board, that wide share ownership drives outstanding performance and promotes the long term success of the business whilst remaining in alignment with shareholder interests.
Annette Court Much of the focus of the Committees work in the second half of 2017 will be Chairman of the Remuneration Committee preparatory work including consultation 7 March 2017 with shareholders and key stakeholders as the Group prepares to put its Remuneration Policy before shareholders at the AGM in 2018.
64 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
