64 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 PERFORMANCE REVIEW Making a massive difference In our Power Solutions Industrial and Rental Solutions The power to make things happen businesses, we provide electricity, heating and cooling toindividual businesses across many sectors, whilst Aggrekos role in society ourPowerSolutions Utility business typically provides electricity to government utilities tosupport a countrys grid We live in a world reliant on electricity: infrastructure: ineach case we act as a catalyst for business and itisanessential part of everyday life.
We also service the sport and entertainment TheUNestimates that one in five people still industryandhave powered some of the worlds most famous events, such as the Olympics and the FIFAWorld Cup.
lack access to modern electricity and states that energy is central to nearly every major READ MORE ABOUT OUR ACTIVITIES IN 2016 AT challenge and opportunity the world faces WWW.
For example, power helps ensure It is important that we conduct ourselves with integrity at all survival in hospitals and educate children times.
We are committed to ensuring we conduct our business inschools, whilst also helping to improve dealings ethically and safely and we aim to minimise our impact peoples qualityof life through simple onthe environment whilst working to support our customers andtheir communities.
appliances suchas air conditioning units andfridges.
AtAggreko, we believe in the positive impactof power and the ability to THE POWER TO MAKE THINGS HAPPEN: control temperature.
We believe it opens TRANSFORMING A COMMUNITY upopportunity and creates potential for In 2015 Aggreko installed 95MW of gas power to the Myingyan individuals, communities, industries and district in Myanmar.
The site provides reliable and constant electricity to a district that would normally experience societies all over the world.
Together and intermittent power failure during the dry season.
This has overtime, we believe our services can supported the local community and economic needs, makeamassive difference.
including schools and one of the countrys largest steel mills.
Furthermore, through employing local people we are implementing an effective knowledge transfer programme toup-skill the local workforce and provide them with transferable skills for the future.
A year on, we spoke directly to local people about the benets I have gained lots of technical knowledge of having Aggreko working alongside them.
First, having andexperience from Aggreko... they have reliable electricity has meant that they can use appliances such also given us safety advice that we can as fridges and air conditioning, which has improved quality of life.
Previously they used candles and cooked with rewood, applyin our normal life.
which caused poor air quality and was a re risk.
Second, having electricity also means that the school can provide air HTET YE SWE MECHANICAL TECHNICIAN, conditioning and therefore remain open when it is very hot, MYINGYAN, MYANMAR improving education levels.
Third, electricity has benefited businessestoo, leading to increased productivity and income.
Finally, those technicians that work for Aggreko have directly benefited from technical training, improved foreign language skills and safety tips to use in their everyday life.
Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 65 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability reporting is an evolving process and one that we are developing.
Duringtheyear, weappointed a manager who is responsible for sustainability reporting and messaging.
Followingthis, we undertook a benchmark study to understand where we need to prioritise our activity.
We are in the early stages of developing our approach to sustainability, particularly in Our People andSocial Contribution.
The Group is committed to ensuring that our success also brings long-term social and economic benets to the communities and countries where weoperateand we are now working on a plan for implementation during 2017.
RESPONDING TO OUR CUSTOMERS The provision of electricity, heating and cooling are essential As fuel is the greatest element of cost in producing power, activities in our global economy: however, they come particularly diesel, we have worked to improve the fuel efficiency with challenges, particularly environmental challenges.
of our diesel engines and continue to do so under our strategic We are committed to growing our business and supporting priorities.
In the last couple of years we have introduced new ourcustomers.
As a consequence of the fuel sources that we technology for our customers in the Oil & Gas sector whereby usein our products, it is inevitable that some of our activities we are able to take the gas by-product from wells and rather willhave an impact on the environment.
than burn it as a waste product, use it to run our gas generators.
A growing area ofourbusiness is supporting low-carbon Our equipment and processes are designed to comply with emissions generation suchas wind and hydro: renewable energy applicable laws, regulations and industry standards wherever we isintermittent and wehelp to make these solutions viable.
We innovate both in response to customer demand and to improve the efficiency of our products and therefore reduce their environmental impact where we can.
WHAT MATTERS MOST There are four areas of sustainability focus within the business: HEALTH, SAFETY AND ETHICS  AND INTEGRITY Priorities Priorities Ensure the health and safety of our people and others at work Ensure we operate with integrity and honesty Minimise our environmental impact Make sure that we are in compliance with laws and regulations Be accountable and transparent with regards toourenvironmental footprint Outcome for the business Outcome for the business Maintain our reputation for consideration of health, Maintain our reputation for integrity  matters Gain commercial benefit READ MORE ABOUT HSE READ MORE ABOUT ETHICS AND INTEGRITY PAGE 66 PAGE 90 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION OUR PEOPLE Priorities Priorities Engage with local communities Promote equal opportunities and work in partnership Provide career and personal development Recruit, train and develop local people through engagement Participate in activities that make a difference Ensure security whilst at work Operate with due regard for human rights Outcome for the business Outcome for the business Build business longevity Attract and retain the best people Gain new talent for the organisation READ MORE ABOUT SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION READ MORE ABOUT PEOPLE PAGE 69 PAGE 23 66 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 PERFORMANCE REVIEW Making a massive difference continued SAFETY A rigorous approach to risk management is absolutely essential if we are to avoid accidents which could cause injury to people and damage to property and reputation.
Through the organisations risk management process we have identied key HSE risk factors HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT and have put mitigating actions in place.
CONTEXT Our Energy Safety Rules are designed to ensure that anyone working on our equipment and systems is safeguarded from the Our activities, the generation of electricity, cool air and heat, potential hazards associated with energy sources.
All operational while essential to the global economy, produce waste and employees undertake detailed training to ensure understanding greenhouse gases and can present risks to the health and of the hazards and the necessary control measures required to safety of our operational teams and others.
We are committed work on our equipment and systems safely.
Each employee must to minimising these wherever possible, which not only reduces attain a level of achievement suitable to their responsibilities harm to the environment and keeps people safe, but helps us before being allowed to work unsupervised.
Through detailed analysis of our workplace injuries, we have OUR APPROACH identied a need to improve our approach to managing manual handling activities.
We have engaged a recognised world leader Aggrekos equipment is designed to function in all in this area to help Aggreko develop an in-house programme to environments.
By careful design and use of the most suitable reduce manual handling injuries.
technology, we manage all of our operations in such a mannerto ensure minimal negative impact on our people, We recognise that best practice in safety management requires ourneighbours and the environment in which we operate.
the right culture and to allow us to better understand and We take a robust approach, considering each element of manage this critical element, we will be using the Health & Safety Health, Safety and the Environment in our product design, Laboratorys safety climate survey, to ensure that we maintain the system design, client interfaces and employee training.
Aggreko monitors safety performance relating to workplace HSE POLICY injuries using Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR, where any injury resulting in a lost working day beyond the day of the The Executive Director with overall responsibility for HSE is accident is included.
ChrisWeston, Chief Executive officer, and our commitment to We are disappointed with the increase in lost time injuries HSEis reected in our Global Health & Safety and our Environment reported this year and it goes against the positive downward Policy Statements.
Our CEO is supported by the Group Head trend in our LTIFR over the five years.
The increase has been largely of HSE, whose responsibility is to ensure that the HSEpolicy, driven by an increase in manual handling incidents, so wehave standards and procedures are effective and implemented put in place a manual handling training programme forQ1 2017 throughout Aggreko.
Each business lead is also accountable to improve employee understanding and awareness ofthe for HSE in their area.
The Board and the Executive Committee importance of correct manual handling.
arecommittedto ensuring that the necessary organisation existsand resources are available to facilitate the achievement ofour HSE goals, which are monitored on a monthly basis.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR SAFETY RISKS PAGE 57 We recognise our responsibility to understand and effectively manage any risks associated with our operations, which could potentially affect people and the environment.
Aggreko is EMISSIONS-TO-AIR committed to monitoring and ensuring the effectiveness of designed control measures and taking action as appropriate.
Emissions-to-air are an inevitable by-product of hydrocarbon Furthermore, Aggreko complies with legal requirements as fuelled engines.
Over the years, as engines have become more aminimum and takes a transparent approach to the reporting efficient and legislation to limit emissions has become stricter, andinvestigation of any incidents that may occur.
Aggreko works in cooperation with the manufacturers of engines in order to meet new emission requirements.
It is essential for us to manage emissions-to-air and to ensure that we meet new emissions requirements in order to enable us to continue operating in a number of countries.
It is equally important that we play our part in helping to reduce the globalenvironmental impact of burning hydrocarbons.
Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 67 CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS REFRIGERANT EMISSIONS In 2016, 99% of our greenhouse gas emissions came from the In accordance with the timelines set out by the Montreal protocol, operation of our fleet.
Three main factors drive our emissions: the Aggreko has phased out chlorouorocarbon CFC plant from its fuel type our customers use: the pattern of their usage: and the temperature control rental fleet and is in the process of phasing fuel efficiency of our fleet.
Hydrouorocarbon HFC product, the replacement for CFC and HCFC, is available We are constantly exploring new ways of reducing emissions from across our full equipment range and has been adopted as our fleet and increasing fuel efficiency.
Over the last few years standard for all new fleet.
have gradually increased the use of more environmentally friendly gas fuelled generators.
Gas generators now represent 10% of our MINIMISING NOISE fleet.
Natural gas is a fossil fuel, but it is more environmentally friendly, with emissions ofsulphur dioxide that are negligible Noise pollution is another important environmental factor that in comparison to coal or oiland levels of NOx and CO2 that are we take very seriously.
We aim to provide helpful solutions to signicantly lower.
Where gas fuel is essentially a by-product of our customers, minimising the noise associated with producing production, such asin US shales, or derived from a biological power, heat or cool air.
source, we can help reduce CO and greenhouse gas.
2 We have built a competitive advantage through a fleet that minimises external noise.
This is done through the use of In addition to the work we have undertaken developing natural custom-built acoustic enclosures as well as high performance gas-powered generators, we are regularly reviewing product isolation and attenuation systems.
In addition, in designing a technologies, looking for advances that we can adopt into our Power Solutions Utility site, we aim to position the equipment product portfolio.
We have a technology roadmap that is looking such that the noise it does produce has the least effect on the at bio-fuels and fuel cells and we are currently developing a immediate environment.
On page 119 we have set out a more detailed analysis of our WASTE AND RE-CYCLING greenhouse gas emissions for 2016 and 2015 in the format In the normal course of our business, we regularly have to requiredby the Companies Act 2006. replaceconsumables such as engine oil and lters.
If these are not appropriately disposed of, they can cause environmental damage such as leakage into the ground water and contamination of the READ MORE ABOUT OUR GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS PAGE 119 local water supplies.
If left unattended, they are also unsightly andtypically not biodegradable.
Therefore, it is imperative that weremove and safely dispose of our waste products.
EXHAUST GASES AND PARTICULATES These are normally returned to our service centres where they are In an increasing number of countries, air quality regulations safely disposed of, or re-cycled where appropriate.
On our project stipulate emission standards for new equipment.
Generally, sites we have procedures in place to collect waste on-site and then countries allow mobile equipment already operating to site-specic arrangements are made for the safe handling of these continueto do so for its useful life: this is called grandfathering.
We commit to returning our project sites to the condition in which we found them, and therefore work very hard to minimise All our engine suppliers produce engines which comply with the the impact we have.
latest emissions standards and we gradually introduce these new engines to our fleet.
Our generator range to meet USA engine emissions for the Tier 4 Interim level is complete, with 700 units in use.
The next step in the USA legislation programme to reduce emissions is called Tier 4 Final and we have now introduced the first 150 generators into our rental fleet in line with this stringent specication.
The European engine emissions regulations are different to the USA and the current level in the EU is referred to as Stage3a.
We also have a complete product range of generator products to meet this standard.
We continue to work closely with engine manufacturers and primary technology developers to derive appropriate solutions forthese requirements.
To further reduce emissions-to-air for specic projects, we have developed an after-treatment that can be applied to our existing fleet at our customers request.
In Japan we have used a special unit to reduce NOx by 90%, in order to meet Japanese air quality standards.
This technology can be readily applied globally as an operational bolt on to our standard equipment.
68 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 PERFORMANCE REVIEW Making a massive difference continued STATEMENT ON UNITED NATIONS CASE STUDY: PARIS CONFERENCE HARNESSING TIDAL ENERGY The Canadian marine industry has very strict requirements The United Nations Climate Change Conference held in 2015 regarding the use of power generation on marine vessels.
resulted in a global agreement to pursue efforts to limit the We have used our experience to work with our customer increase in global temperature to 1.5C and we acknowledge in the Bay of Fundy to provide power equipment for the the ratication of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
transportation, placement, testing and commissioning of its To support this, most countries have already outlined how 2MW tidal turbine.
This cutting edge technology is designed they propose to control their emissions of greenhouses gases to capture energy from the highest tides in the world by using typically for the period up to 2030.
For many developing huge turbines resting on the sea oor and once commissioned, countries the commitments made are conditional on will provide clean energy to the people of Nova Scotia.
Overall in the energy sector the agreement will increase the emphasis on: Reducing greenhouse gas emissions from burning fossilfuels by: more efficient generation and distribution: the increased use of natural gas that has a lower carbon ratiothan diesel or coal : Renewables including solar, wind and biogas as part of theenergy mix: and Stopping highly polluting practices like aring gas and either processing the gas for general use or burning it in acontrolled and therefore cleaner way to produce power.
There are likely to be some local legislation and incentives todrive these changes.
For many developing countries the priority will remain providing affordable power and accessing the associated social and economic benefit.
We will continue to work with our customers both in the developed and developing markets to provide solutions thatwill support their commitments to lower emissions.
This is North Americas first successful grid-connected tidal turbine, an innovative step towards a lower carbon future.
Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 69 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT We actively engage in supporting the local communities we work in and we do this in a number of ways.
We are proactive inrecruiting locally from the community: for example, in Myingyan inMyanmar, 77% of the workforce is comprised of local staff.
ETHICS & INTEGRITY We provide extensive on-the-job training for new recruits and give them the skills to become technicians.
We also get the benefit of CONTEXT highly skilled staff, trained on our own equipment.
It helps us build relationships in the local community which are very important Aggreko conducts its business with integrity and honesty.
We are proud that we have a reputation for conducting when we might be operating a contract for a number of years.
Our charitable donations are largely focused on the education business fairly and professionally.
Maintaining these values in all ofourbusiness dealings is key to our success.
CASE STUDY: READ MORE ABOUT OUR APPROACH 10 YEARS SUPPORTING BOOK AID TO ETHICS AND INTEGRITY PAGE 90 This year is the 10th year that Aggreko has supported Book Aid International, a charity promoting literacy in Africa.
Book Aid has provided hundreds of thousands of books to schools and libraries across the continent.
In celebration of this milestone, anumber of people from across the business helped pack boxes with some of the 10,000 books weve committed to fundin the 10th anniversary year, which will be sent to 10 African countries including Cameroon, Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe.
OUR PEOPLE CONTEXT People are our greatest asset: their passion and commitment Over the last 10 years, Aggreko have are a critical contributor to our success.
We are focused on madeitpossible to send over 150,000 providing an environment in which we provide our people withthe power to make things happen.
books to Africa but thats not all theyhavehelped refurbish libraries andtrain teachers.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR PEOPLE PAGE 23 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION CONTEXT Aggreko is fortunate to work in a wide variety of countries and our social contribution is one way of giving back to the community.
Its about supporting the communities in whichwe work, whilst being respectful of different cultures.
OUR APPROACH Each year, Aggreko engages in a number of initiatives which support the communities in which we work.
During 2016, Aggreko contributed to a range of charitable, community anddisaster relief organisations.
Our policy encourages employees to support local initiatives, particularly those relating to childrens welfare, education and social health projects, and is based on giving donations to many organisations which are involved with the communities inwhich we work.
During the year, we undertook an audit ofourcommunity investment and we have identied a number of areas for improvement.
A community investment strategy isbeing developed for implementation in 2017.
