CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their report and the audited consolidated financial statements of the Group for the 53 weeks 2015: 52 weeks ended 30 January 2016.
STRATEGIC REPORT The Companies Act 2006 requires the directors to present a review of the business during the year to 30 January 2016 and of the position of the Group at the end of the financial year, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties faced.
The Strategic Report can be found on pages 02 to 45 and is incorporated by reference into this Directors Report.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The Disclosure and Transparency Rules require certain information to be included in a corporate governance statement in the Directors Report.
Information that fulfils the requirements of the corporate governance statement can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 53 to 57 and is incorporated by reference into this Directors Report.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The Groups profit after tax for the financial year ended 30 January 2016 attributable to equity shareholders amounted to 34.3m 2015:30.0m.
An interim dividend for the current year of 3.36p 2015: 3.11p per ordinary share was paid on 16 October 2015.
The final proposed dividend of 9.97p 2015 final dividend: 9.01p per ordinary share will be paid on 10 June 2016 if approved at the Companys annual general meeting on 1 June 2016 AGM.
The directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under s408 of the Companies Act 2006 and have not presented an income statement for the Company.
The Companys profit for the year was 22.8m 2015: 20.6m.
DIRECTORS The following were directors of the Company during the financial year ended 30 January 2016: J. R. Nicolson 48 R. A.
White S. Lorimer J. D. Kemp A. L. Memmott W. R. G. Barr M. A. Griffiths P. Powell D. J. Ritchie appointed 1 April 2015 Subject to the Companys Articles of Association the Articles and any relevant legislation, the directors may exercise all of the powers of the Company and may delegate their power and discretion to committees.
The Articles give the directors power to appoint and remove directors.
Under the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, any appointment must be recommended by the Nomination Committee for approval by the Board.
The Articles require directors to retire and submit themselves for election at the first annual general meeting following appointment and to retire no later than the third annual general meeting after the annual general meeting at which they were last elected or re-elected.
However, in order to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors will submit themselves for re-election at the AGM.
Biographical details of the Board are set out on pages 46 and 47 of this report.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS Information regarding the directors interests in ordinary shares of the Company is provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 61.
No director has any other interest in any shares or loan stock of any Group company.
Other than service contracts, no director had a material interest in any contract to which any Group company was a party during the year.
There have been the following changes notified in the directors shareholdings between 30 January 2016 and 29 March 2016: S. Lorimer an increase in beneficial holding of 75 shares and a decrease in non-beneficial holding of 13,880 shares, R. A.
White an increase in beneficial holding of 74 shares, A. L. Memmott an increase in beneficial holding of 74 shares, J. D. Kemp an increase in beneficial holding of 74 shares and W. R. G. Barr an increase in beneficial holding of 75 shares.
A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS INDEMNITY PROVISIONS As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force between the Company and each of its directors under which the Company has agreed to indemnify each director, to the extent permitted by law, in respect of certain liabilities incurred as a result of carrying out their role as a director of the Company.
The directors are also indemnified against the costs of defending any criminal or civil proceedings or any claim in relation to the Company or brought by a regulator as they are incurred provided that where the defence is unsuccessful the director must repay those defence costs to the Company.
The Companys total liability under each indemnity is limited to 5.0m for each event giving rise to a claim under that indemnity.
The indemnities are qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006.
In addition, the Company maintained a Directors and Officers liability insurance policy throughout the financial year and has renewed that policy.
As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force between the Company and each of the directors of the corporate trustee of the A. G. BARR p. l. c. 2008 Pension and Life Assurance Scheme under which the Company has agreed to indemnify each director, to the extent permitted by law, in respect of certain liabilities incurred in connection with the corporate trustees activities as a trustee of such scheme.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Group undertakes research and development activities in order to develop its range of new and existing products.
Expenditure during the year on research and development amounted to 1.1m 2015: 1.1m.
POLITICAL DONATIONS AND POLITICAL EXPENDITURE No Group company made any political donations or incurred any political expenditure in the year 2015: nil.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS Relevant post balance sheet events requiring disclosure are included in Note 33 to the accounts.
EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT The Group is committed to engaging employees at all levels regarding matters which affect them and the performance of the Group.
This is achieved in a number of ways, including the use of regular briefing procedures, which twice yearly include a report on trading results.
Regular communication meetings are held to keep employees up to date with Group performance.
Consultation meetings also take place when the 49 Company is making decisions that are likely to affect employees interests, at which employee representatives views are taken into account.
In addition to this, the Groups intranet site provides up-to-date information regarding the Groups activities.
All qualifying employees are entitled to join the Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE and the All-Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP.
Details of these share schemes are provided below.
AESOP The AESOP is HMRC approved and the executive directors participate in both sections of the scheme, which is open to all qualifying employees.
The partnership share element provides that for every three shares a participant purchases in the Company, up to a current maximum contribution of 150 per month, the Company will purchase one matching share.
The matching shares purchased are held in trust in the name of the individual.
There are various rules as to the period of time that the shares must be held in trust but after five years the shares can be released tax free to the participant.
The free share element allows participants to receive shares to the value of a common percentage of their earnings, related to the performance of the Group.
The maximum value of the annual award is currently 3,600 and the shares awarded are held in trust for five years.
Under the terms of this scheme, the matching shares will be forfeited if the participant leaves the employment of the Company within three years of the award.
All partnership, matching and free shares must be removed from the trust if employment with the Company ceases.
SAYE The SAYE is HMRC approved and is available to all qualifying employees, including executive directors.
It is based on a five year savings contract which provides the participant with an option to purchase shares after five years at a discounted price fixed at the time the contract is taken out, or earlier as provided by the scheme rules.
No performance conditions require to be met by any participant in order to exercise their option under the SAYE.
A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED EMPLOYMENT OF DISABLED PERSONS Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered bearing in mind the qualifications and abilities of the applicants concerned.
In the event of employees becoming disabled every effort is made to ensure that their employment will continue.
The Groups policy is that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons are, as far as possible, identical to those of other employees.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS As at 30 January 2016, the Company had been notified under Rule 5 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following interests in the Companys ordinary share capital: % of voting Type of Number of shares rights holding Lindsell Train Limited discretionary clients 14,321,850 12.27 Indirect Caledonia Investments plc 9,457,500 8.10 Indirect Neptune Investment Management 5,646,710 4.84 Direct As at 29 March 2016, the Company had been notified under Rule 5 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following interest in the Companys ordinary share capital: % of voting Type of Number of shares rights holding Neptune Investment Management 5,826,806 5.01 Direct Otherwise, the position remains the same as at 29 March 2016 as it did at 30 January 2016.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Company has regular discussions with and briefings for analysts, investors and institutional shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director normally meet with major shareholders twice annually in order to develop an understanding of their views and brief the next 50 Board meeting on their discussions.
All directors have the opportunity to attend these meetings.
At the AGM, all shareholders, including private investors, have an opportunity to participate in questions and answers with the Board on matters relating to the Companys operation and performance.
SHARE CAPITAL As at 30 January 2016 the Companys issued share capital comprised a single class of ordinary shares of 4 1 6 pence each.
All of the Companys issued ordinary shares are fully paid up and rank equally in all respects.
The rights attaching to the shares are set out in the Articles.
Note 28 to the financial statements contains details of the ordinary share capital.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company every holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote and, on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
The Notice of AGM gives full details of deadlines for exercising voting rights in relation to resolutions to be passed at the AGM.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the AGM and published on the Companys website after the meeting.
Subject to the relevant statutory provisions and the Articles, shareholders are entitled to a dividend where declared and paid out of profits available for such purposes.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than: those which may from time to time be applicable under existing laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, whereby certain directors and employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys ordinary shares and are prohibited from dealing during close periods.
At 30 January 2016 the Company had authority, pursuant to the shareholders resolution of 27 May 2015, to purchase up to 10% of its issued ordinary share capital.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
It is proposed that this authority be renewed at the 2016 AGM, as detailed in the Notice of AGM.
At 30 January 2016 Robert Barr Limited, as trustee of the General Employee Benefit Trust, the Savings Related Benefit Trust, the AllEmployee Share Ownership Plan Trust and the Long Service Award Trust the RBL Trustee, held 1.01% of the issued share capital of the Company in trust for the benefit of the executive directors and employees of the Group.
As at 30 January 2016, Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited the AESOP Trustee held 1.36% of the issued share capital of the Company in trust for participants in the AESOP.
A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 A dividend waiver is in place in respect of the RBL Trustees holdings under the Savings Related Benefit Trust and the Long Service Award Trust.
A dividend waiver is in place in respect of shares held by the AESOP Trustee and the RBL Trustee under the AESOP which have not been appropriated to participants.
The voting rights in relation to the RBL Trustees shareholdings are exercised by the RBL Trustee, who may vote or abstain from voting the shares as it sees fit in respect of shares which are unvested or have not been appropriated to employees.
Under the rules of the AESOP, eligible employees are entitled to acquire shares in the Company.
Details of the AESOP are set out above.
AESOP shares which have been appropriated to participants are held in trust for those participants by the AESOP Trustee.
Voting rights in respect of shares which have been appropriated to participants are exercised by the AESOP Trustee on receipt of participants instructions.
If a participant does not submit an instruction to the AESOP Trustee, no vote is registered in respect of those shares.
In addition, the AESOP Trustee does not vote any unappropriated shares held under the AESOP as surplus assets.
The Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS was approved by shareholders at the 2010 AGM.
Approved Long Term Incentive Plan ALTIP awards comprising both a tax-approved option granted under the ESOS and a Long Term Incentive Plan award have been granted to executive directors.
ALTIP awards enable the participant and the Company to benefit from HMRC tax-approved option tax treatment in respect of part of the award, without increasing the pre-tax value delivered to participants.
Other than to enable the grant of ALTIP awards, the Company has not granted awards to executive directors under the ESOS.
Details of the ALTIP awards granted to executive directors are set out on page 72.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
CHANGE OF CONTROL As disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report, under certain conditions the notice period for R. A.
White, J. D. Kemp and A. L. Memmott may increase from one year to two years in the event of a takeover of or by the Company or a Company reconstruction.
All of the Companys share incentive plans contain provisions relating to a change of control of the Company.
The Companys banking 51 facilities may, at the discretion of the lender, be repayable upon a change of control.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION The Companys Articles may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
No amendments are proposed to be made to the existing Articles at the 2016 AGM.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Disclosures regarding greenhouse gas emissions required by The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 are included in the Strategic Report on page 31.
This information is incorporated by reference into this Directors Report.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT Information on the exposure of the Group to certain financial risks and on the Groups objectives and policies for managing each of the Groups main financial risk areas is detailed in the financial risk management disclosure in Note 26.
CONTRACTS OF SIGNIFICANCE There were no contracts of significance as defined by Listing Rule 9.8 in existence during the financial year.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION UNDER LISTING RULE 9.4.
3R The information required under Listing Rule 9.4.
3R is provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 66.
GOING CONCERN The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 02 to 45.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the financial review on pages 37 to 41.
After making the appropriate enquiries, the directors have concluded that the Group will be able to meet its financial obligations for the foreseeable future and therefore have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group overall have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future being at least one year following the date of approval of this annual report and, accordingly, consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Companys viability statement is set out on page 45 of the Strategic Report.
A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS STATEMENT AS TO DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITOR So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined by the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditor is unaware.
Each director has taken all steps that ought to be taken by a director to make themselves aware of and to establish that the auditor is aware of any relevant audit information.
AUDITOR The Audit Committee has responsibility delegated from the Board for making recommendations on the appointment, reappointment, removal and remuneration of the external auditor.
The auditor, KPMG LLP, has indicated its willingness to continue in office and a resolution to appoint KPMG LLP as auditor of the Company and its subsidiaries, and to authorise the Audit Committee to fix their remuneration, will be proposed at the 2016 AGM.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Companys AGM will be held at 11.00am on 1 June 2016 at the offices of KPMG, 191 West George Street, Glasgow, G2 2LJ.
The Notice of the AGM is set out on pages 135 and 136 of this report.
A description and explanation of the resolutions to be considered at the 2016 AGM is set out on pages 137 to 141 of this report.
RECOMMENDATION TO SHAREHOLDERS The Board considers that all the resolutions to be considered at the AGM are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and unanimously recommends that you vote in favour of them.
A. BARR COMPANY SECRETARY 52 29 March 2016 A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
