Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 27 Our strategic priorities How we are responding to our customers needs How we are responding to our customers needs Our markets are dynamic and always changing: to make surewe are well placed to maximise these opportunities we are focused on the four priorities below: CUSTOMER TECHNOLOGY Understanding the needs of our customers and We are focused on reducing the overall cost tailoringsalesand service channels to them, .
This will be achieved  and developing  products relatedapplications and solutions.
EFFICIENCY PEOPLE Through streamlining our cost base and It is our peoples passion, skill, professionalism  of resources we will andcan-doattitude for which weareknown.
maintain our reliabilitywhilst lowering the cost Weareprovidingan environment whereourpeople for our customers.
Improvements in our systems canourish and make thegreatest possible and processes willalsolowerour costs and differencetoour performance.
28 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 BUSINESS STRATEGY Our strategic priorities continued The power to make things happen Aggreko is a growth business Our objective is to remain the leading global provider ofpower, heating and cooling that is efficient, modularand mobile.
In order to deliver ourobjectives we have clear prioritiesunder which plans are being implemented acrossbothof our business units.
During the year, we added People toour three existing priorities: therefore the priorities are: Customer, Technology, efficiency andPeople.
CUSTOMER TECHNOLOGY Tailoring sales and service channels to customers In Power Solutions focus is: Improving fuel efficiency and range of energy source to reduce the overall Focusing on key sectors costofpowerforour customers Developing and deploying relevant solutions In Rental Solutions the focus is reliability and capability Evaluating bolt-on M&A opportunities Developing market-leading products Strengthening relationships with strategic partners IMPROVING USING TECHNOLOGY TO REDUCE CUSTOMER SERVICE THEOVERALLCOST OF POWER The actions that we are taking will provide a more tailored All customers value reliability and speed of deployment, service to customers by more effectively allocating our but in our Utility businessthetotal cost of energy is critically resources and being smarter about the way we meet important.
Technology, andour technical capability, has a customer needs.
keyrole toplayand will improve our competitive position.
Implementing global and national account management 200MW of the next generation of gas engine produced, forourlarger customers: we are uniquely positioned to whichoffers a 10 percentage point improvement in fuel providethe service globally.
consumption overour existing gas engine, which equates toc.
5 million of savings ayear for a customer running Introducing an enhanced customer relationship management 80MWofgas asbase load.
CRM system, provided by SalesForce, to better understand customer requirements, history and service provision which 25% of the diesel fleet upgraded to the market leading G3, willbenet both customer service and sales.
withplans to convert the full fleet by 2020.
Using the data provided by our CRM to improve how we go Work is ongoing to develop enhanced versions of the G3 tomarket: including customer analysis, how and where we andthe next generation gas engine.
deploy our sales resource and how we train them effectively.
Launching new products incorporating new fuel types The introduction of a new website and improved digital and renewables.
Field trial underway of a medium speed offering in March 2017.
This will particularly benefit our HFOsolution and a solar-diesel hybrid now available.
moretransactional customers: providing a more agile and Working closely with our suppliers taking established cost-effective sales channel and better service proposition.
but leading technology from our suppliers and using Pursuing adjacent products to power, such as the acquisition ourexpertiseto package in a modular format.
of DRYCO, a moisture control business, this year.
These kinds Reducing the total cost of ownership of our products, ofacquisitions expand our product range and expertise can throughlooking not only at the build cost but also the often berolled out across the business.
They also often allow ongoingplanned and unplanned maintenance.
ustosellpower generation as part of the solution.
Built a clear technology roadmap for the next five years, Developing strategic partnerships to deliver opportunities in covering threefuels diesel, gas, HFO.
bridging to permanent power and service and repowering.
In Rental Solutions working on sector specic equipment wheremarket opportunities are available.
Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 29 What we expect to deliver Through careful investment in organic and inorganic growth, we remain committed to thefollowing targets: Revenue growth ahead ofourmarkets Margins around 20% in the medium term Return on capital around 20% in the medium term TO FIND OUT MORE VISIT OUR KPIS ON PAGE 34 EFFICIENCY PEOPLE Streamlining our cost base Evolving our culture Improving processes and systems Training and developing our people Health, safety, wellbeing and security OPTIMISING DEPLOYMENT CULTIVATING AN OF RESOURCES EFFECTIVE ORGANISATION efficiency is a critical priority: the actions that we are taking Our people are at the heart of the great service Aggreko will enhance our capability and improve our competitive provides.
Selecting the right people, continuous development, position whilst providing customers the best possible and training for capability are important areas we continue service at the lowest possible cost.
We have a range of toimprove.
Coupled with an intent to foster a safe, supportive immediate priorities, but as with any efficiency focus and stimulating environment for ouremployees to ensure itisacontinuous process.
thatAggreko continues to be knownfor its people and the quality of service that weprovideto our customers.
Improving Group procurement practices to better leverage ourglobal spend through supplier rationalisation and Evolving our culture and developing our purpose and values improvedterms.
This is expected to deliver 40 million of tobring our people together, inspire them and ensure that savings bythe end of 2017, with potential for incremental together we can make things happen.
Introducing new training programmes to upskill our people Further automating fleet management: this will be facilitated andworking to identify key talent across the organisation, byremote monitoring and will improve utilisation and returns whichcombined with strong succession planning, will by allowing a move to condition based servicing.
strengthen us for the future.
Streamlining back ofce processes across Finance, Human Safety is critical to ensuring our people are well, safe and secure Resources, Rental Centres and Information Technology.
and that we deliver the best possible service to our customers.
We are continuing to invest in health and safety.
Right sizing the depot network: in some cases market investment is not proportionate to the opportunity and weneed to correct this.
Looking at how our customers use our services and identifying where we can improve processes or use new technology to improve efficiency.
Improving efficiency of project delivery, particularly in our Utility business.
Assessing manpower mix in our Power Solutions business, increasing the proportion of local workforce: this has the added benefit of providing jobs, training and skills to local people.
This benets the Utility business in particular, where wemayhave only one site in a country for ashort-term contract.
30 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 BUSINESS STRATEGY Our strategic priorities continued The power to make things happen Achievements in the year: Over 100 workstreams are in place working on initiatives under the strategic priorities.
During the year, we have achieved the following: CUSTOMER TECHNOLOGY Completed Voice of the customer work Successful eld trial of the Next Generation Gas engine across both business units to really understand withsoft launch into the fleet.
Developed a medium speed HFO package which went Began implementation of the new CRM system, oneld trial with a customer at the end of the year.
Made significant progress in developing our Overhauled the customer website with first launch in early solar-diesel hybrid product.
CRM 24 7 Case study: Case study: Implementation of a new Customer Relationship Management Solar-diesel hybrid CRM system Following our extensive customer surveys last year, weidentied In June 2016, we launched a solar-diesel hybrid product, that whilst we offer a high standard of customer service, it is whichcouplesmodular solar panels with our diesel generators.
a onesize ts all approach which is not appropriate to all of Solar cannot provide power output 24 7, but combined with our our markets.
We are implementing a new CRM system, using diesel product it becomes an optimal solution for customers with SalesForce as a service provider, which will allow us to better enough land to have a solar array.
There are clear environmental tailorand personalise the service we provide our customers, benets to the product, but italso reduces the cost by upto 10% andmore efficiently delivering theoutputs they need.
compared to a stand-alone diesel solution.
Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 31 EFFICIENCY PEOPLE We have removed 700 permanent roles to right-size Developed our purpose, values and behaviours.
functional support, delivering 35 million of savings in 2016.
Strengthened our training and development capability.
Full roll-out of remote monitoring across Rental Solutions.
Completed succession planning to three levels Embedded a new procurement function which belowtheGroup CEO.
ROC Values Case study: Case study: Rolling out the ROC Remote Operating Centre Development of our Purpose and Values In 2016, we rolled out remote monitoring across our Rental Over the last twelve months we have looked to evolve our Solutions fleet after success in North America.
The ROC connects cultureand refresh our purpose and values.
To do this weve all of our equipment on-hire to a central monitoring centre consulted with employees at all levels of the organisation, which can track performance, system issues and the need for acrossthe world to understand their views.
This has shaped any maintenance.
As a result weve been able to reduce the cost a newframework for Aggreko Always Orange, which ofbreakdowns, lower the need for extra equipment needed for was launched in early 2017 and will help to bring together back up and improve our customer satisfaction.
32 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 BUSINESS STRATEGY Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 33 THE POWER TO build a new product JOHN CAMPBELL PROGRAMME MANAGER, DUMBARTON The latest project Im working onisournew medium speed HFO Heavy Fuel Oil product.
This is a new engine for Aggreko.
HFO fuel is cheaper than diesel and more widely available then gas soits just another way wearereducing the totalcost .
