12 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 BUSINESS STRATEGY Our global markets 8 KEY DRIVERS ACROSS OUR BUSINESS Strong prospects for long-term growth 1 Indeveloped markets, power and related products, like heating and cooling, are anessential part of everyday life and are GDP growth takenfor granted until they are not there.
Inemerging markets power helps countriesto industrialise and enhance livingstandards via for example hospitalstoprovide medical care and GLOBAL GDP GROWTH % schools to educate future generations.
Demand for Aggrekos services is generally created by Events, the supply and demand 6 gap or commodities: our customers 5 oftenneed a fast and exible solution.
4 Events may be frequent, such as a local 3 2 utility needing power as they do planned 1 maintenance, or they may be infrequent, 0 such as a large-scale power shortage, -1 forexample in Guam.
Weaddress the market through ourtwo business units which As an economy grows, so The market in Power Solutions does demand for power.
Utility is generally linked to arewellpositioned tohelp our customers As businesses grow they can thepower shortfall the andeachof which has strongprospects rent additional power, heating difference between supply and cooling rather than lose and demand in a particular forlong-term growth.
Being global allows productivity: this is also more country.
The customer is usto quickly move resources between capital efficient.
normally the state-owned utility: and in order for them thetwo business units inresponse to Our Power Solutions Industrial to make a purchase decision and Rental Solutions markets customer demand.
our analysis suggests that have historically grown as a GDP growth typically needs to countrys economy grows.
be around 5% for conversion We have listed some of the key growth The average GDP growth of froman enquiry intoa contract.
drivers across Aggreko over the page.
the countries in which we These customers require operate is forecast to be around Theseare often related and interact base load, peaking and in 2% per annum in Rental some cases, backup power.
withinamarket to define that market.
Solutions and 4% per annum in There area wide variety of PowerSolutions Industrial over factors that influence the the next few years Source: IMF, decision to purchase electricity October 2016.
In 2016, whilst and they vary between average GDP growth was 1.7% countries.
In recent years, lower in Rental Solutions, revenue commodity prices, inparticular decreased 8%: this apparent oil, has signicantly affected market underperformance was the tax receipts in some driven by the low oil price and commodity rich countries resultant weakness in Oil & Gas around the world and therefore and Petrochemical & Rening, their ability to afford power: key sectors for the business, in other countries, the lower particularly in North America.
oil price has made power Elsewhere, other sectors have more affordable.
been stronger, particularly in Europe.
Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 13 2 Population growth & industrialisation As populations continue to grow and urbanise, and as industrialisation drives economic growth, demand for electricity increases.
Electrication rates are typically low in many emerging market countries and even in those places where electricity is available, reliability is often poor.
These countries may have plans for permanent capacity, but raising the significant funding that is required can take a considerable period of time to realise and the 3 amount of investment required can be challenging to obtain from traditional sources: it typically takes between 5 and 10 years for a new permanent plant to be commissioned.
Delays in realising Propensity to rent new capacity, ageing infrastructure and reliance on intermittent hydropower can also exacerbate an existing shortfall.
Meanwhile, the global population is forecast to grow by over 1% per annum until 2020, and double this rate in the least developed countries according to the United Nations: therefore, the power shortfall islikely to increase.
GLOBAL POPULATION BILLION Customers have the choice to either buy, rent or live with less power than they require: ourcompetitors are not just rental companies but also equipment manufacturers.
Where the needisurgent or for a short time, customers tend to rent.
8 7 There is a growing awareness of the benets of outsourcing.
In deciding whether to rent or buy, customers consider issues 6 such as the tax treatment of assets and the availability and 5 costofnance for purchasing equipment.
Often a benefit of 4 renting our equipment is that it frees up a customers balance 3 sheet and allows them to focus on their core business.
2 1 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Source: World Bank Development Indicators 14 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 BUSINESS STRATEGY 5 Our global markets continued Reliability of supply 4 Ageing In Power Solutions Industrial, our customers are typically lookingfor electricity where the grid is unstable and they infrastructure seekbackup, or where the grid doesnt exist.
The largest customers in this segment tend to be in Oil & Gas and Mining andare often in remote locations.
In the Utility business, the decision by governments to purchase power using exible solutions is usually a political one and given slower economic growth in recent years, the opportunity cost of not having electricity is less acute: businesses that are growing, but that are unable torely on utility power or where it In the longterm, thedrivers of In emerging markets, issimply unavailable, are seeking alternative sources of electricity.
investment in new and growth increasing demand The structural shortfall creates substantial opportunities for for electricity and insufficient replacement permanent Aggreko and we will continue to win work by understanding power infrastructure has not investment in permanent the market, customer needs and offering solutions that meet supply are structural.
kept pace with demandand their requirements.
so frequent breakdowns and Capital markets are less damaging power cuts have willing to support long-term resulted, withmany regions infrastructure projects in these remaining off-grid entirely.
markets, particularly when Delays in realising new fide-carbonisation andageing capacity, ageing infrastructure infrastructure in developed and reliance on intermittent countries requires trillions hydropower can also ofdollars in investment.
Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 15 7 Natural disasters and geopolitical 6 emergencies Fragmented competition Reactive demand is caused by events that happen infrequentlyand cause a power shortage for a period oftime.
This is impossible to predict, but important worktosupport: reputation and fleet availability are essential to beable torespondto such an emergency.
Typically this typeof work isinresponse to a natural disasteror in post-conict reconstruction and military support.
Examples include Japan In every market across We compete with a number where we provided powerfollowing the 2011 earthquake and of regional companies, and we PowerSolutions there tsunami, Hurricane Matthew in North America in 2016 and are a number of regional, have several competitors who ourmilitarysupport in Iraq and Afghanistan.
cover a wider geographical area national and local businesses.
Since 2012, overall demand in within Power Solutions Utility, but we believe we are the only the market has been lower and 8 therefore there has been an company with a truly global footprint.
In Rental Solutions, oversupply, which has increased competitive tension in some our competitors are either Frequency of privately-owned specialist markets.
Another competitive force that we face in the utility rental businesses, divisions oflarge plant hire companies market is for a share of a major events or OEM Original Equipment governments budget.
In most Manufacturer dealerships: emerging market countries, few provide the sector specic the utilities are state controlled solutions that Aggreko does.
and money spent on power Over the past few years, we is money that cannot be have seen an increase in the spent elsewhere.
larger general rental companies A number of items differentiate moving into speciality sectors, us from our competitors: including power, heating and our global scale and large cooling.
This tends to affect us fleet, which facilitates fast at the lower end of the market deployment and economies the price sensitive, equipment of scale: our technology, which only customers, rather than is often the most efficient in the full solution customers.
the market: and our expertise, However, we are aware that which has been built over this poses a potential threat to 50years.
Over the last year us and therefore our strategic wehave notseen a significant priorities are designed to change in the competitive address this.
High value, but low frequency events change the size of themarket on a temporary basis with a need for short-term power, heating and cooling solutions.
Typically these are major sporting occasions like the Olympic Games, FIFA World Cup and Commonwealth Games.
Our global scale, expertise and excellent reputation in executing these events means that we are well placed to win contracts for these events.
In the last year we have won contracts for the Olympic Winter Games PyeongChang 2018 and the 2018 Gold Coast Commonwealth Games in Australia.
16 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 BUSINESS STRATEGY THE POWER TO connect communities MARCIO MARQUES OPERATIONS MANAGER Were connecting power to the Amazonas forthe first time.
Some of these communities are so remote that were having to transport our diesel generators on barges down the Amazon, and move them from there.
A challenge for an Operations Manager like me, but this will transform the lives of the communities we reach.
Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 17
