22 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 BUSINESS STRATEGY How we make things happen Using our resources OUR RESOURCES WHAT SETS US APART PEOPLE & CULTURE EXPERTISE We have a highly skilled, passionate and We have over 50 years of operational experience professional workforce of around 7,000 temporary andexpertise in sector specic and complex projects.
and permanent employees worldwide with When this is combined with our engineering capability  culture.
itgives us a unique understanding of our customer needs and the ability to deliver whilst managing risk.
SCALE TECHNOLOGY Our scale and global reach allow us to serve customers We have a fleet that is mobile, modular and standard in around 100 countries today.
Aggreko is geographically indesign so that it can serve any customer, anywhere in spread so we are close to both our existing and potential theworld.
We partner strategically with key suppliers to customers across the world.
Having a large fleet available develop market leading products aimed at reducing the means we can respond quickly when we need to while overall cost of power for our customers.
Our key focus is also running at good utilisation levels.
Combined, our fuelefciency, as this is the largest cost to our customers.
breadth and scale means we have a diversied portfolio andaninherent riskmanagement mechanism.
FINANCIAL The Group has a strong balance sheet .
o n n i e B r e h t e g Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information o t e B t r e p x AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 23 PEOPLE & CULTURE The result is a clear purpose for the People are our greatest asset: their passion and commitment areacritical contributor to our success.
They are highly skilled Group, underpinned byfour values and and are used to reacting quickly: they respond effectively under associated behaviours.
Our values are: pressure: do a professional job: and above all, deliver it in a safe manner.
These attributes underpin the dynamic, customer focused culture for which Aggreko is known.
We are focused onproviding an environment in which our people can ourish andmake a massive difference.
HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT HSE READ MORE ABOUT HSE PAGE 66 Always orange ETHICS AND INTEGRITY READ MORE ABOUT ETHICS AND INTEGRITY PAGE 69 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION READ MORE ABOUT SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION PAGE 69 BE DYNAMIC LEADERSHIP We use our entrepreneurial passion to deliver and Our Senior Leadership Team SLT comprises our top 70 managers we thrive on making great things happen.
During the year, our CEO, Chris Weston, hosted two meetings.
These are a valuable opportunity for engagement with the Executive Committee and the top team BE EXPERT and it allows the SLT to hear updates on the operations, nancials We use our blend of experience, expertise and and business priorities first hand.
They also provide aforum for wider input into the Group strategy.
planning to keep us ahead of the game.
During the first meeting of the year, the team worked on our BE TOGETHER culture, purpose and values.
We reviewed other companies from around the world and determined those that articulated their We ask the best of each other and harness our scale purpose and values well and which resonated with us, whilst and diverse skills to grow stronger together.
reecting on what it means to work for Aggreko.
At the second meeting in November, we received an update on the culture work and planned together how best to launch it into the organisation.
BE INNOVATIVE In addition, we considered key strategic topics for the Group, such We learn from the world for a better today as how to best foster innovation and how to better leverage our xed cost base.
The outputs of these meetings were taken away andforgreatleaps tomorrow.
by working groups for further development and implementation.
ALWAYS ORANGE Together these embody our culture: Aggreko is a strong and unique business and our culture reects Always Orange.
Following the reorganisation in 2015, a significant piece of work was commenced to refresh our culture, including our purpose, values and behaviours, to ensure that it could best OUR PURPOSE support our business transformation and growth.
We believe that in dening these we are setting ourselves up for a sustainable and We believe in the positive impact of power and the profitable future, where we can capitalise on market opportunities ability to control temperature.
We believe it opens and create an even better place to work.
The work has taken over up opportunity and creates potential for individuals, six months to complete and has engaged employees around communities, industries and societies all over the world.
the world and at all levels of the business, with workshops, input from our online community and healthy debate at the Executive Together and over time, we believe our Committee and SLT levels.
Our Orange Champions, individuals servicesmakeamassive difference.
at different levels across the Group, have been an instrumental testing ground as the work has developed and are ideally placed as we work to embed the new culture into the organisation.
e e B c i m a n y d e B e v i t a v 24 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 BUSINESS STRATEGY How we make things happen continued Using our resources SAFETY AND SECURITY REWARD FOR PERFORMANCE Given that we operate in many areas of the world which can be Aggrekos remuneration arrangements seek to support the categorised as high risk, we consider the safety and security of our delivery of our business strategy by attracting, retaining and employees working in these locations to be our most critical issue.
motivating talented people at all levels.
During the year, we further enhanced our Group security Pay for performance and rewarding value creation is at the function and embedded standard tools and processes which heart of Aggrekos remuneration approach.
The Companys were introduced in 2015.
We also have an ongoing partnership remuneration policy is aligned with the key objectives of with external advisers, whoprovide us with the on-the-ground growingearnings and delivering strong returns on capital knowledge that we need to make decisions on our operations employed.
These metrics are used for the Groups long-term inhigh risk areas: this includes a mobile phone app which allows incentive scheme and senior managers annual bonuses.
our people to check the latest advice for any country around the world and automatically updates key advice for the country During the year, we undertook a Shareholder consultation whichthey are in.
It also has the capability to track travellers and exerciseon proposals to better align Executive reward with an added alarm function, which triggers an emergency response.
strategy, as well as retain key talent through our current business transformation.
The Companys proposals willbesubject to a Our business involves electrical equipment which can pose Shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM.
safety issues when not handled properly.
We have a number of established policies and protocols designed to protect our We encourage all employees to own shares in the Company and employees and customers, including effective training, testing and currently 1,872 people participate in the Sharesave programme.
This year, we identied a higher than expected incidence of safety issues as a result of manual handling activities and after a thorough investigation we are implementing new READ MORE ABOUT REMUNERATION POLICY processes across the organisation.
PAGE 95 SUCCESSION PLANNING READ MORE ABOUT SAFETY AND SECURITY RISK PAGES 57 AND 58 Whilst retaining our talent is important, identifying potential futureroles for them and then training them appropriately TALENT MANAGEMENT is key in ensuring that the Group continues to have effective management well into the future.
Succession planning was Learning and development historically not formally done beyond the Executive Committee Learning and development continues to be an area of focus level: following the reorganisation of the Group and the andis built around the core capabilities required by the business.
headcountreduction that we underwent during 2015, we We rmly believe that investment in our employees has a direct have now rolled out a new succession planning process, which and positive impact on our employee retention rates and the encompass theSeniorLeadership Team and their direct reports.
engagement levels of our staff.
It is essential that our people Work is underway to implement this.
are properly trained and each part of the business has training programmes in place to provide our employees with the ENGAGEMENT necessary skills to perform their role: training is a combination of on-the-job learning and specic skill development through We are proud that so many of our employees enjoy what they training courses.
In 2016, we appointed a Global Learning and do and we seek to increase employee satisfaction through more Talent Management Director to further develop an effective than just financial incentives.
We encourage mobility between programme that will develop capability across the organisation.
countries and business units by prioritising internal transfers and ensuring that positions are advertised internally.
Over 2016, we delivered over 173,000 hours of training across the Group.
Many of our training programmes are tailored specifically In 2015, we used PULSE surveys to measure employee sentiment for Aggreko employees and utilise case studies and examples across the business.
This year we launched Be Heard, a quarterly taken from employee experience.
Throughout the year, we have survey to capture sentiment across the Group on a more regular renewed our focus on training and have been working to overhaul basis.
Each member of the Senior Leadership Team receives their our existing programmes, refreshing them for the changes across divisions results and is then able to address concerns quickly: the business and enhancing our tools and capabilities to enable thetotal results are also circulated to the Group.
In terms of them to be delivered in a more efficient and easily digestible form.
tracking engagement levels, we assess three areas: Say, whether These new programmes were launched in December 2016. an employee is an advocate for Aggreko: Stay, whether an employee remains loyal and committed to the business: and We also recognise that localisation of talent provides many Strive, whether an employee does the best that they can within benets to the Group and to the communities in which we their team.
The responses can be distilled down into an overall operate, which is why we actively recruit local people wherever employee engagement score, which for the most recent survey possible, training them and providing them with career was 72%.
Within this, 85% of people said they are proud to work opportunities with the Group.
Across the Group Aggreko for Aggreko.
We also use programmes like Aggreko University Ivory Coast, SelecTech USA and our apprenticeship programme at our Dumbarton manufacturing and technology facility UK to develop the skills of school-leavers.
READ MORE ABOUT EMPLOYEE TURNOVER PAGE 37 Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 25 Internal communications continues to be an area of focus.
We currently purchase most of our temperature control Our Director of Communications joined us in the year with equipment externally to suit the needs of local markets.
responsibility for developing an internal communications and Fleet is managed on a real time basis across the world and is engagement programme to ensure that our people understand transferable across all sectors and applications, which enables us our strategic priorities and know what role they can play in to optimise utilisation and therefore its deployment and returns.
helping to transform our business.
Particular focus has been onempowering managers to brief their teams more effectively.
Fleet is at the heart of any rental business: it is the core of Encouragingly we have already seen an improvement with 68% the service we offer and managing it effectively is necessary of those surveyed in October 2016 feeling that they have access to ensure the long-term sustainability of our business.
to communication that helps me do my job more effectively, Designing and assembling our own fleet gives us a unique an increase from March 2016 with all key comparator measures competitive advantage: improving since March.
Optimised to meet our particular operational requirements: Designed for reliability and longevity: EXPERTISE Capital cost advantage through economies ofscale and It has taken over 50 years to develop the enormous strength and notpaying the final assembly margin: depth of expertise throughout the business.
At the regional levels React quickly to customer requirements with lead times our sales and commercial teams are local experts, highly trained ofonlya few months from engine order to the equipment and understand the financial, regulatory and environmental beingin the fleet.
logistics of operating in their markets: similarly, our engineers and technicians are trained to problem solve in themost difficult situations and to keep our equipment operating.
KEY ATTRIBUTES OF OUR EQUIPMENT We have built a team of specialist engineers at our in-house Safe manufacturing and technology facility in Dumbarton, Scotland.
They intimately understand the requirements of the environment Durable and mobile capable of being lifted and in which the fleet operates and have core skills around speed  times during its life ofdeployment, reliability and exibility which, over the years, Ability to work in extreme conditions, have provided us with a strong competitive advantage.
In the bothtemperature and altitude lastfew years we have strengthened and developed our capability to adapt to the market environment, including bringing in new Fuel efficient expertise on product development, new technologies, service Quiet engineering and procurement.
We operate equipment for its useful life: we donot build our equipment to sell.
This gives a Reliable powerful incentive to maintain it well, which gives a longer life Compliant with environmental and safety regulations andbetter reliability.
within themarkets in which we operate SCALE Our scale and global reach, which allows us to serve customers READ MORE ABOUT TECHNOLOGY inaround 100 countries, means that we are close to, and aware IN OUR BUSINESS PRIORITIES of, market opportunities as they arise.
We are able to ensure that PAGES 27 TO 31 eetis always available and therefore are able to respond quickly, whilst running at good levels of utilisation to generate strong returns on capital.
Importantly, given the risk of operating in some of our markets, our scale means that we have a diversied portfolio and an inherent risk management mechanism.
Our scale also provides a capital cost advantage on our equipment and enables us to work closely with suppliers on technology development.
Technology is an important enabler for our business and we have built a competitive advantage by working with our suppliers to provide market-leading technology in a modular, exible format.
When you consider that for diesel customers, onaverage 80% of the cost of our solution is fuel, then providing products that are market leading in fuel efficiency can provide a significant competitive advantage.
Additionally, we are continually identifying and developing new product lines providing our customers alternatives.
For example, our new medium speed HFO engine will allow customers to use a more affordable fuel source than thetraditional diesel product, with better availability than gas.
26 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 BUSINESS STRATEGY How we make things happen continued Using our resources TECHNOLOGY OUR DESIGN AND ASSEMBLY CAPABILITY 238 20,744 9,666MW PERMANENT POWER UNITS POWER IN DUMBARTON EMPLOYEES AVAILABLE THE FLEET 2015: 235 2015: 20,774 2015: 9,818MW Purpose-built facility with 2,255 MW of power in Focus on fuel efficiency in new and theabilityto ex volume Rental Solutions upgraded fleet, and affordable sources of fuel in new products Flexible employee base 7,411 MW of power in Power Solutions Refurbished and upgraded diesel 238 permanent staff and forc.
75% of original cost per MW 60contractors 6,800 units of power that are common toboth business units In the fleet within Design and assembly with 10-12 weeks of order 50yearsexperience Major sub-assembly bought in fromkey strategic suppliers Engine c. 50% Alternator c. 10% Container c. 5% 80% 241m COST OF MAJOR FLEET CAPEX SUB-ASSEMBLIES IN 2016 2015: 80% 2015: 237m FINANCIAL The Group has sufficient facilities to meet our funding The Group does not consider these covenants restrictive requirements over the medium term.
At 31 December 2016, andunder normal business conditions looks to operate thesefacilities totalled 1,035 million in the form of private thebusiness with net debt EBITDA ratio of around one times.
placement notes and committed bank facilities arranged The Group believes that this is the appropriate level given onabilateral basis with a number of international banks thecharacteristics of the Group, including the inherently withwhomwe have strong relationships.
These facilities have riskynature of where we operate, in particular in the a rangeof maturities and are conditional on maintaining PowerSolutions Utility business.
compliance with the covenants below.
International EBITDA 4x EBITDA to Performance Banks & interest interest: 20x Funding source Covenants asat US Private Net debt Net debt December2016 Placements EBITDA 3x EBITDA: 1.2x
