Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 61 ASSESSMENT OF PROSPECTS ANDVIABILITY Demand for Aggrekos services is created by events with the With the above as background, the Board approached the nature of the demand differing by country and therefore we viabilityassessment as follows: address the market through our two business units, as described It took the decision to carry out the assessment over earlier.
The Rental Solutions business is linked to local economies athree-yearperiod to 2019.
Although the prospects of the and commodity cycles and varies in size and nature from country Groupare considered over a longer period, three years was to country.
The Power Solutions Industrial business is driven by deemed appropriate because: local economies in developing markets whilst Power Solutions The Groups funding requirement can be forecast with utilities is driven by growth of mini-projects work and shortfalls sufficient accuracy over the viability period.
inpermanent capacity caused by: The Group expects to be able to arrange sufficient finance Ageing power infrastructure: tomeet its funding requirements over the viability period.
Hydro-shortages: Our historical Power Solutions Utility off-hire rate of 30% Social pressures: and suggests an average contract life cycle of three years.
Rental Solutions and Power Solutions Industrial typically provide little to no visibility given the shorter-term hire periods The factors which could affect Aggrekos growth are relative to Power Solutions Utility.
discussedregularly by both the Executive Committee and the Board.
The 12 principal risks, which the Board concluded could It stress-tested the Groups strategic plans out to 2019 by affect business performance are set out on the previous pages.
modelling scenarios linked to its principal risks.
In order to reect the possibility that more than one principal risk might affect the business at one time a combination scenario was also modelled.
The results of this stress-testing showed that, due to the diversity ofour business and strength of our balance sheet, the Group would be able to withstand the impact of these scenarios occurring over the period by making adjustments to its operatingplans within the normal course of business.
Based on the results of this analysis, the Directors have areasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continueinoperation and meet its liabilities as they fall dueoverthe three-year period of their detailed assessment.
62 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 PERFORMANCE REVIEW Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 63 THE POWER TO keep the beat GREG SHEPHERD EVENTS PROJECT MANAGER In May 2016 we ran the power for the Eurovision song contest in Sweden, using only vegetable oil as a fuel source.
We knew that the environmental impact meant a lot to the organisers and using ourtechnologically superior fleet, we were abletooffer a unique, completely sustainable solution which met all of their needs.
