STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGY IN ACTION STRONG CONSUMER CONNECTION Energy drinks continues to be a category driven by THE MARKETS IN WHICH WE consumer demand for fresh and innovative new product OPERATE HAVE SEEN A NUMBER development.
With a strong reputation and proven track record for bringing exciting innovation to the market OF SIGNIFICANT DEVELOPMENTS through our Rockstar energy drink brand, we continued OVER THE PAST YEAR, WITH this strategy in 2015, introducing consumers to both new CONSUMERS TASTES AND flavours and new experiences, contributing to a further successful year of growth for Rockstar.
BEHAVIOURS CONTINUING TO EVOLVE AND CHANGE.
The cocktail market continues to grow at pace, and is particularly attuned to consumer trends across the food Innovation continues to play a central role in our and drink category.
Our Funkin business delivered a portfolio development, satisfying our consumers needs 14 very successful innovation programme across the year, for great tasting and exciting new products, and we responding with speed and agility to meet fast evolving delivered a strong innovation programme across 2015. consumer tastes in the cocktail market.
In addition to a complete rebranding exercise across all formats, we Our core soft drinks business generated more than 7m introduced 5 new Funkin Pro syrup flavours to the market of incremental revenue in 2015 through new flavours, in 2015 to meet the growing demand for premium and limited editions, new pack sizes and new formats, niche new products, reinforcing Funkins position as the responding to the ever increasing consumer preference market leader in the cocktail mixer segment.
for differentiation, newness and lower sugar options.
NEW FUNKIN SYRUPS Leading the way in cocktail mixer innovation, our creative new range of Funkin syrups introduced new and exciting flavours to the mixologists toolkit.
A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 BARR LIMITED EDITION With more than 1 million units sold, our limited edition Barr flavour Tropicoola drove engagement and excitement across the summer of 2015.
EVOLVING TASTES THE MARKETS IN WHICH WE OPERATE HAVE SEEN A NUMBER OF SIGNIFICANT DEVELOPMENTS OVER THE PAST YEAR, WITH CONSUMERS TASTES AND BEHAVIOURS CONTINUING TO 15 EVOLVE AND CHANGE.
ROCKSTAR INNOVATION With zero sugar, our new Rockstar Punched Pure Zero delivers the full on Punched Guava taste and packs a 100% energy punch.
A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC C RE REPO POR RT T STRATEGY IN ACTION CONTINUED BUILDING STRONG BRANDS 16 OUR BRAND PORTFOLIO PERFORMED WELL IN THE FACE OF THE DIFFICULT MARKET CONDITIONS ACROSS 2015 AS WELL AS THE SPECIFIC CHALLENGES WE EXPERIENCED WHILE DELIVERING A SIGNIFICANT INTERNAL CHANGE PROGRAMME.
IRN-BRU SPECIAL TARTAN PACKS Our 2015 IRN-BRU marketing programme got off to a fantastic start with our special edition 2L tartan packs.
Engaging digital and social media content generated excitement around the initiative which saw sales of the special tartan packs reach almost 670,000 cases.
A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 OVERALL WE MAINTAINED OUR SHARE OF THE TOTAL SOFT DRINKS MARKET AND WE HAVE CONTINUED TO INVEST IN THE LONG-TERM HEALTH OF ALL OUR CORE BRANDS.
IRN-BRU BRU-PLANET IRN-BRU delivered a resilient performance, growing Our BRU-PLANET initiative, which offered 2 lucky winners the its share of the other flavour carbonates category in holiday of a lifetime, engaged consumers across the whole of the period.
IRN-BRUs position in Scotland remains the UK and generated our highest ever number of entries for extremely strong, supported by some exciting and an on pack offer.
unique marketing initiatives including special edition tartan packs and our Made in Scotland from Girders anniversary campaign.
However our significant growth potential for the IRN-BRU brand lies in England & Wales.
We set out in 2015 to increase brand awareness in the rest of the UK and our 17 Gets you Through campaign has played a central role in delivering this strategy.
The campaign saw IRN-BRU advertised on a national basis for the first time, through both TV and digital channels, and delivered a significant increase in consumer brand awareness.
This national strategy is supported further by our football sponsorship programme IRN-BRU is the only FMCG brand with UK wide reach across 114 football communities.
IRN-BRU Sugar Free continues to grow in popularity, IRN-BRU NATIONAL TV CAMPAIGN aligned to the increasing consumer trend towards lower Our IRN-BRU Gets you Through campaign went national in 2015 and no sugar products, and now accounts for more with 2 new adverts released across the UK to an overwhelmingly than 1 in 3 IRN-BRU purchases.
IRN-BRU Sugar Free positive consumer reaction.
Our biggest national advertising increased its share of the UK carbonates market, up investment to date, the campaign generated more than 228 2% value as measured by IRI Markeplace data.
million views on TV, video on demand and social media.
A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGY IN ACTION CONTINUED RUBICON MANGO MONTH RUBICON NATIONAL TV CAMPAIGN Rubicons Mango Month has become a regular Our new Believe in Beach campaign introduced the feature on the exotic juice calendar.
The initiative Rubicon brand to a more mainstream audience through heralds the arrival of the new season mangoes in TV, video on demand and social media.
The campaign May, with on pack offers driving distribution and generated record social media results for Rubicon, with building the Rubicon brand.
4.3 million Facebook views and 6 million video views.
18 EXOTICS RUBICON AND KA The fruit juice market performance across the past 12 months has been weak, with value declining 6% as measured by IRI Marketplace data.
Rubicons performance has been broadly in line with the market, however Rubicon carbonates has proved to be more resilient to the challenging market conditions.
Despite this difficult environment we have continued to invest in the brand equity and remained focused on our brand strategy.
Our Its a Family Thing campaign reinforced the brands position as a favourite with ethnic consumers while our Believe in Beach campaign developed the Rubicon brand as a mainstream offering through a new national TV advert.
KA MUSIC SPONSORSHIP The KA Rated Awards recognise and award urban music talent.
Our 2015 event welcomed 900 attendees and was watched by an audience of 25,000 via live streaming.
With 10 awards presented and 6 urban music performances the event was a #1 trending topic on Twitter in the UK.
A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 STRATHMORE TWIST REBRAND BARR XTRA COLA OUTDOOR CAMPAIGN Our Strathmore Twist packaging was refreshed in September Barrs biggest and boldest outdoor campaign 2015 and brought into line with the core water range.
With a hit Scotland in Summer 2015 communicating much more contemporary feel the new design has a sense the full cola taste and no sugar credentials of energy, fitting with Strathmores Do More proposition.
STRATHMORE AND BARR FUNKIN The overall category performance in soft drinks was Within a growing cocktail market, the Funkin brand has once again driven by growth in water.
Total Strathmore performed extremely well thanks to its market leading volumes increased across the year, but in the current position, quality products, strong execution and exciting deflationary market, value declined slightly.
However innovation, with UK sales in particular delivering a strong sparkling water delivered a strong performance.
Consumer dynamics remain very positive with cocktail distribution increasing.
Innovation within the 2015 was a year packed full of Strathmore sports category is one of the keys to success and with an exciting sponsorships, from Scottish Rugby to the World innovation pipeline for 2016 we look forward to even Gymnastics Championships, driving strong consumer greater brand development across the next 12 months.
engagement, increasing brand visibility and reinforcing the Strathmore Do More initiative to encourage 19 healthier and more active lifestyles.
The Barr range of flavoured carbonates has developed further across 2015 with new innovation and limited editions and an impactful outdoor advertising campaign for Xtra Cola.
The full range is now categorised as lower or no sugar, following a considerable reformulation programme, delivering increased choice across our portfolio in response to changing consumer preferences.
NEW FUNKIN PACKAGING In addition to an exciting and innovative new range of Funkin Pro syrups introduced across 2015, the entire Funkin brand underwent a full packaging rebrand, with a bolder and more vibrant design redefining the brand identity.
A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGY IN ACTION CONTINUED FUNKIN COCKTAILS ON THE MENU Our Funkin team recently worked with a leading restaurant chain to introduce cocktails into their restaurants for the first time.
Working together to create a tailored cocktail menu, and delivering bespoke training to staff, the initial trial has proven extremely successful and the concept will now be rolled out to more than 50 outlets.
20 STRONG CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 The UK retail landscape continues to undergo a considerable amount of change, with competition IN-STORE ACTIVIATION Our sales teams take a huge amount of pride in working between outlets and channels growing, and increasingly with our customers to create fantastic in-store execution of overlapping, while retailers try to adapt to changing our brand activity.
During our BRU-PLANET campaign, which shopper habits.
It has never been more important for us was our largest ever on-pack IRN-BRU promotion, we worked to work with our customers to develop winning strategies with customers to create more than 1,200 in-store special and to ensure the highest possible levels of service to pack displays to increase visibility, drive sales and deliver ensure we remain a key partner and supplier.
We have continued to focus on driving our go to market strategy across a wide platform, managing multiple channels and increasingly diverse routes to market.
21 We have taken a number of actions across the year to facilitate and enhance our customer relationships, from growing the capability of our salesforce through learning and development, to investing in new technology and systems to facilitate better data provision and decision making.
These actions, combined with our pride in our in-market execution and a genuine desire to work in partnership with our customers, are essential components in our objective to deliver shared success.
In March 2015 we were delighted to be awarded the Bestway Supplier of the Year Award for the third year in a row.
A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGY IN ACTION CONTINUED STRONG PARTNERSHIPS 22 NEW SNAPPLE BRANDING Available in 7 delicious flavours our fresh new Snapple packaging hides a little secret under every cap is a fun fact.
Did you know that the peach was the first fruit to be eaten on the moon?
A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 We have further developed and enhanced our Our 10 year agreement with the Dr Pepper Snapple partnerships across 2015, working collaboratively Group, which commenced in January 2015, is progressing to deliver shared success.
Our focus in the first year of this important partnership has been on building brand awareness and Rockstar has delivered another successful year of redeveloping the brand identity for the UK and Europe.
Innovation continues to play an important role Snapple is now available in 12 European markets and, in the energy drink category, with consumers energised with strong revenue growth in its first year, is poised and engaged by new and exciting product development, for even greater success across 2016. a demand more than met across 2015 by Rockstars strong innovation performance.
In May we were delighted to confirm a long-term licence agreement with the Moscow Brewing Company to Rockstars unique and targeted brand activity is reaching manufacture, sell and distribute our IRN-BRU brand in 23 core consumers through music, gaming and action the Russian Federation.
Moscow Brewing Company sports events, all of which are building brand awareness, is a leading Russian brewer who, in addition to the loyalty and distribution.
We are further developing our management of their own brands, holds the licence relationship with Rockstar outside the UK and have for a variety of premium soft drinks.
With their well successfully expanded into a number of markets established sales and distribution network, combined across 2015. with increased sales and marketing focus and investment, we are confident that this is a partnership which will deliver for IRN-BRU in Russia.
COOL NEW ROCKSTAR FREEZE IRN-BRU IN MOSCOW Delivering exciting new flavours and a In May 2015 we were delighted to partner with the brand new sensation, our innovative Rockstar Freeze Moscow Brewing Company who, with state of the art facilities range has already seen consumers buy a cool 3 on the outskirts of Moscow, and national distribution coverage, million cans since its launch in September 2015. will manufacture, sell and distribute our IRN-BRU brand in the Russian Federation.
A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGY IN ACTION CONTINUED STRONG DRIVE FOR EFFICIENCY Our Business Process Redesign BPR project, with a OUR DRIVE FOR OPERATIONAL total investment of 11.9m, was a significant undertaking EFFICIENCY AND CONTINUOUS for the business, effectively redefining all our core business processes to industry best practice standard, IMPROVEMENT CONTINUED underpinned by a powerful and flexible new ERP system.
ACROSS 2015, DELIVERED THROUGH Such a large scale change project was not without its A SERIES OF PROJECTS WITHIN OUR challenges, from both an operational perspective and in terms of the extent to which our people have had to FIT FOR THE FUTURE BUSINESS adapt to completely new ways of working, but with the IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMME.
business now fully stabilised we can benefit from an industry leading, modern and scalable platform capable Our capital investment programme progressed during of supporting our growth ambitions.
the year, with several large scale projects delivered 24 on time and to budget.
We successfully transitioned We also announced a further 5m investment in new, our carton packaging capability from our Tredegar site high speed glass bottle filling capability at our to Milton Keynes, and are benefitting from the increased Cumbernauld facility.
While this change has led to the efficiency provided by the new high speed carton end of our returnable glass bottle scheme, this investment production lines.
Our position in carton packaging format will double the efficiency of our glass filling capability, has been further strengthened by the addition of new will provide us with the flexibility to offer new glass resealable single serve carton capability, known as formats across our product range, facilitates the in-house prisma packs, responding to consumers increasing production of our franchise brand Snapple, and secures desire for high quality products in premium packaging.
the future supply of our iconic 750ml glass bottle, ensuring that loyal fans can continue to enjoy their At the same time as increasing both our production favourite flavours in glass, well into the future.
capability and capacity, we invested 6.7m in the acquisition of 5.4 acres of additional land at Milton Keynes in May last year.
This included 1.54 acres on which we have subsequently expanded our warehousing footprint with a new 60,000 sq.
ft. extension as well as a further 3.86 acres of land, adjacent to our existing site, to give us additional future expansion options.
NEW PREMIUM PRISMA PACK Our new 330ml resealable prisma cartons provide us with exciting brand development and innovation opportunities in a growing premium pack format.
A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NEW MILTON KEYNES WAREHOUSE At 60,000 sq.
ft. our new Milton Keynes warehouse increases our capacity by 60% with the addition of 8,000 new pallet spaces.
FIT FOR THE FUTURE 25 5M NEW GLASS PRODUCTION LINE We know how much our consumers love the taste of their favourite soft drink flavours in our iconic 750ml glass bottles.
The investment in new high speed glass filling capability at our Cumbernauld factory ensures that our loyal glass bottle fans can continue to enjoy their favourite soft drinks, exactly as they are, for many years to come, as well as facilitating exciting brand development opportunities in 2016 and beyond.
A A. G. G. B. BA AR RR P R P.. L L.. C C.. A AN NN NUA UAL R L RE EP PO OR RT A T AN ND A D AC CC CO OU UN NT TS 2 S 20 01 16 6 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGY IN ACTION CONTINUED STRONG SENSE OF RESPONSIBILITY 26 OMJ!
With 50% fruit juice and no added sugar, OMJ!
was co-created by 60 pupils in England & Wales, meets strict government guidelines for schools and tastes amazing.
Available in both still and lightly sparkling varieties, it counts as one of your five a day and comes in four delicious flavours.
A A. G. G. B. BA AR RR P R P.. L L.. C C.. A AN NN NUA UAL R L RE EP PO OR RT A T AN ND A D AC CC CO OU UN NT TS 2 S 20 01 16 6 OUR RESPONSIBILITY AGENDA DO MORE WITH STRATHMORE IS NOT A STANDALONE AREA OF Strathmore was proud to sponsor a host of sporting activities across 2015, from the World Gymnastic Championships to FOCUS, IT IS INTEGRAL TO HOW the Mountain Bike World Cup, and through the Do More WE DO BUSINESS.
Strathmore campaign we are playing our part in raising awareness of the benefits of a healthy and more active lifestyle.
We have always been driven to do the right thing, whether for our consumers, our people, our environment or our communities, a value firmly embedded in all our activities.
OUR CONSUMERS Consumer attitudes to health and wellbeing are 27 translating into changing consumer behaviours and we have continued to respond to the increasing demand for greater choice and for healthier products.
Lower and no sugar products now account for around 40% of our portfolio and, through a combination of reformulation, increased investment in the marketing and promotion of lower sugar drinks, as well as the introduction of innovative new products, we have reduced the average calorific content of our Company owned brands by 8.8% in just 4 years.
We have ambitious plans in place to further this progress and we will play our part in delivering the soft drink industrys 5 year calorie reduction target of 20% by 2020, communicated by the British Soft Drinks Association last year.
We know that our consumers are more interested in their health and wellbeing than ever before.
We are taking active steps to raise consumers awareness of the benefits of a healthy and more active lifestyle through the power of our Strathmore brand.
Through our extensive sports sponsorship programme and our Do More Strathmore campaign, we are playing our part in motivating, encouraging and inspiring consumers to lead healthier lives.
A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGY IN ACTION CONTINUED We believe in creating the right environment for our OUR PEOPLE people to learn and develop, enhancing each individuals The safety of our employees is paramount and that potential as well as developing future leaders.
High means continuing to reinforce good safety management performing teams and individuals working collaboratively practices as well as raising awareness of improved ways and innovatively lead to greater business performance of thinking and working.
In 2015 we saw a 37.5% year on and we have invested in a range of learning and year improvement in RIDDOR reportable accidents and development programmes across 2015.
From a new a 44.4% reduction in lost time accidents.
This significant Sales & Marketing competency framework rolled out improvement in safety performance reflects the priority to 180 of our commercial colleagues, to 3 new that is given to safety across the business as evidenced leadership programmes developed for our Supply Chain through our near miss reporting initiative which saw management population, we have delivered over 7,000 over 1,900 preventative safety conversations conducted hours of learning across our workforce in support of each across the year.
The strength of our business lies in the strength of our We recognise the value of a diverse workforce and talented and dedicated people.
We wouldnt be the are committed to treating all employees fairly and with innovative, creative and successful Company we are respect.
In support of our behavioural framework, today without the people who work for us.
With a Barr Behaviours, we have recently updated our strong performance focused culture we invest in the recruitment practices, introducing improvements development of all our people, supporting them to build designed to ensure that new people joining the business their competency, capability and leadership.
are selected based on their abilities and their potential to enhance our business performance in line with our culture In its second year, we received an impressive 83% and values, regardless of their race, age, gender, disability response rate to our Your Voice Matters employee or sexual orientation.
engagement survey, with almost 800 people taking the time to share their views and opinions.
We were Board and delighted to achieve a 78% overall engagement score, Company Senior All Gender split Secretary Managers employees and with the insight provided by external benchmarked data, as well as our own year on year comparisons, we Male 8 73 700 have developed both corporate and team level action Female 2 22 263 plans for the year ahead to build further on our areas Total 10 95 963 of strength and make progress on our areas for improvement.
A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 SUPPORTING NEW WAYS OF WORKING We made a significant investment in learning across 2015 to support our Business Process Redesign BPR project.
With the introduction of brand new technology and ways of working across the business, we delivered 155 face-to-face courses to 1,024 employees over a 5 week period, and saw 876 online courses, all of which resulted in an impressive overall learning feedback score of 97%.
YOUR VOICE MATTERS EMPLOYEE SURVEY We were delighted to achieve a 78% overall engagement score in this years Your Voice Matters engagement survey: 87% of our employees said that they understand how the work they do contributes to the success of the business.
79% of our people said that working for the Company makes them want to do the best work they can.
81% of the workforce said that they feel a strong sense of loyalty to the business and our brands.
29 A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGY IN ACTION CONTINUED OUR ENVIRONMENT Our environment and natural resources are precious and we take our environmental responsibilities seriously, continuing to strive for opportunities to improve our sustainability, whether through our energy use, our water and waste control or our general environmental impact.
Climate Change Agreements are part of a package of government measures designed to encourage UK business to save energy and reduce carbon dioxide emissions.
Although our CO emissions remain similar to last year, 2 the intensity ratio has increased, in part as a result of varying production outputs, as well as through increased hygiene activity to maintain our high quality standards.
However, we are ahead of our Climate Change Agreement commitment and continue to increase the amount of carbon banked year on year.
30 NEW WIND TURBINE AT CUMBERNAULD In November 2015 we unveiled a new 70m tall wind turbine that will part power our Cumbernauld factory, providing up to 8% of the total electricity used on site: the equivalent of powering up to 280 homes.
As well as generating environmental benefits for our site, the wind turbine will also support the local community with an estimated 120,000 being donated to local good causes over the life of the turbine, through an employee charity nomination initiative.
Based on 2014 average household usage figure of 4000 kW per hour.
A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 We continue to carefully manage our waste and water outputs and delivered a positive performance across 2015.
We are delighted to confirm that more than 99% of our waste was sorted and sent for recycling or energy recovery, meaning less than 1% of our factory waste was sent to landfill.
As an essential component of our products, we are vitally aware of the importance of managing water as a resource.
This year our water consumption has seen a small increase from 1.51 to 1.67 litres per litre of product, however this increase is attributable to the CAN RECYCLING SCHEME Through our support of the Every Can Counts scheme, a unique commissioning of our new carton production lines at out-of-home recycling programme for aluminium cans, we Milton Keynes, and we expect to see a reduction in encouraged an estimated 1 million revellers to recycle empty water consumption in the year ahead.
drinks cans at the world famous Nottinghill Carnival in August.
The highly visible recycling exchange gave out a free can of KA AG BARR PLC GHG EMISSIONS IN TONNES CO e 2 KAnival Krush in return for a bag of empty cans for recycling.
The empty cans were placed into segregated bins ready to be 2014-15 2015-16 recycled after the event.
Scope 1 5,421 5,399 Scope 2 11,698 12,123 31 Intensity Ratio 37.22 39.36 Intensity ratio is kg of CO e per 1000 litres of product produced.
2 REDUCED CARBON FOOTPRINT Our 5m investment in new high speed glass filling capability at our Cumbernauld factory will allow us to decommission the returnable glass bottle washing equipment, which accounts for more than 80% of our current glass lines carbon footprint, and will save over 1.5 million litres of water each year, almost enough water to fill an Olympic swimming pool.
A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGY IN ACTION CONTINUED OUR COMMUNITY We have always supported and worked closely with the communities in which we operate and, as we grow as a business, our community engagement is just as important to us as ever.
By providing financial, in kind, practical and employee volunteering support to charities, good causes and community groups, we continued to support our local, national and international communities across 2015.
In the last 12 months we continued to work with national UK charities such as The Princes Trust, international 32 charities such as the British Asian Trust, as well as supporting a number of local community and charity organisations who work in areas close to our sites.
We are increasingly focusing our community investment on SUPPORTING THE BRICK BY BRICK APPEAL promoting physical activity and healthy lifestyles with a In 2012 the Prince & Princess of Wales Hospice in Glasgow particular emphasis on community and charity road races launched its Brick by Brick Appeal to raise 21m to build a new and were pleased to provide over 500,000 bottles of purpose built hospice and bring 21st century hospice care to the Strathmore water to a variety of events across 2015. people of Glasgow.
As a long time supporter of the hospice we pledged our support and were delighted when the hospice Our Site Community Fund provides employees, at each recently confirmed that our direct corporate and employee of our sites, with the opportunity to support charities and fundraising efforts raised 74,000 for their appeal in the last community organisations which are important to them as 3 years.
teams or as individuals and we are extremely proud that so many of our employees continued to nominate good causes as well as supporting and engaging in initiatives throughout the year, helping groups and charities carry on their valuable work.
A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INSPIRING YOUNG PEOPLE TO HELP THEMSELVES The Princes Trust supports 13 to 30 year olds who are unemployed, struggling at school or at risk of exclusion, helping young people develop key skills, confidence and motivation, to enable them to move into work, education or training.
As part of our support of the 2015 programme, we helped a group of young people create their own unique and original IRN-BRU Christmas cards, the sale proceeds of which were reinvested back into The Princes Trust.
KEEPING SCOTLAND BEAUTIFUL In 2015 we announced a new partnership with Keep Scotland Beautiful in support of the Clean Up Scotland mass engagement campaign.
The campaign aims to change long-term behaviour and attitudes in Scotland by making littering unacceptable.
It encourages people across the country to sign the pledge and become anti-litter champions in their local communities.
Our employees undertook a community litter pick around our Cumbernauld headquarters.
33 A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
