Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 115 Statutory disclosures DIRECTORS REPORT AND STRATEGICREPORT SHARE CAPITAL The Directors Report and Strategic Report for the year ended On 31 December 2016, the Company had in issue 256,128,201 31 December 2016 comprise pages 70 to 121 and pages 1 to 69 of Ordinary Shares of 4329395 pence each, 188,251,587 Deferred this report, together with the sections incorporated by reference.
Sharesof 984775 pence each, 18,352,057,648 Deferred Shares We have included some of the matters normally included in the of 1775pence each, 182,700,915 Deferred Shares of 61825 pence Directors Report which we consider to be of strategic importance each and 573,643,383,325 Deferred Shares of 1306125 pence each in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 69. specifically these are: comprising 29.43%, 40.77%, 0.56%, 29.19% and 0.04% respectively of the Companys issued share capital.
Details of the changes in Future Business Developments on page 27: and issued share capital during the year are shown in Note 23 tothe Risk Information on the Use of Financial Instruments on accounts on page 153. page158.
Disclosures in relation to Listing Rule LR 9.8.
4R, where applicable, MATERIAL SHARE INTERESTS are included on pages 94 to 98 in relation to long-term As at 31 December 2016, the Company had received notications incentive plans and on page 118 in relation to the dividend of the following major shareholdings, representing 3% or more waiverarrangements in place for our Employee benefit Trust.
ofthe voting rights attached to the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company: Both the Directors Report and Strategic Report have been presented in accordance with applicable company law, Number % of total and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with those Shareholder of shares voting rights reports are subject to the limitations and restrictions provided.
AKO Capital LLP 12,781,545 4.99 Other information to be disclosed in the Directors Report is Baillie Gifford 12,584,169 4.91 givenin this section.
The Capital Group Companies LLP 13,446,515 5.25 MANAGEMENT REPORT Deutsche Bank AG 19,458,562 7.60 The Strategic Report and the Directors Report together include Mackenzie Financial Corporation 10,255,385 4.00 the management report for the purposes of Disclosure and Prudential Plc 9,351,326 3.65 Transparency Rule DTR 4.1.
A E H Salvesen 7,878,044 3.08 2017 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Including immediate family and trustee interests.
The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00 am Between 31 December 2016 and 7 March 2017, the Company on 27 April 2017 at the Radisson Blu Hotel, 301 Argyle Street, received the following notications of major shareholdings.
The Notice of Meeting is available on the Shareholder information pages of our website.
Number % of total Shareholder Date of shares voting rights DIVIDENDS Deutsche Bank AG 03 01 2017 17,077,012 6.67 Deutsche Bank AG 15 02 2017 19,067,886 7.44 The interim dividend of 9.38 pence per Ordinary Share was Deutsche Bank AG 23 02 2017 20,872,398 8.15 paid on 30 September 2016.
The Directors recommend a final Deutsche Bank AG 27 02 2017 17,983,634 7.02 dividendof 17.74 pence per Ordinary Share in respect of the year, Deutsche Bank AG 28 02 2017 17,927,419 6.99 making a total for the year of 27.12 pence per Ordinary Share 2015: 27.12 pence, payable on 24 May 2017 to Shareholders on The Directors are not aware of any other material interests theregister atthe close of business on 21 April 2017. amounting to 3% or more in the share capital of the Company.
DIVIDEND PAYMENTS AND DRIP RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS ATTACHED TOSHARES In 2015, we introduced a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP Subject to applicable statutes in this section referred to as the for Shareholders.
This allows Shareholders to purchase Companies Acts and to any rights conferred on the holders of additional shares in Aggreko with their dividend payment.
any other shares, any share may be issued with or have attached Further information and a mandate can be obtained from to it such rights and restrictions as the Company may by ordinary ourRegistrars, Capita, whose details are set out on page 176 resolution decide or, if no such resolution has been passed or andthe Shareholder information pages of our website.
so far as the resolution does not make specic provision, as the Boardmay decide.
116 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE Statutory disclosures continued VOTING The Deferred Shares confer no right to participate in the profits ofthe Company.
Subject to any special terms as to voting upon which any sharesmay be issued or may for the time being be held and to On a return of capital on a winding-up excluding any intra-Group any other provisions of the Articles of Association for the Company reorganisation on a solvent basis, holders of Deferred Shares are the Articles, on a show of hands every member who is present entitled to be paid the nominal capital paid up or credited as paid in person or by proxy or represented by a corporate representative up on such Deferred Shares after paying to the holders of the ata general meeting of the Company has one vote.
Ordinary Shares the nominal capital paid up or credited as paid upon the Ordinary Shares held by them respectively, together On a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy or with the sum of 100,000,000 on each Ordinary Share.
represented by a corporate representative has one vote for every share of which he or she is the holder.
In the case of joint holders The Board may deduct from any dividend or other moneys of a share the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in payable to a member by the Company on or in respect of any person or by proxy, is accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the shares all sums of money if any presently payable by him to the other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority is determined Company on account of calls or otherwise in respect of shares of by the order in which the names stand in the register in respect the Company.
The Board may also withhold payment of all or any ofthe joint holding.
part of any dividends or other moneys payable in respect of the Companys shares from a person with a 0.25% interest as dened The holders of the Deferred Shares are not entitled to receive in the Articles if such a person has been served with a restriction notice of any general meeting of the Company or to attend, notice as dened in the Articles after failure to provide the speakor vote at any such meeting.
Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
RESTRICTIONS ON VOTING No member is, unless the Board otherwise decides, entitled in VARIATION OF RIGHTS respect of any share held by him to vote either personally or by Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, rights attached to proxy or by a corporate representative at any general meeting of any class of shares may be varied either with the consent in writing the Company or at any separate general meeting of the holders of the holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of of any class of shares in the Company if any calls or other sums the issued shares of that class excluding any shares of that class presently payable by him in respect of that share remain unpaid held as Treasury Shares or with the sanction of a special resolution or if he is a person with a 0.25% interest as dened in the Articles passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of those and he has been served with a restriction notice as dened in shares.
The necessary quorum applying to any such separate theArticles after failure to provide the Company with information general meeting is two persons holding or representing by proxy concerning interests in those shares required to be provided not less than one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the underthe Companies Acts.
class excluding any shares of that class held as Treasury Shares, The Company is not aware of any agreement between holders but at any adjourned meeting one holder present in person ofsecurities that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
or byproxy whatever the number of shares held by him will constitute a quorum : every holder of shares of the class present DIVIDENDS AND OTHER DISTRIBUTIONS in person or by proxy excluding any shares of that class held as Treasury Shares is entitled on a poll to one vote for every share of Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Company the class held by him subject to any rights or restrictions attached may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends to any class of shares and any holder of shares of the class present in accordance with the respective rights of the members, but no in person or by proxy may demand a poll.
dividend can exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Board may pay such interim dividends as appear to the Board to be justied by the financial position of the Company and may also pay any dividend payable at a xed rate at intervals settled by the Board whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion ofthe Board, justifies its payment.
If the Board acts in good faith, itshall not incur any liability to the holders of any shares for any loss they may suffer in consequence of the payment of an interim or xed dividend on any other class of shares ranking pari passu with or after those shares.
Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 117 RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER OF SECURITIES DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST INTHE COMPANY The Company has procedures in place for monitoring and There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the managing conicts of interest.
Should a Director become aware Company, except that: that they, or their connected parties, have an interest in an existing or proposed transaction with Aggreko, they should notify the certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed Board in writing or at the next Board meeting.
Directors have bylawsand regulations for example, insider trading acontinuing duty to update any changes to these conicts.
laws, inparticular we operate a share dealing code which requires Directors of the Company and certain employees POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS to obtain the approval of the Company before dealing in Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Articles and theCompanysOrdinary Shares: and to any directions given by the Company in general meeting by the Deferred Shares are not transferable except in accordance special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by with the paragraph headed Powers in relation to the Company the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company issuing or buying back its own shares below or with the written whether relating to the management of the business of the consent of the Directors.
In particular, the Board may exercise all the The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or ofsecurities that may result in restrictions on the transfer charge all or any part of the undertaking, property and assets of securities.
present and future and uncalled capital of the Company and to issue debentures and other securities, whether outright or ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or any third party.
Our Articles are available on our website at ir.
Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles, the Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the POWERS IN RELATION TO THE COMPANY Companys Shareholders.
ISSUING OR BUYING BACKITSOWN SHARES The Directors were granted authority at the last Annual General APPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT OFDIRECTORS Meeting held in 2016 to allot relevant securities up to a nominal amount of 4,126,149 in connection with an offer by way of a rights The rules for the appointment and replacement of Directors are issue.
That authority will apply until the earlier of 30 June 2017 and contained in the Companys Articles.
They include: the number the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting for 2017.
At this of Directors must not be less than two or more than 15, the years Annual General Meeting, Shareholders will be asked to grant Board may appoint any person to be a Director: any Director an authority to allot relevant securities up to a nominal amount so appointed by the Board shall hold ofce only until the next of 4,126,149, such authority to apply until the end of next years general meeting and shall then be eligible for election: each Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, until the close of business Director must retire from ofce at the third Annual General on30 June 2018.
Meeting after the Annual General Meeting at which he was last elected.
However, in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the Directors all Directors will stand for annual election at the 2017 AGM.
power to make non-pre-emptive issues for cash up to a nominal amount of 1,237,844.
A Director may be removed by special resolution of the Company.
In addition, the ofce of a Director must be vacated if: i he The Company was also authorised at the Annual General Meeting resigns his ofce by notice in writing delivered to the ofce or held in 2016 to make market purchases of up to 25,612,820 tendered at a meeting of the Board: or ii by notice in writing Ordinary Shares.
This authorisation will expire on the earlier of he offers to resign and the Board resolves to accept such offer: theconclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company or iii hisresignation is requested by all of the other Directors for2017 and 30 June 2017. andall of the other Directors are not less than three in number: A special resolution will also be proposed at this years Annual or iv a registered medical practitioner who is treating that Director gives a written opinion to the Company stating that that General Meeting to renew the Directors authority to repurchase the Companys Ordinary Shares in the market.
The authority will Director has become physically or mentally incapable of acting as a Director and may remain so for more than three months: be limited to a maximum of 25,612,820 Ordinary Shares and sets the minimum and maximum prices which may be paid.
or v by reason ofa Directors mental health, a court makes an order which wholly or partly prevents that Director from The Company may at any time, without obtaining the sanction personally exercising any powers or rights which that Director ofthe holders of the Deferred Shares: would otherwise have: or vi he is absent without the permission of the Board from meetings of the Board whether or not an a appoint any person to execute on behalf of any holder of alternate Director appointed by him attends for six consecutive Deferred Shares a transfer of all or any of the Deferred Shares months and theBoard resolves that his ofce is vacated: or and or an agreement to transfer the same to the Company vii hebecomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors ortosuch person as the Directors may determine, in any case generally: or viii heisprohibited by law from being a Director: fornot more than one penny for all the Deferred Shares then or ix he ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies Acts being purchased from him: and oris removed from ofce pursuant to the Articles.
b cancel all or any of the Deferred Shares so purchased bytheCompany in accordance with the Companies Acts.
118 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE Statutory disclosures continued SECURITIES CARRYING SPECIAL RIGHTS INDEMNITY OF OFFICERS No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights Under Article 154 of the Articles, the Company may indemnify with regard to control of the Company.
any Director or other officer against any liability, subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, and the Articles grant an indemnity to the Directors against any liability for the costs of RIGHTS UNDER THE EMPLOYEE SHARESCHEME legalproceedings where judgement is given in their favour.
Estera Trust Jersey Limited, as Trustee of the Aggreko Employees benefit Trust, holds 0.73% of the issued share capital of the Under the authority conferred by Article 154, the Company has Company as at 7 March 2017 on trust for the benefit of the granted indemnities to Directors and ofcers of the Company employees and former employees of the Group and their andits subsidiaries.
The indemnities do not apply to any claim dependants.
The voting rights in relation to these shares are which arises out of fraud, default, negligence or breach of exercised by the Trustee and there are no restrictions on the duciaryduty or trust by the indemnified person.
exercise of the voting of, or the acceptance of any offer relating In addition, the Company may purchase and maintain for to, the shares.
The Trustee is obliged to waive all dividends on any Director or other officer, insurance against any liability.
the shares unless requested to do otherwise by the Company The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover against in writing.
legalaction brought against its Directors and ofcers and the Directors and ofcers of its subsidiaries.
GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY STATEMENTS The going concern statement is included on page 132 of the EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES financial statements.
Aggreko is committed to promoting equal opportunities for The viability statement is included on page 61 of the all, irrespective of disability, ethnic origin, gender or any other Strategic Report.
considerations that do not affect a persons ability to perform theirjob.
Our policies for recruitment, training, career development and promotion of employees are based on the suitability of the CHANGE OF CONTROL individual and give those who are disabled equal treatment The Company has in place a number of agreements with with the able bodied where appropriate.
Employees disabled advisers, financial institutions and customers which contain after joining the Group are given suitable training for alternative certain termination rights which would have an effect on a employment with Aggreko or elsewhere.
The Directors believe these agreements to be commercially sensitive and that their disclosure would be HUMAN RIGHTS seriously prejudicial to the Company: accordingly, they do not intend disclosing specic details of these.
In addition, all of the As we continue to grow our business in developing countries, we Companys share schemes contain provisions which in the event recognise that human rights are a concern in many regions that of a change of control, would result in outstanding options we operate in.
We have a responsibility to all of our stakeholders, and awards becoming exercisable, subject to the rules of the to ensure that all of our interactions with them meet or exceed the relevant schemes.
standards of compliance set out in our ethics policies, approach to equal opportunities, health and safety policies, environmental There are no agreements between the Company and its policies and grievance mechanisms, all of which are explained Directorsor employees providing for compensation for loss in detail throughout this report.
We have also identied safety, ofofce or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
emissions and talent management as matters to be considered as part of the principal risks facing the business.
Whilst all these DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION matters are linked, to a greater or lesser extent, to human rights, TOTHECOMPANYS AUDITOR we prefer to address them as part of our operations, rather than In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 the as a separate issue.
We continue to evaluate all potential risks Directors who held ofce at the date of approval of this Directors and do not think that human rights present material issues for Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no our business.
relevant audit information as dened by Section 418 3 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 119 PENSIONS In line with previous years, the results show that 99% of GHGemissions arise from the operation of our fleet when it The assets of the UK dened-benefit pension fund are isouton rent.
There are three main factors driving our annual controlledby the Directors of Aggreko Pension Scheme Trustee GHGemissions: the fuel type our customers use: the pattern Limited: they are held separately from the assets of the Company oftheir usage: and the fuel efficiency of the fleet.
and invested by independent fund managers.
These segregated funds cannot be invested directly in the Company.
Four trustees In 2016, we emitted 18,010,923 tonnes of CO e, a decrease of1.9% 2 have been appointed by the Company and, in addition, two over 2015.
In line with best practice, our GHG accountingsystems member-nominated trustees have been appointed.
This fund include an estimate of the upstream GHG emissions associated wasclosed to new employees joining the Group after 1 April 2002: with fuel supply chains: in 2016 thiscontributed 14.8% of new UK employees are now offered membership of a Group combustion emissions, accounting for93% of scope 3 emissions.
As a result of a 1.3% decrease in running hours, a recorded decrease of 2.4% in GHG emissions is reported for the Aggreko GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS fleet in 2016.
This very slight disparity is due to two factors: a small In line with the Companies Act 2006, we are reporting on our shift in the ratio of running hours from generators with low energy greenhouse gas GHG emissions.
We have used the method outputs to larger machines and a reduction of running hours outlined in the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and associated with generators powered by HFO.
ReportingStandard revised edition, using the location-based In terms of the non-fleet activities, emissions associated with scope 2 calculation method, together with the latest emission company owned vehicles and business travel have decreased.
factors from recognised public sources including Defra, Conversely, emissions from third-party vehicle use and activities theInternational Energy Agency, the US Energy Information on our premises have increased, with the largest increases Administration, the US Environmental Protection Agency documented in third-party road freight logistics.
The intensity ratio expresses the GHG impact per unit of TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS BY GHG PROTOCOL SCOPE physical activity or economic output, with a declining intensity ratio reecting a positive performance improvement.
In 2013, tCO e year 2016 2015 2 wechoseRevenue Intensity as the most suitable metric for our Scope 1 15,183,091 15,486,377 business for then and future years.
Scope 2 17,209 18,987 As can be seen from the chart below, relative emissions have Scope 3 2,810,623 2,849,565 increased slightly, with a 1.1% increase in the emissions per Total 18,010,923 18,354,928 thousand GBP revenue from 2015.
REVENUE INTENSITY RATIO tCO e THOUSAND 2 TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS BY FLEET NON-FLEET tCO e year 2016 2015 2 16 11.89 Fleet 17,746,040 18,186,552 15 11.76 Non-fleet 264,883 168,376 Total 18,010,923 18,354,928 14 11.84 13 12.30 12 9.50 In addition, during the year we undertook an Energy Saving Opportunities Scheme ESOS assessment in line with the UKEnvironment Agency requirements and can confirm that weare compliant with the Regulations.
120 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE Statutory disclosures continued BRANCHES APPROVAL OF THE STRATEGIC REPORT AND DIRECTORS REPORT Subsidiaries of the Company have established branches inanumber of different countries in which they operate.
The Strategic Report set out on pages 1 to 69 and Directors Reportset out on pages 70 to 121 were approved by the Board on7 March 2017 and have been signed by the Company Secretary AUDITOR Resolutions appointing KPMG as the Companys and Groups on behalf of the Board.
auditor and authorising the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Peter Kennerley Group Legal Director & Company Secretary IMPORTANT EVENTS SINCE 31 DECEMBER 2016 7 March 2017 There have been no important events affecting the Company orany subsidiary since 31 December 2016.
POLITICAL DONATIONS No political donations were made during the financial year 2015:nil.
