30 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Central functions Savings, Treasury and Support Functions 2016 2015 Movement 2016 highlights m m % Total deposits up by 16% Net interest income 10.2 9.5 7 to 6.7bn Net fees and other income 0.3 0.3 200 SME deposits up by 18% to 1.6bn Operating income 10.5 9.2 14 Corporate deposits up by 66% Administrative expenses 77.7 70.1 11 to 260m IPO-related costs - 4.1 - Customer numbers up by 12% Impairment of Invoice Finance goodwill 4.1 - - to c134k Segmental loss 92.3 83.4 11 Highly recommended by customers Retail 93%, Business 97% Central Functions includes the Groups At the end of 2015, we held goodwill We continue to focus on small Treasury function and Savings division, of 4.1m related to the acquisition of businesses where insight and research as well as common costs which are not Absolute Invoice Finance Holdings demonstrates a clear customer directly attributable to the operating Limited which was supported using demand and market opportunity.
Common costs include a Fair Value less Cost of Disposal Inflationary pressures in the economy central support function costs such as methodology.
During 2016, as a result suggest that we may have reached Finance, IT, Legal and Compliance, Risk of the general fall in market values of the bottom of the interest rate cycle and Human Resources.
financial services businesses following and base rate movements are more the EU referendum, management likely to be upwards.
This, together with Performance concluded the goodwill balance increases in the annual ISA allowance Net interest income includes the was fully impaired and a charge of to 20k and FSCS deposit protection interest expense relating to the Tier 4.1m has been recognised in the limit to 85k, means the outlook for 2 Notes and part of the income or income statement.
expense arising from derivatives held The segmental result was a charge of at fair value in hedging relationships, 92.3m 2015: charge of 83.4m.
neither of which are recharged to segments.
Savings market and strategy Net fees and other income The market for savings in 2016 predominantly includes the net continued to be dominated by a expense or income from derivatives backdrop of low and falling interest not currently recognised as being rates from a lower base rate and in hedging relationships and other reduced competition for deposit financial instruments at fair value funding in response to Bank of England through profit or loss and gains funding schemes.
In particular, the on disposals of available for sale SME savings market remains highly debt securities.
attractive given the opportunity for non-traditional providers to offer Central administrative expenses, a demonstrably better customer increased by 11% to 81.8m 2015: 74.2m proposition both in terms of rate driven by the recruitment of colleagues as and experience.
we invested to further support growth and risk management.
31 Strategic report Corporate governance Risk management Financial statements Appendices Risk management, internal control and viability reporting The Groups risk management and Assessment of principal risks Viability internal control systems are designed As described further in the risk In accordance with provision C. 2.2 to identify, manage, monitor and report management section, the Board is of the Code, the Directors have on risks to which the Group is exposed.
responsible for determining the nature assessed the prospects of the Group It can therefore only provide reasonable and extent of the principal risks it over a three-year time horizon to but not absolute assurance against the is willing to take in order to achieve 31 December 2019. risk of material misstatement or loss.
The Board The Directors concluded that a threeFurther details of the processes and is also ultimately responsible for year time horizon is an appropriate procedures for managing and mitigating maintaining sound risk management length of time to use to perform the these risks are provided in the risk and internal control systems.
In line assessment, mainly because financial management section from page 106. with requirements of the UK Corporate forecasts have a greater level of Governance Code, published by The effectiveness of the internal controls certainty over three years.
The Board the Financial Reporting Council in was regularly reviewed by the Board, Audit monitors a longer term strategic plan September 2014 the Code, the Committee and Risk Committee during which extends over the three-year Directors have performed a robust the year.
This involved receiving reports horizon.
This longer term strategic plan assessment of the principal risks facing from management including reports from provides less certainty of outcome, but the Group, including those that would Finance, Risk, Compliance, Group Internal provides a robust planning tool against threaten its business model, future Audit and the business lines.
The Audit which strategic decisions can be made.
Committee also receives reports on In the assessment of the viability of the internal controls from the Groups external The principal risks are further described Group, the Directors considered each auditor.
Where recommendations on page 33 and the current emerging of the principal risks set out on page are identified for improvements to risks are described on pages 34 and 35.
In addition, controls these are monitored by Group the assessment has been performed Risk management and Internal Audit who report the progress with reference to the Groups current internal controls made in implementing them to the position and strategy.
The Board monitors the Groups risk Audit Committee.
management and internal control In making this assessment the Based on the review performed during systems.
A review of the effectiveness Directors have considered a wide range the year, and the monitoring and of the systems has been performed of information relating to present and oversight activities performed, the Audit incorporating all material controls, future conditions, including the current Committee, in conjunction with the Risk including financial, operational and state of the balance sheet, future Committee, concluded that the Groups compliance controls.
projections of profitability, cash flows risk management and internal control and capital resources.
The Directors systems were effective.
The Audit have also considered the implications of Committee recommended a statement to the UK referendum on EU membership.
The information considered includes a Based on this assessment, the Board are wide range of stress testing which is satisfied with the effectiveness of the performed as part of both the ICAAP Groups risk management and internal and ILAAP processes as further control systems.
described in the Risk Management Section from page 106.
Based on the above assessment, the Directors have concluded that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 31 December 2019.
