8 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Market overview Macro-economy Legal and regulation Aldermore is focused solely in the UK, so what happens Given its importance to the economy, banking is in the economy here matters to us.
For example, a highly regulated market and can be affected by the pricing of loans and savings products are often changes in legislation.
In the UK, the PRA, and the FCA impacted by the base rate set by the Bank of England are the primary bodies which regulate the banking and confidence in economic growth can impact on a industry, ensuring effective prudential management demand for homes or funding for business investment.
Together these bodies ensure that local and European law are effectively This year applied to the UK banking industry.
2016 was an eventful year for the macro-economy, with the UKs decision to leave the EU being a This year significant source of volatility.
This caused many A number of new laws and items of regulation, which economists to initially downgrade their expectations directly impacted the banking market, were introduced of UK GDP growth before subsequently revising or announced during 2016.
The main themes of changes them upwards as the economy proved resilient to the impacting Aldermore concerned the buy-tolet BTL political uncertainty.
The Bank of England also reacted property market, taxation and capital requirements.
to the risk to the economy from the referendum by In the BTL market, new laws introduced by the lowering the base rate to 0.25% and extending their Government included a higher rate of stamp duty quantitative easing programme with the introduction payable from April 2016 and a reduction in mortgage of the Term Funding Scheme TFS.
interest tax deductibility for landlords phasing in from April 2017.
The PRA announced changes to affordability Key impact testing effective from January 2017 and revised The lowering of the Bank of England base rate was underwriting requirements for landlords with four largely neutral to Aldermore as we passed on the or more properties effective from September 2017. impact through both sides of our balance sheet, 2016 also saw the introduction of the 8% banking tax while the likelihood of any material changes to Bank surcharge announced in 2015 and further consultation of England rates in the near future remains small.
on capital requirements and risk-weightings by the The TFS has provided a benefit, as we can use it to fund Basel Committee on Banking Standards.
new lending growth into the UK economy at a lower interest expense.
Key impact Aldermore has a comprehensive BTL offering, serving Despite the volatility in financial markets, customer many types of customer from individual property outlook remains broadly positive with Aldermores owners through to incorporated professional landlords.
SME Future Attitudes report indicating that four Demand has remained strong throughout 2016, as out of five SMEs are confident about their business reflected in the record levels of origination.
In 2017, performance in 2017. the forthcoming regulatory changes may result in a shift towards more professional investors, favouring specialist lenders, such as Aldermore.
Developments in capital requirements are yet to be finalised, however Aldermore is taking steps to mitigate impacts, discussed further in our Emerging Risk Section on pages 3435.
9 Strategic report Corporate governance Risk management Financial statements Appendices Competition Customer behaviour Since the global financial crisis in 2009 when The traditional banking model of large branch networks Aldermore was founded - ensuring healthy competition and standardised single-channel service is outdated.
and fair customer outcomes in the UK banking market Customers and intermediaries are increasingly has been in sharp focus for both the regulator and the demanding online or digital servicing as well as Competition and Markets Authority.
In the aftermath greater flexibility in savings and borrowing products.
of the crisis many banks stopped serving groups of The response has been the emergence and growth of customers, particularly certain small and medium sized new entrants like Aldermore.
businesses and first-time homebuyers, which provided This year an opportunity for Aldermore to grow through serving Aldermore has established a track record of agility in these unmet needs.
deploying resources to serve unmet customer demand This year through specialist underwriting.
In particular during Aldermores primary markets are mortgages and 2016, Aldermore was able to respond with agility to a business finance.
Although these are competitive surge in BTL mortgage demand early in the year, ahead markets, Aldermore is recognised by brokers and of changes to Stamp-Duty Land Tax, and again in the customers for its can do approach and occupies fourth quarter.
Additionally, we have developed our leading positions in several of its chosen business brand and since the year end, launched our new visual areas.
Within the asset finance market, we continue identity which has been designed to capture the bold to see consolidation in the broker channel and expect and enterprising spirit of our customers as we help competition to increase as new lenders attempt to them to seek and seize opportunities.
Key impact The residential mortgages market remains highly By deploying specialist underwriting expertise competitive and concentrated amongst the large high Aldermore is able to serve the needs of customers, street banks.
In this market, Aldermore serves creditsuch as complex portfolio landlords that other worthy niches, including the self employed and firsttraditional volume-focused banks cant.
This deep time buyers, where it has taken particular advantage of expertise and operational agility has enabled us to Government schemes.
In BTL Aldermore has continued continue growing and helping more customers to to benefit from market growth and is well positioned seek and seize opportunities in their professional and to benefit from the increased professionalisation of personal lives.
We continue to invest in improving our the market.
digital propositions and servicing to customers and brokers as is reflected in the high levels of customer Key impact advocacy we received in 2016.
Throughout 2016 Aldermore has continued to grow and maintain attractive margins in each of our key markets, as demonstrated by record levels of origination and robust net interest margins.
We are confident that we can continue to meet the challenge presented by competitors and continue to deliver profitable and sustainable growth within our prudent risk appetite.
