111 Strategic report Corporate governance Risk management Financial statements Appendices Stress testing Stress testing is an important risk that the Group is able to withstand a Where those tests reveal a risk of management tool, with specific range of adverse economic scenarios business failure that is unacceptably approaches documented for the over its five year planning horizon.
high, when considered against our risk Groups key annual assessments The ICAAP incorporates all principal appetite, we will take action to prevent including the Internal Capital Adequacy risks impacting capital and is the result or mitigate that risk.
Assessment Process ICAAP, of active cooperation across Finance Stress testing governance Individual Liquidity Adequacy including Treasury, Business areas The Board is responsible for reviewing Assessment Process ILAAP, the and Risk functions.
The Chief Financial and approving the STF, scenarios Recovery and Resolution Plan RRP Officer CFO is accountable for the for each type of stress testing and Reverse Stress Testing first.
and results of the stress testing We maintain a Stress Testing The ILAAP is an assessment of our analysis on at least an annual basis.
Framework STF which is updated liquidity position under normal and The Board Risk Committee BRC on an annual basis, or more frequently stressed conditions and is used to is responsible for reviewing the STF if required, to assist the Boards inform the Board of the ongoing annually.
The scenarios for each type understanding of the key risks, assessment and quantification of of stress test and results of the stress scenarios and sensitivities that may liquidity risk and the manner in which it testing analysis are reviewed and adversely impact our financial or is managed, monitored, controlled and recommended at the Asset and Liability operational position.
The CFO is accountable for Committee ALCO and Executive development of risk appetite, business the Groups ILAAP.
The BRC and capital plans by: makes recommendations to the Board The RRP provides an assessment of for approval of the scenarios to support Testing our ability to withstand the our ability to recover financial strength the ICAAP, ILAAP and RRP.
As the emergence of risks in both normal following or during a period of severe senior risk committee, BRC provides and stressed conditions stress through a formal assessment independent review and challenge of available recovery options.
The RRP Assessing the adequacy of our to stress scenarios, underlying specifies the process and governance financial resources both capital assumptions and adequacy of proposed for invoking the Recovery Plan and and liquidity and the potential management actions, prior to their enabling the selected options to be management actions available recommendation to the Board.
activated and mobilised quickly and to mitigate the effect of any effectively.
The RRP also provides The primary executive responsible for adverse events regulatory authorities with information the STF is the CRO who is responsible Identifying potential gaps in our and analysis to enable them to carry for ensuring the development and Risk Management Framework such out an orderly resolution if required.
implementation of a robust STF as potential weaknesses in the The Chief Risk Officer CRO is and overseeing its implementation.
operational controls maintained by accountable for the Groups RRP.
The CRO is also responsible for ensuring the Group that the STF is fit for purpose and We perform first to identify and adheres to all regulatory requirements The STF relies upon and supports the assess events that could cause our and industry good practices.
Capital Planning and Management business model to become unviable.
Participants from all business units policy, the Funding and Liquidity policy The outcome of failure is assumed as a functions and second line risk are and the Operational and Credit Risk starting point and we work backwards responsible for providing inputs for the Frameworks, all of which provide detail to determine the type and sequence development of scenarios, underlying of how the STF has been implemented of events and vulnerabilities that could assumptions and relevant management within these specific areas.
lead to the hypothetical failure of the actions.
These areas coordinate with business.
The key objective of first is to Stress testing is an integral part of the the CRO and CFO to provide relevant enable the early identification of events Groups ICAAP assessment.
The stress data for stress testing.
that could cause our business plan to scenarios developed as part of the become unviable and to assess the ICAAP are used to size and carry a likelihood of such events crystallising.
stress loss buffer which ensures
