"I II Directors Report III Management Engagement Committee "" The Management Engagement Committee was constituted in 2016 to oversee and review the performance of the investment manager."
During the course of the year the whole Board decided to consider a number of matters that would normally have been the responsibility of this Committee.
Since all members of the Board are also members of the Committee, we believed it would be more effective if these matters were considered directly by the Board rather than by convening a separate meeting of the Committee to make recommendations to the Board.
"We report here on our deliberations. """
Karl Sternberg Chairman, Management Engagement Committee Areas of focus in 2016 The Board considered the performance of Alliance Trust Investments ATI during the year, and its contractual Evaluation of the arrangements.
We concluded that although ATI had underperformed its objective, we believed that on a longer-term Investment Managers basis, the manager continued to provide the levels of return that could be expected in current market conditions from a single manager with ATIs investment style.
Nevertheless, we decided to undertake a Strategic Review to consider Performance whether a different approach would better suit the objectives of the Trust.
We received a number of submissions from third-party managers offering both global equity and multi-asset approaches.
We considered these submissions, and the continued appointment of Alliance Trust Investments, on their own merits and then compared them with an unconstrained choice of single managers, whether they had submitted proposals or not.
After broad consultation, the Board decided that a multi-asset model was not an appropriate choice, so our focus was on the best way to deliver consistently good performance against the existing global equity benchmark.
We considered single managers and a traditional multi-manager approach with broad mandates spread across a number of investment houses.
We decided, however, that either of these would lead to a portfolio with too many stocks and lower active money and would not be exclusive to the Trust: we wanted to deliver a conviction portfolio with fees paid only for active stock selection.
As a result, the Board decided that we would appoint multiple managers with high conviction 20-stock portfolios.
In order to implement this new approach, we took two decisions: 1.
To sell Alliance Trust Investments to a firm better able to exploit its natural advantages in sustainable investment: and 2.
After a competitive tender, to appoint Willis Towers Watson WTW as our new investment manager.
The Board believes that its new focused multi-manager approach to be implemented by WTW is an opportunity to provide investors with a genuinely innovative and distinctive equity portfolio.
It will both be high conviction and have a lower risk of disappointment.
We also believe that the new approach will provide access to managers that are not otherwise accessible to retail investors.
The Board decided not to include performance fees as part of the remuneration structure for the underlying managers or for WTW.
This is not just to avoid complexity, but is also designed to reduce the likelihood of managers replicating the benchmark index and rewarding managers for achieving performance levels they are already obligated to deliver.
The Board also agreed that the appointment of WTW would be on six months notice.
This is the same notice period as was included in the agreement with Alliance Trust Investments.
Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 31
