I II Directors Report III Going Concern Statement The Groups business activities are set out on page 5 with the Given that most of the likely liquidity requirements such as loan payments and dividends are timetabled and as such readily principal risks which could impact on performance set out on pages 22 and 23.
The Groups financial position and cash flows are set out foreseeable, while others such as share buybacks are subject to the Companys discretion, the Directors are satisfied that unexpected on pages 54 to 58 along with an analysis of its borrowings in Note 15 on page 75.
As regards Going Concern the Directors have considered liquidity and solvency needs are not significant relative to the size of the Companys portfolio and that they could be readily met without both liquidity and solvency risks.
compromising normal portfolio management practice.
Liquidity is concerned with our ability to liquidate assets or access new sources of short-term funds in the time needed to meet our Sensitivities to market, credit, liquidity and gearing risk are set out in Note 23 on pages 79 to 83. liabilities as they fall due.
The majority of the Groups assets are in listed securities on recognised stock exchanges which are readily realisable even in volatile markets.
At 31 December 2016 we also The Directors, who have reviewed projections and sensitivities for the had 330m of unused committed funding lines.
coming year, consider that the Group has adequate financial resources to enable it to continue in operational existence for at least 12 months Solvency is concerned with our ability to meet our liabilities in full.
from the date of these Accounts.
Accordingly the Directors believe This involves managing our capital by maintaining a business model that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the Going Concern basis which is capable of delivering over time a continuing economic return for preparing the financial statements.
to our shareholders whilst absorbing the impact of any risks which crystallise.
As at 31 December 2016 the Groups total net assets were 3.3bn.
Our investment policy restricts gearing to 30% of net assets at any given time 6% at 31 December 2016.
Viability Statement The Directors have assessed the viability of the Company and Group The ICAAP includes a risk assessment carried out to identify the over a longer period than the 12 months required by the Going principal risks that may adversely impact the Group.
The Board concluded an appropriate period to be Market and Prudential, Operational, Strategic and Regulatory and five years, a period which aligns with our long-term planning horizon.
An internal Risk Control Self-Assessment RCSA and This assessment has been made taking account of the current position modelling approaches are used to quantify these risks, which ensure of the Group, corporate planning process and the Groups principal that the Group holds sufficient regulatory capital to mitigate the risks, both current and medium and long-term, as detailed in the impact of these risks.
Alongside the corporate planning and scenario Strategic Report on pages 22 and 23. tests, the supporting risk management framework and controls have various regular early warning indicator and risk outlook signposts The corporate planning process includes our budget, strategy cycle trends and triggers events alert the Board to the potential advent and consolidated Group Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process of a scenario.
This approach ensures a link to our business model and strategy and The strategy provides long-term direction and is reviewed on, allows a robust identification and assessment of the principal risks, at least, an annual basis, including five year forecasts showing and mitigating actions, for the Group.
The resilience of the strategy is further tested in a series of severe but plausible downside financial scenarios The Directors have therefore concluded, based on the extent of the as part of the annual review of the ICAAP.
The ICAAP, covering a five corporate planning process, its strong financial position and long term year period, is prepared to identify and quantify the Groups risks investment horizon and financing, that there is a reasonable expectation and level of capital which should be held to cover those risks.
As part that the Company and the Group have adequate resources and will of the assessment the Board has also considered the sustainability of continue to operate and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the the Companys dividend and it believes that our progressive dividend period of their assessment and for the foreseeable future, taken to policy is also sustainable over the same time frame.
Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 37
