I Strategic Report II III Investment Managers Report 2016 The Health Care sector reversed the strong gains of 2015 and was Summary the second-worst performing sector in 2016.
The investment process During 2016, the Trusts equity portfolio delivered a Total Return of targets companies which deliver differentiated, life-saving therapies 22.9%.
Taking into account the performance of non-core investments, and products that makes healthcare more accessible or affordable.
the impact of buybacks and a one-off contribution to the pension We believed that this sector and these sorts of companies would be scheme the Trusts overall NAV Total Return was 21.5%.
The Total able to deliver defensive growth in a tough economic environment Shareholder Return, which takes account of discount narrowing, and therefore maintained an overweight position during the year.
In the US, the source of the majority of global healthcare profits, the Election raised questions on the sustainability of drug pricing, The equity portfolio finished the year 6.5% behind the MSCI ACWI.
and this hurt performance over 2016.
Our holding in GlaxoSmithKline This was driven largely by stock selection although sectoral allocation did relatively well in the year thanks to its more diversified business, also contributed to the lag in performance.
In the latter half of the with its Consumer and Vaccine divisions providing opportunities for year midand small-cap value stocks outperformed the larger, quality growth.
Roche was out of favour over 2016, due to pricing pressure in growth companies that constitute the Trusts portfolio.
the US, combined with investor concern over the results in early 2016 of the important Aphinity trial.
The trial results are considered key The investment team maintained the number of holdings within the to Roches global leadership in breast cancer and the nature of portfolio to around 60, reflecting our continued conviction in the the news led to weakness in the stock.
We believe that their approach benefits of holding a portfolio of best-in-class global companies.
of meeting unmet medical need across its whole portfolio and its innovative record of discovering new molecules with breakthrough Review of Performance potential, will be rewarded and command improved pricing.
After a turbulent start to the year share prices rebounded in February as fears of a Chinese hard landing and a US industrial slow down faded.
The Financial sector contributed negatively to portfolio performance over Despite some significant shocks to financial markets, such as Brexit, the year.
A substantial portion of the underperformance came from our markets continued to make progress, driven by increasing signs of position in the Italian bank Intesa Sanpaolo as investor concerns around self-sustaining global growth and continued monetary laxity.
its non-performing loans in Italy, and political uncertainty, led to large declines in the share prices of Italian financials.
We decided to sell the Over the year our decisions to increase our weightings in Industrials position and switch the proceeds into DNB.
Our underperformance and remain overweight in Technology benefited performance.
However, came from the absence of investment banks which underwent a strong our decisions to improve the quality of holdings in Financials and Energy re-rating from a very low base.
Visa, however, performed well and, in 2015 did not continue to provide the uplift in performance achieved as one of the portfolios largest positions, was a strong contributor that year as lower quality companies rebounded strongly in 2016, to performance.
We increased the portfolios exposure to Financials outperforming our stock selections.
The most important sectoral during the year.
decision we got wrong in 2016 was to remain overweight in Health Care ahead of the US elections, during which investor concerns over Energy was again a focus for the market in 2016.
After the turbulent the sustainability of drug pricing increased.
markets in 2015 oil rallied from below US$30 a barrel in the first quarter of 2016 to above US$50 when producers reached an Industrials were the strongest contributor to performance in 2016. agreement to reduce their output.
The Energy sector rallied We increased our exposure to these stocks, ending the year overweight impressively and delivered 54%.
The portfolios underweight position against the index.
The star performers were Daikin and Melrose.
through 2016 contributed negatively to asset allocation as did stock selection: lower quality companies rallied the most in response to Information Technology was also a positive contributor to performance.
Our investment process focus on quality companies The portfolio benefited from the significant Merger and Acquisition attracts us to companies with higher quality hydrocarbon assets that activity in the semi-conductor market, notably the sale of ARM which can deliver better investment returns from lower oil prices.
We believe returned 61% and contributed just over 1% to the portfolios return.
that over the medium term this will be a winning investment strategy Holdings in Linear Tech and NXP are also subject to takeovers by ADI for businesses that sell this volatile commodity.
The growth in electric and hybrid electric vehicles has translated to strong growth for the semi-conductor industry Going into 2017 the portfolio remains overweight in Health Care, in the auto segment, as the car of the future requires significantly more Information Technology and underweight in Consumer Discretionary, electronic content to deliver improvements in safety and fuel efficiency.
We also focus on thematic drivers within the technology sector such as the increase in Cloud computing and the need to invest in digital infrastructure.
We believe that these are important drivers of performance and why we hold Accenture, Microsoft and SAP.
Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 11 Strategic Report Investment Managers Report 2016 continued Portfolio Activity Investment case: Health Care In 2016 we added the Norwegian bank DNB and Microsoft to our portfolio.
We believed that DNBs valuation was attractive following market concerns related to oil-related economies as it remained one of the best capitalised banks in Europe.
Microsoft is embracing the Cloud through Azure, which provides developers and IT professionals with a collection of integrated cloud services through a global network of data centres, and the shift in the sale of its Office software suite to a subscription model.
Significant sales in 2016 included Novo Nordisk and ARM.
The former continues to benefit from innovations in insulin design but the weaker outlook for insulin sales, due to concerns about the sustainability of its US pricing model, resulted in lower profit expectations.
ARM was sold following a bid by Softbank, a Japanese telecom and technology company.
The proceeds from these sales were invested in the US company Cadence which develops electronic design automation software.
We continued to use market weakness to add to positions where the team have strong long-term convictions such as Acuity The treatment of cancer Brands and Roche.
remains one of the key areas Our Top 10 holdings at the end of the year included for the first time Acuity Brands, Ecolab, Blackstone Group, Macquarie Infrastructure in healthcare where innovation and the Toronto & Dominion group.
Acuity is the US lighting market leader with a diversified product mix.
It has steadily gained market is increasingly important.
share in an already relatively consolidated industry.
It offers a full array of technologies, including LED, which suit the needs of its customers.
Ecolab is a global leader in water, hygiene and energy technologies which are used across different industries to maintain clean and safe environments.
Blackstone is possibly the best positioned alternative Immuno-oncology is an innovation that is set to revolutionise asset manager globally and should benefit from the shift to that style cancer treatment.
The ability to utilise the bodys immune of management.
system to fight a cancer tumour, rather than directly targeting the tumour itself, has produced some promising results.
Long term survival in metastatic cancer is now a reality.
The Trusts portfolio has exposure to this innovation through Roche and Pfizer, both of whom are key players in the immune oncology revolution.
We see Roche as remaining a global leader in the broader oncology setting however it was out of favour in 2016 and made a small relative contribution in the year.
Pfizer is developing an exciting suite of treatments, including both immuno-oncology treatments and the recently launched Ibrance, in breast cancer.
Pfizer also acquired Medivation, which has promising complementary products in the oncology setting which should allow it to build a profitable and growing oncology suite of products.
Health Care stocks provided around one-tenth of the equity portfolios total return and this part of the portfolio outperformed the MSCI ACWI in the year.
% Relative Contribution 2014 2015 2016 Pfizer 0.24 0.31 0.60 Roche 0.02 0.07 0.03 Source: Alliance Trust Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 12 I Strategic Report II III Portfolio Risk Investment case: Technology We maintained the number of stocks in the portfolio at around 60, reflecting the conviction we had in those stocks which we considered to be best-in-class.
The portfolios active share, which is the weighting of the stocks in the portfolio that is different from the stock weightings in the MSCI ACWI, was above 90%, a level that demonstrates that the portfolio was very structurally different to the index with just a 10% weighting overlap.
The portfolio was sufficiently concentrated to deliver meaningful levels of outperformance yet diversified enough through only the highest quality global companies that there was the expectation of lower volatility than that of the index.
The portfolio started 2016 with a tracking error of 2.61% against the MSCI ACWI, finishing the year largely unchanged at 2.91%.
Benchmark relative risk % The acquisition of both ARM 3.0 and Linear Technology in 2016 2.9 was confirmation that within the 2.8 technology sector, digitalisation 2.7 is spreading to new areas.
2.6 Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec 2015 2016 2016 2016 2016 The Internet of Things, Advanced Driver Assistance Systems ADAS and Electric Vehicles are all examples of areas where Predicted tracking error technology is penetrating new areas.
The Internet of Things enables a refrigerator to manage its power usage to optimise Source: MSCI Barra the use of lower cost energy.
ADAS will help reduce the number of casualties on the road through the use of predictive algorithms using data generated from radars, lidars and cameras.
Electric vehicles will reduce CO2 emissions, make our cities cleaner and improve energy efficiency.
All these are admirable goals but they do require significant processing power as well as software capability.
Our exposure to digitalisation, beyond ARM and Linear Technology, has been through Cadence and, to a lesser extent, Accenture.
Technology stocks provided around one-third of the equity portfolios total return in 2016.
% Relative Contribution 2014 2015 2016 Accenture 0.36 0.59 0.98 ARM 0.01 0.08 0.99 Cadence 0.34 0.16 0.63 Linear Technologies 0.12 0.00 0.84 Source: Alliance Trust Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 13 Strategic Report Investment Managers Report 2016 continued Stewardship Asset Allocation and Gearing in 2016 In 2016 we voted at 161 meetings.
For 123 of these meetings we Asset allocation is undertaken to enhance or protect the returns of voted against, withheld or abstained on one or more resolutions.
When strong returns are anticipated These votes related to concerns about matters including: excessive from equity markets the exposure to equities is increased by or opaque remuneration arrangements: auditors tenure and increasing borrowing.
In contrast when equity valuations appear full non audit fee: tenure and board and committee independence: and the outlook uncertain then exposure to equities is reduced.
and effectiveness or lack of transparency around lobbying activities and fair business policies.
We added the issue of gender diversity on Overall gearing levels were limited by the Board in the year to boards to our voting policy during the year and we voted against the a maximum of 18%.
companys report & accounts where there were less than 15% women on the board and abstained from voting on report & accounts where In 2016 four significant moves were implemented at an asset there were less than 30% women on the board.
This applied to just allocation level.
under one third of eligible meetings.
The Financial Reporting Council awarded Alliance Trust Investments with a Tier 1 status on the quality The year started with gearing on the core portfolio of 13%.
In March, of reporting against the Stewardship Code.
Alliance Trust Investments having ascertained that the UK Referendum on Leaving the EU could is a signatory to the UN Principles for Responsible Investment PRI, lead to a fall in the Pound, we hedged Sterling against the US Dollar where representatives from the investment team sit on the PRI equivalent to 5% of the portfolio.
This mitigated the overweight of Sustainable Palm Oil Investor working group, PRI Engagement on the equity portfolio towards Sterling.
Water Risks group, PRI Global Investor Taskforce on Corporate Tax Responsibility group.
Alliance Trust Investments is also a signatory Then in May gearing was reduced following a six month rally in to the Paris Pledge for Action: Climate Change, PRI Montreal pledge.
global equities and mounting political and economic uncertainties.
This brought gearing down to 10.2% of the equity portfolio.
Following the referendum result on 24 June the concern was to protect the portfolio from a disorderly fall in equity markets.
To this end we sold FTSE 100 index futures to hedge the UK exposure of the portfolio representing 4% of the overall portfolio.
The position was closed on 1 July as it became apparent that currency markets were taking the impact while the FTSE 100 appreciated.
In October gearing was reduced further to 6%, given the risks surrounding the US election, anticipated US interest rate hikes and very strong equity market performance.
In November the FX hedge was closed following Sterlings 15% depreciation versus the US Dollar.
Overall the net impact of being geared into a rising market enhanced the return from the core investments, and while the index future short post the referendum had a negative impact this was more than covered by the positive contribution from the FX hedge.
