I Strategic Report II III Our New Business Model What we will do Focused on equities Invest in: Global equities Global equities Subsidiary entities We have investments in: Non-core investments Our subsidiary business Alliance Trust Savings Non-core investments Mineral Rights Private Equity Funds These will be disposed of at the appropriate time How we will do it A multiple manager approach, each rated best-in-class by WTW with oversight by them Each equity manager creates its own focused portfolio of its top investment selections Equity portfolio outperformance target of the MSCI All Country World Index by 2% p. a. net of costs over rolling three-year periods One of only four FTSE All-Share Index companies with a record of increasing their ordinary dividend for the last 50 years.
How we create an attractive return for our shareholders Capital growth in our investment portfolio Progressive income growth funded by dividends and income received from our investments Competitive costs Investment Objective and Policy The existing Investment Objective and Policy allows the Board to pursue the new investment approach.
Alliance Trust is an investment company with investment trust status.
The Company is prepared to invest any proportion of the total The Companys objective is to be a core investment for investors corporate capital in any of the above asset classes, subject only to seeking increasing value over the long term.
The Company has no the restrictions imposed on the Company by the regulatory or fiscal fixed asset allocation benchmark and it invests in a wide range of asset regime within which we operate.
However, the Company would classes throughout the world to achieve its objective.
The Companys expect equities to comprise at least 50% of its portfolio.
Changes focus is to generate a real return for shareholders over the medium to to the asset allocation will be dependent upon attractive investment long term by a combination of capital growth and a rising dividend.
The Company pursues its objective by investing in both quoted and Where market conditions permit, the Company will use gearing of not unquoted equities across the globe in different sectors and industries: more than 30% of its net assets at any given time.
The Company can investing internationally in fixed income securities: investing in other use derivative instruments to hedge, enhance and protect positions, asset classes and financial instruments, either directly or through including currency exposures.
investment vehicles and investing in subsidiaries and associated businesses which allow us to expand into other related activities.
Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 5
