Directors Report Remuneration Committee Set out here is the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The Report includes our current Remuneration Policy, which was approved at the Annual General Meeting in 2016, and gives details of how this Policy has been implemented during the year.
It also includes details of contractual payments made to former Executive Directors.
Anthony Brooke Chairman, Remuneration Committee Consideration of Shareholder Views Remuneration Policy approved on 6 May 2016 We regularly engage with our shareholders on all aspects of performance The Boards Remuneration Policy is designed to ensure that the and governance.
Due to the level of Director activity this year we have remuneration of Directors is set at a reasonable level commensurate not sought the views of our principal shareholders on remuneration with the duties and responsibilities of each Director and the time issues.
However, any comments received will be considered.
This Report commitment required to carry out their roles effectively.
Remuneration will be subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting and we will be such that the Company is able to attract and retain Directors welcome the opportunity to discuss matters of remuneration with of appropriate experience and quality.
The fees paid to Directors will our shareholders at that meeting.
reflect the experience of the Board as a whole, will be fair, and will take account of the responsibilities attaching to each role given the nature Non-Executive Directors Contracts of the Companys interests, as well as the level of fees paid by Each Non-Executive Directors appointment is governed by written comparable investment trusts.
Secretarial assistance will be provided terms which are available for inspection at the Companys registered to the Chairman to assist in the execution of his duties.
Additional office and are also available at the AGM.
Non-Executive Directors are payments may be made to Directors for time expended over and appointed subject to annual re-election at the Companys AGM and above that envisaged on appointment and for serving on or chairing their appointment may be terminated at any time by notice given by Committees or for service as directors of subsidiary boards, or other three-quarters of the other Directors.
The level of such fees and payments will be subject to periodic review.
Directors will be reimbursed for travel and subsistence expenses incurred in attending meetings or in carrying out any other duties incumbent upon them as Directors of the Company.
In the event that any such payments are regarded as taxable, Directors may receive additional payments to ensure that they suffer no net cost in carrying out their duties.
The level of Directors fees paid will not exceed the limit set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Committee also reserves the right to make payments outside the Policy in exceptional circumstances.
The Committee would only use this right where it believes that this is in the best interests of the Company, and when it would be disproportionate to seek specific approval from a General Meeting.
Any such payments would be fully disclosed on a timely basis.
The full text of the previous policy can be found on our website.
Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 38 I II Directors Report III Non-Executive Directors Fees In 2017 annual fees will be: In 2016 annual fees were: Chairman 120,000 Chairman 120,000 Deputy Chairman 80,000 Deputy Chairman 80,000 Basic Non-Executive Director Fee and payable to each Director Basic Non-Executive Director Fee 35,000 other than the Chairman 35,000 Chairman of Audit and Risk Committee 11,000 Committee Membership 6,000 Chairman of Remuneration Committee 7,500 Chairman of Audit and Risk Committee 8,000 Chairman of Audit Committee 11,000 Chairman of Remuneration Committee 4,500 Chairman of Board Risk Committee 7,500 Senior Independent Director 5,000 Chairman of Management Engagement Committee Nil Subsidiary Board Directors Fee 35,000 Chairman of any other Committee Nil Senior Independent Director 5,000 Inclusive of membership of all Board Committees Membership of Audit and Risk Committee 3,000 All Directors are members of all Board Committees Membership of Remuneration Committee 3,000 and this is a composite fee for all Board Committees Membership of Audit Committee 3,000 This fee is additional to the Committee membership fee Membership of Board Risk Committee 3,000 Payable to Chris Samuel in respect of his appointment to Alliance Trust Investments Membership of Management Engagement Committee Nil and to Gregor Stewart in respect of his appointment to Alliance Trust Savings Membership of any other Committee Nil Subsidiary Board Directors Fee 35,000 The Remuneration Committee comprises all of the members of the From 4 February 2016 Board other than the Chairman.
Audit Committee until 4 February 2016 To 4 February 2016 The Committee reviewed the fees paid to Directors this year and agreed that they should remain unchanged.
The Committee did, however, agree to make a one off payment of 30,000 to Karl Sternberg to reflect the time spent over and above what could reasonably have been expected on the proposed investment manager changes and other aspects of the Strategic Review.
In addition to the fees received from Alliance Trust PLC where a Non-Executive Director also sits on the Board of a subsidiary company the Director is also paid a fee for that role, the level of fee is set by the subsidiary company.
The Chairmans statement on Corporate Governance refers to a review of the Committee structure which will take place in 2017.
The Remuneration Committee will also review in 2017 the fee structure for Directors.
Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 39
