Directors Report Board Evaluation We believe that boards should regularly review their own performance non-executive director search services to the Company and its subsidiaries.
as part of a programme of continuous improvement.
In addition to The conclusion of the report they produced was that, overall, the Board regular discussions in the course of board meetings, each year the had robust governance practices and a good, diverse mix of directors Board undertakes a formal review of its own performance and that of with strong values alignment and orientation: the Board and committees each of its Committees.
The Board as a whole meets to assess its own functioned well with strong processes and diligent focus.
performance and that of its Committees.
2016 evaluation Alliance Trust has a longstanding practice of periodic externally The Board opted to conduct the 2016 performance evaluation facilitated board reviews and has now done so four times beginning in through formal questionnaires and discussion between the Directors, 2007.
The most recent external evaluation was carried out in December Chairman and the Audit and Risk Committee Chairman.
In summary, 2015 and the next external evaluation is planned for December 2017. the conclusion was that 2016 was an exceptional year in terms of the time commitment of the Directors and that all of individual Directors 2015 evaluation contributed to the effective operation of the Board and of its The 2015 evaluation identified that one area of focus should be an Committees.
The evaluation did identify that there was a significant assessment of the skills and competencies of both current and future level of overlap between the work of some of the Committees and board members.
An assessment was carried out by the executive that of the Board and it was agreed that the Committee structure search and board advisory firm Russell Reynolds, who also provide would be reviewed.
Year 2 External Evaluation Internal Evaluation Internal Agree focus and timing Agree themes Agree external Questionnaires evaluator Outside firm completed by Board interviews Directors and senior managers and senior managers Our three Interviews by Chairman Report to Outside firm attends Year 1 year the Board External Board meeting evaluation Agree Actions Presentation of cycle findings to Board Implement Actions Agree Actions Implement Actions Year 3 Internal Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 30
