I Strategic Report II III Non-core Investments Whilst the Board is committed to reducing its exposure to these assets, they provided good returns and a strong income stream during the year.
The divestment of non-core investments continued to gather The majority of investments in the private equity portfolio are held in momentum in 2016.
Fixed interest investments were sold in their seven externally managed private equity funds.
These seven funds are entirety by midyear.
The Trust has 9.5m in indirect property held largely mid-market European buyout funds and are held in our own through investments in Limited Partnerships.
There are no direct fund of fund limited partnerships.
These investments are now delivering property investments left in the portfolio although the Trust still owns strong returns.
In 2016 the Trust saw a marked improvement in its registered office, 8 West Marketgait, Dundee, DD1 1QN which portfolio valuations and we experienced an increase in realisations was valued at 4.5m as at the end of 2016 unchanged from 2015. resulting in healthy distributions back to the Trust.
The value of our This office accommodates Alliance Trust Savings operations and the private equity investments is 103.5m.
The unfunded commitment to Trusts small executive function in Dundee.
The Trust acts as landlord private equity investments, which includes recallable distributions, is for Alliance Trust Savings on a commercial basis.
We have made no new private equity investments since 2014 and anticipate a continuation of the trend of further realisations within A sale process of the mineral rights holdings was held in the early the private equity portfolio in 2017 generating more distributions part of the year but bids received were considered unacceptable in back to the Trust.
a distressed market environment of very weak oil prices.
The sale of the holdings remains part of the divestment strategy for non-core For the non-core investments of private equity, property, fixed income assets but this is unlikely until there is a sustained period of energy and the mineral rights holdings, which together represents 3.7% of the price stability.
At the year end, the mineral rights holdings were total assets of the Trust, a positive contribution of 0.5% to investment valued at 13.2m compared with a valuation of 17.5m in 2015. returns was recorded in 2016.
Contribution Analysis 2016 Contribution Analysis % Contribution to Total Return The NAV total return for 2016 was 21.5% versus the benchmark MSCI ACWI return of 29.4%.
This is a result of the investment returns from Equity Portfolio 22.9 the global equity portfolio, investments in fixed income, private equity FX Contracts and Index Futures 0.2 and mineral rights and the change in value of the subsidiary companies.
Non-core Investments 0.5 Net Gearing Effect 0.2 Over 2016 the shareholder total return was 26.4%, outstripping Investment Portfolio Total 23.8 the NAV total return so capturing the benefit of a narrowing in the discount.
Equities, at 93% of our total investment at the year end, are Subsidiaries -0.2 by far the most significant asset class and contributor to total return.
Pension Fund Adjustments -0.8 Effect of Change to Fair Value of Debt -0.5 The decision taken to fund the Companys Final Salary Pension Scheme Share buybacks, Cash and Accruals -0.3 to allow it to buy in its liabilities through a bulk annuity policy had a Total Operating Costs -0.5 negative effect on performance in the year.
NAV Cum Income Total Return 21.5 Effect of Discount 4.9 Average gearing was 10.7% over 2016, this had the effect of enhancing the return from the equity portion of the portfolio over 2016.
Share Price Total Return 26.4 MSCI ACWI Total Return 29.4 includes investments in Funds Source: Alliance Trust and Factset Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 15
