Strategic Report Board Strategy Q&A We met with hundreds of our shareholders to explain, and answer questions on, the changes we are making.
Here are some of the questions that were asked and answered during these meetings.
Who are Willis Towers Watson?
What is the benefit of this approach?
Q Q WTW is a leading investment group.
The investment business The underlying investment managers are chosen for their skill A A at Willis Towers Watson has global assets under advice of more as stock pickers.
Through asking each manager to focus on their than US$2.3 trillion and assets under management of more than highest conviction ideas, we gain exposure to only the best ideas US$87bn.
Willis Towers Watsons clients include some of the largest from each manager.
This is achieved without increasing overall risk and most sophisticated investors in the world including pension through the diversification of using multiple managers with different funds, sovereign wealth funds, endowments and foundations.
approaches to investing that are expected to perform differently in various market environments.
How did you choose WTW as your investment manager?
Q By moving to a multi manager approach are you not moving Q the portfolio closer to the index and hence reducing the The Board ran a competitive process and WTW was selected A expected outperformance?
to become the investment manager, as announced on 15th December 2016.
Although the number of stocks in the overall portfolio increases A from around 60 to around 200 and hence the stock specific risk reduces, every single stock is now one of the managers very best ideas, which is not possible in a single manager approach, where What experience do Willis Towers Watson have of Q managing multimanager equity portfolios?
a number of stocks are inevitably held for risk control purposes.
For more than 20 years WTW has provided advice on the A management of equity portfolios to large sophisticated What would cause you to review a manager?
investors and has had a key role to play in managing multimanager Q portfolios for more than a decade.
The most likely reason to replace a manager is if the research or A portfolio management team feels that the skill of the manager has eroded over time.
This could be in an absolute sense or relative How will the Trusts portfolio be designed?
Q to other managers that would be suitable for inclusion in the portfolio.
It is unlikely that poor performance, on its own, would be a reason It is anticipated that the Trusts portfolio will have approximately A for removing a manager except if that poor performance was caused 200 stocks held across the eight underlying equity managers.
by reduced skill from the manager.
Poor performance relative to a The Companys equity portfolio will be shared broadly equally between benchmark that is attributable to style, size or sector weightings the eight equity managers.
WTW believes that the combination of that were known features of the investment approach would not these managers best stock ideas will create a highly compelling necessarily change our view of the managers skill.
equity portfolio for the Trust, where the long-term return relative to benchmark will be primarily driven by stock selection rather than The other reason a manager could be replaced is an inability to meet macroeconomic factors.
the terms of the mandate such as maintaining a very high level of active share and the restricted number of stocks.
It is possible that we will be able to identify managers who combine better with the other managers in the portfolio than one initially chosen and therefore the portfolio management team may make changes for this reason.
Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 8 I Strategic Report II III Can you describe how the multimanager portfolio What will be the target yield on the portfolio and the Q Q will be built: dividend policy?
The portfolio can be thought of as being the result of two The underlying yield on the stocks in the current proposed A A complementary components.
The assets are all managed multimanager portfolio is roughly the same as the existing by a group of focused active equity managers with varying styles.
This leaves the strategy well placed to support the existing In addition there is risk control, oversight, manager selection, level of dividend payments and to continue the record of 50 years of operational due diligence and monitoring performed by WTW.
consecutive dividend growth into the future.
The first component is a group of highly active active share typically 90% concentrated, bestinclass, active equity managers.
Each What will be the target total annual costs of the Trust and Q underlying portfolio usually has a named lead portfolio manager how does this break down?
overseeing a portfolio of around 20 of their best equity ideas.
The Trusts OCR will be targeted to be below 0.65%.
The fees A The second component is used to balance the risks within the active payable to WTW are detailed on page 46. managers portfolios.
It is the role of WTW to source appropriate managers from around the world, look at their risk and return characteristics and how they can be combined to minimise risks that Is the Trust intended to invest in developed or Q can be diversified away whilst maximising the impact of the stock emerging markets?
selection skills of the managers.
The Trust is benchmarked against the MSCI ACWI an index that A covers both developed and emerging markets.
Each manager is allowed to invest across both developed and emerging markets within Why use concentrated mandates?
Q their 20 stock portfolio, but one manager also has a specialist emerging market mandate which may have around 50 stocks.
There is significant evidence supporting better returns from A concentrated mandates over more diversified portfolios.
Research supports the view that over 90% of risk associated with What level of manager turnover is expected?
Q individual stocks is diversified away within the first 2030 holdings and there is little incremental benefit beyond this.
A 1015% per annum manager turnover could be expected as A a longterm guide.
Will the managers have track records and does the strategy?
Q What level of portfolio turnover is expected in the Q All the portfolio managers selected for the Trust have long, submanagers underlying portfolios?
A successful track records at either their existing or previous asset Overall we would expect average turnover to be in the range A management firms.
The managers track records and the quality of 20% to 40% per annum.
their investment approach is examined as part of the rating process conducted by WTW.
The vast majority of the managers have also managed concentrated mandates similar to those intended for What will be the approach to gearing?
Alliance Trust, in many cases only for WTW clients.
The Board is ultimately responsible A for setting the strategic level of gearing and WTW will then have How many stocks will be in the portfolio?
Q an element of discretion around this target.
Up to 200 stocks will be contained in the portfolio.
The developed We would not anticipate the level of gearing changing at all at A market managers typically have around 20 holdings each and the time of transition to the new arrangements.
one manager also manages a dedicated emerging markets mandate which can hold up to 50 stocks.
What will be the target level of performance and risk of Q the Trust?
The Trust is targeting 2% p. a. outperformance for the equity A portfolio over the MSCI World ACWI, net of fees, over three year rolling periods.
The forecast tracking error of the Trust is expected to be 24% a guide, not a limit.
Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 9
