ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 SUBSIDIARY VALUATION All of the Companys subsidiary companies are currently majority owned and or controlled and therefore fully consolidated in the Companys consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS.
As a result, the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position incorporated within the Companys consolidated financial statements do not include current valuations of the Companys subsidiary companies.
While in previous years we have disclosed the ownership adjusted valuations for each of the Groups top ten subsidiary businesses by value, in line with certain peers, this year we are disclosing ownership adjusted value at an aggregate level only for the Group as a whole.
We believe this practice will better serve the interests of our shareholders by protecting the Groups position in discussions with potential partners and external investors in our subsidiaries.
We will continue to disclose qualitatively against the key drivers of material movements in the ownership adjusted values in the aggregate life sciences and technology portfolios, and in aggregate for the Group.
We will also disclose against movements in subsidiary valuations arising specifically from fundraising rounds involving external investors.
At the close of each annual financial period, the Directors formally approve the value of all subsidiary businesses in the Group which is used to derive the GSOAV.
There can be no guarantee that the aforementioned valuation of the Group will be considered to be correct in light of the future performance of the various Group businesses, or that the Group would be able to realise proceeds in the amount of such valuations, or at all, in the event of a sale by it of any of its subsidiaries.
The GSOAV was $416.2 million as of the date of this annual report and accounts.
Of that, 87.1% is valued by reference to the valuation implied by the most recent third party funding round.
Compared to $535.8 million when last disclosed, this reflects a decrease of $119.6 million, or 22.3%.
This decrease is primarily attributed to the liquidation of several subsidiary businesses subsequent to year end and write off of their value, namely Biotectix, Cephalogics, CryoXtract, Optio Labs, Novare, RF Biocidics and SoundCure Tinnitus Treatment Solutions.
This decrease was partially offset by an increase in value at HawkEye 360 demonstrated by the consummation of a third-party fundraising and an increase at ABLS due to ABLS II moving into the lead optimisation programme.
Ownership adjusted value represents Allied Minds interest in the equity value of each subsidiary and is calculated as follows: Business Enterprise Value Long Term Debt Cash x Allied Minds percentage ownership plus the value of debt provided by Allied Minds plc to each subsidiary business.
Allied Minds commits post-seed funding to its subsidiaries in the form of loans.
