Strategic Report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 PORTFOLIO SUMMARY During 2016, an aggregate of $108.2 million was invested into new and existing portfolio companies.
This included $60.2 million from fundraisings, of which $48.5 million came from third-party investment, to further accelerate the development of Federated Wireless, ABLS II, Precision Biopsy and HawkEye 360.
In addition to these fundraisings, $48.0 million was invested by the Group into new and other existing portfolio companies, including investments in four new businesses: Vatic Materials Penn State closed post-period end : Signature Medical Boston University : ABLS III NYU : and ABLS Capital.
Allied Minds currently has majority ownership in, or operating control of, all of its subsidiary businesses.
Below we provide an overview of our 17 current existing subsidiary businesses, including year formed, and Allied Minds ownership interest.
These 17 subsidiary businesses include 4 entities which do not directly provide or are not directly developing products and services: Allied-Bristol Life Sciences ABLS the holding company for ABLS drug development subsidiaries : ABLS Capital a funding vehicle for ABLS drug development subsidiaries : Allied Minds Federal Innovations AMFI a company with contractual sourcing relationships with certain federal laboratory research partners : and Foreland a holding company for Allied Minds cyber security investments.
Ownership 1 Subsidiary Year Formed Interest Overview Corporate partnerships Allied-Bristol Life Sciences, LLC 2014 80.00% Created with BMS to identify and conduct preclinical development of therapeutic candidates which are intended to be sold to BMS prior to clinical development ABLS Capital 2016 30.25% Funding vehicle with up to $80 million of binding commitments to support development of ABLS drug compounds proceeding to lead optimisation phase ABLS II, LLC 2014 35.95% Novel small molecule therapeutics for the treatment of fibrotic and autoimmune diseases, developed in the Harvard University laboratory of Professor Malcolm Whitman ABLS III, LLC, 2016 80.00% Proprietary compounds developed by Dr. Ramanuj Dasgupta at the NYU School of Medicine that d b a ieCa Therapeutics target the Wnt signalling pathway and nuclear beta catenin, which plays a key role in the development and progression of a number of cancers affecting large numbers of patients Life Sciences LuxCath, LLC 2012 98.00% A catheter-based real-time tissue and lesion visualisation technology for use during cardiac ablation procedures initially focused on atrial fibrillation ablation Precision Biopsy, Inc. 2008 64.59% A medical device platform, ClariCore, utilising tissue spectroscopy, which seeks to distinguish tissue characteristics in real-time and to guide clinicians toward areas of disease for optimum therapy initially focused on prostate cancer.
Developing focal therapy system using ClariCore for abnormal tissue targeting in the prostate SciFluor Life Sciences, Inc. 2010 69.89% Developing a best-in-class portfolio of compounds based on the strategic use of fluorine initially focused on retinal, CNS, fibrotic and pain related diseases 13 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 PORTFOLIO SUMMARY CONTINUED Ownership 1 Subsidiary Year Formed Interest Overview Signature Medical, Inc. 2016 100.00% Developing cardiac signature technology for application on a wearable device enabling diagnosis and monitoring of heart failure during hospital therapy and post discharge Technology Allied Minds Federal Innovations, Inc. 2012 100.00% Through a series of Public Private Partnerships PPPs with the US federal government, aims to develop and commercialise the next generation of transformative technologies from US federal research institutions BridgeSat, Inc. 2015 100.00% Developing an optical connectivity system that aims to increase the speed, security and efficiency of data transmissions from LEO satellites, unmanned aerial systems, and remote terrestrial infrastructure compared to traditional radio frequency solutions Federated Wireless, Inc. 2012 72.96% A leader in the emerging market for Shared Spectrum, their CINQ cloud-based platform provides coordinated shared spectrum resources to enterprise customers, network operators and service providers Foreland Technologies, Inc. 2013 100.00% A cyber security platform company which aims to discover, incubate and commercialise emerging technologies with greater speed and agility than the rest of the market HawkEye 360, Inc. 2015 53.11% Building a constellation of small satellites in LEO to generate reports on wireless signals that can be used to track and monitor global transportation networks and assist with emergencies Percipient Networks, LLC 2014 100.00% Developing threat-intelligence driven cloud-based cyber security technologies for proactive enterprise network defence Seamless Devices, Inc. 2014 79.12% Developer of semiconductor devices using a novel approach to analog-to-digital signal processing based on switched-mode signal processing technology and algorithms Spin Transfer Technologies, Inc. 2007 48.40% MRAM computer memory that is being developed with the aspiration of becoming a leading universal memory technology to address a segment of the $60 billion per annum worldwide computer memory market Whitewood Encryption Systems, Inc. 2014 100.00% Developer of the next-generation systems of data encryption that leverage advanced quantum cryptography technologies In addition Allied Minds is party to an agreement with GE Ventures establishing a Strategic Alliance through which the two parties envisage cooperating to jointly invest in technologies from their pipelines.
Ownership interests are as at 24 April 2017 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document, and are based upon percentage interest in issued and outstanding share capital in the subsidiary undertakings.
Allied Minds ownership of HawkEye 360 was 56.11% as at 31 December 2016, prior to the second closing of the Series A preferred equity funding round completed in January 2017 14 Strategic Report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 PORTFOLIO SUMMARY CONTINUED which took Allied Minds ownership to 53.18%, and the subsequent exercise of employee options taking Allied Minds ownership to 53.11% as at 24 April 2017.
The calculation of this ownership interest excludes the dilutive impact of unexercised warrants issued in association with a $3.0 million development programme.
In 2016, Allied Minds ceased operations at its subsidiary SiEnergy Systems having determined that the underlying clean energy technology would not meet key milestones.
After the period end ABLS I ceased operations and the company was dissolved following Board determination that the feasibility programme was not successfully completed, and Vatic Materials was closed following unsatisfactory due diligence outcomes.
Also post-period end funding was discontinued at Biotectix: Cephalogics: CryoXtract: Novare Pharmaceuticals: Optio Labs: RF Biocidics: and SoundCure Tinnitus Treatment Solutions.
