ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 COMPANY OVERVIEW THE OPPORTUNITY The US is the worlds largest market for research and development R&D investment, with more than $125.0 billion in annual spending by the US federal government, resulting in thousands of US patent applications per annum.
Although US universities and federal research institutions have an established technology transfer process designed to commercialise this intellectual property, they face a number of challenges.
Universities often lack the resources necessary to adequately and efficiently identify the most marketable opportunities.
As a result, many universities license only a relatively small number of patents per year from a base of thousands, of which only a small fraction progress to the next stage of development.
Likewise, corporations have large areas of R&D output which may not align with their core strategy and target markets but could be refocused on other markets with cooperation from outside investors.
Allied Minds was established with the objective of collaborating with US universities and federal research institutions, and more recently with corporations, to identify high-potential innovations and inventions at an early stage, and to invest to develop the underlying technology into commercially attractive products and services, bring them to market and ultimately monetise them with a view to delivering attractive returns to shareholders.
OUR STRATEGY AND CAPITAL ALLOCATION Our origination strategy focuses on leveraging our partner network to uncover innovations in technology and life sciences with the potential to disrupt large and growing markets.
We see an opportunity to focus an increasing proportion of our new investments around particular themes or clusters of expertise within certain sectors, providing an opportunity to leverage technical and operating expertise, origination contacts, client and co-investor relationships both at Group level and across our subsidiary businesses.
At the same time, we will retain the flexibility to invest opportunistically away from these clusters where we see opportunities to generate attractive shareholder returns.
We seek to invest in projects at an early stage, sometimes immediately following an academic breakthrough or invention.
As such our investments have significant upside potential, but also carry significant risk inherent in the early stage model.
It is our job to ensure that companies that do not have a clear path to commercial traction are terminated early and with minimum sunk capital, while treating all parties involved fairly and with respect.
Although our model assumes that not all of our investments will succeed, we expect to make sufficient successful investments to generate attractive average returns across the portfolio as a whole because we enjoy competitive advantages via our origination platform and central operating expertise, and focus on investing in innovations that are disruptive to large and growing markets and maintaining control positions where appropriate.
Our role in our early stage subsidiaries is to provide equity funding, management, operating expertise and shared service resources to bridge the period from brand new invention to an externally financeable business plan.
A key component of the Companys strategy is to maintain strict capital discipline within an operationally efficient model for new companies while the commercial viability of the technology is explored and tested.
We believe that for early-stage businesses it is important to retain initial control of projects.
Over time, as our companies mature and raise outside capital from financial, strategic and commercial partners to accelerate their journey to commercialisation, we expect our proportionate ownership levels to be diluted.
We will follow our money, or invest to mitigate dilution, to the extent consistent with our goal to maximise risk adjusted returns for our shareholders, taking into account competing uses of capital across our portfolio and pipeline.
As our portfolio has matured, greater Board and management focus has been concentrated on operating and realising key commercial milestones at our more mature subsidiaries, representing a majority of GSOAV.
The importance of these subsidiaries to the Group is a key consideration in weighing capital allocation decisions.
10 Strategic Report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 COMPANY OVERVIEW CONTINUED EVOLUTION OF OUR BUSINESS MODEL AND APPROACH Since inception, Allied Minds has sought to deliver the commercial potential of selected university owned, earlystage intellectual property by working with technology transfer offices TTOs and establishing a structure to form, fund, manage and build start-up companies to develop innovative products and services that transform a market or meet unmet customer needs.
As an extension of its university model, in September 2012, Allied Minds reached agreements for first-of-a-kind Public Private Partnerships PPP with several US Department of Defense laboratories and federal government agencies, and subsequently reached agreements with other federal government agencies such as the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Energy.
Under these PPPs, the Company typically receives certain access and licensing rights to inventions originating from the US Department of Defense laboratories and other federal government agencies which can be commercialised for government and or enterprise customers.
More recently our origination model has further evolved with the formation of partnerships and alliances with US corporations, including BMS via ABLS and GE Ventures.
These relationships provide us with access to technology, expertise and capital, and have the potential to fide-risk and accelerate the path to commercialisation and monetisation.
Form In 2016 Allied Minds evaluated over 2,700 potential projects from across a broad range of university and federal laboratories and addressing a broad range of underlying technologies.
We maintain regular contact with our university partners, including via campus visits and interaction between Allied Minds staff and university technology transfer personnel and researchers.
In order for a project to proceed past the first review stage, it must score highly in key technical assessment criteria.
Projects are assessed on a number of criteria, including: value proposition: disruptive technology: initial commercial application: addressable market: business model: potential intellectual property protection: competitive landscape: financing profile: regulatory path: and potential exit routes where applicable.
Approximately 2% of those projects reviewed are selected for further evaluation, involving sector experts and academic peers to perform a deeper evaluation of the scientific and commercial potential of the project.
Of these projects, approximately half are selected for detailed due diligence resulting in preparation of a detailed product and business development plan and budget structured around key milestones.
Following this full diligence process, historically we have invested in 4 to 6 new technologies per annum.
We see scope to increase this rate of investment in the future.
After selecting a project, Allied Minds typically establishes a subsidiary company that receives an exclusive licence for the commercial rights to the underlying intellectual property.
The subsidiary is usually majority owned by Allied Minds in either a limited liability company or incorporated structure, with the originating university and inventor s each potentially receiving a minority shareholding in that entity.
Fund The subsidiary businesses use the seed funding to validate the core scientific principles of the intellectual property, and evaluate the likelihood of commercial success of a technology prior to making any significant additional commitment to fund, develop and commercialise the technology.
In certain cases the subsidiary is funded by Allied Minds to conduct deep due diligence over a period of approximately 3 months, at the end of which further seed funding is invested or the subsidiary is terminated.
11 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 COMPANY OVERVIEW CONTINUED Disbursement of additional funding by Allied Minds and future rounds of financing for further development are dependent on achievement of key milestones designed to measure technological and commercial progress.
Where a project has failed to deliver sufficient additional proof points, or new market or technical information renders the opportunity commercially unattractive, and the technology cannot be pivoted to an alternative commercial path, Allied Minds will look to terminate the investment early.
At each stage in the business development cycle we review and explore opportunities to secure third party investment.
Going forward we expect to increase our focus on opportunities to enlist strategic investors, potentially at an earlier stage, to validate the commercial opportunity and lock in cooperation with a view to accelerating or fide-risking the path to commercialisation and monetisation.
Manage We evaluate on an on-going basis the progress and potential of each of the Companys businesses, and make strategy and funding decisions based on the achievement of key milestones.
The Company sets out to identify key achievements within each subsidiary that indicate growth momentum such as revenue, industry partnerships, and go-to-market agreements, as a means of commercially validating the technology and business case.
Allied Minds actively manages and monitors its businesses throughout the life-cycle towards commercialisation.
During the early stages, Allied Minds typically provides technical and executive leadership, as well as shared services support.
At the appropriate time we will support a subsidiary business in hiring a full time CEO and other critical talent and in putting in place incentives to drive results.
As businesses evolve, Allied Minds builds and leads the Board, recruits advisors and forms advisory Boards comprising of seasoned industry experts who act as mentors, while maintaining dedicated personnel to oversee progress.
Allied Minds provides administrative support, including sales and marketing research, consulting, competitive analysis, technology analysis, payroll and IT support, and operational advice, to enable our businesses to focus on research, product development and commercialisation activities while achieving operational and financial efficiency.
