Strategic Report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 PORTFOLIO REVIEW AND DEVELOPMENTS This section covers the Groups more advanced subsidiaries, and also includes by way of explanation those subsidiaries subject to material valuation write-downs at the end of 2016.
CORPORATE PARTNERSHIPS ABLS, LLC ABLS is a drug discovery and development company created in August 2014 through a partnership between Allied Minds and BMS.
The companys mission is to create novel drug candidates against serious diseases with large market potential.
These include fibrosis, cardiovascular, immunescience, immuno-oncology, oncology, and genetically-defined disease, aligning to BMSs strategic areas of focus.
BMS has the option to acquire drug compounds from ABLS upon completion of the lead optimisation phase for a pre-agreed multiple of invested capital, with Allied Minds retaining rights to potential milestone and royalty payments.
ABLS sources new drug candidates from Allied Minds network of institutional research partners and funds the initial feasibility study, typically requiring up to approximately $1.0 million of capital, through a newly formed subsidiary.
Consistent with Allied Minds overall strategy, the ABLS model presents an opportunity for us, with BMS, to evaluate each ABLS subsidiary and determine at an early stage and with limited capital invested whether to continue development based on the results of such subsidiarys initial phase of research, development and testing, measured against objectives defined by ABLS and BMS.
If the drug passes the initial feasibility stage, it will enter into the optimisation phase to develop and test a lead drug candidate, typically requiring further capital investment of up to $15.0 million.
Funding for lead optimisation is provided by a combination of Allied Minds via ABLS Capital, LLC ABLS Capital 80.0% and BMS 20.0%.
The optimisation phase studies are in part carried out at a BMS R&D Site in India, called Biocon-BMS Research Center BBRC.
ABLS Capital was formed to provide the majority of the capital required to fund up to ten 10 ABLS subsidiaries though the lead optimisation phase.
In April 2016 ABLS Capital secured commitments amounting to $80.0 million, including $40.0 million from Woodford Investment Management and $20.0 million from Invesco Perpetual.
These funding commitments will be used to invest alongside the up to $20.0 million from BMS to fund these lead optimisation phases.
The ABLS partnership aligns Allied Minds with a seasoned large pharmaceutical partner and creates a natural early stage pre-clinical acquirer of developing assets, potentially fide-risking the drug development process for Allied Minds and providing attractive risk adjusted returns.
The company reviewed more than 245 technologies in 2016.
As of this date, three subsidiaries have been launched, although one of these ABLS I ceased operations after the period end following Board determination that results from feasibility studies did not warrant progress to the lead optimisation phase.
Pre-clinical work is underway on the other two programmes in collaboration with BBRC.
Active negotiations are currently underway in relation to two potential new deals with scope to close in the first half of 2017.
ABLS I, LLC ABLS I was a company formed in August 2015 pursuing pre-clinical development of a Yale University based technology: Antibody Recruiting Molecules.
As described above, the ABLS model is structured to allow decisions to be made early in development with little capital invested, lowering risk and helping to inform better capitalallocation among the ABLS subsidiaries.
Consistent with this approach, upon review and assessment of the initial research and testing results completed in ABLS Is initial feasibility phase, ABLS and BMS resolved that 21 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 PORTFOLIO REVIEW AND DEVELOPMENTS CONTINUED the pre-set objectives were not met and accordingly, the lead optimisation phase for ABLS I was not approved and the company was dissolved post-period end.
ABLS II, LLC ABLS II was formed in June 2015 to undertake pre-clinical discovery and development of molecules against a novel target Prolyl tRNA Synthetase for treatment of fibrotic diseases.
Harvard University researchers had earlier identified the mechanism of halofuginone a natural product with anti-fibrotic properties as an inhibitor of Prolyl tRNA Synthetase.
ABLS IIs objective is to discover and develop halofuginone analogues with novel IP, better safety and superior efficacy.
ABLS II has synthesised various molecules and is evaluating them for safety and efficacy.
In May 2016 ABLS announced that ABLS II had successfully passed feasibility and in August ABLS II successfully raised $15.0 million of funding from ABLS Capital and BMS to fund the lead optimisation phase.
ABLS III, LLC, d b a ieCa Therapeutics ieCa Therapeutics was formed in March 2016 with IP licensed exclusively from New York University NYU School of Medicine.
NYU researchers have identified novel inhibitors of nuclear beta catenin, a key player in the Wnt signaling pathway and a major driver of various cancers.
These molecules are targeted specifically against nuclear vs cytoplasmic beta catenin thereby potentially offering better safety and efficacy.
The companys objective is to develop molecules with improved potency, efficacy and better pharmaceutical properties.
Strategic Alliance with GE Ventures Created in September 2016 to jointly identify and invest in technologies from Allied Minds and GE Ventures combined pipelines.
OTHER SUBSIDIARY BUSINESSES BridgeSat, Inc BridgeSat is reinventing satellite communication with an advanced optical communications network that delivers fast, reliable and affordable data transmission to enable a new era of applications and services.
Optical communications is an alternative to RF communications to meet the exponentially growing need for data downlinking from satellites, including LEO satellites.
BridgeSat estimates that the immediate addressable optical downlink market is $1.5 billion annually, a sub-set of the $9.6 billion satellite network market.
BridgeSat made good progress against its business plan over 2016, developing the three facets of its solution: space terminal, ground station, and management network, and post-period end secured agreement with The Swedish Space Corporation SSC to install its equipment at 3 of SSCs ground sites.
Federated Wireless, Inc. Federated Wireless extends the access of carrier networks through sharing of wireless spectrum amongst multiple tiers of users through an innovative cloud-based wireless infrastructure solution.
The allocation and management of spectrum employing a shared-economy model is hugely disruptive to the status quo of large spectrum block auctions.
The Federated Wireless platform, consisting of a cloud based Spectrum Allocation System SAS and Environmental Sensing Capability ESC, unlocks commercial access to spectrum in the 3.5 GHz band, called the CBRS, that is owned by the US military and is surplus to its requirements at a given point in time.
In February the company announced the formation of an alliance with other wireless industry leaders to build an ecosystem for the 3.5 GHz band.
The other six founding companies in the CBRS Alliance are: Alphabet, Dell, Intel, Qualcomm, Nokia, and Ruckus Wireless Brocade.
The six companies together aim to build a robust ecosystem of industry participants and make CBRS solutions as widely available as possible.
The Alliance was formalised in August 2016 as the CBRS Alliance and membership quadrupled by year-end to include cable companies, carriers, and equipment providers.
22 Strategic Report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 PORTFOLIO REVIEW AND DEVELOPMENTS CONTINUED In May 2016 Federated Wireless announced that it officially began the certification process with the FCC for its SAS.
Certification is the final phase of the regulatory process as the company prepares its solution for commercial use.
Conditional approval of certification was received in December 2016 and final approval is expected in mid-2017.
Federated Wireless continues to work closely with the FCC and leads the WInnForum in helping to establish standards for the 3.5 GHz band and shared spectrum.
In June 2016 the first two partner agreements for Federated Wireless were announced with Siemens and Telrad.
Both companies currently operate in the 3.65 GHz band and will be early adopters of the FCCs CBRS rules in order to evolve and expand their networks using the Federated Wireless CINQ XP product.
In December, Federated Wireless and Alphabets access team successfully demonstrated interoperability between their respective SASs: a requirement for FCC certification and an important milestone in validating the operational viability of CBRS.
During the year Federated Wireless completed trials with Alphabet, Dell and Qualcomm, and has trials with a 15 further ecosystem members signed or underway and 6 in pipeline.
These collaborations re-affirm that the CBRS model is a commercially viable way to allocate and manage limited spectrum resources.
HawkEye 360, Inc. HawkEye 360, formed in September 2015, is developing a space-based RF mapping and analytics system to be operated via a constellation of company developed formation-flying small satellites in LEO.
HawkEye 360 intends to be a leader in the emerging small satellite industry and its Pathfinder constellation of small satellites, which will be flown in formation 600 kilometres from the Earths surface, aims to enable commercial applications such as allowing governmental entities and corporate customers to closely monitor transportation networks across air, land and sea to ensure normal and safe activity.
For government regulators, telecommunications companies and satellite broadcasters, HawkEye 360s system is being designed with the ability to monitor RF spectrum usage to help identify areas of interference, better understand spectrum deployment, and avoid negative impact to operations.
The system could also help to detect and locate activated emergency beacons to improve response times in life-threatening situations.
At the beginning of 2016 HawkEye 360 announced the formation of an Advisory Board including a former Director of the National Reconnaissance Office NRO, former Director of National  Agency NGA and a former Secretary of Department for Homeland Security DHS.
Over the remainder of the year HawkEye 360 announced the selection of its satellite and payload manufacturers, with manufacturing now underway, and secured launch planned for Q1 2018.
Funds from HawkEye 360s $13.75 million series A round completed in February 2017 will be deployed to complete the development of the Pathfinder Cluster of three small satellites as well as to support the cost of testing and launch in early 2018, and to grow the companys engineering and business development teams.
Existing prostate cancer diagnostics rely on biopsy procedures which are performed blindly, sampling 12- 14 cores at random.
Precision Biopsys ClariCore live tissue identification technology directs the physician to sample only suspicious tissue, potentially reducing by up to 90% the number of core samples subject to pathology and providing immediate feedback to biopsied patients.
ClariCore may also improve cancer diagnosis and detection rates by enabling the urologist to probe extra locations, including the anterior prostate, when all previous biopsy location have indicated as normal.
23 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 PORTFOLIO REVIEW AND DEVELOPMENTS CONTINUED Existing therapeutics for prostate cancer suffer in the same way as diagnostics from the inability to definitively localise the cancer tumour.
Precision Biopsy has filed patents to develop and is currently developing a threedimensional prostate mapping system utilising a variation of the ClariCore system.
It is intended that this mapping system will accurately identify the tumour and selected margins to allow for focal treatment of the affected area of the prostate using RF ablation, HIFU, cryoablation, radiation, or other focal therapy technologies such as drug injection, potentially reducing the need for radical prostatectomy procedures and preserving healthy tissue.
The company is also developing a focal therapy system which would enable the urologist to locally and focally ablate selective suspicious segments of the prostate utilising the ClariCore system to guide the therapy.
In mid-2016 Precision Biopsy received FDA IDE Investigational Device Exemption approval to test ClariCore in a Cohort A study intended to collect patient data to develop its commercial tissue classification algorithm.
This IDE approval has allowed the company to expand the clinical trial by adding a second arm to the study enrolling patients for the Transrectal Ultrasound TRUS and MR Fusion study.
To date, Precision Biopsy has completed over 100 patients in its Cohort A trial at six US clinical sites.
A second clinical trial initiation, Cohort B, is planned and trial results are expected to support submission for approval, commercial release and system launch in the US and EU.
SciFluor Life Sciences, Inc. SciFluor aims to develop a best-in-class portfolio of compounds principally through the strategic use of fluorine.
It engages in drug discovery and development and is building a portfolio of proprietary compounds seeking to serve various billion dollar markets.
SciFluor has evolved its current portfolio by adding fluorine to drug compounds with the intention of improving potency, selectivity, rates of absorption, metabolic stability, and halflife.
These factors all improve the specific drugs and can positively impact delivery, dosing, side effects and more.
For reference, approximately 25% of drugs currently marketed or in the pipeline contain fluorine.
SciFluors principal products are based on two patented lead compounds: SF0166, a patented small molecule integrin antagonist wholly owned by SciFluor and intended to treat eye conditions, specifically retinal diseases including AMD, DME and retinal vein occlusion RVO, representing an estimated 50 million patients worldwide and over $8.0 billion market value.
What makes SF0166 potentially disruptive is that it is a topical drug delivered via eye drops and is intended to replace current drugs delivered via repeated injection into the back of the eye.
SF0034, a KCNQ2 3 modulator a potassium channel activator, which is a fluorinated derivative of retagabine, is also patented and wholly owned by SciFluor.
SF0034 could eliminate key safety issues associated with retigabine and could potentially serve markets totaling $5.0 billion in aggregate including: epilepsy seizures: tinnitus: amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS or Lou Gehrigs disease : and channelopathies genetically-defined rare diseases based on mutations of the potassium channel.
In February 2016, SciFluor was granted U. S. Patent No.
9,266,884 covering methods of using SF0166 in the treatment of a range of diseases including AMD, DME and RVO.
SciFluor had been previously granted U. S. Patent 8,901,144 covering compositions of matter that include SF0166.
In July 2016 the Investigational New Drug IND Application to the FDA went into effect for SF0166 Topical Ophthalmic Solution SF0166.
The company has initiated dosing in Phase I II trials for both DME and wet-AMD in multiple centers in the US.
The company is also evolving a portfolio beyond its two lead compounds.
24 Strategic Report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 PORTFOLIO REVIEW AND DEVELOPMENTS CONTINUED Spin Transfer Technologies, Inc. STT STT engages in the development of OSTMRAM, an innovative memory integrated circuit technology originally sourced from NYU.
Electronic memory devices used in todays computers are specialised to handle different computing and data storage tasks.
Non-volatile memories, such as Flash, retain information after power has been turned off, but Flash memory suffers from slow write speed and poor endurance.
High-speed memories, such as Dynamic Random-Access Memory DRAM, offer greater read and write performance, but DRAM is volatile and requires significantly higher power to operate.
In addition, both Flash and DRAM have questionable scalability to finer process geometries than currently used in todays state of the art semiconductor micro lithography.
MRAM is a promising technology for the next generation of memory applications.
OSTMRAMs potentially unique combination of fast write speed, low power, and virtually unlimited endurance is expected to enable it to address a wide range of applications in the standalone and embedded memory markets, which collectively had a combined estimated value of greater than $60 billion per annum worldwide.
During 2016 STT announced that it had successfully demonstrated its OST-MRAM technology through the production of a working prototype device.
Supported by the 2015 completion of its wafer fabrication clean room used for developing and prototyping the new magnetic portion of the chip fabrication process, the companys engineering development cycles have accelerated markedly, reliably achieving under 2-3 week engineering cycle time for wafers, reduced by greater than 75% in comparison to the typical two month or longer cycle time that was the operating norm prior to the clean room completion.
This has enabled the company to make rapid strides in its migration to perpendicular magnetic tunnel junction pMTJ technology, the so-called third generation of MRAM.
As a result, in December 2016 the company began shipping samples of its DM1 Diagnostic Memory chip to target customers.
The samples were prepared and screened to credible standards of function and reliability.
In addition, STT completed prototypes of memory array with megabit-level densities with accompanying performance and yield statistics.
In doing so the company completed its first steps in advancing the capability of its pMTJ manufacturing process to support high-density, commercially relevant memory arrays.
In September 2016 the company announced that it had fabricated pMTJs as small as 20nm among the smallest MTJs ever reported.
This megabit density technology demonstration, along with the pMTJ DM1 samples, are essential enablers to the companys initial market outreach.
The above progress signals the impending completion of STTs first major phase of development, resulting in a baseline pMTJ technology that the company believes will be both viable against competitors with typical incremental improvements in time and highly credible in securing an advanced CMOS complementary metaloxide semiconductor manufacturing partner with process capabilities compatible with even higher bit density memories, e. g. 20-45nm lithography-capable, strategic joint development partner s, and early stage license agreements.
The companys early stage cooperative development arrangements with its Asian CMOS foundry partners has progressed as anticipated.
STT plans to expand one or both of those relationships, as well as add additional relationships, enabled by the impending readiness of the baseline pMTJ technology.
Discontinued Subsidiaries Consistent with the Allied Minds model, where a project has failed to deliver sufficient additional proof points for 25 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 PORTFOLIO REVIEW AND DEVELOPMENTS CONTINUED ultimate commercialisation and financial return, no longer supports on-going development and commercialisation activity, and cannot be successfully redirected to an alternative commercial path, Allied Minds will look to cease operations and terminate the project.
In 2016, Allied Minds ceased operations at its subsidiary SiEnergy having determined that the clean energy technology would not meet key milestones.
Post-period end ABLS I ceased operations and was dissolved following Board determination that it had not successfully completed initial feasibility studies and Vatic Materials was closed following unsatisfactory due diligence outcomes.
Also post-period end funding was discontinued at: Biotectix: Cephalogics: CryoXtract: Novare Pharmaceuticals: Optio Labs: RF Biocidics: SoundCure: and Tinnitus Treatment Solutions, following Board determination that these subsidiaries were unlikely to generate appropriate returns and capital and management resource should be diverted to more promising areas of the portfolio and pipeline.
