Our strategy Background to our strategy Following the appointment of Jon Lewis as Chief Executive Officer, we began a wide-ranging review of our strategy, organisational structure and cost base.
As a consequence of this review, we have developed a number of corporatelevel strategic priorities supported by detailed strategies for each business line.
Our strategic priorities at the corporate level are set out on page 17.
These priorities have a number of common themes.
First, they will give us greater operational and financial discipline, through a reorganisation into four market-facing business lines, implementing a single set of operational procedures, enhanced management accountability and the benefit of the scale efficiencies that an organisation diversified across markets should provide.
Second, implementing these strategic priorities will improve our customer proposition by enhancing our cost effectiveness and improving the technical capabilities we can offer our customers.
The third common theme is a greater focus on cash generation as a consequence of improved operational efficiency and reduced exceptional costs, with a target of generating free cash flow on a sustainable basis.
Our objective in implementing these priorities is to strengthen Amec Foster Wheeler, enabling us to take better advantage of growth opportunities.
Implementing our strategy will reinforce our business model see page 6 by improving our ability to identify, acquire and deliver projects.
Amec Foster Wheeler 16 Annual report and accounts 2016 Our strategic priorities 1.
We will continue our evolution into a customer-centric, multi-sector 5.
We will invest in information technology to differentiate our project consulting, engineering and construction company, making resource delivery capabilities and to help us enhance the management of our allocation decisions across the business lines to benefit from the most customers assets.
We plan to create value from our use of technology, starting with two The strategy review has highlighted numerous attractive end markets, where initiatives in Oil, Gas & Chemicals which we will then apply elsewhere across we can provide customers with consulting, engineering and construction the Company.
First, we are building on our existing portfolio of process services.
Our new operating model, with a single set of processes for technologies, including with third-party license owners where we are the project delivery, will enable us to make consistent resource allocation exclusive implementation partner.
Second, we are developing information, decisions, enabling us to take better advantage of the most attractive data and data acquisition technologies to identify and deliver step changes in growth opportunities.
efficiency and productivity across our operations.
We will use this to automate and accelerate our design, construction and asset support services to There is also an opportunity to increase the scope of services that we provide customers.
We are also working in partnership with our customers and other to our customers, so we capture a greater share of each project, provide more innovators from the technology sector to develop new solutions designed to value to the customer and potentially generate further work.
deliver superior outcomes for our customers and their assets.
This will help The more detailed business line strategies underpinning this priority are us to continue to differentiate our customer offering and be better positioned described on pages 18 to 19. to win new projects.
We will enhance our value-based engineering offering, helping 6.
We will improve the engagement of our people and focus on customers to ensure their projects are economically viable.
attracting, developing and retaining the best talent globally We are building on our track record and knowledge to strengthen our valuePeople are our principal asset and we need to ensure we have the right culture based engineering offering.
By working in partnership with our customers, for them to succeed.
More information about the culture we are looking to we will look to create solutions that make our customers projects more cost create, our investment in talent and our approach to diversity and inclusion effective, so they remain economically viable.
By helping our customers to can be found in the People section on page 25. achieve their objectives, we will be better positioned to capture further work.
Through our lean operating model and leveraging our Indian 7.
We will enhance our focus on cash generation: eliminating operations, we will ensure we are cost competitive and better unnecessary expenditure and increasing efficiency and scalability able to bid and win.
Innovative approaches to reducing the cost of delivering our services Our programme to reduce overhead costs by a net 100m and our focus to customers, such as More4Less, show that we can align our skills and on running a lean operating model will improve our cost effectiveness.
capabilities with a strong value proposition for customers.
We can also In addition, we are taking measures to minimise cash outflows, including enhance our proposition by leveraging engineering in India, where operating tighter control of working capital.
costs are lower than in many places in the western hemisphere.
We will therefore embed these lower costs and roll out innovations across our end markets.
This will reduce the cost to serve our customers, potentially increasing our trading margin and better positioning us to win new business.
We will invest in excellence in our technical and business functions, 8.
To strengthen the balance sheet, ensuring a stable financial platform drive standardisation and follow common policies and procedures to support the business.
With the offer from John Wood Group, the Company announced it had As discussed in the Chief Executive Officers statement on page 10, intended to launch a rights issue to raise approximately 500m, and to we have created four new technical functions and given our business suspend dividend payments to strengthen the balance sheet.
The Company functions direct reporting lines into the same functions at Company is continuing to make good progress generating proceeds from the non-core level.
This will drive standardisation, reduce our operating costs, simplify asset disposal programme.
governance and minimise the variance in project performance, helping Executing on the strategic priorities above which are designed to improve us to generate more consistent financial returns.
cash flow will, over time, further strengthen the balance sheet.
We will provide a safe and sustainable environment for our people and the communities in which we work.
Our sustainability strategy and commitments are aligned to the principles of the UN Global Compact.
In alignment with these principles and the commitments set out in our Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking statement in response to the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015, we will continue to raise awareness of modern slavery with our employees and value chain and also collaborate with industry on this issue, sharing best practice, policies and procedure.
We will continue to embed sustainability into the delivery of our projects to ensure we mitigate operational risks, respect and protect the environment and the communities in which we work.
This will protect our reputation and licence to operate, supporting the delivery of stronger business performance.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 17 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: strategic review Our strategy continued Our business line strategies As part of our review, strategies have been developed for each business line based on specific opportunities and challenges.
Oil, Gas & Chemicals Mining As a result of market conditions, our focus is on developing We expect market conditions to recover from recent lows new revenue streams to replace some of our historically and we are therefore preparing the business to take advantage strong positions.
For the upstream business, this will involve developing a balance A key aspect of this strategy is to utilise our early stage of operating expenditure and capital expenditure projects, consulting expertise to win project delivery work.
increasing exposure to lower-cost barrels and turning strong A more coordinated approach between consulting, business local operations into strong international ones.
development and project delivery teams will help us to be more competitive in bidding and to develop enhanced solutions We will build on our strong presence in upstream asset for customers.
We are also looking to expand our customer support and commissioning in the UK North Sea by pursuing base to increase the share of work from major global miners.
opportunities in other locations, and by expanding our asset support solutions for the downstream market.
We will continue to invest in our mobile materials movement solutions, including our patented Super Portable systems, In the downstream business, we will continue to develop our which can lower operating costs in mines by replacing fleets core refining business by strengthening and expanding our of trucks and their significant support costs.
consulting, hydrotreating, delayed coking and fluid catalytic cracking positions, along with our extensive experience with complex refurbishments and turnarounds.
In addition, we intend to expand our presence in high-growth areas within the chemicals market.
We aim to capture a greater share of our customers expenditure on projects and carefully grow our exposure to full scope project delivery work.
This will require some investment in tools and processes and the hiring of key people, and will often be executed in partnership with local companies.
Amec Foster Wheeler 18 Annual report and accounts 2016 Power & Process Environment & Infrastructure Our focus is to deliver power generating capital projects for Our priority is to increase market share by bringing together customers, using a variety of technologies.
the entire skills of Amec Foster Wheeler to deliver customerspecific solutions.
We currently have a market-leading position in the utility-scale solar installation market in the US.
Although we are expecting We have identified a number of growth opportunities, including: a near-term reduction in solar project activity, due to the X expanding our share of radiological remediation and waste phasing of government tax incentives discussed in the markets management programmes section on pages 14 and 15, we will remain focused on gaining market share through continuous improvement of our cost per X expanding our environmental liability and asset management kilowatt installed pricing.
services, especially for large companies, with significant legacy reserves and decommissioning obligations In addition, we intend to pursue further projects in wind across X the Americas and in conventional power plants, delivering growing our share of the US Department of Defenses projects for utilities and industrial clients, with whom we have international budget strong relationships.
X taking advantage of growing infrastructure spend in the US and beyond, including by pursuing new customers and expanding through our main geographic hubs X enhancing our capability and scale in the UK and Europe, combining our existing positions with our extensive North American expertise and capabilities We will also continue to offer environmental consulting and engineering services across the Companys other markets, where closer cooperation with Business Development and engineering teams can generate additional project work.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 19 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: strategic review Connected through excellence long-term customer relationships Working on a granite hosted uranium deposit in Namibia which is one of the largest uranium deposits in the world, with the potential to produce 15 million pounds per annum of uranium oxide.
The project lies within the Namib Naukluft National Park and therefore has stringent environmental requirements that the project enforces.
20 Delivering excellence results in repeat business and stronger relationships with our customers.
The engineering, procurement and construction management EPCM contract for the Husab mining project with SGS Bateman follows the Definitive Feasibility Study we delivered in 2011 and the Engineering Cost Study for the project.
Our responsibility includes the management and systems used by the project joint venture we are part of, while responsibilities for engineering, procurement and construction management are shared with the joint venture partner.
The construction phase of this project completed during 2016, with commissioning and operation due in 2017.
21 21 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: strategic review
