Our markets Our competitive environment We face robust competition from a wide range of companies in each of our markets.
However, there is no one competitor operating in all the same markets, with the same geographic footprint and with a similar approach to risk as Amec Foster Wheeler.
Historically, upstream capital costs have moved in-line with oil Oil, Gas & Chemicals prices.
However, the IEA highlights that over the next few years, Spending in the Oil, Gas & Chemicals market, and capex capital costs will only grow marginally.
According to the IEA, this in particular, is heavily influenced by oil and gas prices and dislocation is not permanent and, in the long run, once the excess their respective outlooks.
This has had a significant effect supply of labour and equipment is eliminated, upstream capital on our markets.
costs are expected to revert to moving in tandem with oil prices.
In the last quarter of 2014, oil prices fell from around $100 per Investment in refining is driven by growth in demand for barrel to below $50, largely because the Organisation of the refined products, which is forecast to reach 0.4% globally, Petroleum Exporting Countries ended its policy of managing but with regional variations.
Other factors include tightening output and decided to focus on maintaining market share, environmental regulations both for refined products and the to curtail the growth of shale production in North America.
refining installations themselves and feedstock changes.
In mature markets, refiners continue to delay major capital Upstream spending fell sharply in the aftermath.
While global investments in favour of smaller and lower-risk refurbishments exploration and production spending hit an all-time high of and upgrades, while capacity additions are concentrated in $780 billion in 2014, investment was cut by $200 billion in high-demand growth regions such as Asia and the Middle East.
2015 and by a further $140 billion in 2016, representing a 44% reduction from 2014.
Discretionary spending was swiftly Capex in refining is expected to return to growth, following two withdrawn from North American unconventional fields and years of decline during which integrated oil companies curtailed exploration, and cuts have spread to all resources and almost both upstream and downstream investments.
Longer term, all geographies over the last two years.
New investment in the IEA expects over $1 trillion to be invested in the refining space conventional greenfield projects virtually ceased.
Upstream between 2015 and 2040, with non-OECD countries accounting capex is expected to resume growth in 2017, but at a modest for 71% of the investment, and an additional 16 million barrels single-digit rate, and to be concentrated mainly in US shale per day of new refining capacity being built over that timeframe.
Opex has proven more resilient, declining by a single Capex in the chemical sector is set to further expand, digit percentage each year between 2014 and 2016, and is as companies take advantage of comparatively low oil and expected to hit a low in 2017 before returning to growth.
gas prices and increasing demand.
Frost & Sullivan expects Constrained exploration and production spending since 2014 petrochemical demand to be strong in developing nations, has had a material impact on existing production and the with 8% growth annually in India and 6.1% in China until 2020. timely development of new production to mitigate the natural China, the United States and Saudi Arabia are expected to lead decline of well productivity.
According to the International new capacity development, with $160 billion of announced Energy Agency IEA, a supply gap of 15.9 million barrels project capital expenditure up to 2020 in the United States alone.
per day will exist in 2025 which will need to be met by new, Saudi Arabia will also spearhead investment in the sector, as it as yet unapproved, conventional crude oil projects.
seeks to transform its economy and generate more value-added products from each barrel of oil.
The IEA expects that upstream oil and gas spending will grow between 2016 and 2040 to total over $17 trillion, averaging $700 billion per year, thus reversing the recent decline.
Of the $17 trillion total investment, North America accounts for 25%, the Middle East 15% and Asia 12%.
Market split 5% Market split 41% Amec Foster Wheeler 14 Annual report and accounts 2016 such as the price of natural gas.
For example, at the end of Mining 2015 tax credits for commercial solar installations in the US In mining, forecasts from the major mining firms suggest that were extended by a further three years to 2019, after which they expansionary capex around the world has reached the low point will wind down from 30% to reach 10% from 2022 onwards.
in the cycle for some commodities.
Significant investment in These credits had been expected to finish at the end of 2016, the period to 2012 led to oversupply of many commodities, resulting in projects being brought forward before the extension such as iron ore, driving down prices and resulting in a sharp was agreed and helping us to deliver a record year in 2016. contraction in capex.
As a result, announced capex spend in We expect demand will fall in the short term, before recovering 2017 and 2018 is expected to be similar to actual spend in 2007. later this decade.
However, the price outlook for some products, such as gold, The abundant supply of gas, as well as shale oil, in North lithium and copper, is more positive.
Our long-standing America is also improving the competitiveness of US-based reputation for front end consulting, our strong technical skills industry by lowering energy, hydrocarbon feedstock and and asset-light model means we can adapt to changing activity logistics costs.
This is forecast to increase demand for industrial levels in different commodities.
In the near term, these metals power and steam generation.
and minerals are likely to make up the majority of our workload.
This has the potential to drive growth in our mining revenues Environment & Infrastructure beyond 2017, as our customers seek to take selective advantage The environment and infrastructure markets have shown of a more beneficial pricing environment.
steady growth in recent years and this is forecast to continue.
Environmental consulting spend worldwide is predicted to grow Power & Process at around 2% a year from 2015 to 2020, double the rate in the The North American energy market is the key driver in preceding five years.
In addition, many countries have an urgent Power & Process.
Net demand for electricity is expected to need to upgrade their critical infrastructure, particularly in areas grow at around 1% a year over the next 10 years.
In North America, for example, transport approximately a quarter of the current installed base of capex is forecast to grow at 3% per annum in the five years generating capacity will need to be retired.
The combination to 2020, with investment in roads making up the vast majority of steadily rising demand and the closing of significant of this spend.
Globally, the infrastructure market is expected existing capacity means there is robust requirement for power to grow even more quickly than this, with a forecast growth rate infrastructure spend, which is forecast at more than US$500bn of 4% to 7% a year to 2025. over the next decade.
Generating capacity additions are expected in solar, wind, thermal upgrades and gas over the forecast period, although levels of activity for each type of generation vary over time.
The spend and mix by generation type is sensitive to the availability of subsidies, changes in regulation and other factors, Market split 17% Market split 26% GPG and Investment Services make up the remaining 11% of our markets Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 15 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: strategic review
