Our business model We follow a three-stage process for winning and delivering work.
This draws on our distinct competitive advantages, to enable us to compete effectively and create value.
Identify The first stage in our process is to identify prospective projects.
1 Business Development BD is embedded in each of our four business lines The strength of our long-term customer relationships is a crucial advantage to locate it as close as possible to our customers.
Each BD team ensures for us, helping us to understand their needs, learn about upcoming projects we have a fundamental understanding of our markets and our customers and win repeat business.
Relationships with global key accounts are needs.
This enables the BD teams to create strategic plans aligned to our overseen by key account managers within the relevant business lines BD strategy and the business lines overall market strategy.
team to ensure they have appropriate visibility and we take a consistent approach.
Our brand and reputation for delivery are also crucial, helping us In addition to the prospects we identify, we also learn about projects through to attract new customers.
We assess all prospects based on our positioning and capabilities, commercial considerations and their alignment with our In addition, our Environment & Infrastructure E&I business line is an strategy.
BD then pursues suitable prospects.
This stage includes early important enabler for us.
Its involvement in the earliest stages of proposed identification of our execution strategy, the resources required and our projects, for example during permitting and environmental impact analysis, capacity to deliver.
Our assurance process makes sure we only pursue helps us to identify opportunities ahead of our competitors.
We therefore the most appropriate targets.
embed E&I resources into the other three business lines.
Acquire The second stage is to acquire the projects we want to win.
2 The BD teams coordinate the preparation of our proposals, along with the for success, maximising the value we generate from our resources and technical, project delivery and commercial teams.
This includes aligning addressing risks that are part of contracting in our industry.
our strengths to customer needs to differentiate our proposal against We use a detailed workflow system which addresses the risks associated competitors.
To benefit from the breadth of our business, we collaborate with tenders for both lump sum and reimbursable contracts in areas such across business lines, capabilities and geographies to offer customers the as technical challenges, financial and pricing terms, and joint venture and best and most competitive solution, sharing expertise and key resource partner risks, as well as a full range of governance issues, such as human from around the Company.
We draw on our ability to create innovative rights, safety and environmental risks.
solutions for our customers and, where required, look to develop innovative commercial models.
All very large contracts, and those where any exception has been flagged in the approval system, are raised through the governance framework to A gated review process ensures we test our proposals at critical points and a final decision at the Tender Review Committee, which is attended by the only progress those that continue to meet our criteria.
During the Acquire Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
stage we review our execution strategy and ensure we have identified the project risks and put plans in place to mitigate them.
This plays a vital role Once all aspects of the bid have been reviewed and approved, we submit in ensuring that we win projects with the greatest possible opportunity the bid, negotiate with the customer and secure the work.
Deliver The third stage is to deliver excellence to our customers.
This means consistently delivering projects and services that meet our customers expectations, safely, on time and to budget.
3 Having won the project, we finalise our execution plan and mobilise the During the delivery phase, we monitor customer satisfaction with our work.
people who will deliver it.
Delivering a project requires us to put together Global and local account managers are responsible for account planning and teams of people who match the precise needs of the project and the co-ordinating the customer relationship.
A project director is responsible customer.
Thus, we expect to recruit thousands of people each year, with for the delivery of our work, in line with our contract and the customers others leaving us when their projects complete.
However, the breadth of expectations.
The director leads and manages the project team, with our business reduces our need to recruit, since many skills are transferable responsibility for running the project on a day-to-day basis.
This means we are often able to redeploy people from Technical functions Engineering & Technical, Supply Chain & Procurement, areas of reducing demand to parts of the business where demand is rising, Construction & Commissioning and Project Management & Controls work ensuring we retain their knowledge and experience.
with the project teams to ensure project work matches the standards we Through the strength of our peoples delivery, we create the long-term expect.
These technical functions are embedded in the business lines, giving customer relationships and reputation for excellence on which our business them technical expertise and oversight aligned to the needs of each business depends.
Standard processes support consistent delivery across the line, and driving consistency and predictability of outcomes.
We incentivise our people to deliver, offering financial recognition systems help us to deliver work consistently and share work across offices through meeting individual objectives, as well as personal recognition and and time zones.
We invest in both technical and leadership training to maintain the pipeline of talented people we need.
Amec Foster Wheeler 06 Annual report and accounts 2016 A low risk, capital light model Our competitive advantages The breadth of our market and customer exposure gives We believe we have a number of important competitive us access to more opportunities and reduces the impact of advantages, in particular: lower levels of activity in any one market.
This diversity of X The strength of our brand and the reputation of our our business reduces risk.
The footprint established by one people, which help us to deliver excellent work and attract business line also provides a springboard for our other business new customers lines in that country or region.
Our breadth means our work is spread across a large customer base, through more than X Our long-term customer relationships, which help us 10,000 contracts each year.
Our top ten customers accounted to position for new projects and win a high proportion for 34% of revenue in 2016. of repeat business We also have a diversified service offering which partially offsets X Our E&I business, which is involved in the earliest stage the cyclical nature of our customers capital expenditure plans of projects and helps to identify opportunities for our other and reduces our dependence on any one part of the energy mix.
business lines Our services can be provided through long-term contracts, X Our ability to create innovative solutions and commercial giving us the opportunity to provide critical services in models, which differentiate our propositions partnership with our customers.
Many of these contracts have X The diversity of our business, as a broad market exposure and been renewed several times.
As a result, our order book is service offering reduces risk and opens up more opportunities balanced between capex and opex-related work.
The majority of contracts reimburse us for our peoples time and materials.
We often also receive additional payments by achieving performance targets.
In certain circumstances where we are confident of the project requirements, we take on fixed-price work.
We have a capital light model.
We are a people-based business and do not own significant amounts of equipment.
Our profit margin and trading cash conversion reflect the quality of our project delivery.
Diversified customer base Revenue by contract style 1 56 40 % % Top 10 Reimbursable 11-20 Fixed price Others Other 34 10 59 Core services Order book at 31 December 2016 4 45 40 % % Project delivery Capex Professional services Opex Other 56 55 Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 07 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
