STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC IMPERATIVE DELIVER A HIGH PERFORMANCE CULTURE We foster a high performance culture through building an organisation where our operations and functions are structured to maximise the effectiveness of the Anglo American Operating Model, resourcing the Group with capable people and designing reward structures that differentiate performance without compromising our values or the health and safety of our employees.
1 HEADCOUNT REDUCTION DRIVEN CENTRE FOR EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING MAINLY BY ASSET DISPOSALS Anglo Americans Centre for Experiential Learning CEL is a state of the art facility in Johannesburg, focused on embedding business improvement across the Group.
32,500 The CEL delivers programmes comprised of business improvement processes, tools and techniques that aim to achieve stable and capable processes that reduce REDUCTION IN RECORDABLE variability and waste: and in coaching and facilitation skills to improve project INJURY FREQUENCY RATE execution.
The courses are designed to support the roll-out of Anglo Americans Operating Model and are aligned with technical and safety training initiatives to improve efficiency and effectiveness of individual and team development.
24% Both areas of work play a vital role in the delivery of Anglo Americans strategy, helping to develop core business processes and deliver a high performance culture.
REDUCTION IN OCCUPATIONAL Learning is achieved through experiential activities related to the particular DISEASES REPORTED improvement initiative the delegate is working on.
Participants are expected to reflect on the activity, develop a theory and then conduct experiments to test the theorys 32% validity before attempting to initiate a solution, i. e. doing, reflecting, investigating, validating and then practising to enhance performance, with the assistance of an For more information See pages 31-33 experienced business improvement coach.
This approach provides employees with tangible skills and outcomes which can be effectively applied to real work processes and individual and team development.
In 2016, the CEL continued to support the Group in the delivery of its strategy and development of our people.
In total, business improvement training including inter-personal skills and Operating Model training was conducted with more than 1,500 employees.
These employees attended more than 90 events, representing teams from across the business in both functional and operational areas totalling more than 3,000 training days.
The focus for the CEL in 2017 will be to continue to support the roll-out of the Operating Model and collaborate with sites on leading business improvement practices.
TO BE UPDATED PILLARS OF VALUE Safety and Health People For more on pillars of value and our KPIs See page 34 1 Includes employees and contractors from subsidiaries and operations over which Anglo American has management control: it does not include independently managed operations, Anglo Americans Centre for Experiential Learning in Johannesburg offers a unique adult-learning business environment such as Cerrejn and Samancor.
designed to drive business improvement throughout the Group.
30 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report As Anglo Americans portfolio evolves, we continue MANAGING TALENT AND DEVELOPING SKILLS to create a leaner and more effective business that is Building capability built around strong, product-focused operating units, Equipping Anglo American with an engaged and productive supported by functions that provide value-adding workforce is essential for our success.
In assessing expert leadership, improve business performance capability, we consider technical skills and knowledge that and ensure effective governance.
have been acquired through experience and practice: mental processing ability: social process skills: and application ORGANISATION DESIGN THAT ENHANCES the degree of drive and commitment a person displays.
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE We continue to invest in developing a pipeline of future During 2016, we continued the review of our organisation talent.
As part of that process, we provide development to structure work more effectively, establish clear and training opportunities to our managers and workforce, accountabilities and authorities, and remove role which are vital in encouraging our people to grow in their duplication.
The review has taken place in line with the work.
We have a range of external and internal development principles of the Operating Model, which has been rolled programmes in use across the Group, investing more out at nine of our operations.
As we implement the than $73 million on training in 2016.
In an increasingly Operating Model, we are adapting our operational competitive market for skills, we continue to invest in structures in order to derive maximum benefit from its developing a pipeline of future talent through our support design.
We are also reshaping our corporate functions to of 2,700 graduates, bursars, apprentices and trainees.
maximise the value of the relationships that exist between Anglo American has numerous initiatives focused on functions and operations, while reducing costs.
supporting education and development, from schools The resultant design, known as the Functional Model, through to tertiary institutions, as well as programmes intends functions to become more cohesive, for their work targeted at building skill and leadership capability.
In to become more integrated and for functions to have a SouthAfrica, the 2016 South African Graduate Employers higher level of accountability for business outcomes.
Association SAGEA survey recognised Anglo American as the Employer of Choice in the South African Mining Sector In practice, this means that, rather than having support for the fifth consecutive year.
staff based within, and supporting, individual business units or operations, each function is accountable for Diversity providing the Group with the most effective support Anglo American embraces diversity.
We seek a workforce and delivering it in the most cost-effective manner.
that represents the regions within which we operate and we provide opportunities for broader development within those This new Functional Model is delivering benefits through regions.
A diverse workforce brings greater diversity of our ability to: thought to tackle the challenges we face.
We continually better promote the sharing of resources and the develop our workforce so that we will have this diversity dissemination of best practice among our leaders of the future.
By year end, women made up 18% of our overall workforce 2015: 18% and 25% of bring consistency and the highest level of functional managers 2015: 25%.
expertise to all business units and their operations In our South African operations, we continue to promote support the development and retention of highly capable transformation.
By year end, 62% of our management people by creating career paths and opportunities that go comprised historically disadvantaged South Africans beyond the boundaries of a single site or business unit.
While the primary focus has been on designing our functions Encouraging sound industrial relations to maximise the value they can provide, the streamlining of Approximately 75% of our current permanent workforce the Groups portfolio has also required the size of corporate is represented by works councils, trade unions or other structures and overheads to be reviewed to ensure they similar bodies, and covered by collective bargaining remain fit for purpose.
We continue to seek to improve relations with At year end, Anglo Americans total headcount was 95,000, our employees and their representative bodies, and have a reduction of 32,500 people from 2015.
This was largely consulted widely with unions throughout our restructuring driven by the divestment of the Rustenburg platinum process.
In total, in 2016, there were four instances of operations, the niobium and phosphates business, industrial action lasting longer than a week.
DeBeers Kimberley Mines and the Foxleigh and Callide coal assets in Australia, in addition to staff reductions across the entire portfolio.
The number of people working in indirect roles that is, not directly involved in production across the Group reduced from 11,500 to 8,700, as our support functions were rightsized in line with asset divestments.
We will continue to review the size of our support structures as the portfolio evolves over time.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 31 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC IMPERATIVE DELIVER A HIGH PERFORMANCE CULTURE continued Supporting labour rights Ensuring a safe working environment As expressed in our Human Rights Policy, and as The safety, health and well-being of our employees are a signatories to the United Nations Global Compact, we top priority and a core value at Anglo American.
We strive to are committed to the labour rights principles set out in achieve our goal of zero harm by managing our activities in the International Labour Organization core conventions, a way that eliminates incidents, minimises risk and promotes including the right to freedom of association and collective excellence in the performance of our operations.
bargaining, the eradication of child and forced labour The Groups safety performance is at the front end of the and non-discrimination.
Observance of these rights is agenda at every Board meeting.
Safety performance required of all our operations, irrespective of location, measures form part of the incentive-based remuneration as well as for suppliers.
In 2016, we regret to report that 11 employees and REWARD STRUCTURES WHICH contractors lost their lives in work-related activities at DIFFERENTIATE PERFORMANCE operations managed by Anglo American.
Seven of the A high performance organisation hinges on strong fatalities were at our Platinum operations in South Africa.
leadership from line managers and a culture centred Eleven fatalities represents a very disappointing increase on rewarding successful business outcomes.
It is critical compared with the six lives lost in 2015. that we provide appropriate remuneration to attract, Any loss of life is unacceptable and we remain unwavering retain and motivate the right calibre of employee, in our commitment to achieving our vision of zero harm.
Throughout 2016, we strengthened our control We implement a performance management and improvement programme by placing an emphasis on the remuneration framework that is designed to reward our effective management and use of critical controls.
The people on the basis of their performance, giving equal programme is supported by the work management emphasis to delivery and behaviour through short term elements of our Operating Model.
This work will continue incentives.
Our structured performance management during 2017, with the aim of achieving a consistent approach and appraisal process is geared to support a values-driven, and standard across all our sites.
Our ongoing focus on ensuring safety in the workplace Senior leaders within the organisation are incentivised was positively reflected by a 24% decrease in our total with longer term awards which are provided upon meeting recordable case frequency rate, compared with 2015.
While predetermined objectives that are in line with those of there was a decrease in the number of regulatory stoppages shareholders.
at Platinum, the extent of those was wider and resulted in an increase in production losses.
In total, 15% of employees receive formal performance and development reviews.
For each incident resulting in loss of life or a critical injury, an independent investigation is conducted to understand the Code of conduct causes and remedial actions required.
The lessons learnt In 2016, Anglo American launched a new Code of Conduct, from each are shared via our Group Learning from Incidents which encapsulates what we stand for as a company.
While process and discussed at Board Sustainability Committee, we focus on building a results-focused culture the what, executive and site management levels.
Particular emphasis we will not be compromised on our values in doing this the is placed on ensuring that actions relating to critical controls how.
The Code of Conduct explains the boundaries within are implemented in a timely manner to prevent repeats.
which we must work every day and brings together in one place our material ethical principles and policies.
It has at Our operations continue to increase and improve reporting its core our shared values, which describe how we must of, and learning from, high potential incidents HPIs as a behave consistently to continue to earn the trust that gives preventative tool to improve safety performance.
This has us our licence to operate.
now been extended to include high potential hazards, as this allows gaps or control failures to be identified, and addressed, before an incident occurs.
Transportation, falls EMPLOYEE SAFETY AND HEALTH of ground, moving machinery and isolation lock-out remain Protecting the safety and health of employees and the main areas where HPIs occur.
contractors at work is one of the most fundamental Our safety strategy and management approach is riskhuman rights issues facing Anglo American and other based and concentrates on integrating safe working mining companies.
While protecting our workforce from practices into every aspect of what we do.
It is founded on harm is a moral imperative for us, our focus on zero harm three key principles: a mindset of zero harm: no repeats: also constitutes a direct investment in the productivity of and the application of simple, non-negotiable standards.
A safe and healthy workforce contributes to During 2016, we added further impetus to critical control an engaged, motivated and productive workforce that management and strengthening Visible Felt Leadership prevents operational stoppages, and reduces potential across the Group.
These will remain priorities in 2017 and legal liabilities.
will be supported by additional programmes to further strengthen leadership and accountability for safety at every level.
32 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Promoting health and well-being Total number of fatal injuries and fatal injury Effective management of health risks protects our people, frequency rate 20122016 enhances productivity and is essential in minimising Fatalities FIFR potential long term liabilities, as well as being critical in 15 0.008 maintaining our licence to operate.
Extending our health promotion activities to the broader community also 0.007 supports our internal health drive in line with our values 0.006 of care and respect 10 0.005 In 2016, the number of employees reported to be working 0.004 in environments with noise levels in excess of the eight-hour exposure limit of 85 dB A reduced considerably to 26,280 0.003 5 2015: 40,869 following the divestment of Platinums 0.002 Rustenburg mines.
The number of employees reported to be working in environments where they were potentially at 0.001 risk of exposure to inhalable hazards at levels in excess of 0 0 the relevant occupational exposure limits also decreased to 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 3,705 2015: 5,225.
FIFR Fatalities While we have intensive programmes in place to ensure that employees and contractors working in such environments are trained to use personal protective equipment, our focus Lost time injuries, medical treatment cases and is on addressing the source of occupational health risk.
total recordable case frequency rate 20122016 Our overall approach to occupational hygiene is aligned with TRCFR the Anglo American Operational Risk Management ORM 2,500 1.4 process, which requires that operations identify health risks, 1.2 implement controls to mitigate those risks, monitor the 2,000 effectiveness of controls, and learn from incidents in order 1.0 to prevent repeats.
We continue to focus on rolling out our 1,500 0.8 health-critical control management process to facilitate proactive engineering and operational control solutions.
0.6 1,000 Targets for the implementation of the ORM influence the performance-based remuneration of senior executives.
0.4 500 In 2016, the number of reported health incidents, which 0.2 signify failing controls of health-hazard management 0 0 systems, decreased significantly across all levels, indicating good progress in health-hazard prevention 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 and control measures.
Lost-time injuries Medical treatment cases TRCFR The number of new cases of occupational disease reported was 111 2015: 163.
The reduction in absolute numbers was largely a result of continuing progress towards eliminating noise-induced hearing loss.
Anglo American has recorded no cases of silicosis owing to exposure at our operations since 2011.
However, despite the significant year-on-year decrease last year, we continue to report cases of coal workers pneumoconiosis.
Such cases are thoroughly investigated to better understand their causes, including the past and current occupational exposure profiles of those who become ill, as well as the potential sources of coal dust in the workplace.
Our Coal business has set an objective with respect to exposure to coal dust of zero instances exceeding the permitted occupational exposure limit, and is introducing a number of initiatives in the year to help achieve this objective.
Through the industry work group that was formed by AngloAmerican and other South African mining peers, we continue to address issues relating to compensation and medical care for occupational lung disease in the gold mining industry in South Africa.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 33
