Strategic report STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS MODEL OUR BUSINESS MODEL The mining industry continues to face considerable We have a clearly defined approach for how we will external pressures as global economic and political achieve this: uncertainties prevail.
We responded decisively by Vision: To be partners in the future.
sustainably improving cash flow generation, materially strengthening our balance sheet through selective It is our belief that Anglo American, and mining as an asset disposals and actively managing our diversified industry, has both the potential and responsibility to act as portfolio to focus on our differentiated asset and a development partner, for the long term benefit of society.
Mission: Together, we create sustainable value that The high quality assets across our fide Beers, platinum makes a real difference.
group metals PGMs and Copper businesses underpin We cannot meet our ultimate objective on our own.
We our positions in those respective markets and are the will work together with our diverse range of stakeholders cornerstone of a more resilient and competitive business, to ensure we deliver value on a sustainable basis that through the economic and commodity price cycle.
In makes a positive and lasting difference.
addition, Anglo American also benefits from the performance of a number of other high quality, individual assets across the bulk commodities and other minerals, VALUES AT THE CORE including iron ore, coal and nickel, which are optimised We are creating an organisation where all our people operationally to continue to contribute cash and returns, are treated in such a way that they willingly give their best.
while ensuring appropriate capital investment to both Acting according to our values Safety, Care and respect, preserve and enhance value.
The value from our mineral Integrity, Accountability, Collaboration and Innovation resources and market positions is optimised by our defines our culture as an organisation, underpinning our dedicated Marketing business, driving appropriate reputation and the promise we make to all our stakeholders: commercial decisions across the value chain.
In summary, our ambition is to create a resilient business that delivers robust profitability and sustainable, positive cash flows through the cycle.
WHAT MAKES US DIFFERENT: BUILDING STRATEGIC ADVANTAGE Across DeBeers, PGMs and Copper, our assets are characterised across a number of core processes exploration, innovation, project by having world class orebodies, competitive industry cost positions, development and sustainability while our Marketing business long reserve lives and significant resource potential, offering optimises value from our resources and market positions.
The benefits considerable organic growth opportunities, thereby representing three of a systematically embedded Operating Model and the functional businesses in which we have leading competitive positions.
These are governance structure of the Organisation Model combine to create complemented by a number of other high quality, individual assets optimal and sustainable value.
across iron ore, coal and nickel.
Underpinning our uniquely diversified For more information on our core processes portfolio of differentiated assets is Anglo Americans expertise See page 10 DIFFERENTIATED ASSETS IN A UNIQUELY DIVERSIFIED PORTFOLIO: DeBeers PGMs Copper Bulk commodities DeBeers has a global leadership We are the worlds leading Anglo American has a world and other minerals position in diamonds, producing PGMs producer, with positions class position in copper, with Anglo American also benefits and selling around one-third of in the worlds two largest PGM the potential to establish a global from a number of other high the worlds rough diamonds by deposits the Bushveld Complex leadership position built around quality assets across the bulk value.
Our major diamond mining in South Africa and the Great Dyke its interests in two of the worlds commodities of iron ore and coal, assets have large, long life and in Zimbabwe.
We operate the largest copper mines Los Bronces as well as nickel.
scalable resource bases and worlds highest margin platinum and Collahuasi and its feasibility These assets are optimised we have well-established mine at Mogalakwena a long life, phase Quellaveco project in operationally to continue to partnerships in South Africa scalable open pit operation that southern Peru.
The mineral contribute cash and returns, and with the governments of has the potential to lift production endowments of these assets while being allocated capital to Botswana and Namibia.
significantly as market demand underpin our organic copper preserve and enhance value, requires.
growth opportunities, in as appropriate.
addition to a number of future potential projects.
DISTRIBUTION AND RETAIL MARKETING fide Beers leading position is The value from our mineral resources and market positions is optimised by our dedicated Marketing further enhanced by its rough business.
Built on direct customer relationships, Marketing creates value across the entire value chain from diamond sales operation selling mine to market through appropriate commercial decisions aligned to our customers specific requirements to term customers, accredited including product specification, volume and timing.
In addition, Marketing proactively develops new buyers and auction sales markets for our products through, for example, investing in new technologies that are expected to drive new customers.
It also has a presence sources of demand for PGMs such as fuel cell electric vehicles and building consumer awareness in in the downstream through emerging platinum jewellery markets, such as India.
Forevermark and fide Beers Diamond Jewellers.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 09
