STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC IMPERATIVE DEVELOP CORE BUSINESS PROCESSES At Anglo American, our core business processes refer to the fundamentals of our work across our entire value chain from exploration and discovery to delivering our products to our customers.
With innovation and outstanding delivery at the forefront of how we deliver value, the business processes we are implementing are vital to the success of our core activities and achieving best practice across the Group.
ESTIMATED ENERGY COST SAVINGS THE CONCENTRATED MINE One of the greatest challenges facing the mining industry today is how to develop and $90 million implement step-change innovations in order to drive improved productivity and cost performance, while minimising a mines total physical and environmental footprint.
WATER SAVED AS A RESULT Concentrate the Mine is an integrated mining-systems approach pioneered by OF WATER-SAVING PROJECTS Anglo American.
It integrates three enabling technologies: ACROSS THE GROUP Advanced mine-to-mill uses new blasting technologies to increase plant throughput and minimise processing costs 3 23 million m Coarse particle recovery CPR is designed to augment advanced mine-to-mill technologies to coarsen the grinding and to reduce energy and water consumption while maintaining, or potentially improving, recovery REDUCTION IN DEMURRAGE COSTS AT COPPER Early-stage gangue rejection separates ore from waste before ore enters the Resulting from the implementation crushing and grinding phase.
By rejecting the worthless waste rock earlier in the of Marketings ISOP process process, we effectively increase the grade, while reducing processing costs as well as water and energy consumption.
The potential benefits of these Concentrate the Mine techniques and technologies 37% are significant, with broad application across our copper, platinum and diamond For more information businesses.
Together, they have the potential to deliver a step-change increase in See pages 25-29 output, without incurring a similar increase in operating and capital costs, in tandem with the prospect of greatly reduced energy and water use.
The Concentrate the Mine concept is being developed at the Los Bronces copper mine in Chile.
First-phase trials will be completed in the first half of 2017, and early indications are promising.
For example, even with only part-implementation of advanced mine-to-mill technologies, we are already achieving a 7% increase in plant throughput and an 84% reduction in blast vibrations.
PILLARS OF VALUE Environment Socio-political Production Cost Financial For more on pillars of value and our KPIs See page 34 Concentrate the Mine is an integrated mining systems approach pioneered by Anglo American.
It is already being developed at our Los Bronces copper operation in Chile, and has the potential for broad application across other copper assets, as well as our platinum and diamond businesses.
24 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report We are starting to see tangible benefits from the The most aspirational element of FutureSmart is our roll-out of our Operating Model across our major ambition to make dry tailings a normal operating practice.
assets: a more stable and predictable operating Water sent to tailings disposal often represents the largest performance is leading to improved productivity water loss at a mine.
Fine particle slurries are particularly and costs, fewer environmental incidents and a fuller difficult to dewater and current dry disposal options have understanding of our mine-to-market value chain.
prohibitive capital and operating costs.
We are examining Working together with all our stakeholders, we are how we can reduce the cost of dewatering and are looking beginning to deliver on the full potential of our at the physical and chemical properties of the fine ore portfolio and enhance the sustainable value we particles to understand why they cling so resolutely to can create for all our stakeholders.
If successful, we have the potential to significantly limit how much fresh water we draw, while also gaining access to orebodies in water-stressed areas that are DELIVERING VALUE THROUGH INNOVATION critical to supplying the worlds ongoing demand for By accelerating the implementation of the Operating metals and minerals.
Model, we have made good progress at a number of our major assets, and we now have clear foundations in place MARKETING PRODUCTS FOR FULL VALUE for how we do our work.
During 2016, our Marketing business made good progress Operating excellence remains a focus for our technical with marketing activities designed to create maximum function and we aim to continually improve our operating value across the entire value chain from mine to customer.
standards which, in turn, helps to boost cash generation.
These activities are designed to contribute value to the For example, at the LosBronces molybdenum plant in Chile, Group in a number of ways: improving EBIT: enhancing metal recovery has increased by more than 10 percentage cash flow through tighter working capital management: points.
This performance reflected a range of technical better riskand control-management: and stimulating improvements, including improved understanding of the sustainable demand for PGMs through a structured market mineralogy and orebody, and processing optimisation that development programme.
builds on a solid knowledge of plant capacity, allowing stable, maximum feed through the plant.
Focusing on our principal strategic levers to generate additional EBIT across the Group, we continue to deliver It is essential that we continually focus on, and invest in, value through: innovation and technology development if we are to find more productive, efficient and sustainable ways of Marketing excellence: continuing to build direct customer extracting value from the minerals we mine and deliver relationships and obtain full value for our products.
Through our dedicated sales and marketing hubs in Traditional means of innovating are translating into new Singapore and London, we continue to strengthen approaches that are more collaborative and inclusive.
customer focus and build on our strong relationships.
AngloAmericans FutureSmart approach to innovation Throughout the year we sold all our equity volume includes bringing together stakeholders with different available while managing supply challenges through perspectives to reframe challenges, produce rough proactive action such as the purchase of third party prototypes to quickly test ideas and co-create user-centred material.
Close customer relationships have seen us solutions that can be adopted faster.
explore and develop innovative propositions that have delivered shared benefits and additional value.
Marketing During 2015 and 2016, we convened FutureSmart Open excellence activities have continued to generate a large Forums covering four major challenges Sustainability, proportion of Marketings value for the Group.
We have also formulated a disciplined approach to innovation implementation which Value chain optimisation: integrated sales and operations combines the exploration of long term possibilities with planning ISOP capability to ensure we make the most pragmatic implementation activities that realise short term of our mineral resource in light of market conditions: value.
Our unique innovation process, named SmartPath, ensuring customers get the right products, at the right allows us to move quickly from new ideas to new knowledge.
time: and leveraging our logistics capabilities and It does so through a process of continuous assessment, with shipping services.
the aim of achieving relatively low cost, high reward capital Our approach to planning and execution through our expansions that can improve our position on the cost curve.
ISOP activities is now established across the majority of This is essential in a prevailing environment of economic our commodities.
This has realised specific benefits in uncertainty, water scarcity and energy shortages, declining higher throughput, lower logistics costs, and improved ore grades, and a productivity decline of around one-third in margins on qualities and quantities shipped.
the mining industry over the past decade.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 25 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC IMPERATIVE DEVELOP CORE BUSINESS PROCESSES continued During the year, several other value chain optimisation EFFICIENTLY MANAGING THE activities created additional earnings, including the further expansion of our shipping portfolio, with linked freight INTERFACE BETWEEN PRODUCTION trades that yielded cost advantages and benefits relative to AND MARKETING stand-alone routes.
It was a year when we shipped record volumes across our bulk commodities on a CFR basis.
ISOP is a core element of Anglo Americans Operating Model that is now established across the majority of our Customer value proposition: through creating our own commodities.
ISOP is Marketings process for planning capability to access financial and third party physical the movement of product from the mines finished-goods markets, broadening the offer we make to customers.
Through the ISOP Thermal coal trading continues to perform well and process, marketing and mine production plans are we are therefore now active in related areas, including reconciled to maximise the value of product delivery into price-risk management in other commodity groups.
the market within the constraint of our supply capacity.
Good progress has also been made with our PGMs market ISOP provides a structured framework for planning, development activities.
Short term demand drivers include scheduling and execution from mine to market across the jewellery and investment sectors: while in the longer two time horizons: an 18-month Sales & Operations term, we are investing in new technologies that are expected S&OP planning horizon: and an eight-week Tactical to drive new sources of demand for PGMs such as fuel cell Planning horizon.
ISOP in action at Copper All Marketing activities are executed in an increasingly ISOP was introduced in Copper in January 2016.
Ensuring S&OP process allowed us to assess potential risks and the risk factors which affect marketing including price, opportunities beyond the two-month Tactical Planning credit, operational, and regulatory risks are transparent horizon.
For example, the S&OP process typically aligns and comprehensively managed remains a key priority, operation and maintenance plans between our mines, helping to maximise value for the Group.
This year, when operations and Throughout the year, in addition to progress against our maintenance plans at the Chagres smelter could not be levers, we made good progress on a number of enabling aligned with Los Bronces and El Soldados, ISOP identified projects to improve our effectiveness and efficiency, and an opportunity to source third party concentrate, thereby more importantly, set us up for future growth.
These optimising the smelters feed and financial performance.
included improving our sales operation processes and The shorter Tactical Planning process has provided supporting our IT systems globally.
increased visibility of the production forecast which has, in turn, led to an improved shipping schedule, and a 37% MANAGING OUR IMPACTS ON COMMUNITIES reduction in demurrage costs.
AND THE ENVIRONMENT ISOP in action at Thermal Coal As a responsible miner, our social and legal licences to ISOP was introduced in Thermal Coal operations in 2013. operate stem largely from our ability to demonstrate In early 2016, the market anticipated high demand for compliance with permitting requirements, responsible lower calorific value CV product by India.
ISOP provided environmental management and the equitable distribution the agility to react to this trend and maximise the value of the economic value generated by our operations.
Our presented by the recently negotiated extra rail capacity.
aim is to have a net positive lasting impact on our host Through integrating production, logistics and demand communities through forming mutually beneficial plans, ISOP enabled four South African coal mines to partnerships, as reflected in our vision: partners in supply the Indian market with low CV coal at higher yields, the future.
realising significant additional value for our Coal business.
The principal environmental and social risks facing our business are associated with socio-economic development, water quality and security, climate change and extreme weather, and mine closure.
We report extensively on our approach and performance related to these and other material sustainability issues in our Sustainability Report.
For more information, visit http: www.
com investors annual-reporting The Richards Bay Coal Terminal 23.2% interest held achieved its best ever shipping performance in 2016, while export sales at Coal South Africa were the second highest ever recorded.
26 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report MITIGATING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS Total water consumed against business as usual The past three years have shown a steady decline in the 20122016 3 Million m number of environmental incidents reported, indicating continued improvement in the management of 250 environmental controls across operations.
In both 2015 and 2016, no Level 4 or Level 5 incidents high impact 200 were reported.
During 2016, four Level 3 medium impact environmental incidents were reported that resulted in no 150 lasting harm to the environment 2015: six Level 3.
Water 100 Water management is of great significance to our business activities, given that a large proportion of our current 50 portfolio is located in regions with high levels of water risk.
The water related challenges faced by our sites typically 0 fall into three categories: water security: managing highly 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 variable rainfall: and mitigating the impact of mining activities on water quality and the rights of other users.
Water consumed in ongoing business Water consumed by divested businesses In line with International Council on Mining and Metals Water savings ICMM guidance, we have developed a new water management standard in partnership with our regional stakeholders, which has a more focused and structured approach to managing basin-wide water risks.
We are Climate change and energy working towards more ambitious water savings targets In April 2016, the Board supported a special resolution for 2020, which include reducing our absolute freshwater proposed by a group of shareholders that was then passed intake by 20% and recycling re-using water for 75% of by shareholders at the AGM, in support of strategic climate our water requirements.
The resolution was prepared by the Aiming for A coalition of institutional Water security across the Group has improved, with eight investors, and seeks a step change in companies disclosure sites reporting water shortages during 2016, down from to investors on how they measure and manage climate 11 sites in 2015.
Continued drought conditions and water change risks and opportunities to their businesses.
Further restrictions in South Africa and possible shortages in information on our response to the resolution is available in Minas Gerais State in Brazil, however, may increase water the Anglo American Sustainability Report.
scarcity risk in the future.
Our climate change strategy is designed to safeguard the In South Africa, our Platinum business has started modelling business and host communities against climate change water supply scenarios for the next 20 years for each of its risks, and to contribute to mitigating global greenhouse gas water stressed operations, where there are rapidly growing GHG emissions.
We expect that climate change will affect demands for water to support agricultural, mining, industrial our business in three principal ways: climate regulation and and domestic consumption.
In Limpopo province, the taxation will have a financial impact: demand for PGMs and business has developed a bulk-water strategy and copper critical products in enabling alternative energy infrastructure plan to safeguard long term water availability technologies will increase, while demand for thermal coal for its operations and surrounding communities.
Since a will decrease over the long term: and the physical and social high number of our assets are in southern Africa, we have impacts of a changing climate may affect our operations and developed a collaborative water strategy for the region, host communities.
which will be launched in 2017.
We anticipate a range of carbon pricing and offset In Chile, our Los Bronces copper mine continues to incentive policies to emerge in all our operating mitigate water supply challenges by implementing technical geographies.
Carbon pricing scenarios are factored into solutions that promote water efficiency and water resilience.
project investment decisions and climate change risk The site has reduced its water consumption by 20% from and adaptation assessments have been conducted at 3 3 0.69 m tonne of ore to around 0.54 m tonne.
additional technical solutions were identified that could reduce operational water consumption further.
Progress on operational energy and carbon performance is driven through our energyand carbon-management Water saving projects saved the Group a further programme, ECO MAN.
In 2015, the Group set new 3 3 2 23 millionm of water in 2016 2015: 25 million m. reduction targets for 2020, including: 8% for energy and AngloAmericans total new-water consumption decreased 22% for GHG emissions, with 2015 set as the base year.
3 3 by 14% from 222 million m in 2015 to 191 million m in These were agreed in the context of capital constraints and 2016.
The decrease was primarily due to divestments and market complexities and uncertainties, and are subject to efficiency measures.
divestments and significant business changes.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 27 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC IMPERATIVE DEVELOP CORE BUSINESS PROCESSES continued changes.
The reduction in GHG emissions was a result Total energy consumed against business as usual of divestments, lower electricity emissions factors in 20122016 Brazil and South Africa, and GHG mitigation projects.
Million GJ Tailings storage facilities 140 Tailings storage facilities are classified as one of our 120 top 10 major risks and are subject to a rigorous risk management programme.
100 In February 2014, we began implementing a new mineral 80 residue management technical standard, to be fully implemented by the end of 2017, for tailings and water 60 retaining dams.
Most businesses are phasing in the new 40 standard and its requirements ahead of schedule.
20 During 2016, we completed a comprehensive inventory of, and updated risk tables for, all the containment facilities 0 in Anglo American 90 tailings storage facilities and 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 213 water containment structures.
Critical controls at Energy consumed in ongoing business facilities are audited internally on a rotational basis and each Energy consumed by divested businesses of the businesses is addressing identified priority issues.
Energy savings External technical review panels are being established for our mineral residue facilities to undertake independent reviews, and are already in place at several of our operations.
Total GHG emissions against business as usual 20122016 Million tonnes CO e 2 PARTNERS IN THE FUTURE 25 As a major mining company, with the great majority of our operations in developing markets, we are committed to 20 supporting our host governments to achieve social development goals.
We endeavour to design and execute 15 our projects according to the highest social standards, and to ensure our presence in host countries leaves a positive 10 lasting legacy.
Our drive to manage social impacts and enhance positive 5 benefits to communities is influenced significantly by growing legal and regulatory requirements, as well as 0 by evolving societal and stakeholder expectations.
This 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 has highlighted the growing strategic significance of environmental, social and governance issues, and GHGs emitted in ongoing business GHGs emitted by divested businesses emphasised the important business benefits in building GHGs savings trusted and constructive relationships across stakeholder groups.
This is essential to effectively manage social risks, maintain and strengthen our socio-political licence to operate, and support business milestones to achieve our In 2016, our ECO MAN energyand GHG-reduction 2 vision of becoming partners in the future.
programme prevented 4.5 million tonnes of COequivalent 2 MtCO e emissions from entering the atmosphere.
By year 2 Managing our social impacts end, a total of 320 ECO MAN and business improvement 2 Inclusive stakeholder engagement underpins our approach projects had accounted for estimated energy savings of to respecting human rights and to responding to legitimate 5.8million GJ, representing energy cost savings of stakeholder aspirations and concerns.
Performance is driven through Our Social Way defines Anglo Americans governing the implementation of discrete projects that reduce energy framework for social performance.
It provides clear and emissions intensity at the operations concerned.
requirements for all Anglo American-managed sites to In 2016, Anglo American operations were responsible for ensure that policies and systems are in place to engage 17.8 Mt CO e 2015: 18.3 Mt CO e. The Groups total 2 2 with affected communities: to avoid, prevent and mitigate energy consumption was 105 million GJ 2015: 106 million adverse social impacts: and to optimise development GJ.
Total energy used decreased slightly 1%, while GHG opportunities.
Each site is assessed annually against the emissions fell by 3% when compared with 2015.
A large Social Way requirements and is required to implement increase in energy consumption at Barro Alto in Brazil an improvement plan for requirements that are not met following the furnaces rebuild around 7 million GJ was in full: progress is monitored at executive level on a offset by lower consumption across most other businesses quarterly basis.
owing to divestments, efficiency measures and operational 28 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Our industry-leading Socio-Economic Assessment Toolbox In 2016, 23% $2.0 billion of supplier expenditure was SEAT is used to improve operations understanding of with host communities 2015: $1.8 billion, 17%, while our their positive and negative socio-economic effects, enterprise development programmes in Botswana, Brazil, enhance stakeholder dialogue and the management of Chile, South Africa and Peru supported 62,447 businesses social issues, build our ability to support local socioand created sustained 116,298 jobs.
economic development, and foster greater transparency In 2016, Anglo Americans corporate social investment and accountability.
CSI expenditure in local communities, including by the Through our responsible sourcing programme, we aim to AngloAmerican Chairmans Fund and Zimele, totalled ensure that the goods and services we procure do not cause $84.1 million 2015: $124.1 million.
This figure represents harm to individuals or the natural environment.
2.5% of underlying EBIT, less underlying EBIT of associates and joint ventures.
Social instability leading to community unrest remains a particular challenge in South Africa, and particularly for Responsible mine closure and divestment our operations in Limpopo province.
To address this, we We design, plan and operate our mines with closure in continue to seek to engage and work collaboratively with mind, and plan for post-closure long term sustainability in employees, trade unions and the South African government, consultation with communities and other stakeholders.
In and with communities around our mines.
We have placed a doing so, we aim to reduce long term risks and liabilities to particular strategic focus on mitigating social conflict and our business from an environmental and socio-economic promoting socio-economic development across Limpopo.
perspective, and to ensure that we leave a positive legacy when our mines conclude their operational lives.
Optimising the benefits of mining Our strategic focus is on improving the productivity of local Our Mine Closure Toolbox provides a structured approach markets and public institutions to support sustainable job to closure planning and management.
It is aimed at ensuring creation and effective public service delivery.
Our integrated that the full spectrum of opportunities, risks and liabilities is approach is concentrated on promoting local and effectively identified, that plans are fully costed, and that preferential procurement, enterprise development and financial provision is made for premature closure.
workforce development, working with local institutions to When operations are divested or placed onto care and strengthen their capacity, maximise the socio-economic maintenance C&M there are impacts on employees, benefits from our own infrastructure, and deliver social communities and the environment.
Our aim is to divest investment that supports those most in need.
businesses responsibly by ensuring that new owners are This approach is most advanced at our South American credible and ethical, that liabilities are fully transparent, operations, where we believe that our leading socioand that our legal and other social and environmental economic development initiatives are a driver of competitive commitments are honoured.
This is recognised in the $2 million of grant the effects of C&M focus on stakeholder engagement, funding secured from the Inter-American Development mitigating job losses and wider social impacts, and ongoing Bank to expand our integrated enterprise and supplier environmental care and monitoring.
development programmes in the region.
Our focus on leveraging our core business activities and skills in collaboration with expert partners, enables us to Global expenditure by type have a significantly greater positive impact on host $ million % communities at a much lower cost than conventional Community 50.9 60 social investment-led approaches.
development Education and training 15.0 18 Water and sanitation 5.3 6 Global expenditure by country Health and welfare 5.1 6 $ million % Other 3.0 4 South Africa 40.1 48 Sports, art, culture 2.2 3 and heritage Peru 13.6 16 Institutional 1.8 2 Chile 10.3 12 capacity development Brazil 9.9 12 Environment 0.6 1 Canada 4.9 6 Disaster and 0.1 Namibia 3.0 4 emergency relief Botswana 1.0 1 Energy and 0.1 United Kingdom 0.8 1 climate change Total 84.1 Rest of World 0.3 Australia 0.2 Total 84.1 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 29
