STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC IMPERATIVE FOCUS THE PORTFOLIO The high quality assets across our fide Beers, platinum group metals PGMs and Copper businesses underpin our position in those respective markets and are the cornerstone of a more resilient and competitive Anglo American.
In addition, we continue to benefit from the performance of a number of other world class assets across the bulk commodities of iron ore and coal, as well as nickel.
REDUCTION IN NUMBER OF ASSETS GAHCHO KU DELIVERING THE LARGEST SINCE 2013 NEW DIAMOND MINE IN MORE THAN A DECADE 38% Gahcho Ku, the worlds largest new diamond mine in the last 13 years, officially opened in September 2016, ahead of schedule and in line with the projected C$1 billion US$0.9 billion capital budget.
The mine, a joint venture between DeBeers DISPOSAL PROCEEDS RECEIVED 51% and Mountain Province Diamonds 49%, is expected to produce approximately IN THE YEAR 53 million carats of rough diamonds, from around 34 million tonnes of material, over its projected 12-year life, from 2017.
$1.8 billion A fly-in fly-out remote mine site, where winter temperatures can regularly plunge as low as minus 40C or colder, Gahcho Ku lies 280 kilometres north-east of Yellowknife in Canadas Northwest Territories NWT.
The mine, which was commissioned in CARATS OF ROUGH DIAMONDS August 2016, is on track to reach full commercial operation in the first quarter of 2017.
EXPECTED OVER THE LIFE OF It will mine three open pits, and will employ a total of 530 employees and long term THE RECENTLY COMMISSIONED contractors.
In 2016, Gahcho Ku supported a total of 2,050 direct and indirect full GAHCHO KU DIAMOND MINE 1 time equivalent FTE jobs, with an induced employment impact of 660 FTEs.
Over the life of the mine, Gahcho Ku is expected to contribute a total of C$5.7 billion 53 million into the economy of NWT, which derives more than half of its gross domestic product from mining activities.
Partnering with local indigenous communities, which have a For more information See pages 17-19 say on the use of resources in their ancestral lands, has ensured that the majority of workers during both the construction phase and the ongoing operation of the mine are drawn from the local community.
Production from Gahcho Ku will more than compensate for the loss of output following the placement of Snap Lake onto extended care and maintenance at the end of 2015.
The mine will make an important contribution to rough diamond supply in an environment characterised by a steady rise in consumer demand from the growing middle classes in emerging markets, and from millennials, combined with supply constraints as economically viable kimberlite resource discoveries continue to be rare events.
PILLARS OF VALUE Financial For more on pillars of value and our KPIs See page 34 Gahcho Ku diamond mine in Canadas Northwest Territories came on stream in August 2016 following major participation by the local indigenous community in its development.
New diamond mine openings are rare events, and Gahcho Ku will 1 See Canada Impact Report, The socio-economic make a significant contribution to global rough diamond supply.
Process plant superintendent Terry Pinske walks up the ramp impact of Gahcho Ku for further details.
alongside the conveyor carrying diamond-bearing ore into the process plant.
16 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report As the mining industry continues to recover from Our major diamond mining assets have large, long life and the sharp price decreases of late 2015 and the early scalable resources and we are continuing to invest in our months of 2016, Anglo American has materially existing operations to extend our mining activities.
The strengthened its balance sheet by generating Cut-8 expansion of Jwaneng will increase the depth of the significantly improved free cash flows and by mine from 400 metres to 650 metres, while, in South Africa, completing the sale of a number of assets.
Greater Venetia is being extended underground, extending the life 1 project, operating capital and cost discipline, combined of mine to 2046. with a 41% increase in productivity since 2012, are The lack of any significant economic kimberlite discoveries restoring our competitive advantage.
We are building over many years, combined with the ongoing growth in strong foundations for a more resilient Anglo American, consumer demand for diamond jewellery in both mature more attuned to changing market dynamics, and well and developing markets, points to strong prospects for positioned to deliver robust profitability and cash flows the diamond business.
Through its differentiated rough diamond distribution model, which comprises term contract sightholders, BUILDING STRATEGIC ADVANTAGE accredited buyers and auction sales customers, fide Beers The primary source of competitive advantage in the mining has a range of insights into its customers demand patterns.
industry is to own high quality, low cost, long life assets of fide Beers seeks to stimulate consumer demand for scale, with positions that can be further enhanced if those diamonds through its Forevermark brand and fide Beers assets deliver products into structurally attractive markets.
Diamond Jewellers, a retail joint venture with LVMH Mot In assessing our asset portfolio, we consider: Hennessy Louis Vuitton.
The stand-alone quality of individual assets, including their Platinum Group Metals PGMs relative cost position and resource and growth potential: Our Platinum business held through a 78% interest in Anglo American Platinum is the worlds leading PGM Our global competitive position within the individual producer.
It occupies the pre-eminent position, in terms of product groups: and production, mining, processing and refining assets and the The additional value potential generated through our quality and size of its resource base in the worlds largest dedicated marketing expertise.
PGM deposit the Bushveld Complex in South Africa and has a significant stake in the worlds No.
2 PGM deposit DeBeers on the Great Dyke in Zimbabwe.
Our flagship platinum DeBeers has a global leadership position in diamonds, mine, Mogalakwena, is the highest-margin producer in the producing around a third of the worlds rough diamonds, industry and, as the only large open pit PGM mine globally, by value.
Within its portfolio, DeBeers Anglo American: is at the centre of a more flexible, competitive and lower 85% interest, in partnership with the Government of the risk business.
Republic of Botswana, has one of the largest diamond resources, by volume, in the world at Orapa and one of the Platinum is continuing its ongoing repositioning around a richest diamond mines, by value, at Jwaneng.
The recently leaner, best in class operating footprint at the Mogalakwena commissioned Gahcho Ku mine, in Canadas Northwest and Amandelbult mines in South Africa, and Unki in Territories, will add an additional 53 million carats of rough Zimbabwe, alongside its joint venture interests in the diamonds over its projected 12-year life, from 2017.
Bafokeng-Rasimone, Mototolo and Modikwa mines in South Africa.
PORTFOLIO CHOICES DRIVEN BY ASSET QUALITY Bulk commodities DeBeers Platinum Copper and other minerals Botswana Jwaneng South Africa Mogalakwena Chile Los Bronces Iron ore and Kumba manganese Iron Ore Orapa Amandelbult Collahuasi 1 The current Mining Minas-Rio BRPM El Soldado Right expires in 2038.
South Africa Venetia Samancor An application to Mototolo Voorspoed Projects Quellaveco renew the Mining Modikwa Coal SA Thermal Sakatti Right will be submitted Namibia Debmarine Australia Zimbabwe Unki at the appropriate Namibia Cerrejn time.
There is a Namdeb reasonable Nickel Barro Alto Canada Gahcho Ku expectation that Codemin such renewal will Victor not be withheld.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 17 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC IMPERATIVE FOCUS THE PORTFOLIO continued Demand for PGMs is forecast to increase over time, PGMs FUELLING THE FUTURE given the ongoing trend towards cleaner emission vehicles, driven by increasingly stringent global emissions legislation.
For years, PGMs have not only been essential in curbing Increasing demand by the automotive industry is likely to noxious emissions in both petroland diesel-fuelled be augmented by growing opportunities for emerging new vehicles, but have been vital to the fields of medicine, applications, including hybrid and hydrogen fuel cell electric electronics and jewellery, as well as an array of industrial vehicles, while emerging countries such as India offer the applications.
Today, PGMs are playing an increasing part potential of developing, from a relatively low base, into in helping create a cleaner, more sustainable future.
As the contribution of burning fossil fuels to global Our business is well positioned to proactively shape warming continues to cause concern, and governments demand for platinum, including through targeted campaigns impose increasingly stringent vehicle emissions in emerging jewellery markets, creating new investment targets, the world needs to identify viable and demand for the metal as a store of value and through direct economic renewable technologies for powering cars.
investment in a number of companies developing new Anglo American believes that PGM-containing fuel technologies that are expected to drive industrial demand cell technologies provide one proven response to this for PGMs, such as fuel cells for electric vehicles.
Copper With refuelling taking just a few minutes and with a Anglo American has a world class asset position in copper, range similar to petrol or diesel vehicles, fuel cell electric with the potential to establish a leading position built around vehicles, or FCEVs, employ platinum as the principal its interests in two of the worlds largest copper mines catalyst to cleanly and efficiently convert energy from LosBronces a 50.1% owned subsidiary and Collahuasi hydrogen into electrical power in an electrochemical 44% owned, with Reserve Lives of 24 years and 69 years, process whose only emission is water.
The resource base of these assets underpins our future brownfield opportunities, in addition to a number With fuel cells expected to result in annual platinum of future potential projects, including our feasibility phase demand of several hundred thousand ounces by Quellaveco project in southern Peru one of the worlds 2025, the industry presents a major opportunity for largest untapped copper orebodies and the polymetallic the platinum mining industry.
At Anglo American, we Sakatti deposit inFinland.
are working with partners around the world to promote fuel cell technology in a number of applications.
In The copper market, although expected to be broadly South Africa, we have partnered with Ballard to balanced in the medium term, is expected to struggle to deploy the worlds first off-grid, fuel cell mini-grid to meet longer term demand growth as declining grades provide primary power to a rural community.
In the UK, andmore challenging physical and environmental we are leasing a Hyundai ix35 fuel cell-powered car for conditions, along with tougher licensing and permitting four years as part of the London Hydrogen Network requirements, will all affect the industrys ability to deliver Expansion project.
We are also working closely with Fuel new copper supply to the market.
Cell Hydrogen and Energy Association in the US and Bulk commodities and other minerals Hydrogen Europe to promote and advocate FCEVs and Anglo American also benefits from a number of other high hydrogen fuelling infrastructure.
quality individual assets across the bulk commodities of iron ore, metallurgical and thermal coal, as well as nickel.
Anglo Americans iron ore operations provide customers with niche, high iron content ore, a large percentage of which is direct-charge product for blast furnaces.
In South Africa, we have a majority share c. 70% in Kumba Iron Ore, where the Sishen and Kolomela mines produce leading quality lump ore and also a premium fine ore.
In Brazil, we have developed the integrated Minas-Rio operation 100% ownership, consisting of an open pit mine and beneficiation plant in Minas Gerais, which produces pellet feed.
The iron ore produced is transported through a 529 kilometre pipeline to the Ferroport iron ore Anglo American believes that PGM-containing fuel cell technologies provide handling and shipping facilities at the port of Au, in a proven response to the global challenge of cleaner transportation and is leasing this Hyundai ix35 fuel cell-powered car as part of its visible commitment which Anglo American has a 50% shareholding.
to encouraging the development of the hydrogen economy.
18 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report DELIVERING OUR PORTFOLIO RESTRUCTURING Number of assets 2016 portfolio changes Disposal Completed 70 Rustenburg 68 sales 65 Callide 60 Foxleigh 55 Niobium and Phosphates 50 Tarmac Middle East 45 42 Exxaro 40 Kimberley 35 Sale Pandora 30 announced Dartbrook 25 20 Restructure Closure Thabazimbi 15 Drayton 10 5 Care and Twickenham maintenance 0 1 2013 start 2016 DeBeers Platinum Copper Nickel 1 Reflects Niobium and Phosphates, Rustenburg, Foxleigh and Niobium and Phosphates Iron Ore and Manganese Coal Callide disposals.
Corporate and Other Our Tier 1 coal assets include the Moranbah North Disposals announced and completed in 2016 1 88% ownership and Grosvenor 100% ownership During 2016, we received $1.8 billion of disposal proceeds, metallurgical coal mines, both located in Queensland, including the $1.5 billion sale of our niobium and phosphates Australia.
The mines are underground longwall operations business in Brazil to China Molybdenum Co. Ltd. and produce hard coking coal.
In Colombia, Anglo American, We completed the disposal of two coal assets in BHP Billiton and Glencore each have a one-third Queensland, Australia in the year: a 70% interest in the shareholding in Cerrejn, the countrys largest thermal Foxleigh metallurgical coal mine, and the sale of our 100% coal exporter.
interest in the Callide thermal coal mine.
The terms of both Our Barro Alto nickel operation 100% ownership produces transactions remain confidential.
ferronickel and is based in Gois, Brazil.
The disposal of the Rustenburg platinum mines to In South Africa, we continue to work through all the potential Sibanye Gold, announced in 2015, was completed in options for our export thermal coal and iron ore interests, 2016.
Anglo American also sold its 9.7% interest in including retention, recognising the high quality and Exxaro Resources Limited.
performance of these businesses and ensuring that value Sales have also been agreed for the Dartbrook coal is optimised for all our shareholders.
mine in Australia and the Pandora platinum joint venture Our Bulk commodities and other minerals assets have been in South Africa, subject to a number of conditions.
The optimised operationally to ensure ongoing and sustainable disposal of the remaining interests in Tarmac operations cash generation and returns, while being allocated capital to located in the Middle East was completed in 2016. both preserve and enhance value, as appropriate.
Other portfolio changes We will continue to refine and upgrade our asset portfolio The Group has ceased, or is ceasing, production at a on an ongoing basis in order to ensure that our capital is number of operations.
Operations that have been closed deployed effectively to generate enhanced returns for or placed onto care and maintenance since 2015 include: 1 our shareholders.
Snap Lake diamonds in Canada: Damtshaa diamonds, Proceeds from disposals of temporary care and maintenance in Botswana: Portfolio restructuring in the year $1.8 billion were Drayton coal mine in Australia: and Twickenham platinum received in 2016.
The disposal of a number of assets completed to date, mine and Thabazimbi iron ore, both in South Africa.
Total nominal cash has contributed to the substantial $4.4 billion reduction inflows are expected of net debt during 2016.
By year end, net debt stood at In February 2017, we agreed the sale of our 85% to reach $2.0 billion $8.5 billion, significantly below the targeted level of interest in the Union platinum mine in South Africa over time, subject to prices.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 19 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC IMPERATIVE DRIVE CONSISTENT DELIVERY As global economic and political uncertainty continues and commodity prices remain generally volatile, it is important to continue driving improvements through our business.
In this challenging environment, we are committed to managing what is in our control: achieving cost and productivity improvements: to enhance cash flows through the cycle: and further strengthen our balance sheet.
34% NET DEBT REDUCTION SISHEN COMING THROUGH THE DOWNTURN, PREPARED FOR THE UPTURN $8.5 billion During 2015, confronted by steadily declining prices as iron ore markets continued to deteriorate, Kumba Iron Ore took bold action to ensure that South Africas premier COST AND VOLUME IMPROVEMENTS iron ore producer remained profitable.
In a series of moves in response to the worsening price environment, the huge open $1.5 billion pit at Sishen mine was progressively redesigned, with a final pit design achieved in late 2015.
This design called for considerably less waste rock stripping, which would allow Sishen to operate at a reduced cash break even price.
More generally, it enabled a more NET DEBT: EBITDA RATIO flexible and responsive approach to mining operations, with lower execution risk.
The ramifications of the reconfiguration of pit design and change in mining approach, 1.4x however, were to be felt far more widely and it would take a multi-disciplinary team effort if Kumba was to successfully deliver on its plans.
1 CAPITAL EXPENDITURE IN 2016 On the operational side, the mine and the Groups technical and financial teams worked closely together on a series of business improvement projects, with additional support provided by the ongoing implementation of Anglo Americans Operating Model.
$2.5 billion Two areas of the business merited particular focus: operating hours and mining fleet For more information utilisation had to increase materially by as much as 30%: and substantial changes See pages 21-23 needed to be made to the shift-roster system.
The first was largely achieved by the fourth quarter as a new rigour was applied to seeking greater efficiencies.
Secondly, new rosters enabled a more effective handover between shifts and reduced break times, leading to a 10% increase in productivity in this area.
In many ways, however, the impact on peoples lives was even more challenging.
The changes meant that some 1,500 employees, along with 1,000 contractors, would have to leave the operation.
Through a comprehensive process of engagement, at all levels of the organisation, with affected stakeholders, Kumba was able to undertake the largest restructure in its history while avoiding industrial action.
PILLARS OF VALUE Production Cost Financial For more on pillars of value and our KPIs See page 34 The introduction of Anglo Americans operating model at Kumbas Sishen iron ore mine in South Africa, in tandem with progressive redesign of the huge open pit in light of a worsening price environment, has led to a more resilient operation able 1 Excludes capitalised operating cash flows.
to operate at a reduced cash break even price.
20 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report We are continuing to implement Anglo Americans The improvement in work performance indicators has Operating Model in order to deliver ongoing already led to an increase of approximately 10% in daily productivity improvements, lower operating costs milling output.
and to carry out work safely.
Leveraging the Groups A significant improvement has also been realised in work considerable technical expertise, the Operating Model execution performance at Minas-Rio, with scheduled work provides the structure and discipline to optimise the completion currently standing at 85%.
operation of our world class assets and provides the foundation for improvements across the business.
At both Los Bronces processing operations, milling circuit availability has increased, while there has been a These operational improvements, our rigorous reduction in process variability.
Implementation of the work approach to capital allocation, and the proceeds management component in the mining operations went received from asset disposals in the year have live at the end of 2016.
All remaining work at Los Bronces improved free cash flows, reducing net debt to is scheduled to be completed in 2017. significantly below $10 billion and materially strengthening the Groups balance sheet.
During 2017, the main focus of the Operating Models work management component will be on the Platinum business, with Amandelbult scheduled to go live towards the end of BUILDING A STABLE OPERATIONAL PLATFORM the year.
Additional projects will also be carried out Delivery of the Operating Model is leading to greater concurrently at the Rustenburg Base Metal Refinery.
confidence in our ability to deliver to our plans and improve work management, as work is now planned, scheduled and resourced well ahead of execution.
The Operating ENHANCING PERFORMANCE Model also provides greater role clarity, with distinct accountabilities and responsibilities, enabling sustainable AT MOGALAKWENA and stable processes that deliver the expected outcomes.
Anglo Americans Operating Model is aimed at getting Although there are three components to the Operating the best out of the companys assets and particularly Model, which address operational strategy, work assets such as Mogalakwena in South Africa.
management, and continuous improvement, the focus to date has been on work management execution.
By the At the mines North Concentrator, where PGM-bearing end of 2016, various components of the Operating Model ore is processed into high-grade PGM-bearing had been fully or partially implemented at nine sites.
concentrate, we are unlocking value through continually modernising processing technologies and through At Kolomela, implementation of the Operating Model in maximising efficiencies in processing.
the plant area has seen a marked improvement in work execution, with scheduled work completion now in excess Key initiatives to enhance concentrator productivity of 95%.
Screening-tonnes throughput improved by 18% and profitability include: measures to enhance flotation during the go-live phase, and a further 18% during the kinetic response: the optimisation of fine grinding stabilisation phase.
The plants process stability has also techniques in order to mitigate metal losses of locked improved significantly.
minerals: modifications to the configuration of the flotation circuit: and taking a hard look at At Sishen, initial mining work management implementation equipment constraints.
resulted in significant improvements in the amount of ore and waste moved.
The restructuring of the business, Such measures have led to improved nominal however, and the resultant lower production and waste throughput rates, which have assisted in increasing removal targets for the year, has reduced the extent of metal production while also lowering unit costs.
operational improvements compared with previous roll-outs.
Work management for the reconfigured mining set-up is now under way.
At Jwaneng, the Operating Model went live in September, and is currently in the stabilisation phase, with early indications showing promising results.
The models work management component is now being implemented at the Letlhakane Tailings Retreatment plant.
At fide Beers Venetia mine, implementation of the Operating Model is in the project set-up phase while at Gahcho Ku, the implementation of the Operating Model is more advanced.
New processing technologies being adopted at Mogalakwena, following the Delivery of the Operating Model continued at implementation there of Anglo Americans Operating Model, are leading to higher ore-milling rates and increased plant throughput.
Here, control room Mogalakwena production and maintenance at the operators Priscilla Tsheole left and Maggy Botsanara monitor the stability South Concentrator, while implementation at the North of operations at the North Concentrator.
concentrator was completed earlier in the year.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 21 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC IMPERATIVE DRIVE CONSISTENT DELIVERY continued CAPITAL ALLOCATION Effective capital allocation throughout the cycle is critical to delivering value, given the long term and Future Cash capital intensive nature of our business.
The Group project ow from Cash applies a dynamic capital allocation process, while options operations ow from maintaining a strong focus on capital discipline.
operations In the near term, the focus remains on further Portfolio Sustaining strengthening the balance sheet and to restore an upgrade capex investment grade credit rating, while continuing to allocate Balance sheet the capital expenditure needed, across our portfolio of exibility assets, to both sustain our business and to protect value.
Balance Additional We aim to reinstate dividend payments as soon as possible sheet shareholder and expect to do so by the end of 2017.
The Group will exibility Sustaining returns continue to seek to upgrade the quality of its portfolio capex of assets, including through ensuring an appropriate Base geographic balance.
Excess capital will be returned to dividend Base shareholders unless there are compelling value-accretive dividend opportunities for investment.
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATIONS Development and stripping capital expenditure decreased to $0.6 billion 2015: $0.7 billion, primarily as a result of the Anglo American seeks to improve operating free cash redesign of the pit at Kumbas Sishen iron ore operation, flow through five key levers: improving productivity where the transition was made to a lower strip ratio and and lowering input costs across all operations operational cost position.
including through deployment of the Operating Model : reducing overhead expenditure including through During 2016, continued progress was made on our ongoing implementation of the Functional Model : timely delivery expansion projects, including the construction of fide Beers of new projects primarily Grosvenor and Barro Alto Venetia underground mine in South Africa, where the during 2016 : maximising revenue including through decline advanced to more than 2,000 metres.
The project improvement in our marketing activities : and optimising is now 26% complete, with the underground operation our investment in working capital.
expected to be the mines principal source of ore from 2023.
During 2016, cash flows from operations increased to $5.8 billion 2015: $4.2 billion, driven by the delivery of cost BALANCE SHEET FLEXIBILITY and volume improvements of $1.5 billion, which included a Consistent with our objective to restore an investment recovery in sales volumes at fide Beers, contributions from grade credit rating, our near term objective is to recently completed projects, and cost reductions across the continue to reduce net debt and ensure the Groups Group.
Working capital cash inflows improved by $0.4 billion net debt EBITDA ratio remains below 1.5. following improvement initiatives across all areas.
The recently completed Grosvenor Coal Australia and Barro Net debt at 31 December 2016 was $8.5 billion, significantly Alto Nickel projects both ramped up during 2016, together lower than the year-end target of $10 billion, resulting in a contributing $0.2 billion to cash flow from operations.
The $4.4 billion reduction in Results from Gahcho Ku fide Beers are expected to net debt since 31 December 2015 was primarily driven by cease to be capitalised in the first quarter of 2017, and from strong operating cash inflows of $5.8 billion, capital 1 Minas-Rio Iron Ore Brazil with effect from January 2017, expenditure of $2.5 billion and cash proceeds from 2 after which these assets will also contribute to cash flow disposals, before tax, of $1.8 billion.
BASE DIVIDEND SUSTAINING CAPITAL EXPENDITURE The commitment to a sustainable dividend remains a We continue to focus on capital discipline and critical part of the overall capital allocation approach.
1 stay-in-business capital efficiency, while maintaining Excludes capitalised Given the need to conserve cash and reduce debt, dividend operating cash flows.
the operational integrity of all our assets.
A sustainable payments remained suspended for 2016.
The Board has 2 level of total capital expenditure for the current Proceeds from recommended that, upon reinstatement, Anglo American disposals of portfolio of assets, excluding growth projects, is should adopt a payout ratio in order to provide shareholders $1.8 billion were approximately $2.5 billion per year.
with exposure to improvements in commodity prices, while received in 2016.
Total nominal cash Stay-in-business capital expenditure decreased to retaining cash flow flexibility during periods of weaker inflows are expected $1.0 billion 2015: $1.4 billion, primarily due to a focus pricing.
It is currently expected that dividend payments will to reach $2.0 billion on capital discipline and the continued roll-out of the be reinstated for the end of 2017 payable in 2018. over time, subject Operating Model across our assets.
22 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Evaluation expenditure reduced to $105 million in 2016 ADDITIONAL SHAREHOLDER RETURNS 2015: $145 million and expenditure on exploration Excess capital will be returned to shareholders unless activities decreased by 31% to $107 million there are compelling value-accretive opportunities 2015: $154 million.
The current focus remains on deleveraging the balance GROUP CAPITAL EXPENDITURE sheet further and to restore an investment grade 2 Capital expenditure decreased to $2.5 billion 2015: credit rating.
$4.0 billion, owing to rigorous capital discipline applied to all project investments, as well as to the benefits accruing PORTFOLIO UPGRADE from the commissioning of the Minas-Rio, Gahcho Ku and Grosvenor projects.
In 2017, we expect capital We remain focused on upgrading the portfolio, through expenditure to be approximately $2.5 billion.
improving asset quality, maintaining future optionality and seeking the appropriate geographic balance.
1 During 2016, we received $1.8 billion from divestment Capital expenditure transactions.
The sale of the niobium and phosphates business in Brazil to China Molybdenum Co. Ltd $1.5 billion Year ended Year ended supported our balance sheet recovery goal, while we also $ million 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 continued to upgrade the portfolio through the divestment Expansionary 967 1,936 of a number of other assets: the Rustenburg platinum mines to Sibanye Gold: our 9.7% interest in Exxaro Resources: Stay-in-business 1,042 1,384 and our interests in the Callide and Foxleigh coal mines in Development and stripping 551 740 Australia.
The disposal of Dartbrook Coal Australia was agreed in 2015, and is expected to complete in the first half Proceeds from disposal of 23 30 of 2017.
The disposal of the remaining interests in Tarmac property, plant and equipment operations located in the Middle East was completed in Total 2,537 4,030 2016.
Twickenham Platinum was placed onto care and maintenance during the year.
In February 2017, we agreed Capitalised operating cash flows 150 147 the sale of our 85% interest in the Union platinum mine in Total capital expenditure 2,387 4,177 South Africa to Siyanda Resources.
We will continue to refine the portfolio in this way, ensuring that capital is See page 189 for the definition of capital expenditure.
deployed to generate enhanced returns through the cycle.
FUTURE PROJECT OPTIONS Group historical capital expenditure Strict value criteria are applied to the assessment 20122016 $ billion of future options.
Where appropriate, we will seek partners on major greenfield projects, and are likely 8 to not commit to more than one major project at any given time.
No major new project approvals 6.1 6.0 5.9 6 are planned until dividend payments are resumed.
The Group will continue to maintain optionality to progress with value-accretive projects, should 4.0 4 market conditions and capital availability permit.
We continue to retain and advance select studies, 2.5 maintaining our established social commitments and 2 managing the costs of maintaining these options appropriately.
Our approach to studies and evaluation has 0 a strong emphasis on assessing a broad range of options early on in the study phase, so that we can mitigate risk, 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 identify opportunities and minimise sunk costs.
This position is enhanced by the application of innovative concepts and 1 new technologies stemming from our FutureSmart mining Proceeds from disposals of FutureSmart programme in order to build and maintain a $1.8 billion were portfolio of high-value replacement and organic options.
Total nominal cash Our 81.9% investment in the open-cut Quellaveco copper inflows are expected project in Peru remains one such key option for the Group, to reach $2.0 billion with feasibility costs of $0.1 billion spent in 2016.
At the over time, subject to prices.
Gahcho Ku diamond mine in Canada, which accounted 2 for capital expenditure of $0.2 billion in 2016, production Excludes capitalised operating cash flows.
has commenced and ramp-up is nearing completion.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 23
