OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REPORT This section includes certain disclosures which are required by law to be Significant shareholdings included in the Directors Report.
The Company has been notified of the following significant shareholdings: Number Percentage In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the following items have Company of shares of voting rights been reported in other sections of the Annual Report and are included in Public Investment Corporation 186,786,134 13.29% this Directors Report by reference: BlackRock Inc. 78,605,710 5.60% Silchester International Investors LLP 70,110,363 4.99% Details of the directors of the Company can be found on pages 66-68 Coronation Asset Management Pty Ltd 56,038,671 3.99% Directors interests in shares at 31 December 2016 and any changes Genesis Asset Managers, LLP 55,426,734 3.95% thereafter can be found on page 105 of the directors remuneration report Tarl Investment Holdings RF 1 Proprietary Limited 47,275,613 3.37% Post-balance sheet events are set out in note 36 to the financial statements Epoch Two Investment Holdings RF on page 158 1 Proprietary Limited 42,166,686 3.01% The Strategic Report on pages 2-64 gives a fair review of the business 1 Epoch Two Investment Holdings Ltd Epoch 2 and Tarl Investment Holdings and an indication of likely future developments and fulfils the requirements Limited Tarl are two of the independent companies that have purchased shares as part of Anglo Americans share buyback programme.
Epoch 2 and Tarl have set out in section 414C of the Companies Act 2006 waived their right to vote all the shares they hold, or will hold, in Anglo American plc.
Details of the Groups governance arrangements and its compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code can be found on Disclosure table pursuant to Listing Rule 9.8.
4C pages 65-110 Listing Rule Information to be included Disclosure 9.8.
4 1 Interest capitalised by the Group See note 7, page 130 Comprehensive details of the Groups approach to financial risk 9.8.
4 2 Unaudited financial information None management are given in note 38 to the financial statements LR 9.2.
4 4 Long-term incentive scheme only None involving a director LR 9.4.
3 The Groups disclosure of its greenhouse gas emissions can be found 9.8.
4 5 Directors waivers of emoluments See page 103 on pages 27-28.
4 6 Directors waivers of future See page 103 emoluments Going concern 9.8.
4 7 Non pro rata allotments for cash Treasury shares have been The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and issuer issued pursuant to the exercise borrowing facilities are set out in the Group financial review on pages 36-39. of options awarded under Further details of our policy on financial risk management are set out in shareholder approved schemes note38 to the financial statements.
The Groups net debt at 31 December 9.8.
4 8 Non pro rata allotments for cash None major subsidiaries 2016 was $8.5 billion 2015: $12.9 billion, representing a gearing level of 9.8.
4 9 Listed company is a subsidiary of Not applicable 25.9% 2015: 37.7%.
Details ofborrowings and facilities are set out in another company note24 and net debt is set out in note23.
4 10 Contracts of significance involving None The directors have considered the Groups cash flow forecasts for the a director 9.8.
4 11 Contracts of significance involving Not applicable period to the end of March 2018.
The Board is satisfied that the Groups a controlling shareholder forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes 9.8.
4 12 Waivers of dividends See note 32, page 156 in trading performance, show that the Group will be able to operate within 9.8.
4 13 Waivers of future dividends See note 32, page 156 the level ofitscurrent facilities for the period assessed.
4 14 Agreement with a controlling Not applicable the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its shareholder LR 9.2.
Sustainable development Dividends The Sustainability Report 2016 will be published online on 13 March 2017.
No dividends were paid in respect of the Companys ordinary shares during This report focuses on the safety, sustainable development, health and 2016 and the directors are not recommending a final dividend.
In accordance environmental performance of the Groups managed operations, its with Article 4.1 a of the Articles of Association the Articles, a dividend of performance with regard to the Companys Code of Conduct, and the 2,500 was paid in respect of the 5% cumulative preference shares.
operational dimensions of its social programmes.
Share capital Audit information The Companys issued share capital as at 31 December 2016, together The directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit with details of share allotments and issue of treasury shares during the year, information of which the auditor is are unaware, and that all directors have is set out in note 32 on page 155. taken all reasonable steps to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
Employment and other policies The Groups key operating businesses are empowered to manage within the context of the different legislative and social demands of the diverse countries in which those businesses operate, subject to the standards embodied in Anglo Americans Code of Conduct.
Within all the Groups businesses, the safe and effective performance of employees and the maintenance of positive employee relations are of fundamental importance.
Managers are charged with ensuring that the following key principles are upheld: adherence to national legal standards on employment and workplace rights at all times 198 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 Other information OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REPORT adherence to the International Labour Organisations core labour rights, Additional information for shareholders including: prohibition of child labour: prohibition of inhumane treatment Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of the Companys current of employees and any form of forced labour, physical punishment or other Articles and applicable English law concerning companies the Companies abuse: recognition of the right of our employees to freedom of association Act 2006 the Companies Act required as a result of the implementation of and the promotion of workplace equality: and the elimination of all forms the Takeover Directive in English law.
This is a summary only and the relevant of unfair discrimination provisions of the Articles or the Companies Act should be consulted if further information is required.
continual promotion of safe and healthy working practices Dividends and distributions provision of opportunities for employees to enhance their work related Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Company may, by skills and capabilities ordinary resolution, from time to time declare dividends not exceeding the adoption of fair and appropriate procedures for determining terms and amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends conditions of employment.
whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, It is our policy that people with disabilities should have full and fair justifies such payment.
Employment of disabled people is considered The Board may withhold payment of all, or any part of any dividends or other on merit and with regard only to the ability of any applicant to carry out the monies payable in respect of the Companys shares, from a person with a role.
We endeavour to retain the employment of, and arrange suitable 0.25% interest or more as defined in the Articles if such a person has been retraining for, any employees in the workforce who become disabled during served with a notice after failing to provide the Company with information their employment.
Where possible we will adjust a persons working concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the environment to enable them to stay in our employment.
Further, the Group is committed to treating employees at all levels with Rights and obligations attaching to shares respect and consideration, to investing in their development and to ensuring The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary and preference shares that their careers are not constrained by discrimination or arbitrary barriers.
are set out in the Articles.
The Articles may only be changed by a special resolution passed by the shareholders.
The Code of Conduct is supplemented by four Anglo American Way documents, covering the safety, environmental, occupational health and Voting social aspects of responsible operation and sustainable development.
Subject to the Articles generally and to any special rights or restrictions as to These set out specific standards for each of these subject areas, in line with voting attached by or in accordance with the Articles to any class of shares, on international best practice.
The Code of Conduct and the Anglo American a show of hands every member who is present in person at a general meeting Way documents may be accessed on the Companys website.
shall have one vote and, on a poll, every member who is present in person or In addition, all Anglo American suppliers must commit to adhering to the by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he she is the holder.
It is, requirements set out in the Sustainable Development in the Supply Chain and has been for some years, the Companys practice to hold a poll on every Policy, which is available on the Companys website.
Where shares are held by trustees nominees in respect of the Groups The Business Integrity Policy and its 11 Performance Standards support our employee share plans and the voting rights attached to such shares are not anti-corruption commitment by making it clear that we will neither give, nor directly exercisable by the employees, it is the Companys practice that such accept, bribes, nor permit others to do so in our name, either in our dealings rights are not exercised by the relevant trustee nominee.
with public officials or with our suppliers and customers.
The Policy sets out the standards of conduct required at every level of Anglo American, including Under the Companies Act, members are entitled to appoint a proxy, who need our subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, in combating corrupt not be a member of the Company, to exercise all or any of their rights to attend behaviour of all types.
It also sets out the requirements of those with whom and to speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting.
wedo business and those who work on our behalf.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a general meeting The Business Integrity Policy and Performance Standards have been or class meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights translated into all the main languages that we use at our operations.
Two attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A member that dedicated business integrity managers, who operate within a broader risk is a corporation may appoint one or more individuals to act on its behalf at a management and business assurance team, oversee implementation of the general meeting or class meeting as a corporate representative.
Where a policy by working with senior managers in our business units and corporate shareholder appoints more than one corporate representative in respect functions and assisting them to put in place adequate procedures for of its shareholding, but in respect of different shares, those corporate managing corruption risks including extensive face-to-face training of representatives can act independently of each other, and validly vote in employees in high-risk roles.
Our internal audit team provide assurance on anti-corruption controls on an Restrictions on voting annual basis and all stakeholders are able to confidentially report breaches, No member shall, unless the directors otherwise determine, be entitled in orpotential breaches, of the Business Integrity Policy through our respect of any share held by him her to vote either personally or by proxy independently managed Speak Up facility.
at ashareholders meeting, or to exercise any other right conferred by The Group has a social intranet called Eureka!
which helps employees to membership in relation to shareholders meetings, if any call or other sum connect, communicate and collaborate more effectively.
presently payable by him her to the Company in respect of that share remains unpaid.
In addition, no member shall be entitled to vote if he she has been Political donations served with a notice after failing to provide the Company with information No political donations were made during 2016.
Anglo American has an concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the established policy of not making donations to, or incurring expenses for the Companies Act.
benefit of, any political party in any part of the world, including any political Issue of shares party or political organisation as defined in the Political Parties, Elections Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act relating to authority and andReferendums Act 2000. pre-emption rights and of any resolution of the Company in a UK general meeting, all unissued shares of the Company shall be at the disposal of the directors and they may allot with or without conferring a right of renunciation, grant options over, or otherwise dispose of them to such persons at such times, and on such terms, as they think proper.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 199 OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Shares in uncertificated form Directors shall not be fewer than 10 nor more than 18 in number.
A director Directors may determine that any class of shares may be held in uncertificated is not required to hold any shares of the Company by way of qualification.
form, and title to such shares may be transferred by means of a relevant TheCompany may by ordinary resolution increase or reduce the maximum system, or that shares of any class should cease to be so held and transferred.
At the 2017 AGM, shareholders will be Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the CREST regulations and asked to vote on an ordinary resolution reducing the minimum number of every other statute, statutory instrument, regulation or order for the time directors from 10 to five.
being in force concerning companies and affecting the Company together, the Statutes, the directors may determine that any class of shares held on the Powers of directors branch register of members of the Company resident in South Africa, or any Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any directions given by special other overseas branch register of the members of the Company, may be held resolution, the business of the Company will be managed by the Board who in uncertificated form in accordance with any system outside the UK that may exercise all the powers of the Company.
enables title to such shares to be evidenced and transferred without a written The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and instrument and which is a relevant system.
The provisions of the Articles shall to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property and uncalled capital not apply to shares of any class that are in uncertificated form to the extent and to issue debentures and other securities, whether outright or as collateral that the Articles are inconsistent with the holding of shares of that class in security, for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
uncertificated form, the transfer of title to shares of that class by means of arelevant system or any provision of the CREST regulations.
The Company may by ordinary resolution declare dividends, but no dividend shall be payable in excess of the amount recommended by the directors.
Deadlines for exercising voting rights Subject to the provisions of the Articles and to the rights attaching to any Votes are exercisable at a general meeting of the Company in respect of shares, any dividends or other monies payable on or in respect of a share may which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised be paid in such currency as the directors may determine.
The directors may in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by corporate deduct from any dividend payable to any member all sums of money if any representative.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms presently payable by him her to the Company on account of calls or otherwise of not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the in relation to shares of the Company.
The directors may retain any dividends meeting or adjourned meeting.
payable on shares on which the Company has a lien, and may apply the same Variation of rights in or towards satisfaction of the debts, liabilities or engagements in respect of Subject to statute, the Articles specify that rights attached to any class of which the lien exists.
shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not less than Appointment and replacement of directors three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, or with the The directors may from time to time appoint one or more directors.
sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of those shares.
At every such separate general meeting the The Board may appoint any person to be a director so long as the total quorum shall be two persons holding, or representing by proxy, at least number of directors does not exceed the limit prescribed in the Articles.
one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class calculated Anysuch director shall hold office only until the next AGM and shall then be excluding any shares held as treasury shares.
The rights conferred upon the eligible for election.
holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the The Articles provide that at each AGM all those directors who have been in rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or office for three years or more since their election, or last re-election, shall issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
In addition, a director may at any AGM retire from office and Transfer of shares stand for re-election.
However, in accordance with the Code, all directors will All transfers of shares that are in certificated form may be effected by transfer be subject to annual re-election.
in writing in any usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to the Significant agreements: Change of control directors and may be under hand only.
The instrument of transfer shall be At 31 December 2016, Anglo American had committed bilateral and signed by, or on behalf of, the transferor and except in the case of fully paid syndicated borrowing facilities totalling $10.3 billion with a number of shares by or on behalf of the transferee.
The transferor shall remain the relationship banks which contain change of control clauses.
$5.4 billion of the holder of the shares concerned until the name of the transferee is entered in Groups bond issues also contain change of control provisions.
In aggregate, the register of shareholders.
All transfers of shares that are in uncertificated this financing is considered significant to the Group and in the event of a form may be effected by means of the CREST system.
takeover change of control of the Company, these contracts may be The directors may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer relating to cancelled, become immediately payable or be subject to acceleration.
shares in certificated form unless it: In the ordinary course of its business the Groups subsidiaries enter into a is in respect of only one class of share: and a number of other commercial agreements, some of which would alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company.
None of these are b is lodged at the transfer office duly stamped if required accompanied by considered by the Group to be significant to the Group as a whole.
the relevant share certificate s and such other evidence as the directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the Purchases of own shares transfer and, if the instrument of transfer is executed by some other At the AGM held on 21 April 2016, authority was given for the Company to 86 person on his her behalf, the authority of that person so to do.
purchase, in the market, up to 210.1 million ordinary shares of 54 91 UScents each.
The Company did not purchase any of its own shares under this The directors may, in the case of shares in certificated form, in their absolute authority during 2016.
This authority will expire at the 2017 AGM and, in discretion and without assigning any reason therefore, refuse to register accordance with usual practice, a resolution to renew it for another year will any transfer of shares not being fully paid shares provided that, where any be proposed.
such shares are admitted to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange, such discretion may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings Indemnities in the shares of that class from taking place on an open and proper basis.
To the extent permitted by law and the Articles, the Company has made The directors may also refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its directors whether fully paid or not in favour of more than four persons jointly.
during the year, which remain in force at the date of this report.
Copies of these indemnities are open for inspection at the Companys registered office.
If the directors refuse to register an allotment or transfer, they shall send the refusal to the allottee or the transferee within two months after the date on By order of the Board which the letter of allotment or transfer was lodged with the Company.
John Mills A shareholder does not need to obtain the approval of the Company, or of Company Secretary other shareholders of shares in the Company, for a transfer of shares to 20 February 2017 takeplace.
200 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016
