Corporate Governance Statement continued Financial reporting: Monthly management accounts provide relevant, reliable and up-to-date financial and non-financial information to management and the Board.
Analysis is undertaken of the differences between actual results and budgeted results on a monthly basis.
Annual plans, forecasts, performance targets Internal controls The Board acknowledges its responsibility for establishing and and long-range financial plans allow management to monitor the key business and financial activities, and the progress towards maintaining the Groups system of internal controls and it receives regular reports from management identifying, evaluating and achieving the financial objectives.
The annual budget is approved by the Board.
The Group reports half-yearly based on a managing the risks within the business.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of standardised reporting process.
failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Information systems: Information systems are developed to support the Groups long-term objectives and are managed by This system of internal controls complies with the Financial Reporting Councils Internal Control: Guidance on Risk Management, Internal professionally staffed teams.
During the reporting period work continued with the implementation of the Microsoft Dynamics, Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
The Audit Committee reviews the system of internal controls through reports a new financial reporting system, to improve internal controls and the efficiency of our processes, assist with the segregation of duties received from management, along with those from both internal and external auditors.
Management continues to focus on how internal and standardise procedures across the Group.
This is now running across the Group.
Appropriate policies and procedures are in place control and risk management can be further embedded into the operations of the business and to deal with areas of improvement covering all significant areas of the business.
which come to the attention of management and the Board.
Contractual commitments: There are clearly defined policies and procedures for entering into contractual commitments.
The Board and the Audit Committee review on an ongoing basis the effectiveness of the system of internal controls and did so during the These include detailed requirements that must be completed prior to submitting proposals and or tenders for work, both in year ended 31 March 2016 and for the period up to the date of approval of the consolidated financial statements contained in the Annual respect of the commercial, control and risk management aspects of the obligations being entered into.
The review covered all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems commitments, capital projects and acquisitions and disposals require Board approval.
and whether any changes were necessary in light of changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code in 2014.
The Board confirms that Monitoring of controls: The Audit Committee receives regular the actions it considers necessary have been, or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from its reports from the internal and external auditors and assures itself that the internal control environment of the Group is operating review of the system of internal control.
This has involved considering the matters reported to it and developing plans and programmes that effectively.
There are formal policies and procedures in place to ensure the integrity and accuracy of the accounting records and it considers are reasonable in the circumstances.
The Board also confirms that it has not been advised of material weaknesses in the to safeguard the Groups assets.
There are formal procedures by which staff can, in confidence, raise concerns about possible part of the internal control system that relates to financial reporting.
improprieties in financial and pensions administration and other matters often referred to as whistleblowing procedures.
The key elements of the Groups system of internal controls, which have been in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of this report, include: Risk management: Our Risk Management Committee has a clear framework for identifying, evaluating and managing risk faced by the Group on an ongoing basis, both at an operational and strategic level.
This internal control process starts with the identification of risks through regular routine reviews with our AO team representatives facilitated by our internal audit team with appropriate action taken to manage and mitigate the risks identified.
These risks are recorded in the Groups Corporate Risk Register and the implications and consequences for the Group together with the likelihood of occurrence are assessed.
This register is reviewed and discussed every other month by the Risk Management Committee and follow-up actions are assigned as appropriate.
The Risk Management Committee issues a report to the Audit Committee and the key risks are included within the Groups Principal Risk Register which is then reviewed and scrutinised by the Board.
For further details of our risk management and risk appetite please see pages 22 to 25.
Management structure: There is a clearly defined organisational structure throughout the Group with established lines of reporting and delegation of authority based on job responsibilities and experience.
Within the businesses, Group Executive Team and Senior Management Team meetings occur regularly to allow prompt discussion of relevant business issues and to ensure alignment on strategy.
Please see page 46 for further details on our management structure.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 52 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information Following the retirement of Bill Holroyd from the Board at the Report of the Audit Committee Companys AGM on 21 July 2015, Chris Hopkinson replaced him as a member of the Audit Committee.
Chris is not regarded as an independent Non-Executive Director for the purposes of the Code and therefore during the year the Committee was not fully compliant in this respect.
However, Chris financial experience and knowledge is valuable to the Committee and will help to ensure that the Committee is run effectively.
Julie Finnemore Head of Group Legal and Company Secretary serves as Secretary to the Committee.
By invitation, the meetings of the Audit Committee may be attended by the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Director of Financial Control and the Head of Internal Audit.
The external audit engagement partner and team are also invited to attend Audit Committee meetings to ensure full communication of matters relating to the audit.
As Chair of the Audit Committee, I met regularly with both the internal and external auditors during the year.
Role of Audit Committee The Audit Committee has particular responsibility for monitoring the Marisa Cassoni Chair, Audit Committee Groups financial reporting process, the adequacy and effectiveness of the operation of internal controls and the integrity of the financial statements.
This includes a review of significant issues and judgements, policies and disclosures.
The Committee reviews the Companys risk management and viability disclosure for recommendation to the Board for approval.
Our duties also include keeping under review the scope and results of the audit and its cost effectiveness, consideration of managements response to any major external or internal audit recommendations and the independence and objectivity of the internal and external auditors.
Additionally, the Board requests that the Audit Committee advises whether we believe the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
I am pleased to report on the role and activities of the Audit Committee for the year.
A forward agenda will be used for the coming years activities focused around the review of the annual financial statements, the results of Composition and attendance of the Committee the external annual audit and interim reviews and internal quarterly The members of the Audit Committee who served during the year updates, relevant interim financial reporting and the external audit ended 31 March 2016 and their attendance at Committee meetings plan: review of risk management reports: review of internal audit is as follows: plans and findings and recommendations.
Meetings A key responsibility of the Audit Committee is to ensure that the eligible to Meetings external audit process and audit quality are effective.
We do this by attend attended relying on: Marisa Cassoni Chair 6 6 i the engagement with the Audit Committee Chair and the lead audit engagement partner which will generally be through Rudi Lamprecht Independent face-to-face meetings: Non-Executive Director 6 5 ii the reports which are brought to the Committee by the lead audit Chris Hopkinson Non-Executive Director 4 4 engagement partner and other senior members of the audit team: Bill Holroyd Non-Executive Director 2 2 iii the quality of the management responses to audit queries: meetings held by the Chief Financial Officer, Director of Financial Control From his appointment to the Committee with effect from 21 July 2015.
Until his retirement from the Board at the Companys AGM in July 2015. and the Chairman with the lead audit engagement partner which are reported to myself as Audit Chair and the Committee: and Two meetings are scheduled per year to review each of the Annual iv a review of the independence and objectivity of the audit firm and Report and Accounts and the half-yearly report.
Other meetings are also the quality of the formal audit report given by the Auditor to scheduled as required.
Feedback is also sought from members of the finance team, the Company Secretary and the Group Internal Audit Manager.
The Code recommends that the Audit Committee should comprise at least three members, all of whom should be independent NonAudit Committee meetings are generally scheduled to take place Executive Directors with at least one member having recent and in advance of a Company Board meeting.
As the Committees Chair, relevant financial experience.
I am the independent Non-Executive I report to the Board as part of a separate agenda item on the activity of Director considered to have recent and relevant financial experience the Committee and matters of particular relevance to the Board in the and am pleased to confirm that all members have had extensive and conduct of their work.
All members of the Board have access to Audit relevant experience Directors biographies appear on pages 44 and 45.
Committee papers and minutes of meetings, and may, on request to the Chair, attend the meetings.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 53 Corporate Governance Statement continued Significant work undertaken by the Committee Significant financial accounting matters during the year Inventory The Company has a considerable inventory Review of the 2016 Financial Statements valuation and balance incorporating white goods and AV During the year to 31 March 2016 the Audit Committee reviewed provisioning goods, which is valued on a FIFO basis at the and endorsed, prior to submission to the Board, full-year financial lower of cost and net realisable value in line statements and the preliminary, interim results and trading update with recognised accounting principles.
We considered internal audit reports and risk period end, inventory is adjusted to purchase management updates, agreed external and internal audit plans, cost on a FIFO basis.
This adjustment takes approved the review of accounting policies and ensured appropriate into account the absorption of rebates into the whistleblowing arrangements and anti-bribery policies were in place.
inventory valuation, which incorporates a number of variables depending on the nature of The internal audit annual plan was reviewed and approved by the the agreement with the supplier, such as stock Committee and all reports arising therefrom were reviewed and repositioning credits for AV goods.
assessed, along with managements actions to findings and recommendations.
Provisions are also held against all inventory lines with provisions for slow moving and In reviewing the financial statements with management and the damaged inventory being calculated based Auditors, the Committee has discussed and debated the critical on the most recent sales information.
accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty set out in note 4 to the financial statements.
As a result of our review, There is a risk therefore that the valuation of the Committee has identified the following issues that require a high the inventory may be misstated due to the level of judgement or have significant impact on interpretation of incorporation of these various elements and the this Annual Report.
complexities of the rebate agreements in place with a number of suppliers.
Significant financial accounting matters Revenue The Company sells product protection plans to The management team has prepared detailed recognition, customers purchasing electrical appliances, as policies setting out the key assumptions and debtor agent for Domestic and General, who administer judgements in this area.
The Committee has recoverability the plans, collect money from the customers and reviewed the judgements made in this area and legal risk pay a commission to the Company for each plan by management and, after due challenge and in respect sold.
The revenue recognition policy is set out debate, was content with the assumptions of product in note 3 to the financial statements page 86. made and the judgements applied.
protection Revenue recognised for the plans sold is based Commercial The Group has a number of contracts with plans on a fair value calculation of commissions due income its suppliers where additional discounts can over the life of the plan at each period end.
There arrangements be applied based on purchase levels.
The is a risk therefore that the revenues are being Group accrues the additional discounts by recognised in the incorrect period based on reference to the expected level of purchases.
the weighted average calculation performed The percentage discount accrued may differ by management.
There is also an associated to the current run rate of purchases as the risk around the recoverability of the receivable calculation takes seasonality into account.
balance attributable to the product protection There is a risk therefore that the level of rebates plans.
Additionally, the basis upon which the provided for at the year-end could materially Company offers and sells product protection differ from the actual number of purchases plans could change due to a change in law or when compared to assumptions made regulation or the interpretation of existing law by management.
or regulation, or the Company could be subject to claims or proceedings in relation to such The management team has prepared detailed product protection plans.
policies setting out the key assumptions and judgements in this area.
The Committee has The management team has prepared detailed reviewed the judgements made in this area by policies setting out the key assumptions and management and, after due challenge and judgements in this area.
The Committee has debate, was content with the assumptions reviewed the judgements made in this area made and the judgements applied.
by management and following appropriate challenge, we consider the policy and practice appropriate.
Training During the year the Committee was briefed by the Company Secretary on the revised UK Corporate Governance Code, in particular the new requirements to review and monitor risk management and internal control procedures and to provide a statement on the longer-term viability of the Company.
In addition, the Audit Committee members have received guidance from the external auditors on their duties as members of this Committee together with advice on new developments in reporting standards.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 54 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information Panel members, submission of a full proposal and formal presentations Going Concern Assumption and Viability Statement The Committee reviewed the Going Concern Assumption and to the Panel.
Attendees at the presentations reported back to the Audit Committee with their thoughts on each firm against the initial desktop Viability Statement reported by the Group, as required by the revised UK Corporate Governance Code.
Further information on the Going criteria and other factors such as cultural fit, technical expertise, local presence, audit approach and planning, regulator experience and Concern Assumption can be found on page 25.
The Committee was satisfied that the Viability Statement, noted on page 25 of the Strategic enthusiasm.
Following consideration of the presentation by each firm the Audit Committee agreed that KPMG was the best candidate and Report, presented a reasonable outlook for the Group to March 2019. recommended their appointment as auditors to the Board.
The Board accepted the recommendation and a resolution to appoint KPMG LLP Fair, Balanced and Understandable Assessment The Committee has reviewed the financial statements together with as the Groups new statutory auditor will be put to shareholders.
Work is already underway to ensure a seamless transition with the team already the narrative contained within the Strategic Report set out on pages 4 to 39 and believes that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken identified and preparatory work completed.
as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
In arriving at this conclusion the Committee undertook the following: We can confirm we have complied with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory review of early drafts of the Annual Report and Accounts, providing relevant feedback: Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014. regular review and discussion of the financial results during the year: receipt and review of reports from the external and internal auditors.
Internal Controls The Committee advised the Board of its conclusion that the 2016 During the year the Committee continued to oversee and review AOs internal financial controls and risk management processes, risk Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, were fair, balanced and understandable at a meeting of the Directors on 8 June 2016. appetite statement and principal risks, details of which are set out in the Risk section of the Strategic Report on pages 22 to 25.
During the Internal Audit year enhancements were made to the Groups Risk Management Framework and other internal control processes, in line with the The Committee receives reports from the Internal Audit department and reviews the internal audit process and effectiveness as part of new corporate governance requirements.
the Groups risk assessment programme and as part of its sign off on internal controls.
An annual programme of internal audit assignments Non-audit services The Companys external Auditor may also be used to provide is reviewed by the Committee.
The Committee met with the Head of Internal Audit without the presence of the Executive Directors on one specialist advice where, as a result of their position as Auditor, they either must, or are best placed to, perform the work in question.
A formal policy is in place in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the external Auditor to ensure that there is adequate External Auditor The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for leading the protection of their independence and objectivity.
process for selecting the external auditor.
It is required to make appropriate recommendations on the external auditor through Fees charged by Deloitte in respect of non-audit services generally require the prior approval of the Audit Committee.
A breakdown of the Board to the shareholders to consider at the Companys AGM.
Deloitte was appointed as AOs external auditor in 2010, prior to the fees paid to Deloitte during the year is set out in note 9 to the consolidated financial statements.
our listing in March 2014, and has been reappointed each year since then.
There were no contractual obligations which restricted the During the year, Deloitte charged the Group 0.017m 2015: 0.019m Committees choice of external auditor or which put in place a minimum period for Deloittes tenure.
The Committee has been for non-audit related services.
These fees related to an annual review of the potential impact of certain changes in employment legislation.
satisfied with the quality of the audit provided, as well as with the independence of Deloitte as auditor.
During the year, Deloitte charged Deloitte were best placed to perform their work given their knowledge of the business.
the Group 0.243m 2015: 0.2m for audit and audit-related services.
It is the Companys practice that it will seek quotes from several firms, Last year we explained that Damian Sanders would serve his last year as Senior Statutory Auditor for the year to 31 March 2016 pursuant which may include the incumbent auditor, before work on non-audit projects is awarded.
Contracts are awarded to our suppliers based on to the audit partner rotation requirements under the Financial Reporting Councils APB Ethical Standards.
In light of increasing focus on auditor individual merits.
rotation and having regard to the requirement to conduct a competitive tender by March 2020 under the provisions of the Code, in early 2016 We receive advice from other firms for specific projects.
In particular, the Company will regularly seek advice from an independent third the Audit Committee recommended to the Board that it was an appropriate time to initiate a formal tender process.
This process commenced in February 2016 and an audit tender panel I will be available at the Companys forthcoming AGM to answer any questions on the work of the Audit Committee.
the Panel was established comprising all members of the Audit Committee, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Operational Officer, the Director of Financial Control and the Group Financial Controller, with the support of the Company Secretary.
The Panel prepared the scope of the Marisa Cassoni Chair, Audit Committee tender process which included an initial desktop exercise to identify a shortlist of firms who would be invited to take part in the process based AO World Plc 8 June 2016 on criteria including knowledge and understanding of AOs business, its growth profile and its sector, understanding of the quoted sector, experience and overseas knowledge.
These firms were then invited to join the tender process which involved meeting with management and AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 55
