N O N I N OUR BUSINESS MODEL CREATING VALUE CREATING VALUE THROUGH THE MINING LIFECYCLE Resources Chile Los Pelambres Encuentro oxides Los Pelambres Incremental Expansion Relationships International Centinela Centinela Centinela molybdenum plant Antucoya Second Concentrator Zaldvar Twin Metals The Groups mining To secure the future of Effective project Once a project has been The Groups four operations depend on the business in the long evaluation and design approved by the Board, operations in Chile are: a range of key inputs term, the Group must maximise value at this construction begins.
Los Pelambres, Centinela, such as energy, water, increase the size of its stage of the mining cycle.
This stage requires Antucoya and Zaldvar.
The Groups wealth of significant input of capital The world-class Los management of these It undertakes exploration experience in both areas and resources.
Effective Pelambres and Centinela inputs has a significant activities in Chile and helps to make the best use project management and districts have long-life impact on operating costs, abroad.
cost control maximise operations with large so ensuring the longprogrammes outside a projects return The Group integrates mineral resources and term availability of key Chile are generally on investment.
sustainability criteria produce significant resources is a vital part carried out in partnership into design processes The Group has a volumes of gold, silver ofsupply management.
with other companies and project evaluation, co-operative approach and molybdenum as in order to benefit from developing innovative to developing projects.
In 2015, their local knowledge solutions for challenges Typically, after the the Group completed the and experience.
such as water and feasibility stage, and into construction of Antucoya energy supplies and the construction phase, and acquired a 50% community relations.
the Group seeks a partner interest in the Zaldvar for its projects, generating copper mine and became an immediate cash return the operator.
All of the while diversifying risk and Groups mines are open providing broader access pit mining operations.
Safety and health are key elements of operating efficiency and remain a top priority for the Board and management team.
Further information on Further information on Further information on Further information on Further information on page 32. page 40. page 42. page 43. page 44-49.
3-5 YEARS 5 YEARS 3-5 YEARS 20 YEARS RESPECT SAFETY AND HEALTH GROUP CORE VALUES 30 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 N O T I O O C T I I U T A T R C R A S T A O U T S R L L U N P T A P X O X V N E E C E I N G STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTMENT VERSUS INCOME Mining is a long-term business and timescales can run into decades.
The period from initial exploration to the start of production often exceeds ten years, and, depending on the nature of the project and market conditions, it may take more than five years of operation to recoup the initial investment.
If possible, mines exploit higher-grade areas towards the start of the mine life in order to maximise returns.
As a result, average ore grades may decline over time, with production volumes decreasing along with revenues.
CORE OPERATIONS The Group mines both Centinela Cathodes, The marketing team builds During the operation of The Groups mining Antucoya and Zaldvar copper sulphide and long-term relationships a mine, its impact on operations create copper oxide ores, with the smelters and the environment and the significant economic and Mined oxide ore is which require different fabricators who purchase neighbouring communities social value for a wide combined with leachable processing routes: the Groups products, is carefully managed.
sulphide, crushed, with approximately At the end of its life, a Local communities piled into heaps and Los Pelambres and 75% of output going to mine must be closed benefit from job then leached with Centinela Concentrates Asian markets.
and the surrounding creation and improved sulphuric acid, producing habitats restored to their infrastructure, while Mined sulphide ore is a copper sulphate As well as copper, a original state.
the Chilean government milled to reduce its solution.
This solution number of the Groups and local municipalities size before passing to is then put through a mines produce significant A closure plan for each receive taxpayments and flotation cells where it is solvent extraction and volumes of gold, mine is maintained and royalties.
There are also upgraded to a concentrate electrowinning SX-EW molybdenum and silver as updated throughout its life benefits to society in containing some 25-35% plant to produce copper by-products.
Gold is sold to ensure compliance with general, with the copper copper.
This concentrate cathodes, which are sold for use in industrial and the latest regulations and the Group produces being is then shipped to a to fabricators around electronic applications a sustainable closure.
used across many sectors, smelter operated by a the world.
third party and converted Most copper and to copper metal.
The copper and molybdenum sales by-products from the aremade under annual Groups mines go on to contracts or longer-term be further processed framework agreements.
for use in end markets, Sales volumes are including property, power, agreed each year, which electronics, transport and guarantees offtake.
Further information on Further information on Further information on Further information on pages 44-49. pages 44-49. pages 52. pages 61.
SUSTAINABILITY INNOVATION EXCELLENCE FORWARD-THINKING ANTOFAGASTA.
