Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report and the Management Report audited financial statements of AO World Plc the Company This Directors Report, on pages 70 to 73, together with the Strategic and its subsidiaries together the Group for the financial Report on pages 4 to 39, form the Management Report for the year to 31 March 2016. purposes of DTR 4.1.
Statutory Information The Strategic Report Information required to be part of the Directors Report can be found The Strategic Report, which can be found on pages 4 to 39, sets out elsewhere in this document, as indicated in the table below and is the development and performance of the Groups business during incorporated into this Report by reference: the financial year, the position of the Group at the end of the year and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties which is set out Statutory Information Section Page on pages 22 to 25.
Amendment of the Articles Directors Report 71 UK Corporate Governance Code Appointment and Directors Report The Companys statement on corporate governance can be found in replacement of Directors 70 the Corporate Governance Statement, the Audit Committee Report, Board of Directors Corporate Governance the Nomination Committee Report and the Directors Remuneration Statement 44 and 45 Report on pages 40 to 69.
The Corporate Governance Statement, the Audit Committee Report and the Nomination Committee Report form Change of control Directors Report 71 part of this Directors Report and are incorporated into the Directors Community Strategic Report: Report by reference.
Corporate Social Responsibility 26 to 31 Appointment and replacement of Directors Directors indemnities Directors Report 72 The appointment and replacement of Directors of the Company is governed by the Articles.
Directors interests Remuneration Report 67 Directors responsibility Directors Report Appointment of Directors: A Director may be appointed by statement 73 the Company by ordinary resolution of the shareholders or by the Disclosure of information to Directors Report Board having regard to the recommendation of the Nomination Auditors 73 Committee.
A Director appointed by the Board holds office only until the next Annual General Meeting of the Company and is then Employee involvement Strategic Report: eligible for reappointment.
Corporate Social Responsibility 26 to 31 The Directors may appoint one or more of their number to the office Employees with disabilities Strategic Report: of CEO or to any other executive office of the Company and any such Corporate Social appointment may be made for such term, at such remuneration and Responsibility 28 on such other conditions as the Directors think fit.
Future developments of the Strategic Report business 4 to 36 Retirement of Directors: At every Annual General Meeting of the Company, there shall, at least, retire from office all Directors who held Going concern Strategic Report 25 office at the time of the two preceding AGMs and did not retire at either Greenhouse gas emissions Corporate Social of them and if the number of retiring Directors is less than one-third of Responsibility 31 relevant Directors then additional Directors shall be required to retire.
Independent Auditor Directors Report 76 However, in accordance with the Code, all Directors will be subject to re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Results and dividends Directors Report 72 Political donations Directors Report 72 Removal of Directors by special resolution: The Company may Post-balance sheet events Directors Report 72 by special resolution remove any Director before the expiration of his period of office.
Powers for the Company to Directors Report issue or buy back its shares 71 Termination of a Directors appointment: A person ceases to be Powers of the Directors Directors Report 71 a Director if: Research and development Directors Report i t hat person ceases to be a Director by virtue of any provision of the activities 72 Companies Act 2006 or is prohibited from being a Director by law: ii a bankruptcy order is made against that person: Restrictions on transfer of Directors Report iii a composition is made with that persons creditors generally in securities 71 satisfaction of that persons debts: Rights attaching to shares Directors Report 71 iv that person resigns or retires from office: Risk management Strategic Report: v in the case of a Director who holds any executive office, his Note 35 to the consolidated appointment as such is terminated or expires and the Directors financial statements 22 to 25 resolve that he should cease to be a Director: vi that person is absent without permission of the Board from Board Share capital Directors Report 71 meetings for more than six consecutive months and the Directors Significant related party Note 36 to the consolidated resolve that he should cease to be a Director: or agreements financial statements 102 vii a no tice in writing is served upon him personally, or at his Significant shareholders Directors Report 72 residential address provided to the Company for the purposes of section 165 of the Companies Act 2006, signed by all the Statement of corporate Corporate Governance other Directors stating that he shall cease to be a Director with governance Statement 40 to 69 immediate effect.
Voting rights Directors Report 71 AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 70 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information For further details of our Directors please refer to pages 44 and 45.
Voting rights Each ordinary share entitles the holder to vote at general meetings Amendment of the Articles of the Company.
A resolution put to the vote of the meeting shall be The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended decided on a show of hands unless a poll is demanded.
On a show by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
No of hands, every member who is present in person or by proxy at a amendments are proposed to be made to the existing Articles of general meeting of the Company shall have one vote.
On a poll, every Association at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which they are a holder.
The Articles provide a deadline Share capital and control for submission of proxy forms of not than less than 48 hours before the The Companys issued share capital comprises of ordinary shares time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
of 0.25p each which are listed on the London Stock Exchange LSE: No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting either in AO.
L. The ISIN of the shares is GB00BJTNFH41.
As at 31 March 2016, person or by proxy, in respect of any share held by him unless all the issued share capital of the Company was 1,052,632 comprising amounts presently payable by him in respect of that share have been 421,052,631 ordinary shares of 0.25p each.
Save as noted, there are no restrictions on voting rights nor any agreement that may result in such restrictions.
Details of the issued share capital of the Company, together with movements in the issued share capital during the year, can be found Restrictions on transfer of securities in note 29 to the financial statements on page 96.
All the information There are no restrictions on the free transferability of the Companys detailed in note 29 on page 96 forms part of this Directors Report shares save that the Directors may, in their absolute discretion, refuse and is incorporated into it by reference.
to register the transfer of a share: 1 in certificated form which is not fully paid provided that if the share Details of employee share schemes are provided in note 32 to the is listed on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority such refusal financial statements on pages 96 to 98. does not prevent dealings in the shares from taking place on an open and proper basis: or At the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 21 July 2 in certificated form whether fully paid or not unless the 2016 the Directors will seek authority from shareholders to allot shares instrument of transfer a is lodged, duly stamped, at the Office or in the capital of the Company up to a maximum nominal amount of at such other place as the Directors may appoint and except in the 701,754.39 280,701,756 shares representing approximately 66.6% case of a transfer by a financial institution where a certificate has of the Companys issued ordinary share capital of which 140,350,878 not been issued in respect of the share is accompanied by the shares representing approximately 33% of the Companys issued certificate for the share to which it relates and such other evidence ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares can only be allotted as the Directors may reasonably require to show the right of the pursuant to a rights issue.
transferor to make the transfer: b is in respect of only one class of share and c is in favour of not more than four transferees: or Authority to purchase own shares 3 in uncertificated form to a person who is to hold it thereafter in The Directors will seek authority from shareholders at the forthcoming certificated form in any case where the Company is entitled to Annual General Meeting for the Company to purchase, in the market, refuse or is excepted from the requirement under the up to a maximum of 42,105,263 of its own ordinary shares either to be Uncertificated Securities Regulations to register the transfer: or cancelled or retained as treasury shares.
The Directors will only use 4 where restrictions are imposed by laws and regulations from time this power after careful consideration, taking into account the financial to time apply for example insider trading laws.
resources of the Company, the Companys share price and future funding opportunities.
The Directors will also take into account the In relation to awards options under the PSP and the AO Sharesave effects on earnings per share and the interests of shareholders generally.
Scheme, rights are not transferable other than to a participants personal representatives in the event of death.
Rights attaching to shares All shares have the same rights including voting and dividend rights The Directors are not aware of any arrangements between and rights on a return of capital and restrictions as set out in the shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities Articles, described below.
Except in relation to dividends which or on voting rights.
No person has any special rights of control over have been declared and rights on a liquidation of the Company, the the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
shareholders have no rights to share in the profits of the Company.
The Companys shares are not redeemable.
However, following any Change of control grant of authority from shareholders, the Company may purchase Save in respect of a provision of the Companys share schemes which or contract to purchase any of the shares on or off-market, subject to may cause options and awards granted to employees under such the Companies Act 2006 and the requirements of the Listing Rules.
schemes to vest on takeover, there are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation No shareholder holds shares in the Company which carry special for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, rights with regard to control of the Company.
There are no shares purported redundancy or otherwise because of a takeover bid.
relating to an employee share scheme which have rights with regard to control of the Company that are not exercisable directly and solely Save in respect of the Companys share schemes and also the by the employees, other than in the case of the AO Sharesave Scheme revolving credit facility agreement entered into with Lloyds Bank and PSP where share interests of a participant in such scheme can be Plc and Barclays Bank Plc on 3 June 2016, there are no significant exercised by the personal representatives of a deceased participant agreements to which the Company is a party that take effect, alter in accordance with the Scheme rules.
or terminate upon a change of control.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 71 Directors Report continued Results and dividends 2016 Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on 11.00 am on 21 July 2016 The Groups and Companys audited financial statements for the year are set out on pages 80 to 109. at AO Park, 5A The Parklands, Lostock, Bolton BL6 4SD.
The Notice of Meeting which sets out the resolutions to be proposed at the No dividend was paid by the Company during the year to 31 March 2016. forthcoming AGM is enclosed with this Annual Report.
The Notice specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy Post-balance sheet events or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the AGM.
All proxy votes will be counted and the numbers for, against or There have been no balance sheet events that either require adjustment to the financial statements or are important in the understanding of withheld in relation to each resolution will be announced at the Annual General Meeting and published on the Companys website.
the Companys current position, save that on 3 June 2016 AO Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company entered into a five-year Interests in voting rights 30m revolving credit facility to be used for working capital purposes.
At the date of this report the Company had been notified, in accordance with chapter 5 of the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Research and development Innovation, specifically in IT, is a critical element of AOs strategy and Transparency Rules, of the following significant interests: therefore to the future success of the Group.
Accordingly, the majority Percentage of of the Groups research and development expenditure is Number of voting rights predominantly related to the Groups IT systems.
ordinary over ordinary shares voting shares of Indemnities and insurance Shareholder rights notified 0.25p each The Company maintains appropriate insurance to cover Directors John Roberts 109,237,235 25.94% and Officers liability for itself and its subsidiaries.
The Company also indemnifies the Directors under an indemnity, in the case of the Steve Caunce 51,236,382 12.17% Non-Executive Directors in their respective letters of appointment and Odey Asset Management LLP 27,852,523 11.06% in the case of the Executive Directors in a separate deed of indemnity.
plus contracts Such indemnities contain provisions that are permitted by the director for difference liability provisions of the Companies Act and the Companys Articles.
18,700,000 Baron Capital Group, Inc, BAMCO, 33,299,590 7.25% Environmental Baron Capital Management & 30,508,906 Information on the Groups greenhouse gas emissions is set out in the Ronald Baron Corporate Social Responsibility section on page 31 and forms part Ruane, Cunniff & Goldfarb Inc. 22,578,535 5.36% of this report by reference.
The London & Amsterdam Trust 22,320,000 5.30% Political donations Company Ltd During the year, no political donations were made.
Chris Hopkinson 21,850,713 5.19% External branches Julie Holroyd 19,461,670 4.62% As part of its strategy on international expansion, the Group N K Stoller 17,629,098 4.20% established a branch in Germany on 18 July 2014 via its subsidiary Generation Investment 16,713,547 3.97% AO Deutschland Limited, registered in Elsdorf.
Group companies Management LLP have also been incorporated in the Netherlands and Belgium.
Aviva plc and its subsidiaries 12,986,872 3.09% Financial instruments including right to recall loaned shares Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group, including hedging policies and exposure of the entity to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk, are given on pages 98 to 102 in note 35 to the consolidated financial statements.
Independent Auditor KPMG LLP has agreed to be appointed as the external auditor of the Company with effect from 21 July 2016 in place of Deloitte LLP, subject to shareholder approval.
Resolutions to approve such appointment and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration are to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 72 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: Disclosure of information to Auditor Each of the Directors has confirmed that: The financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair i So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation ii The Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to make him herself aware of any relevant audit taken as a whole.
The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information Directors responsibilities statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
This statement has been given in accordance with IFRS accounting Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to standards.
prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements under IFRSs as Julie Finnemore adopted by the European Union.
Under Company law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give Company Secretary AO World Plc a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial 8 June 2016 statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: Properly select and apply accounting policies: Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and Make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 73 AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 74 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information Our Results Everyone has played their part AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 75
