STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT ordinary shares, which carry no right to fixed income.
Each ordinary share DIRECTORS carries one vote at any general meeting of the Company.
Directors that have served during the year and summaries of current Directors key skills and experience are set out in the Corporate Governance Details of the preference share capital are shown in Note 23 to the Financial Report on pages 72 to 74.
The preference shares are non-redeemable and are entitled to a fixed cumulative dividend of 5% per annum.
Each preference share carries 100 votes on a poll at any general meeting of the Company.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS The nominal value of the issued ordinary share capital is approximately There have been no post balance sheet events.
96.1% of the total Sterling nominal value of all issued share capital, and the nominal value of the issued preference share capital is approximately 3.9% FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT of the total Sterling nominal value of all issued share capital.
Originally, Details of the Companys policies on financial risk management are set out the ordinary shares and preference shares had the same voting rights.
in Note 25 to the Financial Statements.
However, the number of ordinary shares has increased over time through stock splits and bonus issues so that a holding of one ordinary share in 1982 would now amount to a holding of 100 ordinary shares before taking RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS into account all the rights issues since then.
The consolidated profit before tax excluding exceptional items has The preference shares were not split at the same time as the ordinary increased from $242.8 million in 2015 to $875.9 million in 2016. shares, and the voting rights attaching to these shares were increased The Board has recommended a final dividend of 15.3 cents per ordinary purely to maintain the relative votes of each class, not to give additional share.
No final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 was paid.
An weighting to the preference shares.
interim dividend of 3.1 cents was paid on 30 September 2016 2015 interim There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of shares or on their dividend 3.1 cents.
This gives total dividends per share proposed in voting rights beyond those standard provisions set out in the Companys relation to 2016 of 18.4 cents 2015 3.1 cents and a total dividend amount Articles of Association and other provisions of applicable law and regulation in relation to 2016 of $181.4 million 2015 $30.6 million.
including, in particular, following a failure to provide the Company with Preference shares carry the right to a fixed cumulative dividend of 5% information about interests in shares as required by the Companies Act per annum.
The preference shares are classified within borrowings and 2006.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders preference dividends are included within finance costs.
The total cost of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of of dividends paid on preference shares and recognised as an expense securities or on voting rights.
in the income statement was $0.2 million 2015 $0.2 million.
Further With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the information relating to dividends is set out in the Financial Review on page Company is governed by, and has regard to, its Articles of Association, 64 and in Note 13 to the Financial Statements.
the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
The Articles of Association may be amended by special POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS resolution of the shareholders.
There are no significant agreements in place The Group did not make political donations during the year ended that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company.
There are no agreements in place between the Company and its Directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office resulting from a change of control of the Company.
AUDITORS The auditors, PwC LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office AUTHORITY TO ISSUE SHARES AND AUTHORITY TO and a resolution seeking to reappoint them will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
PURCHASE OWN SHARES At the 2016 AGM, held on 18 May 2016, authority was given to the Directors to allot unissued relevant securities in the Company up to a maximum DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS amount equivalent to two-thirds of the shares in issue of which one-third The Directors in office at the date of this report have each confirmed that: may only be offered by way of rights issue.
This authority expires on the a so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which date of this years AGM, scheduled to be held on 24 May 2017.
No such the Groups auditors are unaware: and shares have been issued.
The Directors propose to renew this authority at this years AGM for the following year.
b they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and A further special resolution passed at the 2016 AGM granted authority to the to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
Directors to allot equity securities in the Company for cash, without regard to the pre-emption provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This authority CAPITAL STRUCTURE also expires on the date of this years AGM and the Directors will seek to renew this authority on similar terms for the following year by way of two Details of the authorised and issued ordinary share capital, including details separate resolutions, in line with the Investment Associations guidance and of any movements in the issued share capital during the year, are shown the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles.
in Note 30 to the Financial Statements.
The Company has one class of ANTOFAGASTA.
CO. UK 117 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The Company was also authorised by a shareholders resolution passed at SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS the 2016 AGM to purchase up to 10% of its issued ordinary share capital.
Notifiable major share interests in which the Company has been made Any shares which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares aware are set out on page 70. or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of the Companys issued and EXPLORATION AND RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT authorised share capital.
This authority will expire at this years AGM and a resolution to renew the authority for a further year will be proposed.
The Groups operating companies carry out exploration and research Noshares were purchased by the Company during the year.
and development activities that are necessary to support and expand their operations.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS AND INDEMNITIES OTHER STATUTORY DISCLOSURES Details of Directors contracts and letters of appointment, remuneration and emoluments, and their interests in the shares of the Company as at The Corporate Governance Report on pages 66 to 116, the Statement of 31 December 2016 are given in the Directors Remuneration Report.
No Directors Responsibilities on page 119 of this Annual Report and Note25 Director had any material interest in a contract of significance other than to the financial statements are incorporated into the Directors Report a service contract with the Company or any subsidiary company during by reference.
Other information can be found in the following sections of the In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and to the extent Strategic Report: permitted by the laws of England and Wales, Directors are granted an LOCATION IN indemnity from the Company in respect of liabilities personally incurred STRATEGIC REPORT as a result of their office.
The Company also maintained a Directors and Future developments in the business of Pages 32 to 51 Officers liability insurance policy throughout the financial year.
A new the Group policyhas been entered into for the current financial year.
Viability and going concern statement Page 22 Subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures Pages 32 to 51 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Employee consultation Pages 35 to 37 The Companies Act 2006 requires that a Director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or Greenhouse gas emissions Page 57 possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
The Company has Disclosures required pursuant to Listing Rule 9.8.
4R can be found on the undertaken a process to identify and, where appropriate, authorise and following pages of the Annual Report: manage potential and actual conflicts.
Each Director has identified his or her interests that may constitute conflicts including, for example, directorships in LOCATION IN other companies.
The Board, with detailed assistance from the Nomination ANNUAL REPORT and Governance Committee, has considered the potential and actual conflict Statement of interest capitalised by the Group See Notes 5, 9 and situations of each of the Directors and decided in relation to each situation 15 to the financial LR 9.8.
4 1 whether to authorise it and the steps, if any, which need to be taken to statements on Pages manage it.
The authorisation process is not regarded as a substitute for 139 to 143,149 and 154 and 155. managing an actual conflict of interest if one arises.
The monitoring and, ifappropriate, authorisation of actual and potential conflicts of interest is Relationship agreement LR 9.8.
Directors are required to notify the Company of any material changes in those positions or situations that have already been By order of the Board considered, as well as to notify the Company of any other new positions orsituations that may arise.
In addition to considering any new situations JULIAN ANDERSON asthey arise, the Board usually considers the conflict position of all COMPANY SECRETARY Directors formally each year.
