Corporate Governance Statement continued The Senior Independent Director, Brian McBride, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which cannot be raised through the normal channels or if such concerns have not been resolved.
Arrangements can be made to meet with him through The Company recognises the importance of communicating with the Company Secretary.
its shareholders to ensure that its strategy and performance are understood and that it remains accountable to shareholders.
The The Board obtains feedback from its joint corporate brokers, Company has established an Investor Relations function, headed J. P. Morgan Cazenove, Jefferies Hoare Govett and Numis Securities, by the Chief Financial Officer.
on the views of institutional investors on a non-attributed and attributed basis.
Any concerns of major shareholders would be The Investor Relations function deals with queries from individual communicated to the Board by the Executive Directors.
As a matter shareholders with support as appropriate from the Executive of routine, the Board receives regular reports on issues relating Directors.
The Investor Relations team ensures that there is effective to share price and trading activity, and details of movements in communications with shareholders on matters such as strategy and, institutional investor shareholdings.
The Board is also provided together with the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer and with current analyst opinions and forecasts.
Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for ensuring that the Board understands the views of major shareholders on such matters.
There is an ongoing programme of dialogue and meetings between the Executive Directors and institutional investors, fund managers and analysts.
This includes formal meetings with investors to discuss interim and final results and maintaining an ongoing dialogue with All shareholders can access announcements, the investment community through regular contact with existing investor presentations and the Annual Report and potential shareholders, attendance at investment conferences on the Companys corporate website and holding investor roadshows as required.
a wide range of relevant issues including strategy, performance, management and governance are discussed within the constraints of information which has already been made public.
The Board is aware that institutional shareholders may be in more regular contact with the Company than other shareholders, but care is exercised to ensure that any price-sensitive information is released to all shareholders, institutional and private, at the same time in accordance with legal and regulatory requirements.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 56
