Our business model AOs business model of end-to-end control throughout the supply chain has allowed us to offer a successful combination of price, range, speed of delivery and customer service.
There are two key facts about our business model.
The first is that it is proven: we built it, we understand it and it works.
We believe that our fully in-sourced online proposition provides structural advantages over our competitors.
It allows us to: Control the customer experience from order to delivery: Control the margin end-to-end from supplier to customer: and Maintain a lower fixed-cost base as compared to competitors with significant store-based assets, while providing the customers with a simply better experience.
The second key fact is that our model is based on a wealth of knowledge and proprietary systems built over many years, creating a significant barrier to entry and making it difficult for competitors to copy but easy for us to replicate in new territories.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 12 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information Last month we topped Glassdoors list of the Top 15 Retailers to work for in 2016.
The model itself consists of three main elements.
These are our: People Proposition We ensure that our staff enjoy what they do and we trust them People and to run the business, and to do the right thing.
The factors that could impact our business model and future All of our people must live and breathe our values.
performance are considered in our disclosures around principal risks and uncertainties on pages 23 to 25.
Because of this we are an employer of choice.
Proposition See our CSR Report on pages 26 to 31 for further details on our people.
Our mission is to become the best electrical retailer in Europe.
We will do this by being exceptional in the moments that matter and simply by Infrastructure caring more.
Most of the IT systems we use are developed in-house.
This means that we can and do adapt them in order to improve customer We put customers first in everything we do and engineer the supply experience.
It also means that they are scalable, transferable and chain accordingly to provide the best service possible for them in the reduce our reliance on third parties while making sure we get all most efficient, intelligent and economic way.
We aim to be the shortest the benefit of operational gearing and pace from our investments and smartest link between the customer and the manufacturer and and long-term view.
thus to offer the best proposition at the lowest cost.
Key bespoke systems include our website and subsequent order Our unbeatable prices, huge range and availability and great content, management and warehouse management systems.
Our existing IT complemented by outstanding service means that our customer infrastructure has the capacity to handle planned growth and more.
We have proven in the year how successfully our operations can be replicated internationally.
Price: We aim to offer the best price and will match any price in the market but we are not a price leader.
For both operating segments, we also have our own national delivery fleet operating out of a central distribution centre with a network of Range and Availability: We offer an extensive range of MDA items outbases across each country, which gives us control over our entire over 4,000 SKUs in the UK and we are growing our range of SDAs and distribution chain from the online purchase of a product through to TVs.
In Germany we have almost 2,000 MDA SKUs and a number of its delivery to the customer.
Most of our SKUs are available for next day delivery not many of our competitors can offer that!
Delivery and Installation: Our in-sourced seven-day delivery six in Germany and the Netherlands is the best in the market for free delivery.
We also offer a wide range of delivery options including next-day and time-slots.
We can also install new appliances and Our scalable and remove and recycle the old ones too.
transferable in-house IT systems mean we benefit from operational gearing Content: We ensure our content is clear but detailed, explaining product as we grow.
benefits to customers better than anyone else, with feature-led reviews and 3D animation which tells the manufacturers stories.
Product Protection Plans: We offer to customers, as agent on behalf of Domestic & General, product protection plans.
These include a number of benefits and customers pay monthly, with the ability to cancel at any time.
The plans can remain in force as long as a customer has the product, giving complete peace of mind.
The promotion and sale of these plans provides the Group with additional revenue and incremental profit.
Service: Of course we can claim that our service is wonderful but independent customer feedback scores are exceptionally high.
We give customers a flexible and personal approach and make clear commitments to them that we then deliver on.
Customer feedback scores are exceptionally high.
See our Trustpilot ratings online.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 13
