STATEMENT FROM THE CEO CONTINUED INVESTMENT CASE HIGHCASH COST CAPITAL QUALITY GENERATION CONTROL DISCIPLINE ASSETS Strong and growing Cost and Disciplined capital production Competitiveness allocation Programme Large resource base Strong and flexible Technical innovation balance sheet Low cost and long-life assets Improving productivity Low net debt policy Four mines in two Consistent dividend world-class mining policy districts in Chile What were the operating Occasionally, this means we have and recoveries fell.
Our transport Q highlights during the year?
As you division saw increased customer Can you talk us through some know, during the year a significant demand and improved performance of the numbers for 2016?
forecast construction cost overrun of the rolling stock and better fleet was announced at the Alto Maipo utilisation, all contributing to a 6.3% I think it was in 2016 that we hydroelectric project, in which increase in transported volume to really started to see the underlying Los Pelambres held a 40% 6.5 million tonnes.
performance of our operations interest, at a time when long-term begin to come through in our The Board has recommended a electricity prices in Chile had been production numbers as we achieved final dividend for the year of 15.3 falling dramatically.
We reviewed copper production of 709,400 cents per share, bringing the total our options and concluded that it tonnes, an increase of 12.5% dividend for the year to 18.4 cents would be best for Antofagasta if we compared to 2015.
While this was per share or $182 million.
This disposed of our interest to benefit in part driven by higher production represents a total pay out ratio of from lower future sustainable at Centinela, it also reflected 53% of net earnings, significantly energy costs for Los Pelambres.
development milestones being in excess of the Companys policy achieved at Antucoya and the full Actions like these are part of our of paying out a minimum of 35% of integration of Zaldvar.
Importantly efforts to bring down the cost base.
Antucoya reached full production And the success of our decision to capacity during 2016 with concentrate the Groups efforts in significant progress with the dust 2016 on operating and capital cost issues having been achieved and control has been another highlight IVN ARRIAGADA, CEO Zaldvar contributed its first full year of the year.
Improved productivity of production, adding to the Group and efficiencies have also begun to 51,700 tonnes of copper cathode bear fruit.
As a result of our efforts IT WAS IN 2016 THAT YOU production during the year.
on costs, combined with increased production and lower input prices, At Los Pelambres production fell REALLY STARTED TO SEE THE weve been able to reduce our net slightly versus 2015, primarily due cash costs by 20% year-on-year, to to lower throughput as a greater UNDERLYING PERFORMANCE average $1.20 lb in 2016. proportion of harder ore was processed in the plant.
For me, this Away from our core copper OF OUR OPERATIONS BEGIN reduction in ore quality underlines production, gold production was the real need to focus on operating 270,900 ounces, 26.6% higher than TO COME THROUGH IN OUR improvements and productivity, in 2015, reflecting better grades and which are the key drivers behind throughput at Centinela.
Additionally, PRODUCTION NUMBERS Antofagastas efforts to reduce as expected, molybdenum costs sustainably and consistently production saw a 3,000 tonne into the future.
decrease for the full year as grades 10 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016
