Trends and insights in our markets UK overview Estimated value Estimated value In the UK AO operates in three categories Major Domestic Appliances of UK combined of Germany and the MDA, Small Domestic Appliances SDA and Audio Visual AV MDA, SDA and AV Netherlands combined 1 with a total addressable market size estimated at 9.2bn.
1 market MDA, SDA and AV 1 MDA, SDA and AV are all forecast to grow in the UK during the 2016 market calendar year driven by continued growth in the housing market 2 and new technologies, presenting AO with the opportunity to take further market share.
We are also exploring other categories within the electricals sphere and we expect to launch in computing during 9.2bn 14.7bn the current financial year.
MDA AOs most established category is MDA.
The total MDA market grew by During the year we have expanded our Audio offering to include 1 headphones and radios, although there remains a good opportunity in 5% to 3.5bn for year ended 31 March 2016, driven by strong growth in 3 the built-in appliance market of 15% over the year.
Connected home audio systems and emerging tech are on the increase giving us a chance to capitalise on these areas of growth significant opportunity for AO as this section of the market is currently dominated by trade suppliers.
Management estimates our share of the by providing relevant and useful content for customers.
As with SDA, 4 the Audio market is highly fragmented.
MDA market has increased between 1% and 2% in the year.
As for the remainder of AV, the Blu-Ray market is in decline and we The UK MDA supplier landscape experienced some disruption following the acquisition by Whirlpool Corporation of market leader will look to optimise our product ranges in this sphere to address market developments.
Indesit Company and Bosch moving back to a higher price index after building volume in the previous year.
Despite these changes, the top 2 Computing five suppliers continue to represent over 50% of the market by value.
AO has strong relationships with all of these and many others.
During We are proposing to add the computing category to the AO range, comprising hardware tablets, mobile computing and desktops, the year we broadened our range to include a number of new suppliers including Fisher & Paykel, Daewoo and Amica.
Branded MDA as software and accessories.
In the UK, this could give us an addressable 1 2 market of 4.0bn.
In the market there is currently a lack of choice of opposed to own branded products now represent c. 86% of the market and we have access to almost all of these.
outlets, poor, confusing content, thus there is a good opportunity for AO to take market share by overlaying its better customer journey.
Market growth has been strongest in the top and bottom price 5 Europe brackets, with the mid-market declining slightly.
Our focus continues to be on the mid to premium brackets.
The total Germany and Netherlands MDA addressable market size is 1 estimated at 6.9bn with online sales representing 17% and 19% of the 2 SDA total respectively.
The SDA market comprising Small Appliances, Food Preparation and 1 Floorcare was worth 2.0bn in the year to 31 March 2016.
AOs target Germany AO launched in Germany in October 2014 with MDA and expanded market is 75% of this as we focus on products with a price of 40 or 2 more.
We experienced year-on-year sales growth largely driven by its offering in February 2016 with the introduction of Floorcare on AO.
The combined MDA and Floorcare categories in this territory premium appliances, Floorcare, and small cooking appliances, with 1 an average price index of 230% of the average product price of goods represent an addressable market for AO of 6.4bn.
In the year we have introduced Heating and Air Treatment products which are performing well, and there are future The MDA market in Germany is more fragmented than the UK.
We range all key manufacturer brands and estimate we now stock opportunities within other sub-categories.
2 brands representing 75% of this market.
The SDA category is more fragmented than the MDA market with the top 2 10 suppliers representing 55% of the overall market with all of whom AO Germany continues to represent a significant market opportunity due to the relatively low online penetration rates when compared to the UK.
has a relationship, including Dyson and Vax who dominate Floorcare.
We have also been working hard to develop new relationships and over The Netherlands the reporting period, with Nutribullet, KitchenAid and Kenwood Delonghi being recently added to our range.
AOs international expansion strategy took a step further in February 1 2016 with the launch of MDA in the Netherlands, representing a 1.1bn AV market opportunity for AO.
AO has strong relationships with the majority of the key suppliers.
The AV market was estimated to be worth 3.6bn as at 31 March 2016 1 comprising TVs, audio, set-top boxes, DVD and Blu-Ray players etc.
Category roll-out is likely to follow that of the UK and there are good The top four TV brands represent 95% of the TV market excluding opportunities for us in SDA and AV where we will look to leverage 2 supplier relationships and our customer base.
own brands, and we have a relationship with all of them.
We have increased our range by 27% over the year.
There is a steady trend towards larger screens with over 50% of the market now above 46 5 inches.
This along with 4K, is our area of focus.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 20 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information Current and future potential markets 1.
Poland MDA, SDA, AV: 9.2bn MDA, SDA, AV: 2.2bn Broader electricals: 14.4bn Broader electricals: 2.7bn 2.
Austria MDA, SDA, AV: 12.5bn MDA, SDA, AV: 1.2bn 4 Broader electricals: 16.6bn Broader electricals: 1.3bn 1 3.
Belgium MDA, SDA, AV: 2.2bn MDA, SDA, AV: 1.5bn 3 6 Broader electricals: 3bn Broader electricals: 1.2bn 8 2 4.
Switzerland 10 MDA, SDA, AV: 0.4bn MDA, SDA, AV: 0.9bn Broader electricals: 0.4bn Broader electricals: 1.3bn 5 7 9 5.
Czech Republic MDA, SDA, AV: 8.1bn MDA, SDA, AV: 0.7bn Broader electricals: 12bn Broader electricals: 0.9bn 1 Current : 39bn 6 Broader : 54bn Total: 93bn Note: These are countries we are currently exploring, but the numbering is not indicative of our plans for rolling-out the AO business in any particular order.
Online migration is set to continue The growth of online shopping across Europe is increasing overall, driven by technological advances, improving connectivity and cultural generational change, and is now widely accepted.
It can provide detailed information on the benefits of products, greater choice and flexibility in the purchase process for consumers.
With the increase of tablets and smartphones, consumers are finding it easier to shop online and we are well placed to benefit from such continued migration.
3 GfK, year-on-year from year to 31 March 2015 to 31 March 2016.
4 Management best estimate using a variety of sources including GfK and Euromonitor.
6 Gross, Euromonitor, year to December 2015.
Computing, personal care, in-car devices, portable CE, mobile, gaming.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 21 56%
