Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information Director election Following the Board evaluation process and the subsequent recommendations from the Nomination Committee the Board considers that all Directors continue to be effective, committed to their roles and are able to devote Board evaluation and effectiveness sufficient time to their duties.
Accordingly, all Directors will seek election and The effectiveness and performance of the Board is vital to our success.
re-election at the Companys AGM with the exception of Richard Rose who An internal evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees will not seek re-election and will resign from the Board at the conclusion of and the Chairman was again carried out during the second half of the that meeting.
Geoff Cooper, who will be appointed to the Board on 1 July year.
The process of evaluating the performance was undertaken 2016, will also seek election at the AGM and will assume the role of Chairman by the Company Secretary under the direction of the Chairman.
from the conclusion of that meeting subject to shareholder approval.
A tailored, high-level questionnaire was distributed for the Directors to complete.
This was structured to provide the Directors with an Annual General Meeting opportunity to express their views about: The AGM of the Company will take place at 11.00 am on Thursday The performance of the Board and its Committees, including how 21 July 2016 at the Companys registered office at AO Park, 5A The the Directors work together as a whole.
All shareholders have the The balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge opportunity to attend and vote, in person or by proxy, at the AGM.
The notice of the AGM can be found in a booklet which is being mailed Individual performance and whether each Director continues out at the same time as this Report and can also be found on our website to make an effective contribution.
The notice of the AGM sets out the business of the meeting and an explanatory note on all resolutions.
Separate The responses to the evaluation of the Board and its Committees were resolutions are proposed in respect of each substantive issue.
reviewed with the Chairman and then considered by the Board.
The results of the evaluation indicated that the Board is working well and Richard Rose, the Chair of each of the Committees and the Executive that there are no significant concerns among the Directors about its Directors will be present at the AGM and will be available to answer effectiveness.
Some actions were agreed as a result of the exercise and shareholders questions.
these will be progressed over the coming year.
Further details can be found in the Report of the Nomination Committee on pages 50 and 51.
Information, support and development opportunities available to Directors During the year, the Chairman met with the Non-Executive Directors All Board Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who advises without the Executive Directors present to discuss Board balance, them on governance matters.
The Chairman and the Company Secretary monitor the powers of individual Executive Directors and raise work together to ensure that Board papers are clear, accurate, delivered any issues between themselves as appropriate.
Led by the Senior in a timely manner to Directors and of sufficient quality to enable the Board Independent Director, the Non-Executive Directors also met during to discharge its duties.
Specific business-related presentations are given the year without the Chairman present to appraise his performance by members of the Group Executive Team and Senior Management Team and to discuss any other necessary matters as appropriate.
As well as the support of the Company Secretary, there performance of individual Directors was evaluated by the Chairman, is a procedure in place for any Director to take independent professional with input from the Committee Chairmen and other Directors.
advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties, where considered necessary, for example New Bridge Street consultants advise on Following evaluation, it was agreed that all Directors contribute remuneration matters and Audit Committee members have received effectively, demonstrate a high level of commitment to their role guidance from the external auditors on their duties as members of this and together provide the skills and experience that are relevant Committee and new developments in reporting standards.
As part of the and necessary for the leadership and direction of the Company.
Board Evaluation process, training and development needs are considered and training courses are arranged, where appropriate.
Independence For the purposes of assessing compliance with the Code, the Board In line with the Code, we will ensure that any new Directors joining the considers that Marisa Cassoni, Rudi Lamprecht and Brian McBride are Board will receive appropriate support and are given a comprehensive, Non-Executive Directors who are independent of management and free formal and tailored induction programme organised through the from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with Company Secretary, including the provision of background material on the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board also considers the Company and briefings with the Group Executive Team and Senior that Richard Rose, Chairman of the Company, was independent at the Management Team, where appropriate.
Each Directors individual time of his appointment in August 2008.
As previously stated Richard experience and background will be taken into account in developing a Rose has stated his intention to resign from the Board once a successor programme tailored to his or her own requirements.
Any new Director Chairman has been identified.
The newly appointed Chairman will also will also be expected to meet with major shareholders if required.
be deemed to be independent on appointment.
External directorships Having regard to the character, judgement, commitment and Any external appointments or other significant commitments of performance of the Board and Committees to date, and following the the Directors require the prior approval of the Board.
Details of the Board evaluation conducted during the year, the Board is satisfied that no Directors significant external directorships can be found on pages one individual will dominate the Boards decision taking and considers 44 and 45.
No new appointments were made during the year.
that all of the Non-Executive Directors are able to provide objective challenges to management.
A key objective of the Board is to ensure that While all Non-Executive Directors have external directorships, the Board its composition is sufficiently diverse and reflects a broad range of skills, is comfortable that these do not impact on the time that any Director devotes knowledge and experience to enable it to meet its responsibilities.
As to the Company and we believe that this experience only enhances the can been seen from the biographies on pages 44 and 45, the Chairman capability of the Board.
Save for Crystalcraft Limited, a dormant company, and the Non-Executive Directors collectively have significant industry, and the charities Onside Youth Zones and AO Smile Charitable Foundation, public company and international experience which will support the for which he receives no fees, John Roberts does not hold any external Company in executing its strategy.
Additionally, our new Chairman, directorships.
Save for Crystalcraft Limited and Aghoco 1283 Limited, Geoff Cooper, has significant relevant experience which will help to dormant companies, and the AO Smile Charitable Foundation, for which strengthen the collective skills and knowledge of the Board.
he receives no fees, Steve Caunce does not hold any external directorships.
Mark Higgins holds no external directorships.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 49 Corporate Governance Statement continued The Code recommends that the Nomination Committee is comprised Report of the Nomination Committee of a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors.
Only Brian McBride is deemed as independent as whilst I was considered to be independent on appointment, the Code provides that thereafter the test of independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman.
Chris Hopkinson is not deemed as independent for the purposes of the Code due to his historic involvement with the Company.
However, during the year the Board considered that it has a strong independent non-executive component and that the continuity, experience and knowledge of myself and Chris enabled us to make a significant contribution to the work of the Committee, ensuring the Committee is run effectively.
Following my retirement at the AGM, Geoff Cooper will become Chairman of the Nomination Committee, subject to shareholder approval of his election.
Julie Finnemore Head of Group Legal and Company Secretary serves as Secretary to the Committee.
By invitation, the meetings of the Nomination Committee may be attended by the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer and Richard Rose Chairman, Nomination Committee Marisa Cassoni.
Role of the Nomination Committee The Committee is responsible for regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and has responsibility for nominating candidates for appointment as Directors to the Board, having regard to its composition in terms of diversity including gender and ensuring it reflects a broad range of skills, knowledge and experience to enable it to meet its responsibilities.
I am pleased to introduce the report of the Nomination Committee for the year.
Full details of the Committee and its activities during the year The Nomination Committee also makes recommendations to the are given below.
I have every confidence in the continued progress of Board concerning the reappointment of any Non-Executive Director its work and wish it every success for the future.
as he or she reaches the end of the period of their initial appointment three years and at appropriate intervals during their tenure.
Composition and attendance of the Committee The Committee also considers and makes recommendations to The members of the Nomination Committee who served during the the Board on the annual election and re-election of any Director by year end 31 March 2016 and their attendance at Committee meetings shareholders including Executive Directors and changes to the Group is as follows: Executive Team, after evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of each Director.
Such appointments are made on merit, Meetings against objective criteria and with due regard to the benefits of eligible to Meetings diversity on the Board.
The Company uses a combination of external attend attended recruitment consultants and personal referrals in making any Richard Rose Chairman and required appointments to the Board.
Chairman of the Board 2 2 The Nomination Committee takes into account the provisions of Brian McBride Senior Independent the Code and any regulatory requirements that are applicable to the Non-Executive Director 2 2 Company.
As the Company has only completed two full financial years Chris Hopkinson Non-Executive Director 2 2 as a main market listed company, no external evaluation has yet been undertaken, but we expect to do this in this new financial year.
The Nomination Committee will be responsible for ensuring that future external evaluations of the Board are carried out according to applicable regulations.
The Chairman does not Chair the Nomination Committee when it is dealing with the appointment of a successor.
In these circumstances the Committee is chaired by an independent member of the Nomination Committee elected by the remaining members.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 50 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information On the recommendation of the Nomination Committee and in line with Main activities of the Committee during the year Since the Companys IPO in March 2014 the roles of Chief Financial the Code, all currently appointed Directors will retire at the 2016 AGM and offer themselves for reappointment, with the exception of myself Officer and Chief Operating Officer were combined and held by Steve Caunce.
As part of its regular review of the composition of the who, as previously announced, will not seek re-election and will retire from the Board at the conclusion of that meeting.
The biographical effectiveness of the Board, during the first half of the financial year the Nomination Committee made a recommendation to the Board details of the current Directors can be found on pages 44 and 45.
The Committee considers that the performance of the Directors standing that given the increasing scale and complexity of AOs operations, in particular with the launch in overseas territories, and the financial for election and re-election continues to be effective and that they each demonstrate commitment to their role and devote sufficient time to reporting and corporate governance requirements of a public company, it was an appropriate time for these two roles to be attend Board and Committee meetings and any other duties.
This would allow the Chief Operating Officer to focus mainly on the Groups operations and enhance the structure and The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors, including the expected time commitment, are available for inspection effectiveness of the Board by having a full time dedicated Chief Financial Officer.
at the Companys registered office.
Led by myself as Chairman, and in consultation with an external Diversity The Committee takes into account a variety of factors before independent executive search consultant Director Bank, a process was undertaken to assess the suitability of Mark Higgins, the then recommending any new appointments to the Board, including relevant skills to perform the role, experience, knowledge, ethnicity Director of Group Finance, to assume the role of Chief Financial Officer.
Director Bank is independent, with no other connections and gender.
The Company currently has one female Board member out of eight and AO endeavours to achieve appropriate diversity, to the Company.
The appointment process included an interview, benchmarking against other available candidates with similar including gender diversity, throughout the Company and concurs with the recommendations of Lord Davies review.
However, the backgrounds and experiences to Mark, collating the views of Board members and soliciting feedback from the Companys external audit most important priority of the Committee has been and will continue to be ensuring that members of the Board should collectively possess partner who had worked with Mark during the external audit process for a number of years.
Following this process it was determined that the broad range of skills, expertise and industry knowledge, and business and other experience necessary for the effective oversight Mark possessed the relevant skills and experience for the role and that his existing relationships with stakeholders and knowledge of the of the Group.
business would help strengthen the effectiveness of the Board.
Following the recommendation of the Nomination Committee the Our policy is, therefore, to ensure that the best candidate is selected to join the Board and this approach will remain in place going forward, Board approved the appointment of Mark Higgins as Chief Financial Officer with effect from 1 August 2015. without prescriptive or quantitative targets.
In March 2016 I announced my intention step down from the Board I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions on the work of the Nomination Committee.
following the appointment of a successor.
Brian McBride, Senior Independent Director led the Nomination Committee process to appoint a successor and enlisted the help of Odgers Berndtson, an executive search firm.
A number of potential candidates were Richard Rose Chairman, Nomination Committee identified who had relevant experience of online retailing, high growth and main market listed companies The Executives, Brian McBride and AO World Plc 8 June 2016 Marisa Cassoni were invited to interview short-listed candidates and we were pleased to report that Geoff Cooper will join the Board as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 July 2016.
Subject to his reappointment by shareholders at the 2016 AGM, he will succeed me as Chairman at the conclusion of that meeting.
Geoff has a broad knowledge of the retail industry and extensive executive and non-executive Board experience.
During the year the Nomination Committee assessed the composition and effectiveness of the Board and its Committees, having regard to the internal Board evaluation carried out in the second half of the year, and considered the proposal for election and re-election of all the Directors at the forthcoming AGM.
Feedback from our recent Board evaluation, which includes the views of Executive and Non-Executive Board members, did not expose major issues although highlighted a number of areas to be strengthened such as Board member communication between formal meetings and exposure to the Group Executive Team and Senior Management Team, where appropriate.
These areas have been addressed and will continue to be improved over the coming year.
The Committee also reviewed succession planning of senior management: it recognises that effective succession planning is fundamental to the success of the Company and that ensuring the continued development of talented employees and appropriately rewarding them helps to mitigate the risks associated with unforeseen events, such as key individuals leaving the business.
This will be a key area of consideration in the year ahead.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 51
