T H E C G G R O R O O W R W T T H E H B E Y O O OUR STRATEGY APPLICATION OF OUR STRATEGY OUR VISION To be an international mining company based in Chile, focused on copper and related by-products and recognised for operating ef ciency, value creation and as a preferred partner in the global mining industry.
1 THE EXISTING CORE BUSINESS The first pillar of the strategy is to optimise and enhance the existing core business: Los Pelambres, Centinela, Antucoya and Zaldvar.
CURRENT STRATEGIC FOCUS: 2016 IN REVIEW OBJECTIVES FOR 2017 Continue deploying the Safety Model across Antofagasta regrets that there have been two Zero fatalities.
all operations to achieve zero fatalities.
The Group will continue Improve safety standards through embedding its Safety Model and is certain that Identify and capture further cost savings strengthened application of the Safety Model.
the zero fatalities target will be achieved.
through the Cost and Competitiveness Focus on cultural change within Programme CCP to improve performance the organisation.
1 1 Copper production of 709,400 tonnes, Copper production of 685-720,000 tonnes.
Implement a New Operating Model to representing a 12.5% increase compared enhance the operations performance.
Work on the implementation of the New to 2015.
Operating Model to improve operations Cultivate a proactive and inclusive approach reliability and release latent capacity.
to communities and other stakeholders to strengthen sustainable development.
Group net cash costs of $1.20 lb were lower Maintain cash costs before by-product credits than the initial guidance for the year.
This was due to the successful Capture an additional $140 million of cost implementation of the CCP, which achieved reductions under the CCP, focusing on $176 million of mine cost savings, exceeding structural cost savings and productivity.
The highest-cost operation, Michilla, was sold.
Los Pelambres reached an agreement with Cultivate strong relationships with the Caimanes community regarding El Mauro communities and local stakeholders.
tailings dam and resolved the outstanding 1.
Includes 50% of attributable production court cases.
16 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 B F N D T U T H H E E S C C O I O R E N R E E S S STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2 ORGANIC AND SUSTAINABLE GROWTH OF THE CORE BUSINESS The second pillar of the strategy is to achieve sustainable, organic growth from further developing the areas around the Groups existing asset base in Chile: Encuentro Oxides, Centinela Molybdenum Plant, Los Pelambres Incremental Expansion and Centinela Second Concentrator.
CURRENT STRATEGIC FOCUS: 2016 IN REVIEW OBJECTIVES FOR 2017 Finalise and commission projects under Antucoya reached design capacity during Continue working on capturing synergies, construction: Encuentro Oxides and the the year.
especially in operations in the north of Chile.
Zaldvar successfully integrated into the Advance the feasibility studies and Group.
permitting processes of the Groups Construction of Encuentro Oxides and Commission Encuentro Oxides and main brownfield projects: Los Pelambres Molybdenum Plant slowed during 2016, to Molybdenum Plant projects.
Incremental Expansion and Centinela focus on cash preservation.
Environmental approval obtained for Centinela Construction decision on Los Pelambres Second Concentrator project.
Incremental Expansion by the end of the year Phase I.
Environmental Impact Assessment EIA submitted for Los Pelambres Incremental Advance Centinela Second Concentrator Expansion project Phase I. feasibility study.
Continue innovation programme to assess value-capturing technologies at the Groups operations.
Feasibility studies progressed for both Complete Centinela Second Concentrator brownfield growth projects.
Centinela Concentrator plant reached design Complete the ramp up of tailings thickeners capacity of 105,000 tpd.
and stabilise throughput at Centinela.
3 GROWTH BEYOND THE CORE BUSINESS The third pillar of the strategy is to seek growth beyond the Groups existing operations both in Chile and internationally.
The focus is on potential acquisitions of both high-quality operating assets and high-potential early-stage developments.
CURRENT STRATEGIC FOCUS: 2016 IN REVIEW OBJECTIVES FOR 2017 Work to develop the long-term growth pipeline Continue monitoring the market to identify beyond the Groups existing operations.
Continue the exploration programme focused Rationalised international Refocus exploration programme on the on the Americas to identify long-term exploration programme.
Americas, allocating more resources to growth options.
Monitor the current market to assess the Advanced studies relating to the Twin Metals Seek confirmation of the mining properties potential value of accretive acquisitions or project in preparation for permit applications.
