ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABILITY AND STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE COMMITMENT TO STAKEHOLDERS VIVIANNE BLANLOT, CHAIRMAN DURING 2016 THE SUSTAINABILITY AND STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE OVERSAW THE DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION OF STRATEGIES TO STRENGTHEN THE GROUPS SAFETY, ENVIRONMENTAL AND COMMUNITY RELATIONS PERFORMANCE, WHILE MONITORING THE GROUPS RESPONSE TO CHALLENGES FACED DURING THE YEAR.
2016 MEMBERSHIP AND MEETING ATTENDANCE Other regular attendees include the Group CEO, the Vice President of NUMBER ATTENDED Corporate Affairs and Sustainability and the Secretary to the Board.
Ramn Jara Chairman 4 4 Effective 1 January 2017, Ramn Jara and Tim Baker rotated off the Committee, Vivianne Blanlot assumed the Committee Chairmanship, Juan Claro 4 4 and William Hayes and Jorge Bande joined the Committee.
Vivianne Blanlot 4 4 The Committee meets as necessary and at least twice per year.
Tim Baker 4 4 KEY ACTIVITIES IN 2016 POLICIES AND COMMITMENTS COMMUNITY RELATIONS Confirmed the role and objectives of the Committee and updated Oversaw the process for entering into agreements with the local its responsibilities as part of the annual review of its terms communities at Los Pelambres.
Oversaw the implementation of a community relations strategy for Reviewed and approved the 2016 Antofagasta Minerals the Groups mining and transport operating companies in the north Sustainability Report.
Reviewed sustainability aspects of the Groups development Reviewed the Groups expenditure relating to social plans.
projects at Los Pelambres and Centinela.
ENVIRONMENT SAFETY AND HEALTH Reviewed the Groups environmental compliance.
Reviewed the Groups safety and health strategy including external Evaluated environmental risks and mitigating actions.
consultants recommendations and accident reports.
Oversaw the process by which Antofagasta Minerals is fulfilling Followed up on committed actions to prevent recurrence.
commitments made to the ICMM.
92 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS What is the main function What were the biggest What trends did the For details of the Groups Q Q Q sustainability performance in of the Sustainability and failures?
2016, see the Sustainability Stakeholder Management Two people died at the Groups Several events in 2016 highlighted Report on pages 52 to 59.
The the increased importance of careful The Committee assists the Board Groups stated objective is to environmental management.
inthe stewardship of the Groups ensure that there are no fatalities.
The Antofagasta Minerals In October 2016, the Environmental social responsibility programmes The Committee oversaw the Sustainability Report provides Authority SMA brought nine and makes recommendations to appointment of  information about its charges based on inspections social and environmental the Board to ensure that ethical, renowned consultants, SAFEmap, conducted at Los Pelambres in performance.
It is available safety and health, environmental, toreview the mining divisions safety 2014-2015 and other activities on the Companys website at social and community considerations strategy.
This involved a safety being undertaken in respect of third www.
co. uk are taken into account in culture survey answered by over from May 2017. parties.
Los Pelambres remains the Boards deliberations.
committed to full compliance and is SAFEmaps recommendations were The Committee provides guidance to working to address these changes.
reviewed by the Committee and the Board in relation to sustainability In November 2016, a compliance the Board and action plans were matters generally, reviewing and programme was proposed for developed to close the gaps that updating the Groups framework of the Los Pelambres Incremental were identified.
strategies and policies, including Expansion, which in its final form safety and health, environmental, We must be resolute in our efforts should address all material issues climate change, human rights, to ensure that a safety culture is, that might create a risk of noncommunity and other stakeholder and continues to be, embedded in compliance in the future.
issues, and monitoring and everything that theGroup does.
reviewing the Groups performance What are the Committees Significant progress has Q in respect of sustainability matters, three main priorities in 2017?
Q been made in relation to indicators and targets.
Our number one priority is the community relations at During 2016, the Committee safety of our employees and Los Pelambres.
What about reviewed and updated its terms of contractors.
The steps taken elsewhere in the Group?
reference, adding climate change to close the gaps identified in The future of our operating as an area of responsibility and SAFEmaps review of the mining companies depends on committed clarifying the interconnection groups safety strategy will be and sustained collaboration between between sustainability and carefully monitored.
local communities, local, regional stakeholder management risks The Committee will continue to and national government and the and the risk oversight function oversee the implementation of Group.
During 2016, the Committee performed by the Audit and commitments made to the new oversaw the implementation of a Risk Committee.
community relations model in the new community engagement model, north of Chile and as part of the What achievements did the based on the Somos Choapa model Somos Choapa programme at Q Committee oversee during deployed at Los Pelambres, at the Los Pelambres.
other mining operating companies and transport division in the north The Committee has asked We have overseen and promoted of Chile.
The model fosters close management to strengthen significant improvements in the engagement with local communities the Groups environmental Groups strategies and systems and authorities to jointly identify compliance monitoring system to improve the Groups safety, challenges, opportunities by appointing a third party to environmental and community and solutions.
perform an external review with relations performance.
These the aim of taking compliance improvements have been The Committee also oversaw to a level of excellence.
demonstrated by the milestones progress in the implementation that were achieved during 2016, of commitments made as part of including the Groups admission the Somos Choapa programme at VIVIANNE BLANLOT as a full member of the ICMM, Los Pelambres, which included the CHAIRMAN OF THE reaching an agreement with the endorsement of the development SUSTAINABILITY local communities at Los Pelambres of a technical training centre at Los AND STAKEHOLDER and implementing a new community Vilos, in partnership with a local MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE relations programme Somos technical education provider.
