STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS ENGAGING WITH OUR SHAREHOLDERS The shares of Antofagasta plc are listed on the main market of the London Stock Exchange.
As explained in the Corporate Governance Report on page 70, the controlling shareholders of the Company hold approximately 65% of the Companys ordinary shares.
The majority of the Companys remaining ordinary shares are held by institutional investors, mainly based in the UK and North America.
The Company maintains an active dialogue with institutional shareholders WHAT OUR INVESTORS FOCUSED ON MOST IN 2016 and sell-side analysts, as well as potential shareholders.
This communication cost reduction programmes to control operating and capital costs and the is managed by the investor relations team in London, and includes a generation of free cash flow: formal programme of presentations and roadshows to update institutional capital allocation: shareholders and analysts on developments in the Group.
commissioning of the newly constructed Antucoya mine: The Company held regular meetings with institutional investors and sellintegration of the Zaldvar copper mine and capture of side analysts throughout the year, which included international investor associated synergies: roadshows, and presenting at industry conferences and to banks equity sales forces.
These were attended by the CEO and various members of the impact of events in Chile, including changes to environmental regulations, management team, including the CFO, the Vice President of Sales and the labour laws and availability of energy and water: Vice President of Development.
conclusion of the long-standing issues with the local community and legal The Company publishes quarterly production figures as well as the half-year issues surrounding the Mauro tailings storage facility at Los Pelambres: and full-year financial results.
Copies of these production reports, financial the Groups focus on brownfield development projects and the potential results, presentations and other press releases issued by the Company are from longer-term growth projects: available on the Companys website.
The Group also publishes a separate the capital distribution policy of the Group: and Sustainability Report to provide further information on its social and supply and demand factors in the world copper market.
environmental performance, which is available on the Companys website in both Spanish and English.
The Board receives regular summaries and feedback in respect of the meetings held as part of the investor relations programme.
The Companys Annual General Meeting is also used as an opportunity to communicate with both institutional and private shareholders.
All of the Directors then in office met shareholders at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
SHAREHOLDERS AND ANALYSTS VISIT CHILE In December 2016, the Company hosted a group of shareholders and analysts at the Groups corporate headquarters and each of the Groups mining operations in Chile.
The visit began with briefings from the CEO and members of the Executive Committee on current challenges and recent achievements at the Groups corporate headquarters in Santiago and was followed by a dinner reception hosted by the Chairman, who engaged with shareholders on a broad range of topics.
The General Managers of Los Pelambres, Centinela and Antucoya hosted shareholders and analysts at their respective operations, where they demonstrated the initiatives that have been implemented, the functionality of the operations and the specific risks and steps being taken to manage them.
Copies of the presentation given to the shareholders and analysts are available online www.
CO. UK 115 RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS CONTINUED diversity: SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ROADSHOW the performance of the CEO: Senior Independent Director, Ollie Oliveira, met with a number of proxy the link between Group pay structures and incentives and strategy: advisers and major shareholders in London in October to discuss corporate the pay structure and quantum for the CEO: governance and associated matters relating to the Company, its strategy the structure of the Groups LTIP: and the performance of management.
These meetings were also attended the use of discretion by the Remuneration and Talent Management by Non-Executive Director and former Senior Independent Director, William Committee: Hayes, the Company Secretary and the Director of the London Office.
the impact of safety performance on remuneration outcomes: During these meetings a wide range of topics were discussed, including: progress in the court cases involving Los Pelambres: the role of Senior Independent Director in controlled companies: community relations and sustainability issues involving Los succession planning: Pelambres: and the Boards composition and role, including why there are no executives the BEIS Corporate Governance Green Paper.
on the Board: 2016 SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT CALENDAR FEB MAR Group CEO presented at 3 days of 1-on-1 meetings with Presentation of full-year 2015 Europe roadshow 1 day industry conference for over 50 investors results by the CEO and CFO institutional investors US east coast roadshow 3 days London roadshow 2 days MAY JUN Presentation at industry 2 days of 1-on-1 meetings with Europe roadshow 1 day conference for institutional over 40 investors investors by Diego Hernndez Annual General Meeting in London AUG SEP Presentation of half-year London roadshow 2 days Investor relations team attended US west coast roadshow 2016 results three industry conferences in 4 days led by the Vice US east coast roadshow 3 days the UK President of Sales Europe roadshow 1 day OCT NOV Corporate governance Nordea sustainability team visit Investor relations team attended Sustainability roadshow Roadshow London 3 days to operations 4 days three industry conferences in London 1 day led by the Senior Independent the UK Director DEC Site visit to Chile with analysts and investors 4 days 116 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016
