OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED OUR MINING DIVISION All of the Groups operations are located in the Antofagasta Region of northern Chile except for its agship operation, LosPelambres, which is in the Coquimbo Region of central Chile.
In this section TONNES OF COPPER PRODUCED IN 2016 709,400 GROWTH PROJECTS AND OPPORTUNITIES P40 OUNCES OF GOLD PRODUCED IN 2016 270,900 TONNES OF MOLYBDENUM LOS PELAMBRES P44 PRODUCED IN 2016 7,100 NET CASH COSTS IN 2016 $1.20 LB CENTINELA P46 ANTUCOYA P48 ZALDVAR P49 38 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERU PACIFIC OCEAN BOLIVIA Antucoya Esperanza port Antofagasta Region Centinela Mejillones Antofagasta ANTOFAGASTA Region Coquimbo Region Zaldvar ARGENTINA SANTIAGO CHILE LA SERENA Coquimbo Region Punta ILLAPEL Chungo port Los Los Pelambres LOS VILOS Pelambres Centinela Antucoya Zaldvar Capital city Cities and town centres Ports ANTOFAGASTA.
CO. UK 39 OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED GROWTH PROJECTS AND OPPORTUNITIES The Group seeks to expand its copper production in Chile and abroad by developing new projects and other potential opportunities.
Brown eld development within the Groups Los Pelambres and Centinela mining districts in Chile remains the primary focus for maximising value while managing associated risks.
The Group has a portfolio of longer-term growth options and continues The Groups exploration and evaluation expenditure decreased by 56.5% to assess opportunities that come to market.
Long-term growth options to $44.3 million in 2016 compared with $101.9 million in 2015.
When already within the portfolio are under evaluation in feasibility studies.
Given commodity prices decline and there is greater emphasis on cost control, the early stage of some of these projects, their potential and timing is tighter focus on high-potential opportunities results in a decrease in overall uncertain and the following outline provides only a high-level indication of exploration expenditure.
EXPLORATION ACTIVITIES The Group has an active early-stage INTERNATIONAL exploration programme beyond the The Groups international core locations of the Centinela and exploration strategy is to identify, Los Pelambres mining districts.
secure and evaluate high-quality This is managed through its incopper exploration projects in house exploration team and utilises preferred jurisdictions such as partnerships with third parties to theAmericas and Australia.
build a portfolio of longer-term During 2016, the Group opportunities across Chile and downgraded Australia as a target the rest of the world.
In response country, increasing its focus on the to the depressed copper market Americas while refining its portfolio the Group reduced its exploration of early-stage exploration projects and evaluation expenditure in key copper provinces in target from $101.9 million in 2015 to countries.
Working in partnership $44.3 million in 2016. with selected companies, both public and private, the Group drilled CHILE and tested projects in Argentina, The Group focuses its exploration Australia, Mexico and Zambia and activities on the main copper exited from projects in Portugal, porphyry belts in northern and Finland and Canada.
During the year, as efforts in Canada and Australia part of its asset rationalisation generated new projects that will programme, the Group relinquished beevaluated during 2017. low priority tenements and acquired The Groups strategy is to partner new tenements more closely with experienced junior exploration aligned with its target areas.
First companies, funding their exploration stage drilling was initiated during programmes to earn an interest in the year and progressed as planned the projects while benefiting from at targets located in the second and their local knowledge and expertise.
Further information regarding Reserves and Resources is included on pages 190 to 199.
40 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EXPLORATION EVALUATION GREENFIELD GROWTH PROJECTS was approved in 2016 and the Group is considering the possibility authorities had denied renewal of CENTINELA SECOND Group has commenced applications and timing of such an expansion, two of its long-held federal mining CONCENTRATOR for the additional permits required which could bring throughput leases.
Twin Metals leases had The Centinela Mining District is a for the project following certain capacity to approximately 150,000 been held in good standing by key area for longer-term growth design modifications made during tonnes per day and increase the federal government for more and the Group continues to evaluate the year.
The feasibility study, annual production to approximately than 50 years, and had been twice options for its development.
which is due for completion in 2017, 200,000 tonnes of copper, 170,000 renewed without controversy.
will include the testing of a pilot ounces of gold and 5,500 tonnes Twin Metals has filed a federal The second concentrator will be hydraulic roll crushing system that of molybdenum.
Feasibility study lawsuit seeking to secure its rights built some 7 km from Centinelas is being considered in preference work is underway on certain critical to the two federal mineral leases current concentrator and is toconventional SAG.
and believes denial of the leases expected to have an ore throughput A decision to proceed with the is inconsistent with federal law, capacity of approximately 90,000 project will depend on the market the terms of leases themselves tonnes per day, with annual TWIN METALS outlook and the sequencing and the federal governments production of approximately MINNESOTA of the project relative to the established precedent in supporting 140,000 tonnes of copper, Twin Metals Minnesota LLC Los Pelambres project.
If approval is and renewing the leases over 150,000 ounces of gold and Twin Metals is a wholly-owned granted in 2018, production would five decades.
copper, nickel and platinum group be expected to begin in 2021.
Ore will be sourced initially from While Twin Metals is assessing metals PGM underground the Esperanza Sur deposit and, The project team continues to the impact of the agencies lease mining project holding the Maturi, once mining is completed at review options for reducing renewal decision, it will continue Maturi Southwest, Birch Lake and Encuentro Oxides, additionally from the capital cost of the project.
progressing the project while also Spruce Road copper-nickel-PGM Encuentro Sulphides.
These include the use of existing pursuing legal avenues to protect deposits located in north-eastern infrastructure power lines, itscontractual mineral rights.
pipelines, concentrate shipping and 90,000 TONNES Further information is set out During 2016 the Group undertook other facilities as well as enhancing in Note 36 to the Financial evaluation and optimisation the owners team capabilities, PER DAY Statements.
exercises on the pre-feasibility study to improve the project execution THROUGHPUT completed in 2014 and progressed strategy, management and control, CAPACITY various activities in preparation for together with other initiatives.
There is scope to further increase The pre-feasibility study for this the plant capacity once the second As previously announced, on $2.7 billion project was completed concentrator is completed.
The 15 December 2016 Twin Metals at the end of 2015 and the feasibility was notified that the relevant U. S. study is now underway.
CO. UK 41 OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED BROWNFIELD GROWTH PROJECTS The Group is focused on controlling capital costs and optimising production from existing operations with careful project management and the constant monitoring of the ef ciency of its mines, plants and transport infrastructure.
Where possible, it conducts debottlenecking andincremental plant expansions to increase throughput and improve overall ef ciencies.
LOS PELAMBRES INCREMENTAL EXPANSION The expansion project has been split into two phases in order to smooth its progress, simplify permitting applications and spread the cost over a longer period.
During the year 2016 the PHASE 1 PHASE 2 Group submitted the EIA for the This phase is designed to optimise In this phase the Group will seek desalination plant to the authorities throughput within the limits of the to increase throughput to 205,000 and expects to receive approval existing operating, environmental tonnes per day and to extend the in late 2017 or early 2018.
The and water extraction permits so mines life beyond the currently feasibility study was completed that it will thus need only relatively approved 21 years.
As part of this in early 2017 and detailed simple updates.
During this phase, development a new EIA must be engineering will be completed Los Pelambres will operate at an submitted to increase the capacity once EIA approval is received.
The average throughput of 190,000 of the mines El Mauro tailings project will be subject to internal tonnes per day with the addition of a storage facility and the mine waste review and should be presented new grinding and flotation circuit to dumps.
The Group is preparing to the Board for construction mitigate the hard ore currently being to commence the environmental approval by the end of 2017.
A mined, and a 400 litres per second baseline study for the EIA in 2017. decision to proceed will be made desalination plant and pipeline.
only in suitable market conditions Desalinated water will be pumped and with an approved EIA in place.
21 YEARS to the tailings storage facility at El Production would commence in late Mauro where it will connect with 2020 at the earliest.
MINE LIFE the recycling circuit returning water The feasibility study estimate of the to the Los Pelambres plant.
Capital expenditure for this phase capital expenditure for this project study and should be completed is estimated at approximately is approximately $1.05 billion, by the end of 2017.
However, the $500 million, with the majority of with some $580 million allocated project will only proceed following a 55,000 TONNES the expenditure being on mining to the additional crushing and decision on Phase 1 and will require equipment, additional crushing and ANNUAL COPPER flotation circuits and the balance the submission of various permit grinding capacity and flotation cells.
to the desalination plant and water applications, including a new EIA.
PRODUCTION The conveyors from the primary pipeline.
The expansion is estimated First production from this phase crusher to the concentrator plant to increase copper production by an would be in 2022 at the earliest.
will also have to be repowered to average of 55,000 tonnes per year support the additional throughput.
Critical studies on tailings and waste storage capacity are underway in parallel with the Phase 1 feasibility 42 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS UNDER CONSTRUCTION as Encuentro Oxides sits on top ENCUENTRO OXIDES CENTINELA MOLYBDENUM of the much larger Encuentro The Encuentro Oxides deposit is During 2016, work continued on PLANT Sulphide deposit.
The Encuentro within the Centinela Mining District.
optimising Centinelas concentrator Oxides project will therefore This project will allow Centinela It is expected to produce an average plant in order to bring the level of act as a funded pre-strip for to produce an average of 2,400 of approximately 43,000 tonnes throughput to 105,000 tonnes per the sulphide deposit, opening tonnes of molybdenum per year.
of copper cathode per year over day.
Debottlenecking of the flotation up the latter for development Completion is expected in 2017, and an eight-year period, utilising the and concentrate circuit and the as part of the Centinela Second the addition of another by-product existing capacity at Centinelas installation of two paste thickeners Concentrator project.
credit will lower Centinelas unit net SX-EW plant.
Once the project is were completed during the year cash costs.
completed, it will enable the plant to and the plant achieved its design 43,000 TONNES produce at full capacity of 100,000 capacity in November.
The final tonnes per annum for a number of paste thickener was completed $125 MILLION ANNUAL COPPER years, helping to offset a natural in early 2017 allowing the plant CONSTRUCTION decline in production due to falling PRODUCTION to produce tailings with a solids mined grades at Centinelas existing content of approximately 67% on a BUDGET Pre-stripping started in August oxide pits.
continuous basis, an improvement 2014 and full-scale construction At the end of December 2016, the in the solids content of some The project entails the installation in early 2015.
During 2016, project was on time and on budget four percentage points.
The new of new crushing and heap-leach total expenditure incurred was with 71% total progress including paste thickeners are the largest facilities at the Encuentro Oxides $149.2 million and by the end of design, engineering, procurement application of this thickened tailings deposit, a pipeline to take the leach the year construction was over and construction achieved.
The technology in the world.
solution for processing at the 79% complete, with first production total construction budget for the existing SX-EW plant some 17 km expected in late 2017.
The total project is $125 million.
away, and the extension of the sea construction budget for the project water pipeline from Centinela to is $636 million.
Higher-grade ore will be crushed and sent to the new heapleach facilities, while lower-grade ore will be processed later on a Run-of-Mine ROM leach pad.
This deposit is important for the Groups long-term development, USE OF GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS A Geographic Information System GIS is aset of hardware and software that stores, analyses and displays spatial geographic information and delivers it to users in a way that assists with the visualisation of the data.
This is particularly useful in areas such as mining property, environmental management, projects and exploration.
In 2016 Antofagasta was recognised, among 100,000 nominated organisations, by the Environmental Systems Research Institute ESRI for its contribution and commitment to improving industry standards.
The award cited its innovative use of GIS to solve complex problems in the work environment, reducing risks and improving safety.
