Bolton Elsdorf Head Oce National Distribution Centre Outbases Larkhall UK Spennymoor Bolton Garforth Heywood Crewe Netherlands Yaxley Hamburg Potters Bar Utrecht Avonmouth Basildon Exeter Croydon Berlin Germany Bergheim Elsdorf Frankfurt Munich Potential market value Eventual of European expansion goal Best Electrical 93bn Retailer in Europe Includes the market value of categories we currently sell plus broader electricals in the UK, Germany, the Netherlands plus seven other countries that we are exploring.
Information source: Euromonitor and GfK.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 4 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information Chairmans statement We are continuing to drive sales in both the UK and Germany by offering unbeatable prices, a wide range of products and outstanding customer service.
During the year we have added another two outbases to our UK infrastructure and a further one in Germany which help to drive efficiencies by reducing stem mileage but also enable us to enhance delivery availability to customers.
Board During the year we further strengthened the composition of our Board, appointing Mark Higgins as an Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer.
The CFO role was previously held by Steve Caunce, in conjunction with his role as Chief Operating Officer, but given the increasing scale and complexity of AOs operations and the financial reporting and corporate governance requirements of a public company, the Board felt it was an appropriate time for these two roles to be separated.
As well as assuming responsibility for the finance and IT functions and focusing on appropriate controls, Mark leads our investor relations department, ensuring that good dialogue takes Richard Rose Chairman place between the Company and its investors to understand any issues and concerns that shareholders may have.
This will be the final statement I give as Chairman of AO and I feel In March 2016 I announced my intention to step down from the Board very fortunate to have been a part of its remarkable growth story at the Companys AGM in July, after almost eight years as Chairman.
over the last eight years.
Our Senior Independent Director Brian McBride has been conducting a search for my successor and the Board has recently resolved to Results appoint Geoff Cooper.
Geoff has over 20 years experience of serving The long-term strategy we set out at the time of our IPO is firmly on on Boards of UK public companies and is highly experienced in both track and we have delivered another year of good top-line growth with the world of retail and high-growth companies.
Im confident he will revenue increasing by 25.7% to 599.2m across the Group.
Year-onbe a great asset to the Board, ensuring that the good governance and year UK AO branded sales were up 27.7% to 487.1m and sales for our controls we have put in place over the years are continued.
European segment increased six fold to 40.7m for the full year.
Outlook Group Adjusted EBITDA losses were 3.9m 2015: 8.5m, Adjusted We are on track with our plans at this early stage of the new financial EBITDA.
We continued to invest in start-up trading losses in the year and we look forward to delivering further on our long-term Europe segment over the year as we build scale, and over the full growth objectives.
The Netherlands launch in particular gives us year these exceeded the profits made by our UK segment.
However, further confidence that our model can be replicated and gives a performance for the Group for the last six months of the financial year very strong platform for future growth.
moved to profit on an Adjusted EBITDA basis following the loss on the same basis in the first six months.
The UK has been performing I wish the team all the best for the future and I have no doubt that particularly strongly with UK Adjusted EBITDA of 17.2m up 4.6% AO will continue to delight customers both home and away with its and we saw improvements in marketing and advertising costs and dedication to exceptional service which ultimately should ensure it margin in the second half of the year.
continues to achieve its goals.
Delivering on our strategic objectives AGM At IPO we set out our strategy to build, drive and broaden the business AOs AGM will be held on 21 July 2016 at the Companys headquarters and we continue to deliver against plan by focusing on four key areas: in Bolton at 11.00 am and I look forward to welcoming shareholders.
culture and brand, customers, categories and countries.
In March we launched our business in the Netherlands, leveraging the Richard Rose infrastructure and teams we have built in Germany, but establishing Chairman a local team to provide customer services and, crucially, our own last 8 June 2016 mile delivery network.
Whilst the business is still very much in its infancy we have been able to apply the learnings from our roll-out in Germany.
Dutch customers have welcomed our proposition, the culture is embedding well and early signs are encouraging, although trading losses incurred as we build scale in the Netherlands will increase the losses for the Europe segment as a whole.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 5
