ACCOUNTABILITY PROJECTS COMMITTEE RIGOROUS PROJECT REVIEW OLLIE OLIVEIRA, CHAIRMAN THE PROJECTS COMMITTEE PROVIDES OVERSIGHT AND CHALLENGE, AND OBJECTIVELY BENCHMARKS THE GROUPS PROJECTS TO ENSURE THAT INVESTMENT DECISIONS SUBMITTED TO THE BOARD HAVE BEEN THOROUGHLY TESTED 2016 MEMBERSHIP AND MEETING ATTENDANCE Other regular attendees include the Group CEO, Corporate Project NUMBER ATTENDED Manager, Project Control Manager and Secretary to the Board Ollie Oliveira Chairman 5 5 Effective 1 January 2017, Ramn Jara joined the Projects Committee.
Jorge Bande 5 5 The Committee meets as necessary and at least twice per year.
Tim Baker 5 5 KEY ACTIVITIES IN 2016 POLICIES AND COMMITMENTS PROJECT COMMISSIONING Confirmed the role, responsibilities and objectives of the Committee Reviewed Antucoyas commissioning progress and challenges, and as part of the annual review of its terms of reference.
Reviewed updates to the Asset Delivery System ADS and its LESSONS LEARNED FROM PROJECTS application to the Groups mining projects.
Reviewed lessons learned from the Esperanza and Centinela Reviewed the Groups mining projects portfolio.
debottlenecking projects and evaluated Centinelas tailings Reviewed Centinelas long-term plan and productivity.
PROJECTS IN STUDY EXECUTION PHASE Reviewed progress in relation to the Los Pelambres Incremental Expansion project.
Reviewed the Centinela Second Concentrator project.
94 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS What is the main function of ADS uses processes and practices The Committee reviewed progress What are the Committees Q Q the Projects Committee?
commonly utilised in the mining in relation to the Los Pelambres priorities in 2017?
industry for project management Incremental Expansion Project, The Committee reviews all aspects To play a key role in reviewing from conception to execution.
It including an analysis of project of projects to be submitted to the commissioning and ramp-up defines standards and common management organisation, the Board for approval, highlighting of the Encuentro Oxides and criteria, including governance by an evaluation of comminution key matters for the Boards Molybdenum Plant projects.
a steering committee, functional technology alternatives and a review consideration throughout the To carefully assess progress of quality assurance reviews and of the tailings dam capacity studies.
project lifecycle and making studies of the Los Pelambres risk management.
The Committee also reviewed recommendations to management Incremental Expansion and During 2016, the Committee Centinelas Second Concentrator to ensure that all projects Centinela Second Concentrator reviewed and endorsed project, including a detailed submitted to the Board are in projects, particularly with respect enhancements to the ADS analysis of grinding technology line with the Groups strategy.
to critical path items, such as framework, including front-end alternatives.
It also reviewed the necessary Environmental The Committee adds an important loading deliverables: Centinelas long-term plan and Impact Studies.
level of governance and control productivity effects.
for the evaluation of the Groups making comparisons with To review Zaldvars and the projects, and plays a key role industry systems and assessing As explained on page 80, the transport divisions projects.
in providing the Board with alignment with best practices: Committee visited the Groups To continue to review and further additional oversight of the projects projects during the year and met the project control and enhance the ADS framework.
portfolio, development proposals, management and employees to reporting system: milestones and performance understand the precise stage of the project accounting start-up against key indicators.
development including projects in OLLIE OLIVEIRA point policy which clarifies the study phase and construction CHAIRMAN OF THE treatment of revenues generated What is the balance between phase and the specific issues PROJECTS COMMITTEE Q during the start-up period : and decisions made by the relevant to individuals working Projects Committee and Board and Committee atthe site.
decisions made by the involvement in the ADS stage Board?
What does the Committee gate process.
Q do to ensure continuous The Committee is not responsible What were the key activities improvement?
for approving projects that is Q of the Committee in 2016?
Our role The Committee reviews close-out The Committee reviewed project is to assist the Board by ensuring reports to derive lessons learned proposals against flat-price that all the Groups projects follow that will be applied to future sensitivities, execution milestones a standard, structured process projects.
In 2016, the Committee and key performance indicators, and with consistent analysis, execution reviewed the lessons learned from provided guidance when there was and evaluation practices.
In particular, it evidence of a deviation in costs or part of its review, the Committee reviewed a cost reconciliation of the schedule from the plans approved invites management to consider project, and identified that project by the Board.
different perspectives, ideas and economics should capture all costs improvements, with the aim of involved.
The Committee ensured The Committee considered the drop fostering focused discussion within that future projects submissions in commodity prices and reviewed the Board and, ultimately, enhancing for approval should include the the Groups mining projects portfolio the value of the Groups projects.
cost of studies, project execution, with the objective of maximising commissioning, accumulated cash preservation in 2016.
It What tools does the interest, working capital and related endorsed a spending reduction Q Committee use to assist with items in order to present a full for the Encuentro Oxides and benchmarking?
picture of the funding required.
Molybdenum Plant projects which The Committee provides guidance are currently in the execution The Committee also reviewed to the project managers leading phase by reducing the rate and lessons learned from the each individual project and to intensity of construction.
construction of Esperanza and the Board from the early stages the Centinela debottlenecking When necessary, the Committee will of project planning, to ensure that project and evaluated the also commission reviews of specific policies, strategies, and the Groups investment in Centinelas tailings matters by external advisers.
standard implementation framework management system.
are applied to all projects.
The use of the Groups ADS framework is an essential component of this.
