OPERATING REVIEW KEY INPUTS AND COST BASE The Groups mining operations depend on key inputs, including energy, water, labour and fuel.
For cathode producers such as Centinela, Antucoya and Zaldvar, which use the SX-EW process, sulphuric acid is also a key input.
Concentrate producers such as Los Pelambres and Centinela require other acquisition of Zaldvar and its successful integration into the Group has substantial inputs, for example reagents and grinding media.
The availability unlocked valuable synergies in several areas, including that of cost.
and cost of these inputs are central to the Groups cost management The initiatives below have been implemented by the Groups procurement strategy, which focuses on cost control and security of supply.
department, reducing the unit cost of each operation and allowing them to The Groups two largest operations, Los Pelambres and Centinela, are remain profitable even as mine grades decline.
already competitively positioned on the copper industry cost curve and the EXAMPLES OF SAVINGS INITIATIVES ANNUAL SAVINGS PER INITIATIVE COST AND Bringing electric shovel COMPETITIVENESS $ maintenance in-house PROGRAMME Consolidation of mechanical The Group introduced the Cost and Competitiveness Programme CCP in maintenance contracts for $5 MILLION 2014, with the aim of reducing the cost base and improving the Groups concentrator plant competitiveness within the industry.
Since then, the Group has achieved Modifying peak consumption savings in mine site costs of $359 million, approximately $176 million patterns to reduce power costs of which were made during 2016.
These savings in mine site costs are Improving productivity by changing equivalent to 11 cents per pound.
The Group target for 2017 is set at the contractor business model for an incremental $140 million.
Together with exploration, evaluation and mine equipment rental and reducing corporate cost savings, total savings since 2014 were over $500 million.
maintenance unit cost by 10% The programme focuses on four areas: to 15% $5-10 MILLION Services productivity: Improving the productivity and quality of Optimising waste in the blasting 1 contracts while reducing costs pattern to reduce explosives consumption by Operating and maintenance management: Improving the 2 approximately 10% performance of critical processes and the implementation of standard Using existing loading capacity maintenance management practices to replace shovel rental with a Corporate and organisational effectiveness: Reducing costs and 3 maintenance and repair contract $10-15 MILLION restructuring the Groups organisational framework Optimisation of the 4 Energy efficiency: Optimising energy efficiency and lowering energy organisational structure contract prices 32 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INPUTS In 2012, Los Pelambres was facing an energy market with limited ENERGY availability of long-term PPAs indexed to more stable fuel input prices, leaving it exposed to volatile spot energy prices.
To mitigate this, the Group improved Los Pelambres The Group sources its energy from security of supply by investing the two electricity grids in Chile: WATER LABOUR in several power generation the northern grid SING, which projects.
These include an equity supplies the Centinela, Antucoya interest in a wind-power plant, and Zaldvar mines, and the El Arrayn, which now provides central grid SIC which supplies some 20% of Los Pelambres Los Pelambres.
The SING has Water is a precious commodity Secure labour supply is key to energy requirements.
an installed capacity of 5.0 GW, in the regions where the Groups the Groups success.
Labour Los Pelambres has signed supplied to the grid from coal-fired mines operate, so the recycling of agreements with unions are in long-term PPAs with two solar power stations and renewable water is extremely important.
place at all of the Group mining power providers for a total of sources such as wind and solar.
operations, generally lasting for 50MW of power.
The first solar Water for each operation is sourced The SICs installed capacity is 17.4 three years.
In 2016, the Group PPA commenced in 2015 and either from the sea or from surface GW, primarily from hydroelectric successfully renewed labour the second came online in 2016. and underground sources.
Due to this reliance on agreements with the unions at During 2015, Los Pelambres also operation has the necessary permits hydroelectric power, the cost Zaldvar, Antucoya, and with started to receive power under a for the long-term supply of water at of energy on the SIC fluctuates a new supervisors union at long-term PPA from a coal-fired current production levels.
depending on precipitation levels, Los Pelambres.
The Group power plant and in 2016 replaced whereas on the SING costs tend to The Group optimises water continues to foster good working the remaining exposure to the be more stable.
efficiency by reducing demand, relationships with its employees and spot market by a short-term fixed using untreated sea water and In 2014, the Government began a labour unions and to date there has price PPA.
These PPAs, together encouraging recycling across its process to connect the SING and been no industrial action.
with those signed with Alto Maipo, operations.
Water reuse rates SIC power grids to increase the Contractors account for will fulfil Los Pelambres energy depend on a range of factors reliability of the national power approximately 71% of the workforce requirements at competitive and and the Group seeks to achieve system.
This should be completed across Group operations, and stable prices.
The new integrated grid they are responsible for labour All the Group operations located on circumstances at each operation.
will supply 99% of national demand, negotiations with their own the SING benefit from long-term increasing customer access to a The Group has pioneered the use of employees.
The Group maintains contracts, mostly indexed to the range of power generation sources.
untreated sea water at its Chilean strong relations with all contractors price of coal.
The first of these to operations, and the technique is Approximately 13% of the Groups to ensure operating continuity and expire will be the PPA supplying used at Centinela and Antucoya.
operating costs are energy related.
expects all contractors to adhere to 100% of Zaldvars power until In 2016, sea water accounted for To manage price fluctuations, the the same standards expected of its 2020.
The other PPAs continue until 47.2% of total Group water use.
Group aims to procure medium own workforce, particularly in the 2026-2028. and long-term electricity contracts areas of safety and health.
called Power Purchase Agreements PPAs at each operation.
Pricing, in most cases, is linked to the cost of electricity on the Chilean grids or the generation costs of a supplier, the latter being subject to adjustments for inflation and fuel input prices.
CO. UK 33 OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED SULPHURIC ACID The sulphuric acid market weakened during 2016, mainly due to lower consumption in the fertiliser industry.
This lowered the regional deficit and caused prices to drop by the end of the year.
The Group secures most of its sulphuric acid requirements under contracts for a year or longer at prices normally agreed in the latter part of the previous year.
Therefore, the decline in demand is likely to benefit the acid procurement programme in 2017. to be taken during the coming years as part of the Cost and SERVICE OIL PRICE Competitiveness Programme.
CONTRACTS AND EXCHANGE RATE Opportunities to improve major KEY SUPPLIES service contracts in areas such as productivity and costs are under review by external consultants.
In 2014, the Group created a Fuel represents less than 5% of Once identified and analysed, these central procurement department total operating costs and is used in can lead to contract renegotiations.
to consolidate supply activities trucks transporting ore and waste Costs are affected by the Chilean for key purchases such as mining at the mine sites.
Nevertheless, peso to US dollar exchange rate, as In total, the Group has over equipment, tyres and reagents, improving fuel efficiency is a approximately 35-40% of the mining 1,500 contracts for goods and achieving synergies and economies priority, with the amount of fuel divisions operating costs are in services.
Key contracts, such as of scale across its operations.
The consumed per tonne of material Chilean pesos.
However, this often tyres, grinding media, mining and programme has expanded since extracted being a key measure.
Fuel acts as a natural hedge as over mobile equipment, chemicals, and has worked to standardise is supplied by Chiles two largest half of Chiles foreign exchange is explosives, camp administration procurement policies and suppliers to avoid sole supplier risk.
generated from copper sales, so an and maintenance, are under procedures across the Group.
A increase in the copper price tends long-term agreements.
Price Generally, the oil price also affects core of experts defines product and to weaken the Chilean peso and adjustment formulas reflect market the spot price of energy, shipping service categories and negotiates vice versa.
During 2016, the Chilean variations of key cost elements, rates for supplies and products, and corporate-level agreements peso weakened by 3.5% from such as steel, petrol and Consumer the cost of items such as tyres and to obtain price reductions and Ch$654 $1 in 2015 to Ch$677 $1.
Contracts are conveyor belts, which contain oildiscounts in high-spend areas.
During the first two months of 2017 normally negotiated between the based products.
The oil price rose it averaged Ch$652 $1.
operation and the supplier, but In 2016, the procurement by approximately 45% during 2016, tenders and negotiations are mostly team successfully: following the reduction of output co-ordinated, and sometimes agreed by oil producing nations at Implemented SAP to manage led, by the Central Procurement the end of the year.
inventory levels Department in order to maximise Centralised the procurement leverage and benefits.
of all goods, strategic The Groups corporate procurement and operating team uses a variety of strategies, Incorporated Zaldvar into including from full-price existing Group-wide contracts, competition, price auctions, achieving significant savings sourcing in China and working with Integrated Antucoya into the strategic suppliers, to reduce the Group procurement system and costs to each party and achieve a negotiated new procurement sustainable, longer-term, lower-cost contracts for goods and services base for future growth.
To foster not already covered under this co-operative approach, the Group contracts Group has engaged productivity experts to map operations, Automated and outsourced all understand value streams and transactions under $5,000, which identify opportunities for theGroup account for approximately 60% of to increase efficiency and all procurement transactions reduce costs.
The Group continually reviews its procurement processes and existing agreements, identifying additional cost-saving opportunities 34 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016
