Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information C a t e g o r i e s s r e m Our strategy: the 4 Cs AO is on a mission to be the best electrical retailer in Europe To do this were focusing on four key aspects: culture and brand, customers, categories and countries.
We think this is a more helpful way of bringing to life the build, drive and broaden phrase we have used previously.
OK, so brand doesnt begin with a C but culture and brand are intrinsically linked.
Culture & Brand Be exceptional in the moments that matter because we care more AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 9 o t s u C C o u n t r i e s Our strategy: the 4 Cs continued Our culture underpins everything.
Culture & Brand Our culture and values are fundamental to our business and through nurturing and growing this culture we will be able to deliver the best customer experience, broaden our categories, expand into new countries, drive our operations and, ultimately, achieve our goal.
We recruit and retain the best talent and look for people who are smart, bold and driven.
They must care more, not only about our customers but other stakeholders of the business too, be it the manufacturers and suppliers, other employees and, of course, our drivers, and do it all with a sense of fun.
Our values can be found in every single one of our AO people.
We hire and fire against them and they are everything our brand stands for: our culture and how our people act will be how our brand is perceived externally.
The risks affecting our culture and brand are highlighted on page 23 to 25.
Performance this year Priorities next year Towards the end of last year we formalised our five core values to Building brand awareness will continue to be a key focus for the year ensure consistency as our international footprint increases see page ahead: it remains our biggest weakness and therefore our biggest 26.
We are delighted by our success in translating and replicating our opportunity.
We will look to simplify our brand message and create culture in both Germany and the Netherlands.
It is this culture and these consistency across all media.
TV advertising, print and content values that have helped AO become the brand that customers love.
marketing will continue and we aim to build on the increase in spontaneous and prompted brand awareness and branded traffic Over the period weve spent a lot of time, effort and money in to reduce our reliance on paid forms of direct marketing.
communicating our brand to potential customers and reinforcing it with existing customers.
We have invested in TV advertising in both We will continue to embed our culture in our overseas operations as the UK and Germany and also print media, including posters on the they grow and build scale and fiercely protect it in the UK.
Branded traffic i. e. people who click through and more people join the AO family it is critical that we do not lose to our website having searched for AO, rather than washing machine sight of our values.
Values workshops will be held across all areas for example has increased and we have seen spontaneous awareness and levels of the business and will take a key role in the development jump from c. 15% at the end of last year to c. 25% in recent months, with programmes we are running for the AO leaders of the future.
prompted brand awareness also making good progress.
Categories We have extended our MDA model to the SDA and AV categories in the UK and we continue to take market share across all three categories.
We believe we can replicate the model further and we are exploring other categories within the electricals sphere where we can leverage our existing relationships with the brands and also our infrastructure.
Risks affecting our category roll-out are discussed in the Risk Review on page 24.
Performance this year Priorities next year We continue to offer one of the broadest ranges in the MDA category, In the year ahead we will further develop our categories as we with most products available for next day delivery.
We still trade look to launch computing in the UK, AV in Germany and SDA in across over 4,000 SKUs which includes a trading range that enables the Netherlands.
us to focus our scale and offers us exclusivity, better margin, higher average product value.
It also enables us to offer better deals Our exceptional customer service and our understanding of customer to customers.
This approach also benefits our supplier partners needs means we can offer our cross category manufacturers significant to mix their margin, plan stock and therefore support AO more opportunities to develop brand loyalty.
In the year ahead we will than ever before.
In the UK sales in our AV category have increased explore how best to leverage this ability.
year on year, helped by a wider product range including premium models with cutting-edge technologies and some exclusive branded We will continue to broaden ranges as far as possible within existing products.
We have also made progress in our SDA category, in categories, including growing exclusive SKUs.
particular with Floorcare and also the introduction of Heating and Air Treatment products, which are performing well.
We have launched Our research of further complementary categories will continue.
Floorcare in Germany and this has been well received by customers.
Computing is a natural extension to our current categories and there is good potential for cross-selling and leveraging our existing customer base.
The customer journey offered by existing players is complex and confusing to the customer.
We will aim to simplify and move away from a purely traditional feature-led model, offering non tech-savvy consumers a need and lifestyle based journey which they can relate to and understand when choosing products.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 10 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information Customer satisfaction levels must remain exceptional.
Customers We are continuing to drive our market-leading proposition forward.
Our key offering remains strong: our unbeatable prices, huge range, great web content and amazing service mean our customer satisfaction levels remain exceptional.
Repeat customer metrics are improving as are the number of new customers we are attracting to our brand.
The risks affecting our customers are highlighted on page 23 to 25.
Performance this year Priorities next year Over the year we have delighted over 1.3 million customers with our We will do more of the same.
As we grow across categories proposition across our three territories.
We have improved all aspects and countries we need to ensure we do not lose our focus on of the customer journey: by enriching the content on our website and delighting our customers.
We are looking to build on the results striving to be the destination for information: by simplifying the of the Customer Lab and tailor the web journey to meet different checkout process and improving installation and delivery options.
customers needs, to be the destination for information but to do so in bite-size chunks so as not to overwhelm the customer in need New for the reporting period was the introduction of the AO Customer of a quick replacement product, but to provide in-depth information Lab, where we have invited members of the public to test the website to the tech-savvy customers out there.
and see how the customer journey works for them.
This has provided real insight into the way different people think and shop and has Repeat customers are on the increase as are the number of new helped us to tailor the website accordingly.
customers we are attracting to the AO brand.
However, many UK customers still think of us as playing solely in the MDA category Our customers love us, as can be seen by our NPS results, Trustpilot and we will educate customers on our wider electrical offering reviews and the awards we have won over the period.
In October 2015 in the year ahead.
we were awarded joint best online shop and named as recommended provider for Electrical Online Retailer by Which?
In April 2016 we won Across all territories we will strive to improve upon our already Best Retailer at the Verdict Customer Service Awards and recently excellent NPS scores and market leading Trustpilot scores.
As we were shortlisted for Best Retailer in the Which?
These enter new markets we will ensure that we deliver a great proposition awards demonstrate the continued industry-wide recognition and and the same level of exceptional customer service we offer in that we are 100% focused on and committed to the needs and wants existing countries and categories so that our reputation and of our customers.
Our customers love us and they are returning faster industry-wide acknowledgements will be maintained and our and buying across categories.
Countries Since our IPO, we have focused on our goal to become the best electrical retailer in Europe by expanding our offering and we now operate in three countries, leveraging our relationships, infrastructure and lessons learned to date.
Our recent Netherlands launch gives us further confidence that the model can be replicated and gives a very strong platform for future growth.
The risks affecting our expansion are highlighted on page 23 to 25.
Performance this year Priorities next year Our operational progress in Germany continues.
As we are doing Our key priority in the year is to embed and develop our culture and in the UK, we are investing in better content and web architecture to raise brand awareness in our overseas countries.
We will strive to deliver the best customer journey, tailored to the German consumer improve efficiencies and product margin, and optimise the and our market share continues to grow.
We are consolidating the customer proposition ensuring always that service levels remain business to be ready for the next stage of growth and as part of this best-in-class and customers continue to make repeat purchases.
we are combining the head office and two distribution centres into a new European Regional Office and Distribution Centre in Bergheim.
We will pursue this strategy through continued careful assessment of the European electricals market, being selective of which In March we launched our business in the Netherlands, leveraging the opportunities to progress or put on hold, to ensure that we deliver infrastructure and teams we have built in Germany and applying the the best possible proposition for our customers and maximise value learnings from our German roll-out.
in the long term for our stakeholders.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 11
