Our capabilities: growth Money20 20, the worlds largest FinTech event, is acknowledged as being at the centre of the payments industry.
Founded in the US five years ago, Money20 20 successfully launched its first European edition in April 2016 and was Ascentials biggest launch to date.
Money20 20 Europe was created in collaboration with our customers to provide a world-class experience for European FinTech innovators that directly met the needs of the industry specific to Europe.
The content team then set out to create an unparalleled agenda with local, regional and global contributors from the entire commerce ecosystem, including retail, mobile, marketing services, data and technology.
The event in Copenhagen delivered a platform where industry leaders could connect.
Attending were the key companies and individuals building, disrupting and challenging the ways consumers and businesses manage, spend and borrow money.
Money20 20 Europe provided an opportunity to come together at scale and attracted more than 3,700 attendees, 420 industry leading speakers, 200 sponsors, 100 media partners and C-level executives from 75 countries.
This was a superb example of getting a launch right and we have already announced a further extension of the Money20 20 brand as it will launch in Asia in 2018.
One Click Retail ONLINE SIMPLIFIED In a significant move to strengthen our products and services in the consumer goods and services to consumer consumption market segment, we acquired the market-leading e-commerce data analytics provider, One Click Retail, in August 2016.
The business operates in an exciting part of the retail vertical, providing actionable insights to help leading consumer goods companies optimise their e-commerce activities, drive sales and optimise search engine performance.
The insights focus on product market share, its drivers, and the actions that can be taken to increase sales.
Recent developments include the acquisition of international customers outside the US, the extension of the Dashboard to cover Walmart and the development of new subscription products: eCommSEO to optimise e-commerce search rankings, PromoTrack to enable tracking and optimising of promotional activity and 3P Track covering third party sales in the broader Amazon marketplace.
One Click Retail enjoys a 142% customer value retention rate.
As a high-growth, globally scalable subscription information service product, One Click Retail fits with Ascentials strategy of owning scalable, global market leading products.
06 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 07 GROWTH Ascential plc Annual Report 2016
