Company overview Our customers are at the heart of everything that we do We are expert at two types of products: large-scale, content Data overload and saturation is driving driven events and valued information services.
Our brands customers to be ever more discerning, selecting increasingly offer both digital and live event elements, which enable customers to access valued information through a smaller number of trusted brands where they market-leading products and platforms.
Our clear operating know they can rely on the information and structure makes us simple to deal with and allows our access they gain and the difference it makes to customers fast access to the information and connections they need.
Our aim is to ensure our brands are the most sought out and trusted.
Exhibitions & Festivals: 180.0m 2015: 150.4m Exhibitions, Festivals and Congresses Cannes Lions 60% Lions regional festivals Group revenue Money20 20 Spring and Autumn Fair Bett Pure CWIEME 68% RWM Group EBITDA Glee BVE World Retail Congress UKTI Information Services: 119.6m 2015: 106.2m WGSN One Click Retail Planet Retail RetailNet 40% Group Group revenue Retail Week Glenigan Groundsure DeHavilland 32% Group EBITDA 02 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our events include large-scale exhibitions, congresses and 16 of our 20 continuing product lines are number one in festivals where customers come together to form business their markets.
Key brands in this segment include Cannes Lions, Money20 20, Spring Autumn Fair, Bett In 2016, our top five brands represented 69% of the Group's and CWIEME.
revenue from continuing operations and together they grew faster than our other brands.
We continued to deliver Key brands in our Information Services segment, which provide customer service improvements and invested in additional high-quality intelligence, include WGSN, Groundsure and One content, broader access and expanded reach both online Click Retail.
MediaLink was acquired shortly after the year end.
and offline to ensure market-leading positions were further extended.
How Ascential helps its customers What it is Since 1954, the Cannes The worlds leading FinTech The UKs largest trade show is key progress Lions International Festival event is acknowledged as the gateway to UK retailing.
The this year of Creativity has brought the being centre stage of the shows offer 13 show sections branded communications payments industry.
and welcome around 60,000 industry together every year at visitors and are constantly Founded in the US five the number one global festival edited to serve the needs of years ago, Money20 20 to learn, network and celebrate.
successfully launched its The Festival in June marks the first European edition in Improved targeting, marketing culmination and start of the April and was Ascentials and visitor experiences have creative year, when a global biggest launch to date.
driven the quality of visitors community of the worlds most and overall event expansion See page 38 inventive, talented and creative assisted by onsite rebook people set the agenda for the and location-based pricing.
See page 38 See page 36 How Ascential helps its customers One Click Retail ONLINE SIMPLIFIED What it is Leading global provider of Transforming environmental A high growth e-commerce key progress market intelligence and trend data into location intelligence business providing actionable this year forecasts for the fashion and for land and property insights and business intelligence design led industries.
Now on markets, Groundsure that enables suppliers to a simple subscription platform provides conveyancers, maximise their sales through with a single sign on, WGSN lenders, architects, engineers Amazon and Walmart online.
inspires and validates millions of and homebuyers precise One Click Retail provides business decisions by designers, up-to-date reports to help market share data at an SKU buyers, merchandisers them make better property and category level, along and C-suite executives to transaction decisions with the drivers including help plan and trade their See page 42 traffic, conversion, price and product ranges effectively.
promotions, out-of-stock See page 41 levels and reviews and the specific actions to take to affect these drivers.
See page 42 03 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016
