Board of Directors Scott Forbes Duncan Painter Mandy Gradden Rita Clifton Paul Harrison Judy Vezmar Gillian Kent Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Scott was appointed as Duncan joined the Group Mandy joined the Group Rita joined the Board Paul joined the Board Judy joined the Board Gillian joined the Board in an adviser to the Board in in October 2011. in January 2013. in May 2016. in January 2016. in January 2016.
January 2016 following an November 2015 and became executive career of over 25 Chairman in January 2016.
Duncan previously worked Mandy was previously the She is also currently a nonIn September 2016, Paul Judy was Chief Executive years in software, internet, as an executive at Sky plc, CFO at Torex, the privately executive director of ASOS plc became CFO of Just Eat plc, a Officer of LexisNexis digital media and mobile Scott currently serves as Experian plc, was the founder held retail technology firm, and and of Nationwide Building FTSE 250 online marketplace International, a division of Reed technologies.
Previously, Gillian chairman of both Rightmove plc of consumer intelligence was a key member of the team Society, and is a past nonbusiness.
Prior to this, he Elsevier plc, from 2001 until held various senior roles at and Innasol Group Limited, and company ClarityBlue, which that managed the successful executive director of Dixons acted as CFO for WANdisco February 2014.
LexisNexis is Microsoft including Managing as a non-executive director of was acquired by Experian turnaround and sale of that Retail plc.
Her background is plc, a software company a leading provider of content Director of MSN UK, creating Travelport Worldwide Limited.
in 2006, and Hitachi Data business.
Prior to that, she in brand strategy, customer listed on the London Stock enabled workflow solutions, one of the UKs largest online He previously served as the Systems.
Duncan is also a was CFO at the listed business insight and marketing Exchange and headquartered employing 3,200 people.
Both at chairman of Orbitz Worldwide director of the Professional and technology consultancy, communication and she in California.
Previously, Paul Judy was responsible for Microsoft and in a range of until September 2015.
Publishers Association, and a Detica Group plc.
Earlier, she was a former Vice Chairman spent 16 years with The the successful expansion of other businesses, including non-executive advisory board was Director of Corporate and Strategy Director at Sage Group plc, a FTSE 100 online services to over 100 media, fashion and as CEO Scott has over 35 years member to ThoughtRiver Development at Telewest and Saatchi & Saatchi and London software company, serving on countries.
Prior to LexisNexis of Propertyfinder.
com, she experience in operations, Limited and Investis Limited.
Group Financial Controller at CEO and then Chairman at its board for 13 years as CFO.
she held executive roles within established her expertise in finance and mergers and Dalgety.
She currently also the Xerox Corporation in the building markets and brands acquisitions, including 15 a chartered accountant with chairs BrandCap, the brand Since 2007, Paul has served as United States and Europe.
years at Cendant Corporation, Price Waterhouse in 1992. consultancy and Populus, an independent non-executive which was formerly the the research consultancy.
director on the board of Hays Judy was a non-executive Gillian is also an independent largest provider of travel and She also sits as a non-executive plc, chairing its audit committee director of Rightmove plc from non-executive director at residential property services director on the board, and Rita has held a number of from 2007 to 2011 and its 2006 to 2015 and served on Pendragon plc, NAHL Group worldwide.
Scott established is chairman of the audit board roles in the not-forremuneration committee from the audit, remuneration and plc and Coull Ltd and chairman Cendants international committee, of SDL plc.
profit sector, including the 2011 to present, over which nomination committees.
She of No Agent Technologies Ltd. headquarters in London in Governments Sustainable period he has acted as Hays was also on the board of Blinkx 1999 and led this division Development Commission senior independent director.
plc, the online advertising as group managing director and as Trustee, then Fellow, A chartered accountant, Paul business from 2014 to 2015. until he joined Rightmove.
She is on the worked for Price Waterhouse Assurance and Advisory Panel before joining The Sage Group for BPs Target Neutral and is plc.
Paul also sits on the a director of Henley Festival.
advisory panel for Tech Citys Future Fifty Programme.
Joined the Group: Joined the Group: Joined the Group: Joined the Group: Joined the Group: Joined the Group: Joined the Group: January 2016 October 2011 January 2013 May 2016 January 2016 January 2016 January 2016 Independent: Independent: Independent: Independent: Independent: Independent: Independent: Yes, on appointment No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Committees: Committees: Committees: Committees: Committees: Committees: Committees: Nomination Committee Chair None None Audit Committee and Audit Committee Chair and Remuneration Committee Audit Committee and Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Chair and Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee 52 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Scott Forbes Duncan Painter Mandy Gradden Rita Clifton Paul Harrison Judy Vezmar Gillian Kent Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Scott was appointed as Duncan joined the Group Mandy joined the Group Rita joined the Board Paul joined the Board Judy joined the Board Gillian joined the Board in an adviser to the Board in in October 2011. in January 2013. in May 2016. in January 2016. in January 2016.
Joined the Group: Joined the Group: Joined the Group: Joined the Group: Joined the Group: Joined the Group: Joined the Group: January 2016 October 2011 January 2013 May 2016 January 2016 January 2016 January 2016 Independent: Independent: Independent: Independent: Independent: Independent: Independent: Yes, on appointment No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Committees: Committees: Committees: Committees: Committees: Committees: Committees: Nomination Committee Chair None None Audit Committee and Audit Committee Chair and Remuneration Committee Audit Committee and Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Chair and Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee 53 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016
