STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Viability and Going Concern statements Viability Statement Confirmation of viability The Directors have assessed the prospects and viability of the Based on this assessment of prospects and stress test Group in accordance with Provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate scenarios, together with its review of principal risks and the Governance Code.
This assessment has been based on a effectiveness of risk management procedures, the Directors three-year timeframe, covering the period to 31 December confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the 2019, which is considered appropriate because it aligns with Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its the Groups strategic planning and financial forecasting liabilities as they fall due over the period to 31 December 2019. horizon, and because, in relation to viability, it provides a sufficiently long period for stress testing scenarios to be Going Concern Statement modelled through at least one complete business cycle.
The Groups business activities, performance and position, together with the factors likely to affect its future Prospects development, are set out in the Strategic Report.
The Board The Groups prospects have been assessed mainly with is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the reference to the Groups strategic planning and associated principal risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic long-range financial forecast.
This incorporates, as the first objectives.
The processes in place for assessment, year, a detailed bottom-up budget for each part of the management and monitoring of risks are described on page 28. business.
The budgeting and planning process is thorough and Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies includes input from most operational line managers as well as of the Group are given on pages 100 to 101 in note 3 to the senior management, and forms the basis for most variable consolidated financial statements.
The Board also participates during the year in both strategic planning and reviewing the detailed The Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage bottom-up budgets.
The outputs from this process include full its business risks successfully.
The Boards assessment of financial forecasts of EBITDA, Adjusted Earnings, cash flow, prospects and stress test scenarios, together with its review working capital and net debt.
The Directors consider that the of principal risks and the effectiveness of risk management planning process and forecasts provide a sound underpinning procedures, show that the Group has adequate resources to to managements expectations of the Groups prospects.
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern The Directors carried out a robust assessment of the principal basis for the preparation of the financial statements.
In forming risks facing the Group, including those that could threaten its their view, the Directors have considered the Groups business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
This prospects for a period exceeding 12 months from the date assessment was made with reference to the Groups current when the financial statements are approved.
position and prospects, the Groups strategy and the Groups principal risks, including how these are managed, as detailed on page 28.
Stress testing The Directors also assessed the potential impact on the Groups prospects should certain risks to the business materialise.
This was done by considering specific scenarios aligned to the principal risks identified above, applied to stress test the long-range financial forecast.
Of these, the five scenarios considered to have the most serious impact on the financial viability of the Group were modelled in detail, and a sixth scenario was modelled that combined the two most serious individual scenarios.
The specific scenarios were as follows: a global recession, designed to capture the impact of the most serious plausible manifestation of macroeconomic risks: a major event venue being unavailable at short notice, with no equivalent alternative venue available: a serious safety and security incident at a major event: a substantial breach of cyber security and associated loss of data: and the loss of a major customer.
For each scenario, the modelling captured the impact on key measures of profitability, cash flow, liquidity and debt covenant headroom.
Scenarios included the effects of plausible mitigation plans where appropriate.
In all cases modelled, the Group was able to continue to fund its operations and to comply with debt covenant requirements.
