Our Capabilities: Content CONTENT 44 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Retail Week Be Inspired is a campaign to address the challenge of gender diversity within the UK retail sectors senior leadership.
Retail Week believed that in order to make a difference it needed to elevate the debate about women in retail beyond just quotas and numbers to explore the career potential of women and provide practical inspiration and networking opportunities to encourage talented individuals to drive their own careers forward.
Be Inspired was created to promote the careers of successful female retail leaders, highlight role models and inspire the next generation.
In six months over 200 emerging female retail leaders have been given access to some of the most successful figures in the sector over a series of networking and story-telling breakfasts, evenings and a one day conference.
"The campaign was recognised with a ""Men as Agents of Change"" Award for Retail Week Managing Director, Chris Brook-Carter, from the Womens Business Council, part of the UK Government Equalities Office."
Bett is the leading education technology series of exhibitions and leadership summits.
Since 2012, it has expanded beyond its UK hub to launch regional events around the world to serve local educators with strong content programmes tailored to their market and requirements.
With the 2016 launch of Bett Middle East, it reached over 10,000 education leaders, and attracted around 50,000 visitors worldwide.
It has a reputation as a very special and unique event and regularly welcomes government ministers to announce new education policies.
A core element of Bett is to deliver a plethora of inspiring speakers from within and outside the education technology industry invited to speak on its stage to inform and connect the thousands of people who attend.
Bett believes that everyone has the potential to make a difference in education and is passionate about discovering, elevating and amplifying these game changers.
Those delivering a standout experience in 2016 were 804 speakers, across 841 sessions and included 10 ministerial speeches.
CONTENT 45 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016
