STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Business model A scalable business of market-leading brands Customers purchase Ascential Information Services to Information identify, evaluate and act upon key industry trends, growth Services opportunities and risks.
Subscription information services generate the vast majority of their income from digital subscriptions, while transactional services operate on a pay-per-report basis.
Ascentials leading product brands are based on a virtuous circle business model, whereby the development of the best proposition enables targeted sales and marketing to drive the Connect Inform most customers to that proposition, which gives Ascential the opportunity to sub-segment customers and extend propositions to their specific needs, and thereby reinforce a market-leading position.
Cannes Lions is the worlds leading festival for creativity in branded communications.
As the influence of Cannes Lions has Exhibitions & grown, it has attracted a broad spectrum of companies and Festivals delegates, facilitating the launch of new propositions that reinforce Cannes Lions market leadership.
For example, Lions Health was successfully launched as part of Cannes Lions in Ascential connects and informs its customers through 2014, Lions Innovation was launched as part of Cannes Lions Exhibitions & Festivals and Information Services.
in 2015, and Lions Entertainment was launched in 2016.
Customers come together at Ascentials large-scale events WGSN is the leading provider of information that helps fashion to form business relationships, identify key market trends and design-led companies to design, buy for resale and market and transact.
products that are on trend.
The breadth, depth and accuracy of its trend forecasts and other information has attracted over Exhibitions generate revenues primarily from stand space sales 6,000 customers and more than 93,000 users.
As the user to suppliers, who see exhibitions as sales and marketing events base extended beyond fashion designers, WGSN was well which enable them to generate sales, introduce new products, positioned to launch WGSN InStock in 2013, targeting buyers generate leads, provide product information, build their brands, and merchandisers, with data enabling price, colour, range and educate and service new and existing buyers.
Similarly, WGSN re-launched Lifestyle and Interiors a trends product that helps Festivals generate revenues primarily from delegate sales, customers design furniture, soft goods and consumer goods, award entry fees and sponsorship.
They cater to industry and to position their brands appropriately in 2015 and WGSN participants who want to win accolades for their work with a Insight, which provides consumer and market intelligence and view to this validation driving additional future sales, identify trends, in 2016. new prospective suppliers or clients, be inspired, learn, network and celebrate on an international if not global level.
Invest in quality of existing product e. g. geocloning, show extentions, Markete.
g. show re-editing, CPD new digital products leading Position Sub-segment Best Network and extend Proposition Effects propositions Most Customers 2.
Conduct detailed insight & analysis marketing, and retention initiatives to identify opportunities threats e. g. auto renewal, pre-book rebook and onsite rebook 09 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016
