Segmental review Exhibitions & Festivals The Exhibitions & Festivals segment comprises large- 3.
UK-based exhibition brands, with loyal followings with scale exhibitions, congresses and festivals that bring many exhibitors returning year after year.
This segment communities together to connect and trade: to be includes Spring and Autumn Fair, the UKs largest trade fair.
inspired, to learn and to celebrate.
In 2016, the Exhibitions All products in this segment deliver large audiences and are & Festivals segment delivered revenues of 180.0m, trusted barometers of the industries they serve.
All would 2015: 150.4m, up 19.7% or 12.3% on an Organic be difficult to geo-clone internationally, but offer strong basis driven by the launch of Money20 20 Europe and cash flow and a large repeat business.
continuing strong performance from Cannes Lions.
The top five events of this segment are Cannes Lions, The division continued to invest in its key products, ensuring Money20 20, Spring Autumn Fair, Bett and CWIEME.
These that content at each event is relevant and valuable to its products contributed 83% of the segments revenue.
customers and the quality of visitors remains high.
The division also continued to benefit from initiatives introduced Cannes Lions in prior years, including on-site rebooking for the following Cannes Lions serves the branded communications industry and years event and location-based exhibition stand pricing.
is the largest creative community for networking, inspiration, learning and celebration.
Each year, more agencies, media Ascentials events are broadly divided into three product types: owners and clients attend the week-long Cannes Lions Festival of International Creativity as the centrepiece of a year-round 1.
Those of significant scale, which define the markets they campaign for creativity.
In 2016, Cannes again received a serve and deliver multiple streams of revenue.
At these record number of award entries, up 8% over 2015 to more high-growth events, which include Cannes Lions and than 43,000, and grew paying delegates by 5% to more than Money20 20, content for the audience is critical and 10,000.
Overall, revenues for Cannes Lions increased to requires constant innovation and investment.
Global, market-leading, exhibition brands such as Cannes Lions has taken steps to strengthen brand advocacy CWIEME and Bett which have both delivered several by both improving customer experience across both live successful new editions in additional geographies over and digital touch points, and by putting creativity first: recent years.
Content is becoming increasingly important at these events, and great care is taken to improve all A key aim for 2016 was to improve the customer experience elements of the shows to ensure the events remain valued with the launch of online accommodation booking, a new and relevant to both visitors and exhibitors.
VIP welcome experience, dramatically reduced waiting time for badge collection, improved event signposting and content navigation.
The improvements made resulted in a net improvement of overall event NPS of 4% points to 47%.
36 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS An ambitious content-led campaign, Thank you Creativity, 2016 saw the launch of Cannes Lions third adjacent festival was developed by the Cannes Lions in-house team which in as many years, which delivered first year revenues of delivered 55,500 sessions on its own microsite, 291,000 1.4m.
Lions Entertainment brought together creative video views and 6.8m media impressions.
power-players from the music, film, gaming, sports and television industries.
Across two days delegates enjoyed live As a result of these and other initiatives, delegate content on four stages.
From more than 600 entries, the engagement grew significantly.
More than 16,000 inaugural Grand Prix in the new Entertainment Lions for people attended 23 Official Fringe events, while the Music went to the music video of Formation by Beyonc, official app was downloaded 12,500 times and there made by Prettybird Culver City.
were 762,000 swipes on the new networking app.
These events underpin the strategy of Cannes Lions, as it seeks To maintain its relevance in its core sectors, and deepen to expand its customer base across the full spectrum of the the Festivals appeal to new and associated industries, branded communications industry, and retain its long-standing the Lions the awards presented at the Festival reputation as the barometer of excellence in creativity.
and the format of the event itself are under constant review.
As a result, Cannes Lions has launched adjacent festival events, all of which have performed well: Cannes rewards creativity that Lions Health was launched in 2014, meeting the unique makes an impression, not just needs of the healthcare industry.
In its third year, Lions Health grew 77% to deliver revenue of 2.5m.
For McDonalds over 2,000 entries for the Pharma and Health & Wellness Lions, an increase of 40% compared to the previous year.
weve seen ROI 54% higher with Now in its second year, Lions Innovation grew 19% to deliver revenues of 1.8m, attracted more than 1,000 creative that wins Lions than entries to the Creative Data and Innovation Lions, up 30% creative that doesnt.
Global brand development, McDonald's Corporation 37 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 Segmental review Exhibitions & festivals continued Money20 20 Following the success of Money20 20 Europe, we further Money20 20, the worlds leading FinTech event, is well assessed the global FinTech market and announced the launch positioned in a strong market.
It delivered revenues of of Money20 20 Asia to be held in March 2018 in Singapore.
This will provide the platform for pan-Asian and global Founded five years ago, Money20 20 has grown very companies to join forces and explore the unique opportunities strongly and the volume of paying delegates now stands fuelling the growth of the Asia Pacific payments landscape.
Over the same period, volume of exhibitors rose from 77 in 2012 to 562 in 2016.
How Money20 20 works 2016 2015 Organic Money20 20 revenue by show m m growth Attracts attendees and exhibitors from Las Vegas, USA 26.9 18.7 17% the whole eco-system Copenhagen, Europe 7.8 n a Total 34.7 18.7 60% In its third year of Ascential ownership, Money20 20 Provides a platform Money Attracts C-suite for new product welcomed more than 10,700 attendees 2015: 10,400 at the 20 20 attendees and and partnership Network most recent US edition, held in Las Vegas in October 2016.
The speakers announcements Effect event also continued to attract increasing numbers of CEOs and C-suite executives, with more than 1,700 attending.
In total, more than 3,100 companies were represented, from 85 countries around the world.
The event ran four distinct content Attracts a large number streams and welcomed over 500 speakers including Jack of start ups and early Dorsey of Twitter and Square and Douglas Feagin of Ant stage companies and investors Financial Group, the financial services arm of Alibaba.
Following discussions with customers, April 2016 saw the Spring and Autumn Fair launch of Money20 20 Europe, created to specifically address Spring Fair is the UKs largest trade exhibition and is amongst the unique needs and challenge of the European markets.
In its Europes biggest home and gift events.
Together with its first year, the event welcomed 3,700 attendees, 420 industryAutumn edition, it is the gateway to UK retailing and attracts leading speakers, 200 sponsors, 100 media partners and around 60,000 UK and international visitors from independent C-level executives from 75 countries.
This was a significant and major multiple retailers to e-commerce specialists and 2015 investment, and delivered revenues of 7.8m.
The show covers 13 key buying sections Ascentials biggest launch to date and a superb example of which are regularly evolved in line with the evolution of UK getting a launch right.
Locations of each section are also reviewed to ensure each one is working to best effect for those attending the event and to allocate the most space to those sections with the highest demand.
38 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS All revenue at Spring and Autumn Fairs is derived from The other brands or products within the Exhibitions & Festivals exhibitors as the events are free to attend for visitors.
On-site rebooking, enabling customers to secure their stand location a Pure trend-inspired fashion trade shows year ahead, continues to be a major focus.
In 2016, Spring and Lions Regionals Eurobest, Lynx, Spikes and Tanagrams Autumn Fairs achieved contracted bookings of over 70% of RWM resource efficiency trade show stand revenue within three months of the previous years World Retail Congress global retail congress held in Dubai event.
This feature gives good forward visibility and enables Glee garden and outdoor living trade show the sales team to focus on customer service and new UKTI exporter introduction services business sales.
Broadcast Video Expo broadcast and video trade show Naidex disability aids trade show sold in July 2016 Location based pricing differentiating stand price based on position in the hall and stand design improved yield overall Industry awards by 5%.
It is important to deliver return on investment for To be acknowledged by our peers is a great source of pride and exhibitors and visitors alike and operational excellence industry awards are always hard-fought.
At the recent AEO driving retention through relevance and value remains Excellence Awards we were delighted that Money20 20 won the overall focus at the event.
in three categories: the Innovation Award, Best Marketing Campaign and, for the second year in a row, Best Tradeshow Bett Exhibition Overseas.
At the Conference Awards in July, Bett Bett is the leading educational technology series of global topped the podium in the Best Conference Series category, events and leadership summits.
Bett brings together people, and Money20 20 took the Best Marketing Award and ideas, practices and technologies so that educators and Overseas Conference of the Year Award.
At the Exhibition learners can fulfil their potential.
Across the global series, Bett News Awards, CWIEME Istanbul was recognised as the best welcomed almost 50,000 visitors from 139 countries in 2016, brand expansion and Giovanni Musio was awarded the Best including 80 Ministries of Education.
It delivered revenues of Organiser Marketer Award.
15.7m, up 9% on the prior year despite challenging economic conditions for its Brazilian edition and deepened its strategic Looking ahead partnerships with both Microsoft and TES.
Over recent years, the Exhibitions & Festivals segment has created a fast-growing business with market-leading, Since 2012, Bett has expanded beyond the UK and now has a international products.
It aims to deliver market-defining presence in five key geographies Brazil, Mexico, Middle East, customer engagement and harness technology to further Malaysia and the UK.
The main edition is held in London each improve digital experiences around the events.
This shift will January and attracts leading industry speakers, educationalists, deliver year round access to the event and its content, by major sponsorship partners, education bodies and Government bringing the digital space closer to the physical attendee Ministers who have chosen this platform to announce changes experience.
In 2017 Ascentials Exhibitions & Festivals division aims to In 2016 Bett held its inaugural event in the Middle East in Abu offer more customer-focused, data-led products that bring the Dhabi and successfully rolled out value based pricing in London membership communities of each event together year round.
across four pricing zones aligned to stand location.
CWIEME CWIEME serves the automotive, consumer electronics and power generation sectors.
In 2016, CWIEME delivered revenues of 8.8m 2015: 8.9m, up 2% in local currency.
Berlin is the main CWIEME event connecting engineers with suppliers for electric motors and transformers.
The event has also several regional editions: Istanbul in Europe: Chicago in the US and Shanghai, China.
As Berlin continues to mature, CWIEME works closely with its customers worldwide to ensure all the shows remain relevant, with appropriate content at all events.
This enables it to continually improve its proposition thereby driving retention.
CWIEME is also evolving regional and trade partnerships, particularly in the US and China.
Other Exhibitions & Festivals product performance Beyond the top five products in this segment, revenues at our smaller products declined by 9% to 31.0m 2015: 32.8m.
The main element of the 1.8m decline was a 2.2m decline in revenues from the service we supply to UK Trade and Investment following delays stemming from a departmental 39 restructuring.
Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 Segmental review Information Services 75% of Information Services' revenues are derived from Ascentials Information Services segment provides high-quality, subscriptions, with transactional revenues contributing 13%.
industry-specific business intelligence and forecasting with The balance of revenues relate to advisory services 5%, high customer engagement and retention.
The division conferences and awards 5% and digital and other marketing delivered revenues of 119.6m in 2016 2015: 106.2m, solutions 2%.
We have continued to migrate towards a up 12.6% or 5.4% on an Organic basis.
digital-only business and, following the discontinuance of the Heritage Brands, print advertising revenue now represents Brands within Information Services are WGSN, Groundsure, less than 1% of Group revenue.
Glenigan, DeHavilland, Planet Retail RetailNet Group and Retail Week.
Following its acquisition in August 2016, Dynamics of digital products we also welcomed One Click Retail to the Information Services segment.
Answers or insights we provide are important to our All products within the Information Services division serve customers decisions customers with must-have information through multiple digital 2.
Unique or critical insights that are hard to replicate.
They are targeted to specific job roles and often on strong historical information assets that, in the main, embedded in customer workflows making them more difficult cannot be easily recreated to disrupt.
Expert content teams on each brand craft and curate answers to important questions to help customers make 3.
Continuously leverage these unique assets to create new, smarter business decisions and succeed.
valuable information products Needs served 4.
Track record of delivery of accurate projections or insights Strategic and tactical 5.
Industry leading customer retention is underpinned by decision Business Learning and their trust and confidence making development development Belonging WGSN Groundsure Glenigan DeHavilland Planet Retail RNG Retail Week One Click Retail 40 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Organic growth multiple levers deployed Adjacent markets Geographic expansion Lions Entertainment 2016 Money20 20 Europe Bett Academies 2017 Bett Middle East Money20 20 Asia 2018 Multiple levers for growth Expansion across the New product development functional areas of the WGSN Instock enhancements customer WGSN Single Platform Groundsure 2 WGSN Insight WGSN Mindset Retail Week prospect Retail Week Connect Cannes Lions Archive WGSN In April 2016, WGSN launched its new single subscription WGSN is the clear global leader for market intelligence, insight platform, which unites all its services onto one platform.
and trend forecasts to the fashion industry and design-led Customers can now access all WGSN products with a single companies around the world.
It is Ascentials largest product, sign on.
This is the first time customers have been able to representing 22% of the business.
It delivered revenues of seamlessly navigate all products and instantly get access to 67.4m in 2016 2015: 60.5m, up 6% on an Organic basis.
fashion, lifestyle design, consultancy and other WGSN products.
This visibility has helped deliver an increase in WGSN serves more than 6,000 customer organisations and average product holding from 1.13 in 2015 to 1.19 in 2016. enjoys a customer value retention rate of 92%.
Many years ahead of a WGSN global trend forecast launch, WGSN filters Also in April 2016, the first of WGSNs joint ventures with global influences through its experts to determine trend CTIC, started trading which marked a major milestone direction.
Insights are supplemented by big data analytics and towards growing and developing the Chinese market for WGSN produces reports in six languages, as well as an WGSNs products.
In todays fast fashion marketplace, it is vital for retailers to Its strategy is to deliver multiple products to help designers, understand trend adoption and offer the right product, at the buyers, merchandisers and marketers plan as well as trade their right time, at the right price.
Businesses cannot rely on intuition product lines more effectively.
To meet this need and mitigate pressure on margins, WGSN launched Instock in 2013 and today there are more than 200 retailers tracked in Instock every day.
In October 2016, WGSN launched WGSN Insight, offering customers deeper insight into fast changing consumer With WGSNs retail behaviours to enable them to discover the future consumer with the best-in-class consumer, marketing and retail analytics, what used insights customers.
to take weeks, now takes minutes.
Director of Merchandise Planning, Garnet Hill 41 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 Segmental review Information Services continued Groundsure One Click Retail Groundsure, a transactional business, is a market-leading Ascential regularly assesses opportunities to acquire highprovider of environmental risk data.
It addresses the needs growth products operating in sectors with the potential for of conveyancers, architects, engineers and other participants scale that may benefit from its know-how and infrastructure.
in the UK residential and commercial property industry.
Information services to the e-commerce industry was Groundsure assesses risk related to flood, contaminated land, identified as an attractive part of the retail vertical and, ground stability, planning and other environmental matters.
as a result, Ascential acquired One Click Retail, a leading e-commerce data analytics service provider, to help accelerate Mainly operating through resellers, the business delivered it globally through, for example, cross-selling their products to 15.3m in 2016 2015: 14.2m, up 8% year on year.
Revenue existing clients of Ascential.
was up 14% in the first half and up 3% in the second half, performing somewhat better than the overall market in which One Click Retails customers include Procter & Gamble, HP, residential transactions in England and Wales in the first half Unilever, Hamilton Beach, Nestle and Panasonic.
Revenue grew by 11% and declined by 8% in the second half, driven in is generated predominantly through recurring annual part by changes to the stamp duty regulations.
subscriptions to the companys Dashboard product which provides insights to help customers drive sales through e-commerce, including Amazon and Walmart, the two largest Residential sales model online retailers in the world.
One Click Retail grew revenues to 7.4m in 2016, a growth Reseller of 103% with a 142% customer value retention rate.
3.1m Groundsure One-stop shop for of this revenue was delivered in the four months following Provider of digital conveyancers requiring its acquisition.
environmental environmental, local and other risk reports authority and other As a high-growth, globally scalable subscription information searches service product, One Click Retail fits with Ascentials strategy of owning scalable, global market-leading products with synergy potential with existing brands.
Solicitor Acts on behalf of purchaser requesting appropriate searches and passing through costs 42 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other Information Services products Planet Retail helps consumer goods companies identify and execute sales and new market opportunities with retailers utilising its global retailer distribution model.
The business also provides a leading executive education programme and successful advisory service.
Retail Week was established in 1988 and has more than 8,000 subscribers.
With an attractive revenue mix, Retail Week is transitioning to a corporate subscriptions model, with more than 40% of subscribers now on a corporate subscription.
Retail Week Prospect, launched in 2015, is the brands high-value data product extension.
Glenigan helps clients identify and win construction contracts and leads.
During the year, it has continued its migration to a single interface, with enhanced search functionality, deliverable across all media devices.
Glenigan grew its revenues in 2016 by 11%.
Finally DeHavilland, our online political intelligence service, grew revenues by 10% in 2016.
Industry awards Many of our talented individuals and leading information services brands were award winners in 2016.
Retail Week the PPAs Business Media Brand of the Year which sits at the very heart of the UK retail industry, and its MD Chris BrookCarter, were rewarded by the UK Government Equalities Office Womens Business Councils Men as Agents of Change and Victoria Hart, Retail Weeks Head of Operations Conferences & Bespoke Events, was also recognised PPAs Connect Awards Events Leader of the Year.
Also acknowledged last year were WGSN the Stackmaster Marketo Award winner, which recognises the power of marketing technology and its use in enhancing marketing effectiveness, Glenigan the PPAs Digital Innovation of the Year the award that was won by HSJ Intelligence in 2015 and Nursing Times PPAs Business Editor of the Year for Jenni Middleton and British Media Awards Website of the Year.
The digital success of Nursing Times, Glenigan and Retail Week led to Plexus being named as PPAs Digital Publisher of the Year Business Media.
