Market review Emerging Markets are diverse and have resilient long-term fundamental attractions Convergence trend provides Diversity challenges common apowerful growth opportunity perceptions of Emerging Markets The Emerging Markets investment universe is large and diverse, While sentiment and market prices can be swayed by overly andoffers substantial growth opportunities as countries economic, simplistic, high-level generalisations about Emerging Markets, social and political characteristics converge with those of the theinvestment universe is highly diversified and provides a range developed world over time.
Notwithstanding the strong growth seen ofinvestment opportunities for an active, specialist asset manager since the end of the 1990s, the emerging world is on average still such as Ashmore.
For example, the JP Morgan EMBI GD external nearly four decades behind the developed world in GDP per capita.
debt index includes 66 countries and this is expected to increase to 80 countries by the end of the decade.
Over the 12 months to June 2016, the range of returns from these countries was typically wide, 2015 GDP per capita indexed EM US$10,600 from -18% for Belize to 66% for Ukraine.
DM US$45,700 Increasingly diverse external debt index 70 1980 EM US$1,500 60 DM US$10,100 50 40 30 20 Developed Markets Emerging Markets 10 Source: IMF 0 Source: JP Morgan Increasing opportunities as indices develop As countries become wealthier, their capital markets broaden Emerging Markets fund anddeepen and become more accessible, and more relevant, tointernational investors.
This will increase Emerging Markets intheirown currencies representation in widely used benchmark indices from the prevailing One of the reasons for the resilience of Emerging Markets in low levels.
For instance, just 8% of the US$18.5 trillion fixed income thefaceof numerous shocks over the past few years has been universe and 21% of the US$20.1 trillion listed equities universe are thelong-established and overwhelming bias towards funding in included in benchmark indices.
In the meantime, Ashmores active localcurrency markets rather than using external debt.
Importantly, investment processes seek to identify opportunities across the full the majority of local currency-denominated bonds are owned by spectrum of investible assets.
domestic investors, such as pension funds, which further mitigates the risk of capital flight in response to currency devaluations.
Emerging Markets investment universes External sovereign debt US$0.8trn 48% in benchmark Local currency sovereign debt US$7.0trn 9% in benchmark External corporate debt US$2.6trn 14% in benchmark Local currency corporate debt US$8.0trn 2% in benchmark Equities US$21.4trn 20% in benchmark Mkt cap in benchmark Mkt cap not in benchmark Source: Ashmore, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, JP Morgan 18 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1980 1982 1984 1986 1988 1990 1992 1994 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016f 2018f 2020f Number of countries 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Strategic report Network of offices and diverse investments across Emerging Markets Ashmore has established a network of 14 offices across 11 countries, providing global investment management capabilities together with local platforms that underpin the third phase of the Groups strategy, to mobilise Emerging Markets capital.
Ashmore has sourced 32% of itsAuM from clients domiciled in the Emerging Markets.
22% 28% 19% of Group AuM is from clients of Group AuM is from clients of Group AuM is from clients basedin the Americas basedin Europe ex UK basedin Asia Pacific 23% Group AuM is from clients based inAfrica and the Middle East 8% of Group AuM is from clients basedin the UK Emerging Markets invested Ashmore presence Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 19 Market review continued The first half of the Groups financial year The high positive yields available in local Blended debt generally saw weaker markets, reflecting currency bonds are extremely attractive, Reflecting the performance of the underlying concerns about global growth, the timing particularly when compared with sovereign asset classes, the standard blended debt and effect of the first US rate increase, and alternatives in the developed world, where benchmark generated a 5.1% return over lower commodity prices.
The second half many bonds offer negative yields.
ofthe period was the inverse of the first strength of the US dollar over the past four There are powerful arguments fora dynamic half, with a recovery in the oil price, a fading years has affected returns from the local allocation across Emerging Markets debt of USdollar strength notwithstanding the currency asset class, yet the outlook for asset classes, including the wide range of USrate increase in December 2015, and a Emerging Markets currencies against the annual investment returns and the ease stabilisation or improvement in economic USdollar is arguably now more balanced with which an investor can achieve a broad data.
Against this backdrop of low growth, andthe attractiveness of local currency allocation to Emerging Markets fixed few inflationary risks and improved currency bonds is therefore evident.
Ashmores long-term investment performance only towards the end of the Local currency issuance by countries and track records in each of the underlying year, Emerging Markets fixed income delivered companies continues to grow, which not only asset classes, delivered by a consistent stronger returns than equities, andUS bolsters the resilience of Emerging Markets fixed income investment process, provide dollar-denominated debt outperformed in the face of external shocks, but also itwith astrong insight into the relative value localcurrency markets over the year.
provides significant and scalable investment between the asset classes.
This approach External debt opportunities for active investment managers.
has delivered good returns for investors, The JP Morgan EMBI GD benchmark The opening to foreign investors of markets withthe Groups blended debt composite indexdelivered a good return over the year such as China will have important implications returning 4.0% annualised over the past 9.8%, and with high yield outperforming for benchmark indices, and over time, Ashmore three years versus 1.9% for the benchmark.
It is notable that the expects this asset class to become its single Equities highest returns came from the two countries largest theme on an as invested basis.
The Emerging Markets equity universe is that defaulted or restructured in the year: Corporate debt large and diversified, and offers a broad Argentina and Ukraine.
This highlights the The JP Morgan CEMBI BD benchmark rangeof investment opportunities for an investment opportunities available in an indexperformed well over the year 5.3%, active manager.
As with fixed income, the inefficient assetclass and the necessity although in contrast to external debt, high indices can be a poor guide to the risk and tohave strong, specialised credit analysis yield slightly underperformed investment returns available.
For instance, the MSCI toidentify where there is value, when grade bonds.
Over the past three years, Frontier Market index is dominated by three security prices fall too far and become theGroups corporate debt composite has countries: Kuwait, Argentina and Nigeria, detached from fundamentals.
Over three returned 1.8%annualised versus 5.7% which together account for nearly half years, the Groups external debt broad forthe benchmark.
44% of the index market capitalisation.
composite has returned 6.9% annualised Where benchmarks exist, however, the versus 7.2% for the benchmark.
While the asset class naturally takes the Group has typically delivered significant UShigh yield credit market as a reference While the concept of hard currency, typically outperformance.
Based on composites, point for pricing, the second half of the period US dollar-denominated, sovereign debt is morethan half of the Groups equity AuM saw divergent fundamentals as defaults rose straightforward, the complexity of the asset isoutperforming benchmarks by at least sharplyin the US.
Emerging Markets defaults class and the need for active management 200bps annualised over three years and have not followed suit, primarily due to derive from its diversity.
The benchmark insome cases, such as the Groups India twofactors: Emerging Markets have greater index contains 66 countries, and this is andMiddle East funds, by more than geographic diversity for example, there are expected to increase as developing nations 1000bps annualised.
51 countries represented in the benchmark issue foreign currency debt for the first time.
index, and the presence of explicit or implicit Ashmores Emerging Markets equity Importantly, with an index yield of around sovereign support, especially in the natural products provide a wide range of differentiated 5%there is a significant spread premium resources sector, which can be a factor to and uncorrelated returns, with significant ofapproximately 350bps over 10-year US consider when assessing companies ability growth potential in the underlying capital Treasuries to allow the index to perform and willingness to pay.
markets as they participate in the broader evenin a period of rising US interest rates.
convergence trends and increasingly provide The asset class provides access to Local currency access to international investors.
The Groups highyielding credit from a diverse range The continuedstrength of the US dollar equities AuM today reflects a broad range ofissuers, and with shorter duration forthe first half of the year affected index ofspecialist funds, and over time the Group opportunities for investors looking to reduce returns, but this reversed in the second half expects to grow its capabilities in the more rates risk.
While demand is likely to remain such that the JP Morgan unhedged GBI-EM scalable global Emerging Markets products.
focused on US dollar-denominated debt, GD benchmark index increasedby 2.0% overthe longer term there are significant overthe 12 months.
Over three years, the opportunities available in the much larger Groups local currency bonds composite has local currency corporate credit markets.
returned -3.2% annualised versus -3.6% for the benchmark.
20 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Importantly, this backdrop has enabled Alternatives Market outlook policymakers to respond to weaker Ashmore has identified several established More than three years of difficult conditions currencies by depressing domestic demand growth trends in Emerging Markets, such in Emerging Markets raises the question where necessary, which is leading to a asinfrastructure development, renewable ofwhether the resultant asset prices reflect significant improvement in external balances energy and private healthcare provision, an opportunity to capture value or are a signal across Emerging Markets.
This is feeding thatrequire long-term investment in illiquid offurther weakness.
Ashmore believes there positively into FX reserves and GDP growth assets.
These projects can deliver attractive is substantial evidence to support the former, expectations, via net exports.
Consequently, returns for investors whocommit capital more optimistic view, and particularly so many market participants including the formulti-year periods.
The Group has a when considered against the relative lack IMFexpect an acceleration of GDP growth longhistory of structuring funds, raising ofmeaningful return opportunities in many inEmerging Markets versus Developed capital from a diversified investor base, Developed Markets.
Markets, for the first time since 2011. managing projects and realising returns Emerging Markets have faced several fromsuch opportunities.
It appears therefore that the weakness in significant challenges over the past few Emerging Markets asset prices has created As described in the Chief Executives years, starting with the Federal Reserves aclear opportunity, since the fundamentals review, the Group increased its alternatives taper tantrum in 2013, an extended period are evidently more robust than implied by AuM through capital raising in the period, and of US dollar strength, elections and political market prices.
Furthermore, the opportunity it believes there is a significant opportunity upheaval in major economies, significant falls cost of allocating to Emerging Markets has toreplicate these initiatives in other in the prices ofcommodities, and the start declined.
In Developed Markets, the effects Emerging Markets.
ofthe US interest rate cycle.
of QE have been to increase debt and raise Multi-asset Yet there have been only two sovereign asset prices, and in the absence of reforms The Groups multi-asset funds provide credit events, both of which can fairly productivity has fallen and GDP growth broadand diversified Emerging Markets bedescribed as atypical and having very remains weak: the persistent strength of exposure for both institutional and retail littletodo with the factors listed above.
theUS dollar over the past few years is investors.
As with blended debt, the asset TheEmerging Markets corporate high-yield nowhaving a detrimental effect on the US allocation process draws on long investment default rate is in line with its long-run economy, such that it is inhibiting the Feds track records in the underlying themes, average, and diverging from the US high yield ability to raise rates: political and economic and enables the Investment Committee market where defaults are rising sharply.
risks such as Brexit are not priced in: and to reflectan informed view of the relative theprevalence of negative bond yields in the Why is this the case?
The reasons inevitably valuebetween the various fixed income, developed world is also a powerful incentive depend upon specific circumstances but the equity and alternatives asset classes.
to seek more attractive returns elsewhere, broad common factors are that Emerging AuMinthe period was stable, with positive and potentially for lower risk.
Markets have relatively low levels of debt investment performance offset by expected public or private, supportive demographics, The long-term Emerging Markets outflows from Japanese retail funds.
responsiblefiscal policies, less leverage in convergence trends are intact, and there Overlay liquidity financial systems than in the developed isdemonstrable absolute and relative value The Groups overlay product provides clients world, high levels of FX reserves, more across the asset classes.
As the headwinds with the ability to manage the currency prudent monetary policies and with greater of the past few years abate, and possibly exposure of a portfolio of Emerging Markets capacity for stimulus with relatively high real even become tailwinds for Emerging assets.
AuM development in this theme is interest rates and having not undertaken Markets, sentiment isimprovingand determined by a number of external factors, quantitative easing, and a greater tendency allocations are likely to increase as global such as the size and composition of the to reform.
allocators move from the QE-inspired portfolios subject to hedging, asset allocation momentum trades, such as long US dollar decisions, and the cost benefit of hedging and short European bonds, into value trades particular currencies.
Ashmores proven expertise in delivering active, specialist investment management across the range of complex asset classes positions it well to benefit from this favourable outlook.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 21
