12 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 OUR MARKETS CAPITALISING ON MARKET OPPORTUNITY Much of our market share gains come from these small independents Most of our business and growth when we set up new stores or acquire them.
Ours is a capitalcomes from the US which is a much intensive industry where size matters.
Scale brings cost benefits and sophistication in areas like IT and other services, and this leads larger rental market than the UK and ultimately to further consolidation.
The industry has evolved over the last five years such that the proportion of the market enjoyed less mature.
The US rental market is by the larger players has increased by 25%.
We have clearly been potentially five times bigger than the a major beneficiary of this trend.
Whilst there will always be a place for strong local players, the market enjoyed by the larger players UK and we continue to capitalise on the is likely to grow by a further 30 to 40% in the medium term.
structural changes in that market as We are confident that as the market grows, our share will also increase.
We have a good track record of success, having almost customers increasingly want to rent doubled our market share in the last six years.
We continue to set rather than buy their own equipment.
ambitious targets for continuing to double our market share and market demand allows for this.
The speed with which we increase We also have a small presence in Canada which we will seek our market share is a function of how quickly we can get new to develop over time, as and when the opportunities for growth locations up and running and generating profit.
The US market is currently very strong, the We believe that our model is a differentiator and explains in part our UK market is showing resilience and we continue to increase our strong performance relative to some of our larger peers.
We take market share in both markets.
Our aim is to grow the business share from our larger competitors because we have the right fleet wherever we are in the economic cycle.
A strong market in the in the right place and because we offer better service.
However, we US and a good one in the UK mean we are performing particularly take more market share from the smaller operators than our bigger well currently.
competitors where our advantage is greater.
We remain committed to a very broad product offering in segments with low rental THE US penetration and high returns.
The diversity of both our fleet and its Economic strength application gives us enormous competitive advantage.
You can read Our core US markets are very strong.
We have been impacted more about our business model on pages 16 to 21. by difficulties in energy sectors, but oil and gas was only a small part of our business, so the negative impact has been relatively The combination of our business model, the strong economy and limited.
In fact, the problems in the oil and gas sector served the long-term trend to rental, which we discuss further on page 14, to demonstrate the robust and diverse nature of our business.
provides the perfect environment for us to achieve our goals.
Construction markets remain strong but we also continue to see In addition, our market share gains accelerate as we make the growing employment, the benefits of lower energy prices and most of our scale advantages.
In the longer term, we believe that increased disposable income which is positive for our broader US market share in the order of 20% is a reasonable goal.
markets like event work and residential remodelling.
In the US in As we increase our market share and grow our specialty particular, people are generally spending more money which has businesses, they necessarily become a greater proportion of the a knock-on effect in our non-construction markets.
The acquisitions we make are often to expand into a new see very encouraging short-term trends and the consensus is that specialty area or to develop an existing one and then we supplement the market will experience steady longer term growth.
Commercial them with greenfield openings.
For example, last year we made an and industrial starts continue to grow well and we expect this to acquisition to expand our climate control business to the Pacific continue at least until 2018.
Northwest and opened eight greenfield locations to expand further With the obvious exception of energy, the markets we serve are this highly profitable specialty business.
strong, as both structural and cyclical trends remain favourable.
Chart 02 shows the last three construction cycles.
These have followed one of two patterns.
From 1975 to 1982 and from 1982 to SPECIALTY FLOORING SOLUTIONS 1991 the initial recovery was very aggressive but the overall cycle In July last year we set up our first specialty flooring was relatively short.
We believe we remain mid-cycle and whilst solutions business.
We are already the single largest the pace of growth may moderate, we should have multiple years rental provider of surface maintenance equipment of structural and cyclical opportunity ahead.
focused on the commercial cleaning industry.
We provide Market share in the US long and short-term rental options, battery, electric, We continue to grow our market share in the US and even though LPG and diesel powered units, walk-behind and ride-on we are the second largest equipment rental company, there sweepers and scrubbers, floor burnishers and single remains plenty of room to grow as chart 03 shows.
Our major disc machines polish, scrub, grind, carpet extractors large competitors are United Rentals and Herc Rentals with 10% and specialty cleaning equipment.
We serve the and 3% respectively.
Home Depot, BlueLine and Sunstate have education, hospitality, events, retail and healthcare shares of 2% or less.
Most of the remainder of the market is made industries as well as stadiums, industrial plants up of small, local, independent tool shops.
STRATEGIC REPORT T 20 T 18 T 16 T 14 T 12 T 10 T 8 T 6 T 4 T 2 T Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 13 03 US MARKET SHARE Over the last five years we have consistently grown at United Rentals 10% Sunbelt 7% two to three times the market Herc Rentals 3% growth rate.
Home Depot 1% BlueLine Rentals 1% Sunstate 1% Top 710 4% Top 11100 c. 16% Others c. 57% 01 US MARKET OUTLOOK Total building starts Millions of square feet 2016 2017 2018 Source: Management estimate based on IHS Global Insight market estimates.
Total building 11% 14% 0% Note: Restated to reflect latest IHS Global Insight market size data.
Commercial and industrial 6% 9% 5% Institutional 8% 14% 11% Residential 12% 16% -3% 04 US MARKET SHARE DEVELOPMENT Source: Dodge Data & Analytics March 2016.
100 80 60 19751982 19821991 19912011 Current cycle Forecast T 100 based on constant dollars Source: Dodge Data & Analytics.
14 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 OUR MARKETS CONTINUED FROM: SHINING THE LIGHT FOR A LOCAL CRAFT FESTIVAL In celebration of harvest time, Floridas largest strawberry festival held in Plant City, Florida, asked Sunbelt to provide a variety of equipment support.
We supplied towable generators to power food and craft stalls, light towers to increase visibility during the evening hours and scissor lifts to set up the festival and take it down at the end.
The trend to rental number of small bolt-on acquisitions to expand the business.
In the Rental penetration continues to be a positive trend for the industry long term, our goal is to achieve market share of 5% and for Canada in the US as our customers have become accustomed to the to make up between 15 to 20% of the North American business.
flexibility of an outsourced model.
Between 2010 and 2016, However, we are mindful that the potential impact on the broader increased rental penetration effectively grew our end market by economy of lower oil prices is likely to be greater in Canada than in 20 to 25%.
We see this trend continuing which will provide similar the US.
So we are waiting to see how that situation evolves before levels of market growth over the coming years.
Rental still only we get overly ambitious anywhere else in the country.
In the long makes up around 50% of the US market compared with 75% in the term, we will need to go into a broader geography in Canada and UK.
We see the potential market penetration for rental equipment to increase the quantity of fleet on the ground and the location to be well over 60% in the US.
The short-term drivers of this footprint.
Any concerns about oil and gas are short-term ones evolution are the significant cost inflation in recent years associated and do not change our long-term strategy in Canada.
with the replacement of equipment, technical changes to equipment requirements that make rental more attractive, and health, safety THE UK and environmental issues which make rental more economical Economic resilience and just easier.
In addition, our customers are ever more used The UK market continues to improve and we expect it to continue to renting equipment rather than owning it themselves.
to grow at a gentle pace for the foreseeable future.
Growth opportunities are more difficult to come by because of an already The diversity of our fleet helps us take advantage of the increasing high level of rental penetration.
Nonetheless, A-Plant continues to trend to rental.
We remain committed to a broad product offering grow and is also taking market share.
Chart 05 shows the outlook in segments with low rental penetration and high returns.
If your for UK construction which shows continuing growth.
Given high fleet consists of very large highly specialised equipment like levels of total construction, 40% still being public and infrastructure, telehandlers and large booms, you are not necessarily benefitting even with residential performing well, we will continue to invest from increased rental penetration as it is probably as high as it is responsibly in the UK market.
If however you have a broader mix of fleet, then there is significant further upside to come from rental penetration.
Our fleet size continues to expand and when there was a degree of oversupply in the UK market at the beginning of this financial year, The environmental regulations resulting in the more we acted quickly to pull back our fleet investment, demonstrating environmentally friendly Tier 4 engines produce significant inflation the flexibility of our model.
This has driven further rental penetration through the reduction in fleet size by those customers Market share who previously may have chosen to own some, if not all, of their We are the largest equipment rental company in the UK, and we larger equipment needs.
Customers and smaller competitors increased our market share this year organically and through four with older fleets are faced with heavier replacement spend.
There are a greater number of major difficulties of getting to grips with the new technology and its players in the UK market and, as the largest, we only have a 6% maintenance requirements have also caused more operators to market share.
Chart 06 shows our key competitors and their share decide to rent.
Therefore we continue to invest in keeping our fleet of the market.
We believe we continue to be well positioned in the in the best condition it can be to take advantage of the increased market with our strong customer service, young relative fleet age demand for rental.
We continue to broaden our customer base and have focused our investment on specialty sectors within CANADA the market.
This has proven very successful in growing both our Canada is a long-term growth opportunity for us.
There is plenty of market share and returns.
scope to develop market share in Canada in the same way as in the US.
The business there is now twice the size of the previous year but it is still very small.
We are focusing first on the southwest corner of Canada where, following our acquisition of GWG Rentals last year, we have opened a series of greenfields and made a STRATEGIC REPORT Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 15 TO: SETTING THE STAGE FOR 20 ROCK MARATHONS Sunbelt is the primary source for lifts, material handling and power generation at more than 20 North American Rock n Roll Marathons.
Each mile of the half and full marathon features a stage with lights and sound, all powered by Sunbelt.
Our team manages every aspect from design, set-up and maintenance, before, during and after the event.
Sunbelt provides the equipment, service and support needed to execute one of the most widely recognised, musically themed races.
06 UK MARKET SHARE We are the largest equipment rental company in the UK, and A-Plant 6% continued to increase our market HSS 6% share this year organically.
Speedy 5% VP 3% GAP 3% Lavendon 2% Hewden 2% Others 73% Source: Management estimate based on IHS Global Insight market estimates.
