DIRECTORS REPORT Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 83 OTHER STATUTORY DISCLOSURES Pages 50 to 85 inclusive together with the sections of the Annual Transfer of shares Report incorporated by reference form part of the Directors report.
Certified shares i Transfers may be in favour of more than four joint holders, Other information, which forms part of the Directors report, can be but the directors can refuse to register such a transfer.
found in the following sections of the Annual Report: ii The share transfer form must be delivered to the registered Location office, or any other place decided on by the directors.
The Acquisitions Financial statements Note 26 transfer form must be accompanied by the share certificate Audit Committee report Page 59 relating to the shares being transferred, unless the transfer is Board and committee membership Page 52 being made by a person to whom the Company was not required Corporate governance report Page 54 to, and did not send, a certificate.
The directors can also ask Directors biographies Page 52 acting reasonably for any other evidence to show that the Directors responsibility statement Page 85 person wishing to transfer the shares is entitled to do so.
Financial risk management Financial statements Note 24 Future developments Page 22 CREST shares Greenhouse gas emissions Page 48 i Registration of CREST shares can be refused in the Nomination Committee report Page 62 circumstances set out in the Uncertified Securities Regulations.
Other statutory disclosures Page 83 ii Transfers cannot be in favour of more than four joint holders.
Our people Page 43 Pension schemes Financial statements Note 23 Significant shareholders Post balance sheet events Financial statements Note 29 Based on notifications received, the holdings of 3% or more of the Results and dividends Page 33 issued share capital of the Company as at 10 June 2016 the latest Share capital Financial statements Note 20 practicable date before approval of the financial statements are Social responsibility Page 40 as follows: SHARE CAPITAL AND MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS % Details of the Companys share capital are given in Note 20 to the financial statements.
Standard Life 6 Abrams Bison Investments LLC 5 Acquisition of own shares Harris Associates LP 5 At the 2015 annual general meeting, the Company was authorised BlackRock, Inc. 5 to make market purchases of up to 75.5m ordinary shares.
The Company has not acquired any shares under this authority during the year.
This authority will expire on the earlier of the next annual Details of directors interests in the Companys ordinary share general meeting of the Company or 2 March 2017. capital and in options over that share capital are given in the A special resolution will be proposed at this years annual general Directors remuneration report on pages 78 and 79.
Details of meeting to authorise the Company to make market purchases of all shares subject to option are given in the notes to the financial up to 75.5m ordinary shares.
Voting rights CHANGE OF CONTROL PROVISIONS IN LOAN AGREEMENTS Subject to the Articles of Association, every member who is present A change in control of the Company defined, inter alia, as a person in person at a general meeting shall have one vote and on a poll or a group of persons acting in concert gaining control of more than every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one 30% of the Companys voting rights leads to an immediate event of vote for every share of which he or she is the holder.
The Trustees default under the Companys asset-based senior lending facility.
In of the Employee Share Ownership Trust ordinarily follow the such circumstances, the agent for the lending group may, and if so guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers and do directed by more than 50% of the lenders shall, declare the amounts not exercise their right to vote at general meetings.
outstanding under the facility immediately due and payable.
Under the Companies Act 2006, members are entitled to appoint Such a change of control also leads to an obligation, within 30 days a proxy, who need not be a member of the Company, to exercise all of the change in control, for the Group to make an offer to the or any of their rights to attend and speak and vote on their behalf at holders of the Groups $900m senior secured notes, due 2022 and a general meeting or any class of meeting.
A member may appoint $500m senior secured notes, due 2024, to redeem them at 101% more than one proxy provided that each proxy is appointed to of their face value.
exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A corporate member may appoint one or more APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF DIRECTORS individuals to act on its behalf at a general meeting or any class of Unless determined otherwise by ordinary resolution, the Company meeting as a corporate representative.
The deadline for the exercise is required to have a minimum of two directors and a maximum of voting rights is as stated in the notice of the relevant meeting.
of 15 directors disregarding alternate directors.
The directors are not required to hold any shares in the Company by the Articles of Association.
84 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 OTHER STATUTORY DISCLOSURES CONTINUED 2 each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken The Board can appoint any person to be a director.
Any person to make himself aware of such information and to establish that appointed as a director by the Board must retire from office at the the Companys auditor is aware of it.
first annual general meeting after appointment.
A director who retires in this way is then eligible for reappointment.
The Company has maintained insurance throughout the year to cover all directors against liabilities in relation to the Company The Articles state that each director must retire from office if he and its subsidiary undertakings.
held office at the time of the two preceding annual general meetings and did not retire at either of them.
In accordance with the UK AMENDMENT OF ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION Corporate Governance Code, all directors are subject to annual The Articles of Association of the Company may be amended election by the shareholders.
In addition to any power to remove directors conferred by legislation, the Company can pass a special resolution to remove a POLICY ON PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS director from office even though his time in office has not ended and Suppliers are paid in accordance with the individual payment terms can appoint a person to replace a director who has been removed agreed with each of them.
The number of Group creditor days at in this way by passing an ordinary resolution.
30 April 2016 was 59 days 30 April 2015: 72 days which reflects the terms agreed with individual suppliers.
There were no trade Any director stops being a director if i he gives the Company creditors in the Companys balance sheet at any time during the written notice of his resignation: ii he gives the Company written past two years.
notice in which he offers to resign and the directors decide to accept this offer: iii all the other directors who must comprise at least POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS three people pass a resolution or sign a written notice requiring Charitable donations in the year amounted to 225,193 in total the director to resign: iv a registered medical practitioner who is 2015: 147,508.
No political donations were made in either year.
treating that person gives a written opinion to the Company stating that that person has become physically or mentally incapable of POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS acting as a director and may remain so for more than three months: Details of post balance sheet events are included in Note 29 to the v by reason of that persons mental health, a court makes an financial statements.
order which wholly or partly prevents that person from personally exercising any powers or rights which that person would otherwise GOING CONCERN have: vi he has missed directors meetings whether or not an After making appropriate enquiries, the directors have a alternate director appointed by him attends those meetings for reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have a continuous period of six months without permission from the adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable directors and the directors pass a resolution removing the director future and consequently, that it is appropriate to adopt the going from office: vii a bankruptcy order is made against him or he concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
makes any arrangement or composition with his creditors generally: viii he is prohibited from being a director under the AUDITOR legislation: or ix he ceases to be a director under the legislation Deloitte LLP has indicated its willingness to continue in office or he is removed from office under the Articles of Association.
and in accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution concerning its reappointment and authorising the POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS directors to fix its remuneration, will be proposed at the Annual Subject to the legislation, the Articles of Association and any General Meeting.
authority given to the Company in general meeting by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of directors that can use all of the Companys powers to borrow money and to mortgage or charge all or any of the Companys The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at 2.30pm on undertaking, property and assets present and future and uncalled Wednesday, 7 September 2016 at Wax Chandlers Hall, 6 Gresham capital of the Company and to issue debentures and other security Street, London EC2V 7AD.
An explanation of the business to be and to give security, either outright or as collateral security, for transacted at the AGM will be circulated to shareholders and will any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
be available on the Companys corporate website.
By order of the Board DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS INSURANCE Details of the directors of the Company are given on pages 52 and 53.
The policies related to their appointment and replacement are detailed on pages 56 and 57.
Each of the directors as at the date of approval of this report confirms, as required by section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 that to the best of their knowledge and belief: 1 there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys ERIC WATKINS auditor is unaware: and Company secretary 13 June 2016
