22 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 OUR STRATEGY We continue to deliver on our well-established strategy of organic growth, supplemented by bolt-on acquisitions.
OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Our goal in the medium to long term is 15% market share in the We always talk about managing our business across the economic US and to grow it by 50% in the UK.
We believe these are realistic cycle and how we expect that cycle to progress.
The cycle continues goals given the way the rental market is evolving and the way we to play out exactly as we have always thought it would and as a do business.
Consistent implementation of our strategy across the result our strategy remains unchanged.
Our markets are full of economic cycle will ensure we are in a strong position at all times potential at the moment and we do not see that changing in the to take advantage of the opportunities presented.
The risks that we short to medium term.
If the situation does change we will be face in implementing this strategy are discussed on pages 30 to 32. well prepared.
We are always conservative in our approach to maintaining a stable and secure balance sheet throughout the cycle and this enables us to maintain the flexibility we require to manage changes to the business as and when they occur.
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES KEY INITIATIVES UPDATE RELEVANT KPIs & RISKS BUILD A BROAD Organic fleet growth US market share increased from KPIs PLATFORM Greenfield expansion 6% to 7% Fleet on rent FOR GROWTH: Bolt-on M&A 20% increase in North American Risks Develop specialty products rental fleet at cost Target 15% US market share Competition Develop clusters in key areas 20% increase in North American Take 5% Canadian market People fleet on rent share 58 greenfield openings in North Increase UK market share America by 50% $81m spent on North American acquisitions 11m spent on UK acquisitions Driving improved dollar Strong RoI at 19% 2015: 19% MAINTAIN FINANCIAL KPIs utilisation Sunbelt dollar utilisation of 56% AND OPERATIONAL RoI Maintain drop through rates 2015: 59% FLEXIBILITY: Dollar utilisation Increasing US store maturity A-Plant dollar utilisation of 52% Underlying EBITDA margins RoI above 15% for the Group 2015: 56% Leverage Drop through of 60% and 84% Net debt in Sunbelt and A-Plant Risks Economic conditions Competition Financing Maintain leverage in the Maintaining financial Sunbelt EBITDA margin improved range 1.5 to 2 times net debt discipline to 48% 2015: 47% to EBITDA A-Plant EBITDA margin improved to 38% 2015: 34% Leverage of 1.7x EBITDA Ensure financial firepower Optimise fleet profile and age Fleet age remains stable and at bottom of cycle for next during the cyclical upturn appropriate at this stage of the cycle: step change Sunbelt 25 months 2015: 26 months A-Plant 27 months 2015: 29 months OPERATIONAL Operational improvement: Continued focus on improvement KPIs EXCELLENCE: programmes designed to deliver Underlying EBITDA margins delivery cost recovery improved dollar utilisation and RoI fleet efficiency EBITDA margins Fleet on rent Improve operational Staff turnover capability and effectiveness Safety Continued focus on service Risks People Health and safety STRATEGIC REPORT Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 23 08 MARKET SHARE AND GROWTH STRATEGY APRIL 2012 APRIL 2016 HAWAII HAWAII Market share 0% 10% Stores April 2012 15 % Store growth May 2012 to April 2016 includes Hawaii 2 May 2016 09 SOURCES OF SUNBELT REVENUE GROWTH 12% 7% 19% Same-store Bolt-ons and Total rental only growth greenfields revenue growth 6% 6% End market Structural growth share gains BUILDING A BROAD PLATFORM FOR GROWTH There is a drag on margins when we open new stores but they The first of our strategic priorities is to build a broad platform for improve quickly as they deliver more revenue and later broaden organic growth supplemented by small bolt-on acquisitions and the fleet and customer mix.
The same happens with acquisitions new greenfield sites.
You can see from the maps above how we have because we always buy businesses that we can improve, either made an enormous impact on the US market since 2012 and how operationally or through additional investment, or both.
However, much potential there still is to grow.
We have added over 200 new our focus remains on same-store growth because once a store locations over the last four years.
Anything in green on the map is has been open for 12 months, it has average growth of 12% and it where we already have over 10% market share.
Areas in dark green generates the best returns.
This is part cyclical market growth of are where we have over 15%.
It is only a matter of time before we 6% and part structural growth of 6%.
So even if the market stops achieve similar results across a broader geography because we growing, our stores dont because that structural part of the growth now have the scale, competitive advantage and balance sheet is independent of the market.
This is why we are consistently able to strength to reach our targets.
There are six out of the top 100 outperform both our competitors and the market.
The strength of markets in the US where we have no locations and many where our brand and reputation means that new greenfield sites become our share is less than our average share.
So we believe there is profitable very quickly.
significant opportunity for expansion in both existing and new Chart 09 shows the revenue growth and mix from bolt-on geographies, to almost double the current number of locations.
When we add the 7% growth from our bolt-on acquisitions and greenfield sites, total revenue growth becomes 19%, of which two-thirds is structural and not driven by market growth.
Our strategy capitalises on both structural and cyclical factors to drive our revenue growth.
24 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED 15% TARGET US MARKET SHARE Structural growth is the market share we take because we have Specialty markets are typically characterised by low rental the best kit in the right locations combined with the best service.
penetration and a predominance of small local players.
We continue We are able to keep growing because we prioritise investment in to see further opportunity as we consolidate and improve the the fleet and have the financial security to be able to do that.
Our service offering leading to market growth from increased rental penetration as our customers become accustomed to the quality customers want good quality fleet, readily available to meet their of our offering.
Investing in a broad range of fleet and backing that up with great service means our customers remain loyal and do not need Our cluster approach is also an important aspect of building a to look elsewhere.
Prioritising higher return on investment RoI broad platform for growth.
Our greenfield sites are chosen carefully products further helps our growth.
to enhance our existing business.
We focus on building clusters of stores, as can be seen in the map opposite, because as we build We are always on the lookout for the best opportunities and the clusters, our RoI increases.
Where we have a full cluster of stores, flexibility in our model enables us to act quickly when we need to, as we have in Florida for example, our average store level RoI is whether that be to open a new greenfield site or make an acquisition.
around 5% higher than for non-clustered locations.
We are also flexible in the mix of greenfields and bolt-on acquisitions depending on the opportunities we see.
This year, for example, saw There are many locations across the US where there is significant a different mix in greenfields and bolt-on acquisitions with more opportunity for us to build-out clusters based on population, greenfields which showed better value as they progress up the construction already underway and construction starts.
Further diversifying the business is also opposite shows the relative population figures and put in place a priority and opportunities that allow us to diversify further and construction and construction starts in Charlotte, Minneapolis expand our specialty businesses are particularly key to our strategy St. Paul and Denver, for example.
In Charlotte which has the lowest of building a broader base for growth.
This year we made eight population, put in place construction and construction starts, acquisitions which grew our North American network and expanded we have 14 highly profitable stores.
To achieve the same market our specialty businesses, adding 10 locations.
In addition, we added coverage in Minneapolis St. Paul and Denver we will need at least a four-location business in Hawaii in May 2016.
10 more stores in each location to service expected demand.
Our specialty businesses are a strategic priority and have grown from 16% of our business in 2011 to 22% in 2016.
This year 40% of our greenfield openings were specialty stores.
The fastest growing of our specialty businesses is Climate Control and we are now the largest spot climate control business in the US.
We aim to build specialty businesses generating $1bn of revenue in time.
We have always said we wanted to reduce our dependence on the construction industry.
The increase in our specialty businesses is one way in which we have increased the ratio of our non-construction business as can be seen in chart 12.
FROM: BRIDGING THE GAP BETWEEN STABLE AND PADDOCK As part of the installation of a new utility pipeline through an equestrian centre, Eve provided eight temporary panels to enable safe access for the horses to and from their paddock.
STRATEGIC REPORT Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 25 10 CLUSTERED MARKETS 100 LARGEST MARKETS HAWAII Full cluster Non cluster No presence 11 UNCLUSTERED MARKET OPPORTUNITY 12 BUSINESS MIX HICKORY 2007 2016 BOULDER MINNEAPOLIS DENVER CHARLOTTE INDIAN LITTLETON TRAIL ROSEMOUNT CHARLOTTE, NC MINN ST. PAUL, MN DENVER, CO Population 3m Population 4.5m Population 4.1m Put in place $4.0bn Put in place $5.9bn Put in place $9.6bn Starts $3.9bn Starts $6.2bn Starts $9.9bn Stores 14 Stores 4 Stores 7 Construction 55% Construction 47% Fleet cost $134m Fleet cost $34m Fleet cost $43m Non-construction 45% Non-construction 53% TO: TAKING THE WEIGHT OF A MOTORWAYS TRAFFIC A-Plants specialty business Eve was contracted by Balfour Beatty to help move a 2,000 tonne bridge up the M56 motorway.
Some 700 of Eves aluminium hybrid trakway panels were used to protect the motorway enabling part of the HS2 rail route to be moved and allow better rail and tram connections to Manchester Airport.
The bridge was moved from its build point adjacent to the Manchester Airport slip road to its final point on the M56.
It was the largest single load for Eves trakway.
26 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED 13 SUNBELT STORE MATURITY PROFILE Number Operating margin RoI Fleet size 2008 2016 2008 2016 2008 2016 Extra large $15m 14 108 37% 41% 26% 27% Large $10m 35 129 35% 39% 25% 26% Medium $5m 174 159 30% 32% 22% 22% Small $5m 115 85 24% 25% 19% 18% Based on store level operating profit and excludes corporate costs.
Note: 2008 reflects prior cycle peak performance.
FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL FLEXIBILITY Maintaining financial and operational flexibility enables us to flex Strong drop through generated our business and operational models through the economic cycle.
As we have said elsewhere, this enables us to react quickly to both record EBITDA margins.
negative changes in the market and opportunities of which we want to take advantage.
The more growth we experience and plan for, the more financial and operational flexibility we need.
A key element of our strategy is ensuring we have the financial strength to enable growth when appropriate and make our returns sustainable.
Having a strong balance sheet is fundamental to our success at all stages in the cycle.
A core element of our financial stability comes from our strategy of ensuring that, averaged across the economic cycle, we always deliver RoI well ahead of our cost of capital.
RoI through the cycle is the key measure for any rental company and the best medium-term indicator of the strength of the business.
We do this in a variety of ways at different stages of the cycle, all focused on the effective management of invested capital and maintaining financial discipline.
We continue to be focused on optimising dollar utilisation the rental revenue return over the original cost of any of our equipment and driving improvement in margins through strong drop through the proportion of incremental rental revenue that drops through to EBITDA.
This year our drop through rate at Sunbelt was 60% overall and 67% on a same-store basis, and 84% at A-Plant.
This is how we measure the efficiency of our growth, reflecting the inherent strength in our margins.
The maturity of our stores also has a big impact on RoI.
This is because as stores mature and get bigger and broaden their fleet range there is natural margin progression.
Stores that were greenfield sites only two years ago are now already adding same-store growth.
We are always focused on moving new and young stores up the maturity curve as there is scope for higher returns as they do so.
This also means that we are now at a very different stage in our evolution relative to the current economic cycle to where we were in the last.
We have more stores overall and they are larger than at the peak of the last cycle, so we are much better placed to weather the next downturn when it comes, as we know it will.
Chart 13 shows how our strategic focus on store evolution is driving our strong margins and returns.
STRATEGIC REPORT Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 27 60 % SUNBELT DROP THROUGH As mentioned elsewhere, we have over recent years been OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE consistent in our commitment to both low leverage and a young The third of our strategic priorities is constantly improving our fleet age and we are now benefitting from the options that this operational capability and effectiveness, doing what we do to the strategy has provided.
As our fleet replacement expenditure very best of our ability.
Customer service is a crucial element of this naturally moderates, we enter a phase of the cycle where we and we continue to build market share because we are in the right anticipate both good earnings growth and significant cash locations and providing better equipment with a higher quality of generation.
Traditionally, rental companies have only generated service than our competitors.
Our reputation for good service is cash in a downturn when they reduce capital expenditure and now such that when we open a new location, that store moves age their fleet.
In the upturn, they consume cash as they replace quickly up the revenue curve because we are already well known their fleets and then seek to grow.
We are entering a highly for what we do and how we do it.
cash-generative phase as we continue to grow the business in a We have three main categories of customers whose service needs cyclical upturn.
As a consequence our leverage will trend towards vary depending on their size.
Our smallest customers have rental the lower end of our range of one and a half to two times net debt revenue spend with us of less than $20,000 a year but represent to EBITDA which provides the Group with an even higher degree 97% of our customers by number.
These smaller customers tend to of flexibility and security.
require higher levels of service but can incur a higher transactional The typical fleet age profile of our customers and some of our cost.
Our medium-sized customers often need equipment for longer smaller competitors means that a greater proportion of their fleet periods of time and can command a discounted service.
Our largest needs to be replaced in the near future at much higher prices.
customers are our national accounts who have large-scale and We get significant competitive advantage from our young fleet often very sophisticated requirements.
We have gained significant and our purchasing power.
Our strong balance sheet allows us market share in all types of customer due, in part, to the strength to capitalise on this advantage in both North America and the UK.
of the relationships we build.
From this position of strength in the up-cycle, we can ensure we Our focus on operational excellence across the board drives have sufficient financial resources at the bottom of the cycle to our financial performance.
Improving operational efficiency is an prepare for the next step change in the market and capitalise ongoing focus and we constantly strive to maintain high levels of on growth opportunities in the early stages of the next recovery.
fleet on rent, improve the organisation of our stores, analyse how we load our delivery trucks, optimise our delivery and pick-up In terms of fleet investment, we have recently been replacing our routes and how we spend time at the customer location, for peak spend years of 2006, 2007 and 2008.
As with any multi-location business, all locations are replacement spend and disposals have been historically high.
good at some of this, some locations are good at all of it our However, we are now entering a period where we will be replacing goal is for all locations to be good at all of it.
2009, 2010 and 2011 spend which were low spend years at the bottom of the last cycle.
Therefore, total replacement capital Sunbelt continues to focus on operational efficiency, dollar expenditure is due to fall over the next two or three years and we utilisation and driving improving margins, with 60% of revenue will enter a very cash-generative period.
While we will flex shortgrowth dropping through to EBITDA.
Drop through reflects the term spend to reflect market conditions, we are still committed to drag effect of greenfield openings, acquisitions and oil and gas.
So once again we will be opening Excluding oil and gas, stores open for more than one year saw around 60 new locations by way of greenfield and bolt-ons next year 67% of revenue growth drop through to EBITDA.
Sustaining and and expect to continue to do so in the medium term.
We anticipate improving our EBITDA margins is key to our success.
The annual market-leading growth in both divisions but with the added benefit drop through of 60% is a testament to the benefits of being selective of significant cash generation as replacement capital expenditure in the business we take and our stable and efficient business model.
reduces over the coming years.
The fact that, despite the drag from oil and gas and a significant investment in greenfields, our margins improved demonstrates In 2008 and 2009 our financial and operational flexibility enabled the potential for further margin improvement.
A-Plants focus us to adjust our fleet spend more quickly and aggressively than the is the same, with 84% of revenue growth dropping through to rest of the market as we entered a downturn in the cycle.
Our model EBITDA driving an improvement in margin to 38% 2015: 34%.
is very flexible and has proven itself to be adjustable very quickly, when market conditions require.
We are very conscious that we Maintaining low staff turnover and high staff safety levels are have to know both when to spend and when not to.
also crucial to our strategy for operational excellence and you can read more about these in our Responsible business report on pages 43 to 46.
