Business model High-quality returnsfrom a scalable platform Ashmores business model is designed to withstand the fluctuations ofmarket cycles, to create value for clients and shareholders Ashmore Ashmore Outputs inputs characteristics More than 20 years Specialist Emerging Long-term experience of Markets focus investment Emerging Markets performance Value-orientated forclients Diverse global active fund clientbase management Alignment of interests through Network of Committee-based employee equity Emerging Markets investment ownership relationships processes Value for Broad range of Distinctive shareholders Emerging Markets remuneration investment themes philosophy Global and local Cost efficiency asset management platforms Scalable operatingplatform Skilled and committed Risk-aware culture employees 8 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Ashmore inputs Ashmore Outputs More than 20 years experience Long-term investment characteristics ofinvesting in Emerging Markets performance for clients Specialist EM focus Ashmore has a long track record of Investment processes have successfully Ashmores deep understanding of the investment in Emerging Markets, beginning added risk in periods of market weakness, diverseEmerging Markets asset classes in 1987 for equities and 1992 for fixed resulting in 63% of AuM outperforming isthe foundation for identifying value income.
The Groups commitment to over three years and 73% outperforming inmarkets and delivering long-term Emerging Markets is underpinned by over five years.
well-established convergence trends in % of AuM outperforming over three years economic, political and social factors.
Value-oriented active fundmanagement Diverse global client base 63% The diversity and inefficiencies of the The Groups success depends on delivering assetclass provide significant investment performance for its clients, and the diversity opportunities, but also require specialist, of the global client base, by type and by Alignment of interests through active fund management skills to navigate geography, provides resilience through the employee equity ownership volatile market cycles.
Ashmore seeks to complement its A significant proportion of the Groups broad range of institutional clients with Committee-based investment equityis owned by current employees.
AuMfrom retail clients sourced through processes, not a star culture intermediaries such as private banks and Disciplined Investment Committees wealth advisers.
In line with the third phase manageportfolios through the Value for shareholders of the Groups strategy, 32% of AuM is  value-based Notwithstanding continued tough market sourced from within Emerging Markets.
conditions, Ashmore delivered an adjusted EBITDA margin of62% and generated Network of relationships Distinctive remuneration philosophy cash from operationsof 125.2 million in Ashmore has established relationships Fixed salaries are capped and variable pay FY2015 16 with assets under management withinvestors, investees and other contacts islinked to Group profitability.
Rewards are of US$52.6 billion at the year end.
in more than 70 Emerging Markets countries.
biased towards long-dated equity, supporting The investment teams travel extensively to the team-based culture and encouraging Adjusted EBITDA margin support the investment processes.
Broadrange of Emerging Markets Cost efficiency 62% investment themes Ashmores stringent control of operating A diverse range of eight investment costs is maintained throughout the cycle, themesand many sub-investment themes.
anddelivers a high profit EBITDA margin The Board has proposed a final dividend of The Emerging Markets universe is large, and strongcash generation.
12.1 pence per share, to give total dividends diversified, and growing rapidly, and provides of 16.65 pence per share for the year.
Scalable operating platform Ashmore with investment opportunities Ashmore has invested in its infrastructure Dividends per share across more than 70 countries.
and middle office functions to enable growth Global and local asset in segregated accounts, which represent managementplatforms 16.65p 70% of Group AuM, while also supporting Ashmore has established global operating greater scale in mutual funds on the Groups hubs in London, Washington D. C. and SICAV, 40-Act and local market platforms.
Singapore, enabling it to support asset Risk-aware culture management activities across multiple time Ashmores internal control framework zones.
Local asset management offices provides an ongoing process for identifying, benefit from the scale, efficiency, best evaluating and managing the Groups practices and resources of a global manager.
A strong control culture Employees iscombined with clear management Ashmores employees are its most important responsibility and accountabilities asset, and today the Group employs 266 forindividual controls.
people in 14 offices across 11 countries, including 86 investment professionals, 42distribution staff, and a range of support functions.
Ashmore seeks to develop, manage and retain this talent in order todeliver the Groups potential.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 9
