T N E M E G A N A M T E E H S E C N A L A B L U F E R A C A D A P T I N G O D U A R E H F L A E E G N T 16 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 OUR BUSINESS MODEL CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUE WHAT WE DO HOW WE DO IT PURCHASE We purchase equipment from leading manufacturers and maintain it through its useful life.
RENT We rent on a short-term basis, a full range DIFFERENTIATING ENSURING of construction and industrial equipment OUR FLEET OPERATIONAL to a diverse range of customers.
AND SERVICE EXCELLENCE SELL We sell old equipment in the second-hand OUR market and buy new.
CUSTOMERS MAXIMISING INVESTING IN OUR RETURN ON OUR PEOPLE INVESTMENT P18 DISCOVER MORE ABOUT HOW WE MANAGE THE CYCLE P19 I A N N N D A C L O P S T P O S I T I O N S E I T I N U T R O P P O F O E G A T N A V D A G N I K A T STRATEGIC REPORT Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 17 We create value through the short-term rental of equipment that is used for a wide variety of applications to a diverse customer base.
Our rental fleet ranges from small hand-held tools to the largest construction equipment and is available through a network of stores in North America and the UK.
HOW WE DO IT VALUE CREATION DIFFERENTIATING OUR FLEET AND SERVICE The provision of cost-effective Broad fleet mix rental solutions to a diverse Highly responsive no job too small customer base.
Scale to meet size and range of requirement P19 P19 Developing long-term relationships with customers ENSURING OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE and suppliers.
Optimal fleet age Nationwide networks in US and UK P21 Long-term partnerships with leading equipment manufacturers Focused, service-driven approach Enhancing the communities Strong customer relationships in which we operate, through Industry-leading application of technology employment, opportunity and community involvement.
P20 P46 INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE Highly skilled team Generating sustainable Devolved structure returns for shareholders Maintaining significant staff continuity through the cycle.
Strong focus on recruitment, training P16 and incentivisation P21 MAXIMISING OUR RETURN ON INVESTMENT Effective management and monitoring of fleet investment Optimisation of utilisation rates and returns Flexibility in local pricing structures Focus on higher-return equipment Appropriate incentive plans consistent with improved returns P21 18 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED On-site hire depot and WHAT WE DO contractors village for long-term maintenance and construction projects.
Providing temporary climate control Renting generators, solutions for retail access equipment, premises, office lighting, barriers and buildings and temporary trakway to an construction sites.
Assuming we purchase an asset for $100, generate revenue of At its most basic, our model is simple $60 each year equivalent to 60% dollar utilisation and receive 35% we purchase an asset, we rent it to of the original purchase price as disposal proceeds, we generate a return of $455 on an initial outlay of $100 over an average customers and generate a revenue seven-year useful life.
We incur costs in providing this service, principally employee, property and transportation costs and fleet stream each year we own it on average, depreciation.
However, this simple overview encompasses a seven years.
Then we sell it in the significant number of moving parts and activities.
Our ability to excel in these areas enables us to generate strong margins and second-hand market and receive a deliver long-term, sustainable shareholder value, whilst managing proportion of the original purchase the risks inherent in our business refer to pages 30 to 32. price in disposal proceeds.
STRATEGIC REPORT Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 19 Designing bespoke lifting Managing the flow for sewer solutions for complex problems, bypasses to enable the including lifting the faade onto refurbishment of ageing multistorey buildings.
Rapid response to natural disasters such as floods, Providing traffic Designing, erecting tornadoes and hurricanes, management solutions and dismantling including pumps and power for engineering projects scaffolding systems.
or clean-up after an accident.
MANAGING THE CYCLE We describe ourselves as being a late cycle business in that our Managing the cycle is key main end market, non-residential construction, is usually one of the last parts of the economy to be affected by a change in to our strategy.
This means that we have a good degree of visibility on when we are likely to be affected, as the signs will have been visible in other parts of the economy for some time.
We are therefore able to plan accordingly and react in a timely manner when necessary.
Key to the execution of our model is the planning we undertake to capitalise on the opportunities presented by the cycle.
The opportunities are for both organic growth, through winning market share from less well positioned competitors, and positioning ourselves to be able to fund acquisitive growth if suitable opportunities arise see content on our strategy on pages 22 to 27.
DIFFERENTIATING OUR FLEET AND SERVICE The differentiation in our fleet and service means that we provide equipment to many different sectors.
Construction continues to be our largest market but now represents around 45% as we have deliberately reduced our reliance on construction.
An increasing proportion of our North American business 22% is in specialty areas such as Pump & Power, Climate Control, Scaffolding, Oil & Gas and Industrial Services.
Residential construction is a small proportion of our business 5% as it is not a heavy user 22% of equipment.
IN SPECIALTY BUSINESSES Our customers range in size and scale from multinational businesses, through strong local contractors to individual do-ityourselfers.
Our diversified customer base includes construction, industrial and homeowner customers, as well as government 50% entities and specialist contractors.
Our core market is the small RELIANT ON CONSTRUCTION to mid-sized local contractor.
The nature of the business is such that it consists of a high number of low-value transactions.
In the year to April 2016, Sunbelt dealt with over 540,000 customers, who generated average revenue of $5,600.
20 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED The individual components of our fleet are similar to our peers.
However, it is the breadth and depth of our fleet that differentiates The breadth and depth of us from them and provides the potential for higher returns.
The size, age and mix of our rental fleet is driven by the needs of our our fleet differentiates us customers, market conditions and overall demand.
The equipment from our competitors.
we provide to each customer is diverse and we are often involved in supplying various types of equipment over an extended period at each distinct stage of a projects development.
Our equipment is also used in a wide range of other applications including industrial, events, repair and maintenance and facilities management.
HOW WE OPERATE Our operating model is key to the way we deliver operational excellence: In the US we achieve scale through a clustered market approach of grouping general tool and specialist rental locations in each of our developed markets.
This approach allows us to provide a comprehensive product offering and convenient service to our customers wherever their job sites may be within these markets.
When combined with our purchasing power, this creates a virtuous circle of scale.
You can find out more on our cluster strategy on pages 24 and 25.
In the UK, our strategy is focused on having sufficient stores to allow us to offer a full range of equipment on a nationwide basis.
We have migrated our network towards fewer, larger locations which are able to address all the needs of our customers in their respective markets.
This difference in approach from the US reflects the nature of the customer base more national accounts and the smaller geography of the UK.
Across our rental fleet, we seek generally to carry equipment from one or two suppliers in each product range and to limit the number of model types of each product.
We believe that having FROM: A BURST PIPE IN A BAKERY Freezing temperatures caused a water pipe to burst in a St. Louis bakery.
The burst pipe forced the entire building to close and business to cease.
We provided portable dehumidifiers and air movers to combat water damage and restore a healthy, safe environment for workers and customers alike, enabling business as usual, to everyones relief.
STRATEGIC REPORT Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 21 70% OF ORDERS FOR DELIVERY IN 24 HOURS a standardised fleet results in lower costs.
This is because We guarantee our service standards and believe that our focus we obtain greater discounts by purchasing in bulk and reduce on customer service and the guarantees we offer help distinguish maintenance costs through more focused and, therefore, our businesses from competitors and assist us in delivering reduced training requirements for our staff.
We are also able superior financial returns.
Our responsiveness to customer to share spare parts between stores which helps minimise the needs is critical in a business where around 70% of orders are risk of over-stocking.
Furthermore, we can easily transfer fleet placed for delivery within 24 hours.
We have worked with a lot between locations which helps us achieve leading levels of of our customers for many years.
Our customer retention is high physical utilisation, one of our key performance indicators KPIs.
due to the scale and quality of our fleet, our speed of response We purchase equipment from well-known manufacturers with and our customer service.
strong reputations for product quality and reliability and Our local management teams are experienced and incentivised maintain close relationships with them to ensure certainty of to produce strong financial returns and high quality standards.
supply and good after-purchase service and support.
We work We believe that the autonomy given to management teams to take with vendors to provide early visibility of our equipment needs decisions locally ensures that, despite our size, we retain the feel which enables them to plan their production schedules and of a small, local business for our employees.
ensures we receive the fleet when we need it.
However, we We invest heavily in our computerised point of sale and service believe we have sufficient alternative sources of supply for systems as well as the software and online capabilities required the equipment we purchase in each product category.
to deliver efficient service as well as high returns.
We capture We also aim to offer a full service solution for our customers and record the time of delivery and the customers signature in all scenarios.
Our specialty product range includes equipment electronically, allowing us to systematically monitor and report types such as pumps, power generation, heating, cooling, on on-time deliveries.
We also use electronic tracking systems scaffolding, traffic management and lifting services, which to monitor the location and usage of large equipment.
involve providing service expertise as well as equipment.
Our large and experienced sales force is encouraged to build INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE and reinforce customer relationships and to concentrate on Our people enable us to provide the exceptional customer service generating strong, whole-life returns from our rental fleet.
that keeps our customers coming back.
Our exceptional staff and Our sales force works closely with our customers to ensure focus on service give us a huge competitive advantage in what we meet their needs.
Through the application of technology, we do.
On pages 43 to 46 we discuss the importance of our staff it is equipped with real-time access to fleet availability and and corporate culture in more detail.
We aim to recruit good pricing information enabling it to respond rapidly to the needs people and then invest in them throughout their careers.
of a customer while optimising returns.
TO: MAINTAINING A CITYS SEWER NETWORK We also supplied all the necessary pumping equipment to enable in-place repair of three miles of the Indianapolis sewer.
This pipe-lining project crossed railroad tracks, a water canal feeding into a potable water plant and a school yard.
The sewer conveys 30 million gallons of raw sewage a day and with our help, the flow was redirected through a bypass without major interruption, so that the pipes in need of repair remained dry.
