Governance Board of Directors Committed to the highest standards Peter Gibbs Simon Fraser David Bennett Non-executive Chairman Age 58 Senior Independent Non-executive Director Age 54 Peter Gibbs was appointed to the Board  Age 57 David Bennett was appointed to the inApril 2015.
Peter has spent his entire Simon Fraser joined the Board in February BoardinOctober 2014.
He was a Director career working in the financial services 2012.
Simon has extensive experience of the ofAlliance and Leicester plc between 2001 industry.
Hewas Chief Investment Officer fund management industry, having worked and2008 serving as Group Finance Director and Headof Region for the non-US atFidelity International from 1981 to 2008. and then Group Chief Executive until its sale investment management activities of Merrill AtFidelity he held a number of positions to Santander in 2008.
He has also held a Lynch Investment Managers, having spent during his career, including President, number of executive positions in Abbey his early career at Brown Shipley and Bankers European &UK Institutional Business, Global National plc, Cheltenham & Gloucester plc, Trust as a portfolio manager.
Since then he Chief Investment Officer, Chief Investment Lloyds TSB Group and the National Bank has held a number of non-executive positions Officer for Asia Pacific and Chief Investment ofNew Zealand.
David is currently Deputy including UK Financial Investments plc the Officer of the European Investment Group.
Chairman of CYBG plc, Non-executive body responsible for the UK governments He is Chairman of Foreign & Colonial Chairman of Homeserve Membership Ltd, financial services investments, Evolution Investment Trust plc, The Merchants Trust plc Chairman of the regulated business of Group plc, Impax Asset Management Group and the Investor Forum, and a Non-executive Jerrold Holdings, and a Non-Executive plc and Friends Life Group Limited.
He is Directorof Fidelity European Values Plc.
Director ofPayPal Europe SARL et Cie, currently a Non-executive Director of Aspect S. C. A.
He has also served as a Non-executive Committee membership: A, N, R Capital Ltd, Intermediate Capital Group plc Director of easyJet plc between 2005 and and the Bank of America Merrill Lynch UK 2014.
David holds an MA in Economics Nick Land Pension Plan Trustee Ltd. fromCambridge University.
Non-executive Director Age 68 Nick Land was appointed to the Board as Committee membership: N, R Committee membership: A, N, R Senior Independent Non-executive Director Mark Coombs and Chairman of the Audit Committee in July Clive Adamson Chief Executive Officer Age 56 2006.
He is a qualified accountant and was a Non-executive Director Age 60 Mark Coombs was appointed a Director partner of Ernst & Young LLP from 1978 to Clive Adamson was appointed to the Board onthe incorporation of the Company in 2006 and its Chairman from 1995 to 2006. inOctober 2015.
He was Head of Supervision December 1998, and has served as its Nick is a Non-executive Director of Vodafone and an Executive Director of the Board of ChiefExecutive Officer since then.
He Group plc, a trustee of the Vodafone Group theFinancial Conduct Authority until January heldanumber of positions at Australia and Foundation and a Board member of the 2015, and prior to that he held a number New Zealand Banking Group ANZ and led Financial Reporting Council.
ofsenior roles within its predecessor the Ashmores buyout from ANZ in early 1999.
Between 1998 Dame Anne Pringle DCMG He is Co-Chair of EMTA, the trade association and 2000 he was a Senior Advisor in Banking Non-executive Director Age 61 for Emerging Markets, having been on the Supervision at the Bank of England.
Clive is Anne Pringle joined the Board in February Board since 1993.
Mark has an MA in Law currently a Non-executive Director of JP 2013.
She was a diplomat with the Foreign from Cambridge University.
Morgan International Bank Limited, The and Commonwealth Office for over 30 years, Prudential Assurance Company Limited Tom Shippey focusing in particular on the EU, Russia and andCYBG plc.
He holds an MA in Group Finance Director Age 42 Eastern Europe.
Between 2001 and 2004, Economicsfrom Cambridge University.
Tom Shippey was appointed to the Board Anne was the British Ambassador to the asGroup Finance Director in November Czech Republic and from 2004 to 2007, Committee membership: A 2013.
He was previously Head of Corporate Director of Strategy and Information at the Development, in which capacity he was FCO and a member of the FCO Board.
From responsible for developing and implementing 2008 to 2011, she served as Ambassador Ashmores corporate strategy.
Prior to to the Russian Federation.
Anne is a Public joining Ashmore in 2007, he worked Appointments Assessor, a member of the for UBS Investment Bank, including Foreign Secretarys advisory Locarno Group, advising on the Ashmore IPO in 2006.
Senior Governor on the Board of St Andrews Tom qualified as a Chartered Accountant University and a trustee on the Board of with  in 1999 and Shakespeares Globe Theatre.
KEY TO MEMBERSHIP OF is a Fellow of the ICAEW.
He has a BSc in COMMITTEES Committee membership: A, R International Business and German from A Audit and Risk Aston University.
N Nominations R Remuneration Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 45
