8 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REVIEW In the following pages we explain how our business has performed, our market opportunities and how we have capitalised on them and how we create value: 12 Our markets 16 Our business model 22 Our strategy 28 Key performance indicators 30 Principal risks and uncertainties 33 Financial review 40 Responsible business report FROM: PROTECTING ATHLETES LEGS 27F REDUCTION IN OUTSIDE TEMPERATURE STRATEGIC REPORT Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 9 TO: SAVING IOWAS EGGS The diversity of our fleet and service means we may 350 be providing cooling units for southern sports teams UNITS OF INDUSTRIAL one month and helping eradicate avian flu the next.
INDIRECT-FIRED HEATER FLEET MOBILISED Colleges rely on our Power Breezer cooling units to stop their football players overheating.
The US Department of Agricultures emergency protocol required our industrial indirect-fired heater fleet to provide heat sustained at 110120F to eradicate avian flu at a chicken farm in Iowa.
10 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REVIEW CONTINUED GEOFF DRABBLE Chief executive STRENGTH AND STABILITY THROUGH DIVERSITY OF FLEET AND APPLICATION In the US we continue to capitalise on the opportunity presented by We have had another excellent year and our markets where the rental market grew 6% last year.
Sunbelts we do not expect either our performance rental revenue growth was 18% in strong end markets, despite the effect of the slow-down in oil and gas markets.
Our Oil & Gas or markets to change any time soon.
business now accounts for only 2% of revenue compared with 6% last year, but at only 2% now, the drag on the business is at its The diversity of our fleet and the range maximum.
Our same-store growth of 12% shows that we continue of both small and large applications to take market share as we grow more rapidly than the market.
In addition, bolt-ons and greenfields have contributed another 7% for which it can be used give us strength growth as we execute our long-term structural growth strategy of and stability no matter the economic expanding our geographic footprint and our specialty businesses.
A-Plant also generated strong rental revenue growth of 9% and environment.
Our strategy remains we continue to increase market share, with further potential ahead.
unchanged, with continued growth This year we focused more on new greenfield sites in North America with 58 opened compared with 31 in the previous year.
being driven by same-store growth, Our mix of greenfields and acquisitions changes depending on the supplemented by greenfield openings opportunities we see in any market at a particular time.
We spent $81m 2015: $365m on bolt-on acquisitions, which added a further and bolt-on acquisitions.
Of this total of 68 new locations, 40% were specialty businesses, demonstrating the growing significance of specialty The principal driver of this performance is Sunbelt where rental services within our portfolio.
Specialty is currently 22% of our revenue growth continues to benefit from cyclical and structural business and this year we opened almost as many specialty stores trends.
We are planning for double-digit volume and revenue as general tool stores.
So relative to the size of the business, there growth at Sunbelt in 2016 17, around twice the pace anticipated has been a greater focus on specialty.
We added to our portfolio of for the market as a whole.
A-Plant also continues to perform well, climate control locations this year and this continues to be a fast as we continue to diversify the business, take market share and growing and highly profitable business for us.
We have gone from improve returns.
being a tiny regional player to being the largest spot climate control business in North America.
Our priority for Ashtead has always been a highly stable balance sheet and as a consequence, we have continued to reduce leverage and invest in having a very young fleet age.
We have reached a point where leverage is well within our target range of one and a half to two times EBITDA and our fleet age does not need to get any younger.
As we enter a very cash-generative phase, we have given thought to how we will manage that cash.
Our priorities remain continued growth through same-store organic fleet investment, greenfield openings and bolt-on acquisitions as we continue to broaden and diversify the business, and the continuation of a progressive dividend policy which is sustainable through the cycle.
If after achieving these, there are further funds available, STRATEGIC REPORT Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 11 SUZANNE WOOD Finance director we will look at the relative merits at the time of either growth Over the long term, we believe this growth strategy is fundamental opportunities or additional returns to shareholders through share to enhancing shareholder value as we seek to take advantage of buybacks.
We will remain conservative with a view to maintaining the structural opportunity in the market.
However, if there is a performance through the cycle as always and we are also mindful disconnect between the value of our business, versus the value of of the need to remain watchful in current markets.
acquisitions, we will take advantage of that imbalance and buyback shares to enhance shareholder value.
We will review the best options on a regular basis.
CREATING A WELL-BALANCED BUSINESS SEE HOW WE CAPITALISE ON DISCOVER MORE ABOUT LEARN ABOUT OUR THE MARKET OPPORTUNITY HOW WE CREATE STRATEGY FOR GROWTH We are building market share through We focus on building market share, SUSTAINABLE VALUE same-store organic growth, new maintaining flexibility in our finances Our equipment rental business model, greenfield investments and selected and operations and being the best we and the management of that over the bolt-on acquisitions.
economic cycle, enable us to create long-term sustainable value.
19% 7% 2016 ROI US MARKET SHARE P12 P16 P22 FIND OUT ABOUT OUR RISKS SEE HOW WE PERFORMED LEARN ABOUT HOW WE Our main risks relate to economic IN 2016 ENSURE WE ARE A conditions, competition, financing, We had another year of strong RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS business continuity, people, health financial performance, improved We report on responsible business and safety, the environment and laws operational efficiency and excellent through the Group Risk Committee.
We focus on health and safety, our people, the environment, community investment and ensuring the highest ethical standards across the Group.
