10 BUSINESS STRATEGIES PROVIDING OUR BUSINESS LEADERSWITH THE FREEDOM ANDDECISION-MAKING AUTHORITY SUGAR TO PURSUE OPPORTUNITIES WITHENTREPRENEURIAL FLAIR Five business segments thatbring together Operating review, Sugar 20 commonindustry expertise, operational capability and market intelligence.
AB Sugar is one of the worlds largest and most diverse sugar producers GROCERY and has a simple vision to be the worlds leading sugar business.
Whilst sugar is at the heart of what we do, the sugar production process provides opportunities to do more than simply manufacture an ingredient.
We are an innovative and advanced manufacturer, producing a wide range of sugar and co-products.
Operating review, Grocery 12 Additionally, we are an energy and power supplier and, as part of the Each of our Grocery businesses wider agri-business value chain, we pursues an independent strategy, are an important contributor to the appropriate to its particular market economy across all our locations.
position and stage of development.
As examples, Jordans Dorset Ryvita Oursuccess has been built on is focused on developing its brands continued development and inits core markets, whilst AB World innovation to meet the changing Foods has had considerable success needs of our customers, to improve extending its reach into new and our operations and to work with emerging markets.
ourgrowers to ensure sustainable, efficient, agricultural production.
All of these businesses are Weseek to drive continuous committed to the consistent improvement in everything we do development of their brands, and andare committed to developing consumer research is conducted ourpeople to build capability and locally and internationally to establish capacity across all our locations consumer needs and ensure forthe future.
Our production facilities are well maintained and we take a long-term approach to capital investment, recognising the merits of building forthe future.
Acquisitions are undertaken when opportunities are presented to either strengthen or complement existing businesses.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 11 AGRICULTURE INGREDIENTS Operating review, Agriculture 26 Operating review, Ingredients 32 AB Agri is a unique group of leading Our Ingredients businesses are agricultural businesses operating dedicated to understanding the key across the entire food supply chain.
requirements of their customers RETAIL Ithas a detailed understanding andtheir end-use markets in order ofagricultures importance in our toensure a relevant supply of changing world and the ambition ingredients, systems, products todrive ever greater production andtechnology that create efficiency has been the core philosophy value.
They develop partnership for over 30 years.
AB Agri operates relationships withcustomers to through individual, entrepreneurial achieve a genuine understanding businesses empowered to grow their oftheir products, formulations, interests independently, and through equipment and processes and the Operating review, Retail 36 astrong network of contacts across market environment in which the the entire supply chain.
They aim to grow Primark offers great value for money by providing outstanding customer which it achieves by: incurring no Organic growth is achieved through service backed by a high level of advertising costs, instead relying innovative product development and by investment in technology, innovation, onits customers doing the talking extending the business already broad research and development.
about its products: buying in vast geographic reach into new territories quantities and passing on the cost and new areas adjacent to its core Each business has its own business savings tocustomers: keeping capabilities.
Using the diverse breadth model that determines an appropriate overheads toaminimum but of products, services and people within balance of emphasis across the investingin state-of-the-art logistics the AB Agri community, the business fullrange of potential sources of toenable its stores to replenish stocks develops bespoke solutions tailored competitive advantage: innovative quickly:and by not compromising toits customers needs.
AB Agri anddistinctive products: an efficient itshigh-quality standards, rigorously willcontinue its successful strategy and proprietary set of production testing products at the various ofseeking to make complementary processes: and compelling customer stagesof production.
acquisitions to strengthen its portfolio propositions comprising a blend of of businesses and its technical capability.
product performance and customer In the world of fashion it is critical It will also continue to collaborate with specific services.
thatonce a style is seen on the other businesses inthe ABF groupto fashion show catwalk it reaches harness new contacts and technologies.
Itcan take as little as six weeks frominitial design concept to being available onshelf, and merchandise is sourcedfrom allcorners of the globe.
Although Primark does not own the companies or factories that produce its merchandise, it recognises its responsibility to the workers in those factories, and to its customers, to ensure that its products are made ingood working conditions.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
