18 GROCERY Mexico Blue Dragons sales grew by CASE 43% in 2015 16 STUDY Distributed in Canada since 1989, Jordans established its own commercial team in Cambridge, Ontario, in 2010.
Under their INTERNATIONALISATION OF stewardship distribution has doubled, and it is now number two inwholesome cereals with a repeat purchase rate of over 40%.
OUR GREAT BRITISH BRANDS Asmall but growing Dorset Cereals business has recently been established, managed by the same team.
A number of our well known UK brands have wide international appeal and have built up substantial export portfolios, mainly Blue Dragon through third-party distributors.
To open up new markets and In 2012, AB World Foods conducted a study to identify which accelerate the rate of growth we have sought to capitalise on the markets around the world offered the best long-term opportunities local knowledge, experience and office support infrastructure for its world-cuisine products.
Criteria for the study included GDP ofthe groups existing operations in a number of these markets.
growth, levels of consumer spend, sophistication of the grocery market, population growth and urbanisation, consumer influences Jordans and Dorset Cereals and lifestyles.
However, a key factor was the extent to which We already sell almost as much Jordans cereal internationally thegroup already had experience and assets in each market.
aswe do in the UK, with distribution in over 60 countries.
In the Mexicoand Brazil were identified as affording the most potential.
largest of these export markets, Australia, France and Canada, wehave now established overseas sales and marketing offices.
Our operation in Mexico leverages the existing ABF presence in thecountry through ACH.
Products are sold by the ACH sales team Assisted by George Weston Foods in Australia, we launched alongside other ACH consumer brands such as Capullo and Mazola Jordans into the Australian market in 2013, where it is now eaten oils, while a dedicated Blue Dragon marketing team manages the inover 10% of households and, shortly after its acquisition in 2015, brand.
The range has expanded from 7 to 11 products and is centred the Dorset Cereals brand was launched in Australia where it can on stir-fry meals and oriental condiments.
Sales grew by 46% now be bought in over 1,700 supermarket stores.
Dorset Cereals in2014 15 and by a further 43% in the current year.
are now sold in over 45 countries.
In Brazil, as in Mexico, we used a hosting model, leveraging Jordans has been sold in France since 1992 and has been distributed ABFsinternational presence and existing structure, but this time bythelocal Twinings Ovaltine operation since we acquired the withAB Mauri.
AB World Foods has a dedicated in-country brandin2009.
It is now the countrys second largest cereal brand, resourcebased in Sao Paulo, supported by AB Mauris sales with12% of the adult cereals market.
France In Australia Sold in 12% 10% 45 countries of the adult of households regularly cereals market eat Jordans products Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report operating review 19 CASE STUDY atour Bradford bakery.
At the same time, thebakery itself was extensively renovated DELIVERING THE tomeet ever more challenging technical standards.
The new muffins can have one or PERFECT BAKE two batter types in one cup marbling, can be sprinkled with wet or dry toppings before Already established as one of the UKs top baking, injected with a filling after baking muffin bakers, Speedibake identified a gap and topped with many forms of icing and in the market for innovative and affordable decoration.
The permutations are numerous decorated muffins capable of being so, not only can we design and create the produced at high volume.
customers ultimate muffin, we can now doso at a competitive price by comparison You will not have seen the Speedibake name with traditional, batch-production.
on supermarket shelves but you may well have eaten one of our muffins, doughnuts The success of this project was in no small orgarlic breads.
This is because they part due to the involvement, right from the areallsold as customers own brands.
design stage, of those who would eventually Speedibake has successfully made a variety run the production line.
This led to a project of American-style muffins for over 20 years with no accidents, completion on time and is awell-established supplier to many andon budget, and very quick sign-off by ofthe UKs supermarkets, restaurant ourcustomers as products were trialled chainsand coffee shops.
Recent research identified that tastes are changing and consumers are now looking for greater variety but still at affordable prices.
In response, an automated line capable of making distinctive muffins continuously and consistently at high volume was installed Annual Report and Accounts 2016 20 SUGAR SHARING IDEAS Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report operating review 21 About Sugar Our success has been built on AB Sugar is a leading producer of continued development and innovation sugarand sugar-derived co-products to meet the changing needs of our insouthern Africa, the UK, Spain, customers, to improve our operations andnorth China.
We operate 24 plants and to work with our growers to in ten countries with the capacity to ensuresustainable, efficient produce some 4.5 million tonnes of .
sugar and around 600 million litres of ethanol annually and are a significant As a global business, we operate employer.
Our products are sold into inadiverse and continually changing industry sectors including food and environment with many opportunities drink, pharmaceutical, industrial, and challenges.
Although we have agricultural, power and energy.
aglobal portfolio, we operate with alocalheart working together to In the EU, Azucarera is the largest dowhat is right for the location and producer in Iberia and British Sugar market.
As we evolve to meet the isthe sole processor of the UK sugar worlds changing needs customers, beet crop.
Illovo Sugar is the biggest growers and others it is our role to sugar processor in Africa and in June ensure we useresources responsibly, 2016, ABF acquired full ownership build strong rural economies and putting both AB Sugar and Illovo Sugar ensure thriving healthy communities.
into a stronger position to navigate thecomplex sugar landscape whilst By drawing upon everything we have capitalising on Africas growth market.
learnt over many decades as a sugar We have a beet sugar business in producer, we continue to embrace north China that hasachieved a strong innovation and strive to create more record of performance improvement in from less by working collaboratively agriculture and production efficiencies.
across our group and with our We also operate one of Europes stakeholders.
largest bioethanol producers based inthe UK, serving half of the UKs demand for bioethanol.
BUILDING THE ILLOVO SUGAR WORLDS LEADING A MAJOR CONTRIBUTOR TO SUGAR BUSINESS AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT Responding to changes in the sugar A responsible approach to operating industry by enhancing the supply chain, inthe developing world.
working with growers and continuously improving performance.
24 23 Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 22 SUGAR beet yields and a smaller contracted growing area designed to reduce A WORLD-LEADING SUGAR excessive stocks from the prior year.
Above average rainfall in June slowed BUSINESS FOCUSED ON EXCELLENCE, the growth of the new crop for the 2016 17 season and, combined with a further small reduction in the contracted OPERATING IN TEN COUNTRIES area, we expect a further reduction in sugar production next year.
Delivered beet costs for the 2016 17 campaign Revenue Adjusted operating profit margin willbe lower than this year.
The end of the EU sugar regime in 1,798m 1.9% October 2017 represents an opportunity for British Sugar to increase its sugar 2015: 1,818m 2015: 1.8% production and it is working with growers to restore beet supplies to more normal Actual fx: -1% Constant fx: 5% levels in 2017 18.
This is the first crop forwhich growers will be able to choose between one and three-year deals, Adjusted operating profit Return on average capital employed bothof which will have bonuses linked tothe sugar sales price.
This is designed to strengthen the partnership with our 34m 2.1% farmers and underpin British Sugars competitive position.
2015: 33m 2015: 1.9% During the year, British Sugar completed Actual fx: 3% a 15m investment in an anaerobic Constant fx: 55% digestion plant at the Bury St Edmunds factory.
This new facility will consume some 100,000 tonnes of pressed sugar beet pulp as a feedstock and will generate five megawatts of electricity for export to the national grid.
This investment will reduce our carbon emissions and our energy consumption Our reported revenue and adjusted driven by increasing populations and by avoiding the need to dry the pulp operating profit for AB Sugar for the rising incomes and, with AB Sugars andby eliminating the transportation period were in line with last year, strong track record of commercial ofitfor animal feed.
andsubstantially ahead at constant development and delivery of currency as a result of the weakness performance improvement, full In Spain, the operating result improved of the African currencies.
ownership will accelerate Illovos significantly with the benefit of lower progress.
In order to align Illovos beet costs, higher beet sugar production A reduction in EU stock levels and an financial year endmore closely with that and better pricing.
Total production for increase in world sugar prices resulted of the group, Illovos results will now be the year is estimated to be 474,000 ina strengthening of European sugar consolidated for the year to 31 August.
tonnes of which 449,000 tonnes was prices.
This benefited our Spanish These results therefore include Illovos from beet and 25,000 tonnes was business in the year but, with most of revenue and profit for an 11 month fromraw sugars co-refined in the British Sugars contracts agreed on an period.
They also reflect a change in beetfactories in the north.
annual basis, no material impact on its accounting policy for the valuation of results from the improvement in pricing Illovos sugar cane roots in line with an Beet sugar in north China made a will be seen until the 2016 17 financial amendment to IAS 41 which now smallprofit with the benefit of increased year.
All of our sugar businesses permits the valuation of suchassets at production to 159,000 tonnes and record delivered substantial cost reductions cost less accumulated depreciation.
The operating performances at both factories.
again this year through a combination cane roots adjustment had the effect In the south, our cane sugar factories ofcontinuous improvement, business of reducing adjusted operating profit by operated at a much lower level than last transformation, capital expenditure 8m this year, with a restatement of year and sugar production reduced to andprocurement activities.
the adjusted operating profit for 2015 284,000 tonnes mainly as a result of to reduce it by10m.
On 12 September In June, we completed the buyout of the we reached agreement to sell our minority interests in Illovo Sugar Limited UK sugar production for the 2015 16 canesugar business in south China to for a purchase consideration of 247m.
yearwas just short of 1.0 million tonnes, aconsortium led by Nanning Sugar, a Africa is a growth market for sugar, as planned, with a return to more typical leading producer in the region which has Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Process driven By pooling knowledge and experience, our Sugarteams in the UK and Spain are working to save energy and increase efficiency
