Additional Information Corporate Information History and development of the The Board may exercise all the powers of Subject to the provisions of the Company the Company to borrow money.
Variation Companies Act 2006, the Company AstraZeneca PLC was incorporated in of these borrowing powers would require has the right to redeem the Redeemable England and Wales on 17 June 1992 under the passing of a special resolution of the Preference Shares at any time on giving the Companies Act 1985.
It is a public Companys shareholders.
not less than seven days written notice.
limited company domiciled in the UK.
The All Directors must retire from ofce at the Companys registered number is 2723534 There are no specic restrictions on Companys AGM each year and may present and its registered ofce is at 1 Francis Crick the transfer of shares in the Company, themselves for election or re-election.
Avenue, Cambridge Biomedical Campus, which is governed by the Articles and Directors are not prohibited, upon reaching Cambridge CB2 0AA, UK telephone prevailing legislation.
a particular age, from submitting themselves 44 20 3749 5000.
From February 1993 for election or re-election.
The Company is not aware of any until April 1999, the Company was called agreements between holders of shares that Zeneca Group PLC.
On 6 April 1999, Within two months of the date of their may result in restrictions on the transfer of the Company changed its name to appointment, Directors are required to shares or that may result in restrictions on AstraZeneca PLC.
beneficially own Ordinary Shares of an voting rights.
The Company is also not aggregate nominal amount of at least $125, The Company was formed when the aware of any arrangements under which which currently represents 500 shares.
pharmaceutical, agrochemical and specialty financial rights are held by a person other chemical businesses of Imperial Chemical than the holder of the shares.
Rights, preferences and restrictions Industries PLC were demerged in 1993. attaching to shares Action necessary to change the rights In 1999, the Company sold the specialty As at 31 December 2016, the Company of shareholders chemical business.
Also in 1999, the had 1,265,229,424 Ordinary Shares and In order to vary the rights attached to any Company merged with Astra of Sweden.
50,000 Redeemable Preference Shares class of shares, the consent in writing of the In 2000, it demerged the agrochemical in issue.
The Ordinary Shares represent holders of three-quarters in nominal value business and merged it with the similar 99.98% and the Redeemable Preference of the issued shares of that class or the business of Novartis to form a new Shares represent 0.02% of the Companys sanction of a special resolution passed at a company called Syngenta AG.
total share capital these percentages general meeting of such holders is required.
have been calculated by reference to the In 2007, the Group acquired MedImmune, closing mid-point US$ GBP exchange rate General meetings a biologics and vaccines business based on 31 December 2016 as published AGMs require 21 clear days notice to in the US.
in the London edition of the Financial shareholders.
Subject to the Companies Articles Times newspaper.
Act 2006, other general meetings require The current Articles were adopted by 14 clear days notice.
As agreed by the shareholders at the shareholders at the Companys AGM held Companys AGM held on 29 April 2010, For all general meetings, a quorum of on 24 April 2015. the Articles were amended with immediate two shareholders present in person or by Objects effect to remove the requirement for the proxy, and entitled to vote on the business The Companys objects are unrestricted.
Company to have an authorised share transacted, is required unless each of capital, the concept of which was abolished the two persons present is a corporate Any amendment to the Articles requires under the Companies Act 2006.
Each representative of the same corporation: or the approval of shareholders by a special Ordinary Share carries the right to vote at each of the two persons present is a proxy resolution at a general meeting of general meetings of the Company.
The rights of the same shareholder.
and restrictions attaching to the Redeemable Shareholders and their duly appointed Preference Shares differ from those Directors proxies and corporate representatives are attaching to Ordinary Shares as follows: The Board has the authority to manage entitled to be admitted to general meetings.
the business of the Company, for example, The Redeemable Preference Shares carry through powers to allot and repurchase Limitations on the rights to own shares no rights to receive dividends.
its shares, subject where required to There are no limitations on the rights to The holders of Redeemable Preference shareholder resolutions.
Subject to certain own shares.
Shares have no rights to receive notices exceptions, Directors do not have power to of, attend or vote at general meetings Property vote at Board meetings on matters in which except in certain limited circumstances.
Substantially all of our properties are held they have a material interest.
They have one vote for every 50,000 freehold, free of material encumbrances and Redeemable Preference Shares held.
The quorum for meetings of the Board is a are t for their purpose.
On a distribution of assets of the majority of the full Board, of whom at least Company, on a winding-up or other return For more information please refer to Note 7 four must be Non-Executive Directors.
In the of capital subject to certain exceptions, to the Group Financial Statements on absence of a quorum, the Directors do not the holders of Redeemable Preference page 155. have power to determine compensation Shares have priority over the holders of arrangements for themselves or any Ordinary Shares to receive the capital member of the Board.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 237
