One of our key focus areas in Respiratory is lung immunity, where we are aiming to reset immunological dysfunctions that may be underlying causes of disease.
Respiratory We aim to transform the treatment of respiratory disease with our growing portfolio of inhaled and biologic medicines DORQJ ZLWK VFLHQWLF UHVHDUFK WDUJHWLQJ GLVHDVH PRGLFDWLRQ AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 35 Strategic Report Therapy Area Review Respiratory continued Following the science Asthma is one of the most common and Therapy area world market chronic lung diseases worldwide and a MAT Q3 16 of respiratory disease serious global health problem, affecting the lungs airways.
Inammation and narrowing Our 40-year heritage in respiratory of the airways may cause wheezing, medicines is just the beginning $64.8bn breathlessness, chest tightness and of our story.
The age of targeted Annual worldwide market value coughing.
Fixed-dose combinations FDCs biologics to address the unmet of an inhaled corticosteroid ICS with a needs of specific patient populations long-acting betaagonist LABA such as Asthma $19.4bn 2 has now arrived in asthma, and COPD $15.4bn Symbicort are the cornerstone of treatment, AstraZeneca has three biologics in Other $30.0bn helping to treat moderate-to-severe asthma.
midor late-stage development with For patients with mild asthma, we are each one targeting different biologic investigating the use of Symbicort dosed pathways that play important roles as needed, recognising the variability and in this heterogeneous disease.
inammatory nature of disease in these patients.
For the approximately 10% Our strategic priorities of asthma patients who have severe, Respiratory is one of AstraZenecas main uncontrolled asthma despite standard-oftherapy areas, and our medicines reached care medications, we are working to more than 18 million patients in 2016.
We develop targeted biologics that address Our 2016 focus have a strong pipeline with about 22,000 the underlying causes of disease.
The We continue to invest in Symbicort, patients involved in clinical trials, and we FDA and EMA have accepted regulatory which was the number one ICS LABA expect up to four launches of new submissions for benralizumab, our first combination globally in volume terms medicines between 2016 and 2020. respiratory biologic, which is being in 2016.
In the US, the FDA approved developed for severe asthma.
Symbicort Inhalation Aerosol 80 4.5 Our work focuses on transforming the micrograms for the treatment of asthma treatment of asthma and COPD in three COPD is a progressive and chronic disease.
in paediatric patients aged six to 12 years.
areas: i inhaled combinations at the core There are unmet needs in the treatment of The FDA approval is based on the CHASE of care, ii biologic medicines for the unmet COPD, such as exacerbation and symptom ChildHood Asthma Safety and Efcacy needs of specic patient populations, and control, improving health status and slowing clinical trial programme, which included the iii scientific advancements where our the decline of lung function and disease CHASE 3 Phase III trial.
In addition, on 25 ambition is to achieve disease modication progression.
We foresee physicians January 2017, the FDA granted six months and durable remission.
We have increasingly treating earlier and more of paediatric exclusivity for Symbicort considerable capabilities in inhalation actively with different strategies for Inhalation Aerosol.
Budesonide formoterol technologies, which span both pressurised inammatory and non-inammatory was already approved in the US to treat metered-dose inhalers pMDIs and dry patients, and both our portfolio and asthma in patients 12 years and older and powder inhalers DPIs, as well as our development pipeline address these for the maintenance treatment of airow innovative particle Co-Suspension Delivery different needs in mild and severe disease.
obstruction in COPD in adults.
In our early development pipeline, we focus our research on three key In the EU, two new indications were areas: lung immunity, lung epithelium and approved during 2016 Symbicort pMDI lung regeneration.
for the treatment of COPD and Symbicort SMART for adolescents with asthma.
Also, Pulmicort continues to be a leading ICS therapy, with significant sales growth in 2016 driven by China and other Emerging Markets.
Respiratory pipeline progressions In April 2016, the FDA approved Bevespi Regional approvals Bevespi Aerosphere PT003 COPD US Aerosphere inhalation for the long-term Expedited review None maintenance treatment of airow Regulatory submissions %HQUDOL]XPDE VHYHUH DVWKPD 86 8 obstruction in patients with COPD, including One further submission awaits regulatory acceptance chronic bronchitis and or emphysema.
Phase III investment None Bevespi Aerosphere is the first combination decisions long-acting muscarinic antagonist LAMA Phase II starts progressions Abediterol AZD0548 for asthma COPD: AZD1419 inhaled TLR9 asthma and LABA medicine to be delivered in Strategic transactions Acquisition of Takedas core respiratory business a pMDI and the first medicine using completed Setbacks and terminated AZD8999 for COPD: MEDI7836 for asthma: AZD7624 for COPD projects 36 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Strategic Report Our marketed products Accolate zarlukast Bevespi Aerosphere glycopyrrolate and formoterol fumarate 1 Bricanyl Respules terbutaline 2 Bricanyl Turbuhaler terbutaline Daliresp Daxas roumilast 2 Duaklir Genuair aclidinium formoterol 2 Eklira Genuair Tudorza Pressair aclidinium 2 Oxis Turbuhaler formoterol Pulmicort Turbuhaler Pulmicort Flexhaler budesonide 315m 1 Pulmicort Respules budesonide Symbicort pMDI budesonide formoterol oral corticosteroid use in this same It is estimated that approximately 2 patient population.
Benralizumab is also Symbicort Turbuhaler budesonide formoterol 315 million people worldwide in development for COPD.
Phase III results VXHU IURP DVWKPD Full product information on page 211 and regulatory lings for COPD studies are expected in 2018.
Source: To T, Stanojevic S, Moores G et al.
Global asthma SUHYDOHQFH LQ DGXOWV QGLQJV IURP FURVV VHFWLRQDO ZRUOG Tralokinumab is an investigational MAb health survey.
Blocking IL-13 is a potentially important target in the treatment of certain types of severe asthma, AstraZenecas unique Co-Suspension In the pipeline estimated to affect around half the total Delivery Technology.
The technology is In COPD, PT010 is a twice-daily triple severe asthma population.
Analysis of designed to enable medicine crystals to inhaled medicine combination LAMA the tralokinumab Phase II data suggests be evenly distributed in the aerosol allowing LABA ICS composed of glycopyrrolate, that IL-13 neutralisation may improve lung for more consistent delivery of one or more formoterol and budesonide key function and reduce asthma exacerbation different medicines from a single pMDI.
components of Symbicort and Bevespi rate in a subpopulation of moderateThe technology is also being applied to a Aerosphere in late-stage development.
to-severe asthma patients who are range of AstraZeneca respiratory inhaled PT010 is delivered in a pMDI using the uncontrolled with standard-of-care therapy.
combination therapies currently in clinical Aerosphere Technology.
Topline data from In August 2014, we initiated a Phase III development, such as the xed-dose triple the KRONOS study will be available in 2017. programme to evaluate the safety and combination of LAMA LABA ICS PT010.
efcacy of tralokinumab in reducing asthma Benralizumab is an anti-eosinophil MAb exacerbations in adults and adolescents We have launched the LAMA LABA that directly induces cellular apoptosis, with severe, inadequately controlled asthma.
combination Duaklir for the maintenance which results in rapid and near-complete The Phase III asthma programme is on track treatment of COPD symptoms in 25 depletion of eosinophils.
Eosinophils to deliver results in the second half of 2017. countries across Europe, Asia and are the biological effector cells that Latin America.
Phase III development drive inammation and airway hyperin the US and China is underway with responsiveness in approximately 50% anticipated regulatory lings in 2018 of asthma patients.
The FDA and EMA and 2019 respectively.
have accepted regulatory submissions for benralizumab, based on our Phase III 329m In May 2016, we completed our acquisition clinical trial programme.
The SIROCCO and of Takedas core respiratory business.
CALIMA studies demonstrated that adding The deal included the acquisition of non-US benralizumab to standard-of-care medicine The global prevalence of COPD is estimated rights to Daliresp, which is known as Daxas signicantly reduced exacerbations and to be 329 million people and WHO predicts in certain countries.
In December 2016, improved lung function and asthma that COPD will become the third leading we completed the divestment of the non-US symptoms in severe asthma patients with cause of death worldwide by 2030. rights to Rhinocort Aqua, a nasal spray an eosinophilic phenotype compared to 1 6RXUFH %HUH]D % 1LHOVHQ $7 9DOJDUGVVRQ 6 HW DO 3DWLHQW indicated for rhinitis nasal polyps, to patients taking a placebo.
These outcomes preferences in severe COPD and asthma: a comprehensive literature review.
2015: 10: Cilag GmbH International, an afliate of were demonstrated for the eight week 739-744.
dosing regimen, which may support less- 2 Source: WHO.
int respiratory copd burden en.
Accessed December 2016. frequent dosing than available medicines.
An additional Phase III study showed benralizumab also reduced dependence on AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 37
