Strategic Report Therapy Area Review Cardiovascular & Metabolic Disease Current treatments for hyperkalaemia, a potentially life-threatening condition associated with chronic kidney disease and chronic heart failure, are poorly tolerated by patients.
We push the boundaries of science AstraZeneca is developing a treatment which traps to create life-changing medicines for potassium in the gut and removes it from the body.
patients that reduce morbidity, mortality and organ damage by addressing multiple risk factors.
Strategic Report Following the science We are seeking to unlock the scientific Therapy area world market potential of our CVMD therapy area by MAT Q3 16 of cardiovascular and investigating disease causes and metabolic disease progression, supporting our larger objective of innovating to develop novel therapeutic $186.8bn AstraZeneca is following the science to approaches.
Our efforts aim to reduce Annual worldwide market value transform how cardiovascular disease long-term morbidity and mortality, and CVD, chronic kidney disease CKD and to ultimately reduce the burden, as well diabetes are understood, interact and as the human, social and economic costs, High blood pressure $37.9bn impact one another ensuring the focus of these diseases.
Abnormal levels of of treatment is across cardiovascular and blood cholesterol metabolic disease CVMD to slow Our commitment is demonstrated in both $26.7bn progression and save more lives.
our clinical development and life-cycle Diabetes $70.9bn Thrombosis $8.6bn management programmes.
More than Other $42.7bn Our strategic priorities 60,000 patients are participating in our Our strategic focus is on transformative R&D-led cardiovascular trials at more medicines that address the high unmet than 6,000 sites worldwide.
Our focus medical need in CVMD, including on diabetes research includes almost thrombosis blood clotting, atherosclerosis 50 clinical trials worldwide with an hardening of the arteries, dyslipidaemia enrolment target of 56,000 patients.
Collaboration with the Harvard Stem Cell abnormal levels of blood lipids, chronic Institute to adapt a technique that creates heart failure CHF, diabetes and CKD.
Our scientific leadership is strengthened by human beta cells from stem cells in the developing cutting edge technologies with search for new, transformative treatment Currently an estimated 17.5 million people our strategic partners: options for diabetes.
die annually from CVD, representing 31% of all global deaths, and CVD is the leading Participation in the RPC2 consortium cause of death in people with CKD and renal precompetitive consortium formed Cardiovascular disease people with diabetes.
Despite improvements with the University of Michigan and Lilly Our 2016 focus in the diagnosis and treatment of CVMD, to identify new therapeutic targets for the Acute coronary syndromes ACS is an unmet medical need, as well as access and treatment of CKD.
umbrella term for sudden chest pain affordability challenges, remain high, while Alliance with Moderna and Professor Ken and other symptoms due to ischaemia co-morbidity is common in patients living Chien at the Integrated Cardio Metabolic insufficient blood supply to the heart.
Centre ICMC, Karolinska Institutet in ACS is associated with considerable Stockholm, Sweden, to identify targets mortality and morbidity.
There is a and pathways involved in repairing significant need to improve patient damaged cardiac muscle.
outcomes and reduce treatment costs.
Brilinta Brilique is an oral antiplatelet treatment for ACS.
It is approved in over 100 countries, including the US, Canada and Brazil under the trade name Brilinta, and in the EU, Iceland and Norway under the trade name Brilique.
Since it was first Cardiovascular & Metabolic Disease pipeline progressions launched in Europe in December 2010, it has been included in 12 major ACS Regional approvals Brilinta Brilique post myocardial infarction EU and acute coronary syndromes and post treatment guidelines globally.
myocardial infarction JP Qtern VD[DJOLSWLQ GDSDJOLR]LQ 7 SH GLDEHWHV 8 In February 2016, the European Commission Expedited review None granted marketing authorisation for Brilique Regulatory submissions ZS-9 hyperkalaemia in response to a CRL US for long-term prevention of cardiovascular '85$7,21 H[HQDWLGH GDSDJOLR]LQ 8 death, heart attack and stroke for patients Two further submissions await regulatory acceptance with a history of heart attack.
The EU Phase III investment Forxiga heart failure: Forxiga chronic kidney disease approval was based on the results from decisions the PEGASUS TIMI-54 trial, a large-scale Phase II starts progressions MEDI4166 diabetes cardiovascular disease: MEDI0382 diabetes obesity: AZD4076 outcomes trial involving more than non-alcoholic steatohepatitis 21,000 patients.
Strategic transactions Partnering with 3SBio Inc. for commercialisation of Bydureon and Byetta in China completed Setbacks and terminated Brilinta SOCRATES and EUCLID trials failed to meet primary endpoint: CRL received from projects FDA for ZS-9 for treatment of hyperkalaemia: Epanova Farxiga combination discontinued for non-alcoholic steatohepatitis NASH AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 31 Strategic Report Therapy Area Review Cardiovascular & Metabolic Disease continued In March 2016, the SOCRATES trial top-line In October 2016, the EUCLID Phase III Our marketed products results were announced.
The trial assessed trial in peripheral artery disease PAD the efcacy of Brilinta 90mg tablets twice results were announced.
Brilinta did not Cardiovascular disease daily when compared to aspirin 100mg demonstrate benefit over clopidogrel in a 1 Atacand Atacand HCT Atacand Plus once daily in patients with acute ischaemic symptomatic PAD patient population and candesartan cilexetil stroke or transient ischaemic attack.
Fewer did not meet the primary endpoint of the Brilinta Brilique ticagrelor events were observed on Brilinta versus the trial.
However, the safety prole observed in 2 Crestor rosuvastatin calcium comparator in the overall trial population: both this trial and the SOCRATES trial was 3 the trend, however, did not reach statistical consistent with the known safety prole of Imdur isosorbide mononitrate signicance and the primary efcacy Brilinta.
Based on the current expectations, 4 Plendil felodipine endpoint of time to first occurrence of it is unlikely that we will seek regulatory 5 Seloken Toprol-XL metoprolol succinate any event from the composite of stroke submission of an indication in PAD.
6 Tenormin atenolol ischaemic or haemorrhagic, myocardial 7 Zestril lisinopril dihydrate infarction MI and death was not met.
Crestor is approved in 109 countries for the treatment of dyslipidaemia and In March 2016, the American College of  elevated Metabolic disease Cardiology ACC and American Heart cholesterol.
The medicine has been shown Bydureon exenatide XR injectable suspension Association AHA updated their treatment to effectively lower low-density lipoprotein Byetta exenatide injection guidelines for ACS and the duration of dual cholesterol LDL-C and achieve LDL-C Farxiga Forxiga dapagliozin antiplatelet therapy.
Brilinta is now preferred goals and to increase high-density Kombiglyze XR saxagliptin and metformin HCl over clopidogrel for the management of lipoprotein cholesterol HDL-C and reduce Komboglyze saxagliptin and metformin HCl patients with ACS who have received a atherosclerotic plaque.
Crestor faces coronary stent and in non-ST Elevation ACS competition from atorvastatin Lipitor and Onglyza saxagliptin patients treated with medical therapy alone.
The substance Qtern saxagliptin dapagliozin This update was the first time that the patent protecting Crestor in the US expired Symlin pramlintide acetate ACC and AHA have recommended Brilinta on 8 January 2016 and the paediatric Xigduo dapagliozin and metformin HCI over clopidogrel for patients who have exclusivity period expired on 8 July 2016.
Xigduo XR dapagliozin and metformin HCI experienced an ST-elevation myocardial Watson Laboratories, Inc. and Actavis, Inc. infarction STEMI.
began selling generic rosuvastatin in the Full product information on page 211 US in May 2016 as the result of a litigation The update was also the first US guideline settlement with AstraZeneca.
Details of 1 Licensed from Takeda Chemicals Industries Ltd. 2 to provide the medical community with these matters are included in Note 28 Licensed from Shionogi.
The extension of the global licence agreement with Shionogi for Crestor and the insights drawn from the PEGASUS TIMI-54 to the Financial Statements, from page 185.
PRGLFDWLRQ RI WKH UR DOW VWUXFWXUH EHFDPH HHFWLYH trial.
The guideline supported continuation Additional manufacturers have made b-DQXDU 3 Divested China rights to China Medical Systems of P2Y12 platelet inhibitor therapy beyond generic rosuvastatin available in the ROGLQJV WG HHFWLYH b2FWREHUb 4 12 months in prior MI patients who are not US in 2016, in line with AstraZenecas Divested China rights to China Medical Systems ROGLQJV WG HHFWLYH HEUXDU at high bleeding risk.
5 'LYHVWHG 86 ULJKWV WR $UDOH] 3KDUPDFHXWLFDOV 7UDGLQJ '$& HHFWLYH 2FWREHU 6 Divested US rights to Tenormin to Alvogen Pharma US There were three new treatment guidelines Epanova omega-3-carboxylic acids, QF HHFWLYHDQXDU updated in China in the first half of 2016. is the first FDA approved prescription 7 Licensed from Merck.
Divested US rights to Zestril to $OYRJHQ 3KDUPD 86, QF HHFWLYHDQXDU The ACS Emergency Room Rapid omega-3 fatty acid in free fatty acid form.
Guideline, Chinese PCI Guideline and the It has the potential to help patients with Coronary Artery Bypass Graft Consensus severe  by reducing 2016 Guideline.
These recommended high triglycerides TG levels.
Epanova is Brilinta as first-choice treatment over any approved in the US as an adjunct to diet other platelet inhibitor.
to reduce TG levels in adult patients with severe  TG levels The Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour 500mg dL.
We remain committed to and Welfare approved Brilinta 90mg for the launch of Epanova in the US and other patients with ACS for whom the use of other key markets.
antiplatelet medicines in combination with aspirin is difficult.
Brilinta 60mg was also approved for patients who have suffered a heart attack at least one year prior and are at high risk of developing a further atherothrombotic event.
32 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Strategic Report Our 2016 focus We are focused on redening the Type 2 diabetes treatment approach and harnessing complementary mechanisms of action, as well as evaluating potential CV outcomes benefit.
Our current portfolio is intended to enable combination treatment, and data from our Phase III programmes are expected to further support the outcomes benefit of this new class approach.
In 2016, we saw ongoing approvals and launches for Farxiga Forxiga for the Inve e e es s st stin i g for the future: treatment of Type 2 diabetes.
Starting with Patients with chronic kidney d d d dis is se ea ase se se se the EU in 2012, it is now approved in over C C CKD KD KD an an and d d he hear art failure HF 85 countries.
It is under regulatory review in 12 additional countries.
Farxiga Forxiga a is an SGLT2 inhibitor We are also committed to further evaluating Xigduo is approved in 55 countries, indicated for the treatment of Type 2 the clinical prole of Epanova and identifying including the US with Xigduo XR with diabetes.
It is also being investigated other patient groups it may benefit.
In in two Phase IIIb outcome trials for the AstraZeneca continues to advance its 2016, we continued to receive approvals management of CKD and HF in people large-scale CV outcomes trial STRENGTH, and launch the Bydureon Pen in new with and without Type 2 diabetes.
This STatin Residual risk reduction with EpaNova markets, which is now either approved PDUNV WKH UVW WLPH D PDMRU RXWFRPH WULDO in hiGh cardiovascular risk paTients with or launched in 30 countries, including the ZLOO EH FRQGXFWHG WR HYDOXDWH WKH HHFW RI , to evaluate the safety US, Japan and key European countries.
an SGLT2 inhibitor in CKD, for which and efcacy of Epanova on CV outcomes The Bydureon Pen is a pre-lled, single-use there are currently few treatment options in combination with statin therapy for pen injector.
In the US, we are engaged in DQG D VLJQLFDQW XQPHW PHGLFDO QHHG the treatment of patients with mixed patent litigation against multiple generic dyslipidaemia who are at increased risk companies challenging patents listed in of CV disease.
the FDA Orange Book with reference to Onglyza, and are awaiting the outcome of a trial that took place in September 2016.
Metabolic and renal Clinical studies diseases PARTHENON is AstraZenecas largest ever Type 2 diabetes is a chronic progressive cardiovascular CV outcomes programme disease that accounts for more than 90% involving nearly 80,000 patients.
It includes of diabetes cases worldwide.
Disease five key studies covering broad patient prevalence continues to grow, particularly populations across varying timescales and among those at a younger age, and many aims to support four new indications for patients require multiple medications.
Brilinta Brilique over the next four years.
Various oral generic and branded Following the SOCRATES and EUCLID treatments exist and newer classes of trials, which failed to meet primary endpoint, treatments continue to enter the market.
THEMIS is the next major trial, studying the benefit of ticagrelor for the prevention There are more than 200 million people of CV events among Type 2 diabetic worldwide living with CKD and AstraZeneca patients.
The whole programme continues is working to create an innovative standard to progress.
of care to prevent, treat and manage CKD with a long-term ambition of modifying To better understand the interplay between 17.5m the disease itself.
Complications of CKD, CKD, CVD and diabetes, AstraZeneca such as hyperkalaemia and anaemia, are recently announced two Phase IIIb An estimated 17.5 million people die associated with significant CV risk plus outcomes trials designed to evaluate the annually from CV disease, representing morbidity and mortality.
potential role of an SGLT2 inhibitor, which 31% of all global deaths.
More than is currently indicated for the treatment of three-quarters of these deaths occur Type 2 diabetes, in the management of both in lowto middle-income countries.
CHD and CKD in people with and without Type 2 diabetes.
This marks the first time Source: WHO Factsheet 2016 data from 2012. a major outcome trial will evaluate the effect of an SGLT2 inhibitor on CKD.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 33 Strategic Report Therapy Area Review Cardiovascular & Metabolic Disease continued In July 2016, we also saw the approval submitted data which it had yet to review.
of Qtern a xed-dose combination of In October 2016, the FDA confirmed saxagliptin and dapagliozin by the acceptance of the NDA resubmission.
European Commission for the treatment The resubmission did not require the 422m of Type 2 diabetes in European markets generation of new data and a regulatory the first DPP-4i SGLT2i combination decision is expected in the first half of 2017.
The number of people with diabetes product to be approved in Europe.
The Interactions are ongoing with other health has risen from 108 million in 1980 to resubmission for Qtern in the US was authorities in the EU and Australia, where 422 million in 2014.
Diabetes prevalence completed and accepted by the FDA, ZS-9 is currently under separate regulatory has been rising more rapidly in middleand we anticipate a Prescription Drug review.
Additional regulatory submissions and low-income countries.
User Fee Act date in early 2017. in other markets are planned for 2017.
In September, we saw positive results Verinurad RDEA3170 is a potent selective from the Phase III DURATION-8 trial, uric acid reabsorption inhibitor that has been demonstrating that Bydureon exenatide in Phase II development as a urate-lowering extended-release formulation 2mg oncetherapy.
We will now progress development weekly in combination with Forxiga of verinurad for CKD in a Phase II trial, which dapagliozin 10mg once-daily, signicantly is planned to start during 2017. reduced blood sugar as measured by HbA1c, versus the individual medicines For more information please see Financial Review from page 62 alone in patients with Type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on metformin.
Clinical studies In the pipeline The Dapagliozin Effect on CardiovascuLAR The Phase III programme for a once-weekly Events DECLARE study, a large CV suspension of Bydureon continues to outcomes trial to assess the impact of progress and the Bydureon auto-injector Farxiga Forxiga on CV risk benefit, when is due for submission to the FDA in 2017. added to a patients current diabetes therapy, continued in 2016.
The trial was Through our strategic collaboration with fully enrolled in 2015 with approximately 200m FibroGen and Astellas, we continue to 17,000 adult patients with Type 2 diabetes develop roxadustat, a potential first-in-class and is expected to be completed in 2019.
DHFWV DQ HVWLPDWHG PLOOLRQ oral hypoxia-inducible factor prolyl people worldwide.
hydroxylase inhibitor HIF-PHI in Phase III The Exenatide Study of Cardiovascular development for the treatment of anaemia Event Lowering EXSCEL study also Source: Ojo A.
Addressing the Global Burden of Chronic in patients with CKD, including those who continued during 2016.
This study, which Kidney Disease Through Clinical and Translational Research.
Transactions of the American Clinical and Climatological are dialysis dependent and non-dialysis began in 2010 and is expected to end in Association 2015: 125: 229-246. dependent.
Roxadustat is in Phase III in the 2018, is evaluating the impact of Bydureon, US, Europe, Japan and China.
The Phase III in addition to standard of care, on CV programme consists of 15 studies enrolling outcomes in patients with Type 2 diabetes.
To date, roxadustat has been studied in AstraZeneca and FibroGen continue to over 1,100 subjects in completed Phase I investigate roxadustat for the treatment and II studies.
of anaemia in patients with CKD.
The OLYMPUS and ROCKIES pivotal studies We continue to progress ZS-9 sodium evaluate roxadustat for the treatment of zirconium cyclosilicate, a treatment for anaemia in patients with CKD not on dialysis hyperkalaemia being developed by ZS and on dialysis, respectively.
The initial data Pharma, a wholly-owned subsidiary of read-out for our sponsored trials is expected AstraZeneca which was acquired in to align with the availability of pooled safety December 2015. data in coordination with our partners, expected in early 2018, and we anticipate In May 2016, the FDA issued a complete a 2018 regulatory ling in the US.
response letter CRL regarding the NDA for ZS-9.
The CRL referred to observations arising from a pre-approval inspection at the manufacturing facility and the FDA acknowledged the receipt of recently- 34 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016
