44 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY MEASURING OUR SOCIAL IMPACT Ever since Associated British Foods was incorporated, our businesses havebeen making a difference topeoples lives.
As we have grown and evolved into aninternational food, ingredients and retail business, we have been able tohire more people, work with morebusinesses and support more communities.
We are proud that Associated British Foods isa force forgood in the world, helping to makepeoples lives better.
Some examples are: weve In 2016... jobs NEW We RECYCLED 8 million of our 78% waste about what they eat TO SEE ALL THE WAYS WE AREMAKING A DIFFERENCE TO PEOPLES LIVES, DOWNLOAD OURCORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 To view a copy of the Corporate Responsibility report visit www.
co. uk responsibility Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 informed created 5,880 Our NUTRITION EDUCATION websites have helped consumers make more people 72,367 in OUR SUPPLY CHAIN have been helped by health initiatives weve funded choices Strategic report 45 OPERATING ETHICALLY This is the first year that we have chosento separate our work with THE FIVE PILLARS OF OUR suppliers into a distinct pillar.
In previous CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY years, this content has been spread Our purpose is between Neighbours and People APPROACH ARE: but, asit is an increasingly significant toprovide safe, part ofour corporate responsibility agenda, itdeserves greater prominence.
nutritious, affordable OUR ENVIRONMENT Aspartof this, we are publishing food, and clothing ourfirstModern Slavery Statement seewww.
co. uk modern slavery OUR PEOPLE that is great value statement which details our work toeradicate thisactivity within our formoney.
OUR SUPPLY CHAIN doing these things As well as detailing our group priorities, our 2016 Corporate Responsibility well we know we OUR NEIGHBOURS report also reviews theactivities of contribute to making eachof the five divisions, providing an overview of their ongoing efforts to millions ofpeoples OUR CUSTOMERS make a difference to peoples lives.
In the following pages, we share only thetopics required by our reporting This year, we are publishing our first George Weston obligations.
However, we encourage fullcorporate responsibility report Chief Executive youto read a fuller account of since2013.
For the first time, we have ourcorporate responsibility projects, sought to quantify our social impact initiatives, investments and the inorder toshow the benefits of our impactwe are making in our 2016 collective endeavour on peoples Corporate Responsibility report lives.
This includes our own people, whichcan be downloaded at: oursuppliers, our neighbours and our www.
Todothis, we have asked ourbusinesses to collect data on a Energy use rangeofmeasures.
This is the first In 2016, our absolute use of energy timewe have requested this data was22,800GWh, down from anditis our intention to expand this 25,000GWh in 2015.
This 9% reduction information in the coming years so that in energy use is partly the consequence we can provide a more comprehensive of a 5% reduction in production and picture in future.
partly due to energy-efficiency projects.
Our businesses have common areas A number of our sites not only generate ofinterest: every business strives their own energy but also export surplus tominimise its environmental impact: electricity to national grids.
In 2016, look after its employees, customers weexported 765GWh which is an 8% andsuppliers: and be a good neighbour.
reduction on last year, mainly due to We have categorised our corporate lower sugar production and therefore responsibility programmes into five bagasse, the residual fibre which is pillars, which you will see reflected We engaged Ernst & Young to provide limited usedas an energy source across our throughout our communications.
assurance over the reliability of 13 KPIs for the southern African operations.
These are marked with thesymbol in the following pages.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
