8 GROUP BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY Our businesses are organised so ASSOCIATED BRITISH FOODS that they are close to the markets BUSINESS STRUCTURE and customers that they serve.
IS A DIVERSIFIED GROUP OF FOOD, INGREDIENTS AND RETAIL BUSINESSES Our range of activities is broad The corporate centre agrees We sell into more than 100 STRATEGY inproduct, technology and market strategy and budgets with the countries worldwide with scope.
Our businesses comprise businesses and monitors their operations in 50 countries sizeable operations that achieve good performance closely.
across Europe, southern revenueand profit growth: mature, Africa, the Americas, cash-generative operations: and AsiaandAustralia.
smallerenterprises that afford excitinggrowth potential.
In our markets, we aim to achieve strongand sustainable positions througha combination of organic growth, acquisition of complementary new businesses and achievement ofhigh levels of operating efficiency.
Weprovide high-quality, value-formoney foodand clothing thatare centralto peoples lives.
Organic growth is achieved ORGANIC GROWTH throughinvestment in marketing, inthe development ofexisting andnew products History of dividends paid pence per share andtechnologies and in targeted capitalexpenditure to improve 18.3 19.0 19.8 20.4 21.7 24.1 25.4 29.4 32.4 34.3 35.3 efficiency and expand capacity.
06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 9 The group is managed as five business entrepreneurial flair.
The centre is small BUSINESS STRUCTURE segments that bring together common and uses short lines of communication industry expertise, operational capability to ensure prompt, incisive and and market intelligence.
It seeks decisions are made locally because, in to ensure that business activities are ourexperience, they are most successful appropriately monitored andsupported.
when made by the people who have thebest understanding of their markets and who have to implement them.
Thecorporate centre aims to provide a framework in which our business leaders have the freedom and decision-making authority to pursue opportunities with Operating review 12 The group balance sheet is managed specialist expertise is brought together STRATEGY toensure long-term financial stability, inone place for the benefit of thegroup regardless of the state of capital as a whole.
The centre also co-ordinates markets, and capital funding is made selected value-added capabilities to available to all of our businesses where support the businesses intheir local returns meet or exceed clearly defined markets such astalent management criteria.
The centre provides selected anddevelopment, procurement, and the services where the scale of its sharing of best practice in, for example, operations enables a more cost-effective health and safety or engineering risk or efficient delivery, where expertise that management.
We operate to high might not be available at abusiness level ethicalstandards as an organisation can be retained by the group, or where andexpect the same of our employees.
the provision of such services would Weencourage an open and honest otherwise distract business executives.
culture in all our dealings and ensure that Such services include investor relations, our core values are fully implemented pensions, insurance, legal support, throughout the group.
taxand treasury management, where Business strategies 10 We are committed to innovation, the Acquisitions are made to complement ORGANIC GROWTH continuous pursuit of improvement existing business activities and to exploit andthe maintenance of our efficient opportunities in adjacent markets manufacturing capability.
We aim to operate in a sustainable, ethical, efficient and safe manner.
Wehave a strong culture of continuing operational improvement and focus ondelivering exceptional quality and customer service.
The group takes a long-term approach to investment and iscommitted to increasing shareholder value through sound commercial, responsible and sustainable business decisions that deliver steady growth inearnings and dividends.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
