78 REMUNERATION REPORT Notes to the remuneration policy table Changes to the remuneration policy The rationale for the changes shown in the remuneration policy table is detailed in the letter from the chairman of the committeeon pages 69 and 70 and in the remuneration policy review section on pages 72 to 74.
Malus and clawback The committee may, at any time within two years of an LTIP vesting or STIP being paid, determine that clawback shall apply ifthecommittee determines that performance outcomes were misstated or an erroneous calculation was made in assessing theextent to which performance targets were met.
LTIP and STIP payments can be clawed back if the participant is found at anytime prior to vesting payment, including prior to grant, to have committed an act or omission which, in the opinion of the committee, would have justified summary dismissal.
As a condition of participating in the STIP and LTIP, all participants are required to agree that the committee may cause any STIPor LTIP award in which they participate to lapse in whole or in part : and or operate clawback under any LTIP or STIP in which they participate: and or reduce any amounts otherwise payable to them: and or require the participant to immediately transfer shares or cash back to the Company.
Discretion The committee will apply discretion, where necessary and by exception, to ensure that there are no unintended consequences from the operation of the remuneration policy.
The committee applies a robust set of principles to ensure that incentive outcomes are consistent with business performance and aligned with shareholder interests.
Any material exercises of discretion by the committee in relation to the STIP and LTIP will be in line with scheme rules, or other applicable contractual documentation, andwill be fully disclosed and explained in the relevant years annual implementation report.
Executive directors serving as non-executive directors To encourage self-development and allow external insight and practice, the committee has determined that, with the consent ofboth the Chairman and the Chief Executive, executive directors may serve as non-executive directors of other companies inanindividual capacity, retaining any fees earned.
Remuneration for other employees compared with that of executive directors The group is geographically dispersed and therefore subject to very different pay markets.
As a result, it is difficult to make sensible comparisons with all employees across the group and the salaries of executive directors are therefore reviewed in line withthe groups UK employees.
In December 2015, when the on-target salary increase for employees in the UK was between 1.25% and3.4%, the Chief Executive received a salary increase of 2.2%.
The executive directors have a greater proportion of their total reward package at risk than other employees.
This means that inyears of very good performance, the Chief Executives package increases proportionately more than that of other employees and conversely in years of lower performance it may be proportionately less.
However, the structure and principles of incentives are consistent further down the organisation.
How pay and conditions of employees were taken into account when setting the directors remuneration policy As outlined in the policy table, the committee limits the range of salary increases for executive directors to the range of increasesavailable to UK-based employees unless there has been a change of role.
In addition, the design of incentives is broadlyconsistent across the group.
The committee is provided with data on the remuneration structure for two tiers of senior management below the executive directors and uses this information to work with the Company to ensure consistency of approach.
In addition, the committee approves all share-based LTIP awards across the group.
The Company did not consult with employees when drafting this remuneration policy.
Employees are able to feed back their opinions through employee opinion surveys or directly to the Companys management.
Statement of consideration of shareholders views Each year the chairman of the committee invites our larger institutional shareholders to discuss with him their views on the groups remuneration, strategy and governance.
Ahead of the 2015 AGM, we received feedback from some investors who did not feel that our earnings per share targets were sufficiently stretching.
The committee undertakes a robust review of targets each year, with detailed input from our advisors andfrom the Company.
We have satisfied ourselves, in the context of the challenges facing the Sugar business, that the targets thatwe set for the LTIP were extremely challenging and that achieving these targets would represent a very good performance bytheexecutive directors on behalf of shareholders.
During 2016 we have conducted a more detailed consultation with our largest shareholders.
We were grateful for the constructive feedback throughout the process, which was taken into account in our final proposals.
The committee chairman is available to discuss with shareholders any remuneration matters that will help shape our policy andpractice.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 79 Approach to recruitment remuneration Area Policy and operation Overall As we may need to recruit future executive directors from outside the UK or from companies with moreaggressive incentive policies than our own, the arrangements below are intended to provide thenecessary flexibility to recruit the right individuals.
For internal appointments, awards in respect of the prior role may be allowed to vest according to theterms of the scheme, adjusted as relevant to take account of the new appointment.
In addition, ongoing prior remuneration obligations may continue.
The rationale for the package offered will be explained in the subsequent annual implementation report.
Unlike our previous policy, our new approach applies the same remuneration policy for new joiners asfor existing executive directors.
Salary Salary would be set at an appropriate level to recruit the best candidate, based on their skills, experience and current remuneration, taking into account market data and internal salary relativities.
Relocation If a new executive director needs to relocate, the Company may pay: actual relocation costs and other reasonable expenses relating to moving house: disturbance allowance of up to 5% of salary, some of which may be tax-free for qualifying expenditure: school fees for dependent children where there are cultural or language considerations: medical costs for the overseas family, where relevant: one business class return fare per annum each for the executive, his her partner and dependent children in order to maintain family or other links where an executive is recruited from outside the UK: reasonable fees and taxes for buying and or selling a family home and or appropriate rental costs: and any tax due, grossed up, on any relocation related payments listed above.
Buy-out awards In addition to normal incentive awards, buy-out awards may be made to reflect value forfeited through anindividual leaving their current employer.
If a buy-out award is required, the committee would aim toreflect the nature, timing and value of awards foregone in any replacement awards.
Awards may bemade in cash or shares.
Where performance conditions applied to the forfeited award, they will be applied to the replacement award.
In establishing the appropriate value of any buy-out, the committee would also have regard to the value ofthe other elements of the new remuneration package.
The committee would aim to minimise the cost to the Company, however, buy-out awards are not subject to a formal maximum.
Any awards would be broadly no more valuable than those being replaced.
Where possible, we would specify that 50% of any vested buy-out awards should be retained until theshareholding requirement is met.
Other elements Benefits, Pension, STIP, deferred awards, LTIP and share ownership requirements will operate in line with the remuneration policy.
Non-executives Fees would be in line with the remuneration policy.
We would not pay to relocate a non-executive director to the head office location.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 80 REMUNERATION REPORT Service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office Provision Policy and operation Notice period 12 months notice by either the director or the Company.
Contracts are available for inspection at the Companys offices.
Contracts and service agreements arenot reissued when base salaries or fees are changed.
Pension arrangements have been amended, as described in the policy table, without reissuing contracts.
Non-compete During employment and for 12 months thereafter.
Executive directors Resignation Contractual termination No payments on departure, even if, by mutual agreement, the notice period is cut short.
payments Departure not in the case of resignation Service contracts allow for the Company to terminate employment by paying the director in lieu of some or all of their notice period.
The Company may determine that such a payment is made in monthly instalments or as a lump sum.
A payment in lieu of notice will comprise the salary, benefits and pension provision that the director would otherwise have received during the relevant period.
The Company is committed to the principle of mitigation and would reduce monthly instalments to take account of amounts received from alternative employment.
In limited circumstances, the Company may permit an executive director to work for us as a contractor or employee after the end of their notice period for a limited period to ensure an effective hand-over and or to allow time for a successor to be appointed.
Settlement agreement The committee may agree payments it considers reasonable in settlement of legal claims.
This may include an entitlement to compensation in respect of their statutory rights under employment protection legislation in the UK or in other jurisdictions.
The committee may also include in such payments reasonable reimbursement of professional fees in connection with such agreements.
In this, or the above scenario, the committee may make reasonable payments in respect of outplacement and may also agree to provide other ancillary or non-material benefits in connection with departure including for a defined period after departure not exceeding a value of 5,000 in aggregate.
Relocation support Good leaver If an executive was recruited from overseas and relocated to the UK at the start of his her employment, his her repatriation may be paid.
Leaver due to resignation misconduct poor performance No payment would be made.
STIP Good leaver The committee will consider making a payment pro rata for time and performance, for the financial year in which the termination death took place.
Any agreed payment will be made in the December following the year end.
In the case of death, payment may be accelerated.
This is consistent with the approach for other STIP LTIP participants.
Resignation If an executive director ceases to be employed before is under notice when full year results are published, no award will be made.
Leaver due to gross misconduct poor performance No payment will be made.
LTIP and deferred awards Good leaver Where the performance condition on deferred awards has already been achieved and the award issubjectto a service condition, it will vest at the usual vesting date.
For other allocations, the committee will decide the extent to which they vest having regard to the extentto which any performance condition is satisfied and, unless the committee determines otherwise, pro-rating to reflect the period from the start of the performance period until the date of cessation.
Such awards will vest on the normal vesting date or at such other date as the committee determines.
Inthe case of death, vesting may be accelerated.
Awards portions of awards that do not vest will lapse.
Leaver due to resignation misconduct All conditional awards lapse.
Change of control of the Company In the event of a change of control, all unvested awards under the LTIP would vest, subject to the committee taking into account the extent that any performance conditions attached to the relevant awards have been achieved and, unless the committee determines otherwise, the proportion of theperformance period worked by the director prior to the change of control.
For deferred awards underthe STIP, all will vest on the event of a change of control.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
