30 AGRICULTURE CASE STUDY Meeting demand cost-efficiently, safely andin an ethically responsible manner isamajor challenge facing all businesses thatoperate in todays agri-food production industry.
EFFICIENCY AND INNOVATION IN AGRI-FOOD PRODUCTION Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report operating review 31 The business has its foundations in working ABAgri has also pioneered new approaches Agri-food production is increasingly with food and drink processors to design, to the use of these ingredients such as operating in a global marketplace with trial and manage multiple co-product enzyme superdosing.
strong but changing demand patterns streams and to manufacture animal feed and a volatile and resource-constrained consistently to meet specifications Another unique feature of the AB Agri supply dynamic.
The strong correlation crucialfor efficient livestock production.
business is its deep understanding between increased disposable income andthe consumption of animal protein such Traffordgold ruminant feed is a good  of operating in aschicken, pork and beef, is very visible in example of co-product delivery through todaysfoodsupply chains.
For more than developing markets such as China.
This is innovation and customer collaboration.
15years wehave helped brand owners putting increasing pressure on the livestock Firstintroduced in 2001, it created value andretailerstobuild insights and develop sector to meet the growing demand for inthe co-product space by combining tools tounderstand the efficacy, safety and high-value products whilst challenging arange of skills to manage complexity, riskswithin their agri-chains and to drive theway the industry operates.
rawmaterial variability, animal nutrition continuous improvement.
This year we have used these thefood processing industry is able to meet Meeting demand cost-efficiently, safely well-established core skills and capabilities, todays higher standards and increasing andin an ethically responsible manner added new science and technology and scrutiny, we are continually developing isamajor challenge facing all businesses applied the resulting combination to newtools that enable better management thatoperate in todays agri-food production openupthe emerging renewable energy and visibility across the whole agricultural industry.
Itisrequiring those businesses to markettoABAgri with investment in supply chain.
be increasingly transparent and to evidence, anaerobic digestion.
to consumers and stakeholders, not only A contributory factor to the success of their role in delivering efficiency but also ABAgri is the way in which the business To read more about our investment how they are innovating and collaborating.
Quite deliberately, AB Agri inanaerobicdigestion gotopage 29 isorganised with a specific focus on each This is not an easy task when todays global link within the agri-food supply chain.
This is Further down the protein supply chain, agri-food supply chains are often complex supplemented with overarching innovation thenutritional design of animal feed and multi layered, beginning with farms and participation in collaborative species recipesand the selection and optimisation ofvarying size and sophistication through nutrition and strategy forums that aim to ofingredients chosen has a major impact toavariety of primary and secondary push the thinking along and nurture ideas.
onthe cost, efficiency and safety of animal processors and distributors.
The use of specialist, The future highly technical, assured ingredients, such AB Agri at the forefront of development Over the last ten years AB Agri has as enzymes and yeasts, has been a real AB Agri has a 30 year history of responding achievedcompound annual profit growth area over the last five years.
to market changes, leading the development growthofalmost 14%.
We have ambitious of innovative, science-based products plans tobuild on existing core products Through investment in people and andnot being afraid to challenge the andservices butalso to leverage our technology and through collaboration statusquo.
Our contribution to driving ever increasingly global footprint to move into withother ABF businesses, academics higher standards of feed safety and actively new markets and territories.
With innovative andinnovative businesses globally, transferring best practice into global markets technologies, acollaborative structure wehavedeveloped a deeper capability such as China is unrivalled.
Standing still andan entrepreneurial culture, we have inanimal nutrition.
This has enabled us to without innovation in products and services every reason to believe that our track build the worlds third largest feed enzyme has never been an option for us, which recordofgrowth will continue.
business and extend our geographic means that todays business hasareal footprint andreach.
breadth of operations, skills, technologies, customers, products and services.
It has The same approach is being used to also led to an overarching culture within bringhighly technical, precision feeds ourpeople of being curious and continually tothemarket, targeted at, for example, looking for, and enabling, abetter way.
thespecific nutritional requirements of babyanimals so called, neonate feeding For AB Agri the chain starts with the regimes.
The impact of these changes cropfarmer who buys seed, fertiliser and hasbeen immense.
Since 2010 the rate at agrochemicals and sells grain.
Frontier which pigs convert their feed into pork has Agriculture, our joint venture with Cargill, improved by more than 5% thereby reducing isthe UKs leading crop inputs and grain the quantity offeed needed over a typical marketing operation and provides AB Agri lifecycle by13kg pig.
This has been delivered with a unique insight into that key sector.
by acombination of increased data analysis, Frontier is recognised for its close customer investment in product design, and trials relationships, both with farmers and grain with, and knowledge transfer to, producers.
customers, and for its risk management This focus has led to a range of truly expertise which is essential in driving innovative products being brought to market valuefor grain buyers and sellers in todays such asQuantum Blue and Axcelera P. volatile global commodity markets.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 32 INGREDIENTS FINDING THE RIGHT CHEMISTRY Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report operating review 33 About Ingredients ABF Ingredients comprises businesses Ingredients comprises a number focusing on high-value ingredients ofbusinesses that supply a range forfood, feed, pharmaceutical and ofingredients to food and non-food industrial applications: AB Enzymes manufacturers.
Together they employ enzymes : ABITEC speciality 8,000 people in more than 70 plants lipidsandsurfactants : Ohly yeast in26 countries.
extractsand seasoning powders : PGPInternational extruded ingredients AB Mauri has a global presence in andspeciality rice flours : and SPI bakers yeast with significant market Pharma pharmaceutical excipients positions in The Americas, Europe andantacids.
andAsia, and is a technology leader in, andsupplier of, bread improvers, ABF Ingredients operates a global doughconditioners and bakery mixes.
footprint withproduction facilities The business employs experts who in Europe, TheAmericas and India have an unrivalled knowledge and andhas customersinmore than understanding of the yeast and bakery 50countries.
ingredients business, the equipment, the processes and the raw materials.
ABITEC FOCUSED IN THE HANDS ON FORMULATION OF EXPERTS Developing drug delivery systems How AB Mauri manages its yeast thatenable the body to absorb and cultures to ensure safe and effectively utilise the active ingredients.
35 35 Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 34 INGREDIENTS ABF Ingredients made further progress with margin improvement driven by PROVIDING INNOVATIVE, HIGH-QUALITY, lower raw material costs and tight control of overheads.
Our speciality INGREDIENTS GLOBALLY lipidsbusiness, Abitec in North America, had an excellent year with increased sales in human nutrition applications forcognitive health and weight management, and success for its rangeof products designed to Revenue Adjusted operating profit margin  of molecules inpharmaceutical and nutraceutical applications.
1,294m 7.2% Yeast extracts came under some 2015: 1,247m 2015: 6.1% pricepressure in the more mature European andNorth American markets Actual fx: 4% Constant fx: 5% butthe effects were, in part, mitigated bytight cost control.
Sales of SPIs excipients and drug delivery solutions Adjusted operating profit Return on average capital employed increased inline with market growth forpharmaceutical reformulations and, atPGPI, the cereal crisp 93m 13.1% extrusion business continued to develop, fuelledbythe consumer 2015: 76m 2015: 11.1% trend for healthysnacking.
Actual fx: 22% Our range of bakery enzymes Constant fx: 24% was extended during the year with a number of new product launches including a newglucose oxidase enzyme for the bakery sector.
Increased sales into the detergent sector were driven by a focus on the speciality enzymes segments anda broadening of our customer base.
The food enzyme Ingredients revenues were 4% ahead We made further progress in China business in South America and Asia of last year and operating profit was thisyear including the rationalisation was also expanded with a particular again substantially aheadwith a ofproduction facilities with the closure emphasis on bakery.
Expansion of the further improvement inmargin.
ofour old factory site at Harbin.
In enzymes plant in Finland is on schedule therest of Asia good revenue growth for completion next year.
AB Mauri, our bakery ingredients drovehigher profit and further factory and yeast business, delivered a third optimisation initiatives drove efficiencies year ofsignificant profit recovery with in manufacturing operations.
The Americas being a major contributor toits success.
In North America, new A key driver of the development bakery ingredient products targeted of the business has been the recent atthe faster growing market segments, investment in the US and UK Centres such as tortillas and flatbreads, were well of Excellence.
A robust performance inLatin 2015 in response to customer America, despite continuing economic requests for support in developing difficulties, was driven byhigher output their products, the UK facility in from the yeast factoryinVeracruz and Corby, Northamptonshire provides strong operational execution.
an opportunity for customers to access the latest innovations in A focus on the development of new bakery development.
This mirrors products to meet changing consumer the successful US bakingHUB tastes included the creation of organic which was opened in January last bread ingredient solutions and a range year in St Louis, Missouri.
Expansion of natural ferments and flavours.
We also of the bakery ingredients research successfully introduced new shelf-life and development centre in the extension products aimed at reducing Netherlands will be completed food waste in the supply chain.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Differentiating our offering Merging two baking ingredients companies toform MAURI anz created a unique, integrated business with capabilities, scale and knowledge far beyond the sum of its parts
