s e n i c i d e m d e t c e t o r p - t n e t a p f o n o i t a s i l a i c r e m m o c d n a g n i r s u r t c a a e f y u n 5 a 1 m 0, 1 t n s e e m s p a h o l p e v t e n d e, m y p r e o v l e o c v s e i d d d n i n t a n h e c m r t a s e e v s e n I R Strategic Report Strategy Business model and life-cycle of a medicine AstraZeneca at a glance summarises our business.
In this section, we review our business model how we make money, the resources we need and how we add value across the entire life-cycle of a medicine.
We are an integrated, science-led biopharmaceutical Company with a strategic focus on three main therapy DUHDV EXLOW DURXQG RXU GLHUHQWLDWHG pipeline skills and capabilities quality of science commercial expertise intellectual property What do we do?
Our business activities span the entire life-cycle of a medicine.
Inputs Applying our resources to meet unmet medical need Investment 1 Find potential medicine We invest in the discovery, development, Outputs manufacturing and commercialisation of our 2 Returns to shareholders Improved health Pre-clinical pipeline of innovative small molecule and biologic studies prescription medicines, including targeted business development through collaboration, in-licensing and acquisitions.
9 3 PostPhase I exclusivity Our studies Purpose Revenue generation We generate revenue from sales of our mature 8 products and Growth Platform launches, as well as Post-launch 4 research and from our externalisation activities and divestments.
Phase II development studies Our focus is on creating products that facilitate future revenue generation.
7 5 Launch new Phase III medicine 6 studies Regulatory submission and pricing Reinvestment We reinvest in developing the next generation of innovative medicines and in our Growth Platforms that provide the platform for future sustainable revenues in the face of potential losses of revenue from the loss of key product patents.
Our Purpose Our Values We push the boundaries of science to deliver life-changing medicines.
Our Purpose underpins everything we do.
It gives us a reason to come to work :H SXW SDWLHQWV UVW HYHU GD, W UHPLQGV XV ZK ZH H[LVW DV D &RPSDQ, W KHOSV XV GHOLYHU EHQHWV We play to win.
to patients and create value for shareholders.
8 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 s n r u t e r f o t n e m t s e v n i e R y t i v i s u s l r c a x e e - y t s o 0 P 2 n o i t a r e n e g e u s n r e a v e e y R 0 1 5 e s a h p h c n u a L Strategic Report Life-cycle of a medicine Research and development phases 1015 years 1 Find potential medicine 3 Phase I studies 5 Phase III studies Identify unmet medical need aligned with our Begin clinical studies with small groups of Engage in studies in a larger group of patients healthy human volunteers small molecules WKUHH WKHUDS DUHDV DQG XQGHUWDNH VFLHQWLF WR JDWKHU LQIRUPDWLRQ DERXW HHFWLYHQHVV DQG or patients biologics to understand how the research to identify potential new medicines safety of the medicine and evaluate the overall potential medicine is absorbed into the body, Initiate process of seeking patent protection EHQHW ULVN SUROH distributed around it and excreted Initiate branding for the new medicine in 2 Pre-clinical studies Determine approximate dosage and identify preparation for its launch Conduct laboratory and animal studies to VLGH HHFWV understand if the potential medicine is safe to 6 Regulatory submission and pricing 4 Phase II studies introduce into humans and in what quantities Seek regulatory approvals for !
'HWHUPLQH OLNHO HFDF VLGH HHFW SUROH !
&RQGXFW VWXGLHV RQ VPDOO WR PHGLXP VL]HG manufacturing, marketing and selling JURXSV RI SDWLHQWV WR WHVW HHFWLYHQHVV DQG and maximum dose estimates the medicine tolerability of the medicine and determine Submit clinical data to regulatory authorities optimal dose and, if requested, generate further data Design Phase III studies to generate data needed increasingly in real-world settings to for regulatory approvals and pricing GHPRQVWUDWH WKH VDIHW DQG HFDF RI WKH reimbursement globally medicine to enable them to decide on whether to grant regulatory approvals Launch phase 510 years Post-exclusivity 20 years 7 Launch new medicine 8 Post-launch research and development 9 Post-exclusivity !
5DLVH DZDUHQHVV RI SDWLHQW EHQHW DQG Conduct studies to further understand the Patent expiry and generic entry appropriate use, market and sell medicine EHQHW ULVN SUROH RI WKH PHGLFLQH LQ ODUJHU Reinvestment of returns Clinicians begin to prescribe medicines and and or additional patient populations SDWLHQWV EHJLQ WR EHQHW Life-cycle management activities to broaden Continuously monitor, record and analyse understanding of a medicines full potential UHSRUWHG VLGH HHFWV 5HYLHZ QHHG WR XSGDWH Consider additional diseases or aspects WKH VLGH HHFW ZDUQLQJV WR HQVXUH WKDW of disease to be treated by or better ways patients wellbeing is maintained of administering the medicine !
$VVHVV UHDO ZRUOG HHFWLYHQHVV DQG Submit data packages with requests for opportunities to support patients and life-cycle management to regulatory authorities SUHVFULEHUV WR DFKLHYH PD[LPXP EHQHW for review and approval from the medicine 1RWH 7KLV LV D KLJK OHYHO RYHUYLHZ RI D PHGLFLQHV OLIH F FOH DQG LV LOOXVWUDWLYH RQO, WbLV QHLWKHU LQWHQGHG WR QRU GRHV LW UHSUHVHQW WKH OLIH F FOH RI DQ SDUWLFXODU PHGLFLQH RU RI HYHU medicine discovered and or developed by AstraZeneca, or the probability of success or approval of any AstraZeneca medicine.
Sustainability Our Values determine how we work We want to be valued and trusted by our stakeholders as a source of great together and the behaviours that drive medicines over the long term.
Our sustainability commitments, which are our success.
Our Values guide our driven by our Purpose and Values, underpin our business model and support GHFLVLRQ PDNLQJ GHQH RXU EHOLHIV DQG the delivery of our business strategy.
Business Review from page 42 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 9 Strategic Report Strategy Business model and life-cycle of a medicine continued What does our business model require to be successful?
A talented and diverse workforce We need to acquire, retain and develop a talented and diverse workforce united in 59,700 employees pursuit of our Purpose and Values and See Employees from page 54 fostering a strong AstraZeneca culture.
A leadership position in science How do we add value?
:H QHHG WR DFKLHYH VFLHQWLF OHDGHUVKLS $5.9bn invested if we are to deliver life-changing medicines.
To that end, we need to focus on innovative in our science science, prioritise and accelerate our 6HH $FKLHYH VFLHQWLF pipeline and transform our innovation Financial value leadership from page 45 and and culture model.
R&D resources on page 59 Revenue from the sale of our medicines JHQHUDWHV FDVK RZ ZKLFK KHOSV XV Commercialisation skills fund our investment in science and Growth Platforms to drive long-term value We need a strong global commercial presence and skilled people to ensure that 100 countries meet our debt service obligations we can successfully launch our medicines, in which we are active follow our progressive dividend policy.
that they are available when needed and that patients have access to them.
This involves balancing the interests See Return to growth from RI RXU EXVLQHVV QDQFLDO FUHGLWRUV DQG page 48 shareholders.
Intellectual property See Financial Review from page 62 We need to create and protect our IP rights.
Developing a new medicine requires 100 countries where VLJQLFDQW LQYHVWPHQW RYHU PDQ HDUV ZLWK we obtain patent protection no guarantee of success.
For our investments to be viable, we seek to protect new medicines See Intellectual Property from from being copied for a reasonable period of page 57 time through patent protection.
Improved health &RQWLQXRXV VFLHQWLF LQQRYDWLRQ LV YLWDO A robust supply chain to achieving sustainable healthcare which creates value by: We need a supply of high-quality medicines, whether from one of the 31 Operations sites $13bn spent improving health outcomes and LQb FRXQWULHV LQ ZKLFK ZH PDQXIDFWXUH RU with suppliers transforming patients lives the $13 billion we spend on the purchase of enabling healthcare systems to reduce goods, services and active pharmaceutical See Manufacturing from page FRVWV DQG LQFUHDVH HFLHQF ingredients API.
58 and Working with suppliers improving access to healthcare and from page 52 healthcare infrastructure helping develop the communities in HFWLYH SDUWQHUVKLSV which we operate through local employment and partnering.
:H QHHG EXVLQHVV GHYHORSPHQW VSHFLFDOO partnering, which is an important element 600 collaborations RIbRXU EXVLQHVV PRGHO, W VXSSOHPHQWV DQG worldwide VWUHQJWKHQV RXU SLSHOLQH DQG RXU HRUWV WR DFKLHYH VFLHQWLF OHDGHUVKLS See Partnering from page 23 Financial strength :H QHHG VWURQJ QDQFLDOV LQFOXGLQJ DFFHVVbWR HTXLW DQG GHEW QDQFH WR EHDU $4.1bn net cash WKHbQDQFLDO ULVN RI LQYHVWLQJ LQ WKH HQWLUH RZ IURP RSHUDWLQJ life-cycle of a medicine.
activities See Financial Review from page 62 10 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Strategic Report Marketplace Despite global economic, political and s soc cial The global context The October 2016 World Economic Outlook challenges, the pharmaceutical industry is of the International Monetary Fund IMF expected to enjoy long-term growth.
This is highlighted the precarious nature of the recovery eight years after the global financial due to favourable demographic trend ds s a an nd d crisis.
It raised the spectre that persistent VLJQLFDQW XQPHW PHGLFDO QHHHHGG stagnation, particularly in advanced economies, could further fuel populist calls for restrictions on trade and immigration.
The IMF went on to observe that such restrictions would hamper productivity, growth and innovation.
In China, a shift from investment and industry towards consumption and Overview services was expected to slow growth in the short term while building the foundations Global pharmaceutical sales grew by 6.9% in 2016 for a more sustainable long-term expansion.
The sector remains highly competitive Japans economy would be hampered by Patient populations are expanding and ageing a shrinking population.
Non-communicable diseases NCDs kill 39 million people each year The costs of developing a new medicine continue to rise More generally, both political and economic Priority Reviews and Breakthrough Therapies are becoming more prevalent uncertainty followed the Brexit vote in the $ KLJKO UHJXODWHG VHFWRU UHHFWV WKH GHPDQG IRU VDIH HHFWLYH DQG KLJK UK and the election of Donald Trump to quality medicines president of the US.
Instability in a number Pricing and reimbursement continue to be challenging of other European countries has been Patents are expiring on some of the biggest-selling drugs ever produced exacerbated by refugees eeing civil war The sector faces challenges in building and maintaining trust and unrest in the Middle East and from &KDQJHV LQ SROLWLFDO ODQGVFDSH VXFK DV %UH[LW DQG WKH 86 HOHFWLRQ UHVXOWV further aeld.
Against this uncertain background, however, the demand for healthcare continues to increase.
While this is a favourable trend for long-term industry growth, challenges remain.
These include expiring patents, $154bn 2bn competition from and growing use of generic medicines, obtaining regulatory By 2050, the worlds population Global investment in pharmaceutical approval, securing reimbursement for new aged 60 years and older is expected R&D expected to reach an estimated medicines, improving R&D productivity to total some 2 billion.
$154 billion in 2016, an 11% increase and attaining pricing and sales sufficient from $139 billion in 2012. to generate revenue and sustain the cycle of innovation.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 11 Strategic Report Strategy Marketplace continued Global pharmaceutical sales Expanding patient populations Technological breakthroughs in the The number of people accessing healthcare design and testing of novel compounds World $bn is increasing, as is healthcare spending, present fresh opportunities for using small particularly by the elderly.
For example, molecules as the basis for new medicines.
967 2016 WHO estimates that, by 2050, the worlds The use of large molecules, or biologics, 905 2015 population aged 60 years and older is has also become an important source of 826 2014 expected to total some two billion, up innovation.
Biologics are among the most from 900 million in 2015 and that, by then, commercially successful new products.
$967bn 6.9% 80% of all older people will live in lowBy 2020, biologics, excluding vaccines, are and middle-income countries.
As the expected to account for 27% of the global diagram on page 14 shows, we expect pharmaceutical market, having risen from developing markets to continue to fuel 14% in 2006.
As such, most pharmaceutical US $bn pharmaceutical growth.
companies now pursue R&D in both small molecules and biologics.
446 2016 Unmet medical need 416 2015 The prevalence of NCDs, such as Priority Reviews and Breakthrough 2014 369 cancer and cardiovascular, metabolic Therapies are becoming more prevalent.
and respiratory diseases, is increasing Between the inception of the Breakthrough $446bn 7.1% worldwide.
NCDs are often associated Therapy Designation programme in with ageing populations and lifestyle October 2012 and the end of 2016, the choices, including smoking, diet and lack FDA granted more than 150 such requests of exercise.
Many NCDs require long-term out of more than 450 applications, and Europe $bn management.
WHO estimates that one-third of these have already resulted NCDs kill 39 million people each year in product approvals.
2016 201 and disproportionately affect lowand 2015 190 middle-income countries where nearly The cost of developing new medicines 2014 179 three-quarters of these deaths occur.
Global R&D investment is example, more than 60% of the worlds total expected to reach $154 billion in 2016.
While $201bn 5.6% new annual cancer cases occur in Africa, the growth rate of R&D spend has slowed Asia, and Central and South America.
in recent years, pharmaceutical companies These regions account for 70% of the continue to deliver new medicines.
2016, the FDA approved 22 novel drugs Established ROW $bn compared with 45 in 2015 and 41 in 2014.
The pharmaceutical sector: 2016 120 opportunities and challenges To ensure sustainable returns on R&D 2015 115 As shown in the table on the left, global investment, the industry is working to 2014 110 pharmaceutical sales grew by 6.9% in 2016. increase its success rate in developing Established Markets saw average revenue commercially viable new drugs while $120bn 5.1% growth of 6.4% and Emerging Markets achieving a lower, more exible cost base.
The US, Japan, Regulators and payers, however, are China, Germany and France are the worlds demanding greater evidence of comparative top five pharmaceutical markets.
This increases Emerging Markets $bn the US had 44.7% of global sales 2015: development times and costs.
2016 200 Fortunately, innovative technology is helping 2015 184 Science and technology accelerate product approvals.
A greater 2014 168 Innovation is critical to addressing emphasis on Proof of Concept is also unmet medical need.
The delivery of new helping to improve productivity and reduce $200bn 9.1% medicines will rely on a more advanced costs by showing the potential efcacy of understanding of disease and the use of drugs earlier in the development process.
new technology and approaches, including Data based on world market sales using AstraZeneca market personalised healthcare PHC and GHQLWLRQV DV VHW RXW LQ WKH 0DUNHW GHQLWLRQV RQ SDJH predictive science.
Source: IMS Health, IMS Midas Quantum Q3 2016 including US data.
Reported values and growth are based at CER.
Value JXUHV DUH URXQGHG WR WKH QHDUHVW ELOOLRQ DQG JURZWK percentages are rounded to the nearest tenth.
12 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Strategic Report Regulatory requirements the in-progress review of Chinas Drug Pricing of medicines A highly regulated biopharmaceutical Administration Law and Drug Registration Pricing and reimbursement remain industry reects the publics expectation of Regulation are likely to help address this challenging in many markets.
We continue safe, effective and high-quality medicines.
issue over the next few years.
to see examples where healthcare services Meeting this expectation requires responsible including pharmaceuticals are highly testing, manufacturing and marketing.
It Greater transparency and public access regulated by governments, insurers and also relies on maintaining effective working to regulatory submissions that support other private payers through various relationships with health authorities approval of new medicines continue to controls on pricing and reimbursement.
worldwide, including the FDA in the US, the be an area of interest.
A recent example Implementation of cost containment reforms EMA in the EU, the PMDA in Japan, and the involves the EMA policy 0070 on publication and shifting market dynamics are further CFDA in China.
Increasingly, regulation and of clinical data for medicinal products for constraining healthcare providers, while governmental policy are being introduced human use, which provides guidance for the difficult economic conditions burden patients to stimulate innovation in drug development.
publication of clinical reports that underpin who have out-of-pocket expenses relating to In the US, for example, the 21st Century the EMAs decision making.
Pharmaceutical companies Cures Act, signed into law on 13 December development continues to present are now expending significant resources to 2016, focuses on accelerating the discovery, challenges to the industry as differences demonstrate the economic as well as the development and delivery of promising between study requirements and therapeutic value of their medicines.
Similarly, timeframes may vary signicantly among the Prescription Drug User Fee Act health authorities.
However, there have been In the US, the Affordable Care Act ACA reauthorisation legislation that is required to efforts to provide incentives to stimulate has directly affected the healthcare system be considered by the US Congress in 2017 paediatric research.
An example is the by reshaping the market through various is anticipated to contain proposals aimed at EMAs initiative offering free-of-charge policies and approaches designed to expand accelerating innovation and modernising meetings focused on paediatric studies insurance coverage, reduce costs, transform the US regulatory environment.
Additionally, early in drug development.
In addition, the the delivery system, and improve healthcare the growing complexity and globalisation industry has appreciated the opportunity and patient coverage.
We, along with other of clinical studies have led to an increase afforded by the US paediatric rare disease pharmaceutical companies, have continued in public-private consortia.
Such consortia, voucher programme to encourage to work with policymakers and regulators to which include industry, academia and paediatric drug development.
International increase access, improve outcomes and to government bodies, aim to drive innovation, harmonisation is being advanced in this support an environment that fosters medical streamline regulatory processes, and define area through the revision of the ICH E11 and scientific innovation and value.
and clarify approval requirements for paediatric guideline, which has facilitated innovative drug and biologic products.
discussion between regulators and the The new political leadership in the US has industry on topics of mutual interest.
proposed to repeal and replace the ACA Regulatory health authorities continue and has taken initial steps to that end.
to implement programmes intended to Regulatory requirements for the registration While it is unclear if some or all of the ACA address unmet medical need and to of biosimilar products continue to develop might be repealed or what the scope of speed up patient access to transformative and become better dened, as exemplied replacement might entail if implemented, medicines.
This is demonstrated by the by the publication of a new pathway for it is possible that proposals could require Breakthrough Therapy programme China and the approvals of more biosimilar the healthcare industry to offset the cost employed by the FDA and the EMAs products in the US.
This may include changes initiative to implement adaptive pathways areas of regulatory policy are still evolving.
to the pharmaceutical industry excise tax, to improve timely patient access to new Among these are transparency of data Medicaid reform by, for example, granting medicines.
In Japan, the SAKIGAKE regarding level of evidence to support the states greater exibility in designing Designation System has been introduced approval of claims for biosimilarity in and funding their Medicaid programmes, to designate innovative medicines that labelling, standards for interchangeability including the choice of a block grant hold the promise for a significant advance and pharmaceutical substitution, and or per capita allotment of federal funds, over currently available therapy.
Once traceability of pharmacovigilance reports and or repeal the marketplace exchanges designated, the PMDA collaborates with through naming conventions that permit that were established under the ACA.
sponsors to accelerate the development differentiation of products.
These changes, whether directly or and approval of these promising indirectly targeted at drugs or the unapproved medicines for serious and For more information about biosimilars, pharmaceutical industry, could impact please see Patent expiries and genericisation life-threatening diseases.
The lengthy review pharmaceutical coverage and patient on page 15 process in China extends new medicine access to healthcare under insurance plans approval periods to as long as five years.
and government programmes and could, This challenges the ability of pharmaceutical accordingly, signicantly affect the companies to deliver innovative medicines pharmaceutical industry.
and treat unmet medical need in China.
However, recent developments, including Further details on the impact of the ACA on our business are contained in Return to growth on page 48 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 13 Strategic Report Strategy Marketplace continued Political leadership in the US has also Romania and Italy.
In France, price We expect developing continued to focus on drug pricing.
negotiations are particularly challenging Various drug pricing proposals have due to budgetary pressures.
In Germany, markets to continue to boost included measures relating to the repeal of Europes largest pharmaceutical market, pharmaceutical growth.
the Medicare Part D non-interference clause manufacturers must now prove the added that currently prohibits the government benefit of their drug over existing alternatives from negotiating directly with manufacturers if they are to avoid relegation to an on drug prices and US drug importation unfavourable price reference or face policies.
In addition, lawmakers and non-pricing barriers to market access.
policymakers at both the federal and state level have developed drug pricing In China, pricing practices remain a priority transparency proposals that include for regulators.
New national regulations measures relating to the submission and provincial and hospital tenders continue of proprietary manufacturer data, to put increasing pricing pressures on establishment of price parameters that pharmaceutical companies.
In Russia and are indexed to certain federal programmes, selected Middle East markets, governments and reporting of changes in pricing beyond are encouraging local manufacturing by certain thresholds.
While the implementation offering more favourable pricing legislation.
timeline and details of such proposals are In Japan, mandated biennial cuts are likely not clear, significant changes to laws and to continue as are experimental decisions regulations regarding drug pricing could by regulators based on cost effectiveness have a significant impact on the assessments.
In Latin America, pricing is pharmaceutical industry.
increasingly controlled by governments as, for example, in Colombia and Brazil with In Europe, governments continue to price referencing regulations.
implement and expand price control measures for medicines, including For more information about price controls, reductions and US healthcare reform, and price mandatory discounts, clawbacks and 84.7% regulation, please see the Business Review, price referencing rules.
These measures Return to growth from page 48 and Risk from are decreasing drug prices, particularly page 214 Generics constituted 84.7% in the challenged economies of Greece, of prescriptions dispensed in the US.
Estimated pharmaceutical sales and market growth 2020 North America EU Other Europe Non-EU countries Japan $640bn $240bn $23bn $92bn 7.0% 3.2% 8.7% 0.6% Oceania South East and East Asia Latin America Africa $15bn $202bn $78bn $28bn 4.8% 6.5% 2.3% 8.1% Estimated pharmaceutical sales 2020.
CIS Middle East Indian subcontinent Ex-manufacturer prices at CER.
$23bn $25bn $38bn Estimated pharmaceutical market growth 2015 to 2020.
14 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Strategic Report Patent expiries and genericisation pharmaceutical products are in complex businesses, and companies that produce Patent protection for pharmaceutical formulations and or require technically generic medicines.
However, the products is nite.
Patents are expiring on challenging manufacturing and thus may pharmaceutical market is highly competitive.
some of the biggest-selling drugs ever not follow the pattern of generic market For example, our Diabetes franchise produced and this means that payers, erosion seen with traditional, tableted continues to see pricing pressure.
In physicians and patients are gaining greater pharmaceuticals.
For those products, the immuno-oncology, the large number of access to generic alternatives both introduction of generic alternatives both clinical trials that are being carried out substitutable and analogue in many substitutable and analogue can be slower.
highlight the competitive nature of this important drug classes.
These generic area and renders speed to market critical.
alternatives are primarily lower priced Building trust because generic manufacturers are largely The pharmaceutical industry faces While many of our peers face similar spared the costs of R&D and market challenges in building and maintaining challenges, they tackle them in different development.
As a result, demand for trust, particularly with governments and ways.
Some companies have pursued a generics is high.
This reects the past decades strategy focused on branded prescription in the US in 2016, generics constituted 84.7% legal disputes between pharmaceutical pharmaceuticals.
Others have diversied of the market by volume 2015: 84.0%.
companies and governmental and by acquiring or building branded generics regulatory authorities.
To address this businesses or consumer portfolios.
Generic competition can also result from challenge, companies are strengthening A number of companies are focused on patent disputes or challenges before patent a culture of ethics and integrity, adopting improving R&D productivity and operational expiry.
Increasingly, generics companies higher governance standards and improving efficiency.
Other companies have looked are launching products at risk, for example, relationships with employees, shareholders to geographic expansion, especially in before resolution of the relevant patent and other stakeholders.
This trend, which is likely to continue, creates significant market During 2016, there were also Across the industry, business development presence for the generic version while the pharmaceutical industry investigations deals including licensing and collaborations, litigation remains unresolved.
Given the and Congressional hearings in the US and competition for business development unpredictable nature of patent litigation, related to pricing while, in the UK, the opportunities, while down over 2015, some companies have settled such Competition and Markets Authority continued in 2016.
For example, one report challenges on terms acceptable to the has been investigating allegations of estimates that the value of mergers and innovator and generic manufacturer.
While excessive charging and ning companies acquisitions announced in the healthcare competition authorities generally accept for unfair prices.
sector during the year amounted to more such agreements as a legitimate way to than $270 million, compared with almost settle these disputes, they have questioned Numerous companies, including those $400 million in 2015. some settlements as being anti-competitive.
in the pharmaceutical industry, have been investigated by the China Public Security As outlined in AstraZeneca at a glance Biologics typically retain exclusivity for Bureau following allegations of bribery, from page 2 and our Business model longer than traditional small molecule and criminal and financial penalties have from page 8, our strategic response to pharmaceuticals, with less generic been imposed.
Investigations by the DOJ the pharmaceutical marketplace is to competition.
With limited experience to date, and SEC under the Foreign Corrupt be a pure-play, global, science-led the substitution of biosimilars for the original Practices Act are continuing as are biopharmaceutical company that focuses branded product has not followed the same investigations by the UK Serious Fraud on the discovery, development and pattern as generic substitution in small Ofce under the UK Bribery Act.
Information commercialisation of prescription medicines, molecule products and, as a result, erosion about material legal proceedings can be primarily for the treatment of diseases in of the original biologics branded market found in Note 28 to the Financial Statements three main therapy areas.
The strategic share has not been as rapid.
This is due to from page 185. priorities that follow on from this response biologics complex manufacturing processes are outlined in the next section.
and the inherent difficulties in producing a Strategic responses biosimilar, which could require additional Our industry remains highly competitive.
However, with regulatory It includes large, research-based authorities in Europe and the US continuing pharmaceutical companies such as to implement abbreviated approval pathways AstraZeneca that discover, develop for biosimilar versions, innovative biologics and sell innovative, patent-protected are likely to face increased competition.
prescription medicines and vaccines, Similar to biologics, some small molecule smaller biotechnology and vaccine AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 15 Strategic Report Strategy Strategy and key performance indicators We are focused on returning to growth through a science-led innovation strategy.
2XUbVWUDWHJLF SULRULWLHV DQG WKH LQGLFDWRUV DJDLQVW ZKLFK ZH PHDVXUH RXU VXFFHVV are based on investing in three therapy areas, building a strong and balanced portfolio of primary care and specialty care medicines, and accelerating key R&D SURJUDPPHV 7KH bDOVR LQFOXGH WDUJHWHG EXVLQHVV GHYHORSPHQW DQG OHYHUDJLQJ RXU global commercial presence.
$FKLHYH VFLHQWLF OHDGHUVKLS Strategic priorities Key performance indicators Focus on innovative science Phase III investment decisions NME or LCM project regulatory Clinical-stage strategic in three therapy areas submissions in major markets transactions Focus on Oncology, Cardiovascular & Metabolic Disease, and Respiratory.
We are also selectively active in Autoimmunity, Infection 714 10 and Neuroscience.
Work across small molecules and 1 2016 7 2016 14 2016 10 biologics, including immunotherapies and protein engineering, as well 2015 6 2015 12 2015 10 as devices, biomarkers and 2014 9 2014 6 2014 3 translational science.
Prioritise and accelerate savolitinib papillary renal cell Faslodex breast cancer US, EU, JP : Includes alliances, collaborations and our pipeline carcinoma : durvalumab Tagrisso lung cancer CN : Tagrisso acquisitions to enhance our portfolio Accelerate and invest in key R&D tremelimumab hepatocellular lung cancer AURA3 study for full and pipeline in our main therapy areas: programmes.
At the end of 2016, carcinoma : Forxiga heart failure : approval US, EU : durvalumab externalisation activity to maximise the 12 NMEs were in Phase III or under Forxiga chronic kidney disease : bladder cancer US : DURATION-8 value of our assets: and divestments of regulatory review compared with our $ ' %$& $O]KHLPHUV GLVHDVH H[HQDWLGH GDSDJOLR]LQ 8 non-priority medicines.
March 2013 target of nine to 10. two further decisions made through EHQUDOL]XPDE VHYHUH DVWKPD 86 strategic partnering.
EU : lesinurad allopurinol FDC gout Against the targets we had set US : three further submissions made ourselves since 2013, by the end of await regulatory acceptance.
2016, we had made 25 Phase II starts 2015 to 2016 target: 12 to 16 : 14 NME and major line extension 1 13 for determining Annual Bonus.
regulatory submissions 2015 to 2016 See page 108 target: 14 to 16 : and eight NME and major line extension regulatory approvals 2015 to 2016 target: NME Phase II starts progressions NME and major LCM regional eight to 10. approvals Strengthen our early-stage pipeline through novel science and technology.
16 11 Transform our innovation and culture model Focus on novel science, such as 1 2016 16 2016 11 immune-mediated therapy combinations and PHC.
2015 11 2015 6 2014 13 2014 12 Co-location near bioscience clusters at three strategic centres in Cambridge, Vidaza and durvalumab for the Tagrisso lung cancer EU, JP and UK: Gaithersburg, Maryland US: treatment of acute myeloid leukaemia ctDNA blood test US, JP : Brilinta and Gothenburg, Sweden helps to and CC486 durvalumab for Brilique post myocardial infarction leverage our capabilities and foster myelodysplastic syndromes with EU and acute coronary syndromes collaboration with leading scientists Celgene : MEDI0680 durvalumab for and post myocardial infarction JP : and research organisations.
solid tumours: MEDI0562 humanised Qtern Type 2 diabetes EU : Bevespi Accelerate through business OX40 : AZD6738 Lynparza for gastric Aerosphere PT003 COPD US : development cancer: AZD1775 Wee1 : Zurampic gout EU : Zavicefta Work to reinforce our therapy areas daratumumab durvalumab for serious infections EU : Pandemic Live and strengthen our portfolio and multiple myeloma: in collaboration $WWHQXDWHG, QXHQ]D 9DFFLQH pipeline through targeted business with Incyte, epacadostat IDO SDQGHPLF LQXHQ]D 8 development, including collaborations, durvalumab for solid tumours: in-licensing and acquisitions.
MEDI4166 PCSK9 GLP-1 : MEDI0382: AZD4076: abediterol AZD0548 Collaborate strategically to broaden LABA : AZD1419 Inhaled TLR9 : and accelerate the development of key MEDI2070 IL-23 : MEDI3902 pipeline assets externalisation and SVHXGRPRQDV ELVSHFLF 3VO 3FU9 divest non-core assets to realise value.
See page 108 Therapy Area Review from page 23 $FKLHYH VFLHQWLF OHDGHUVKLS IURP SDJH Development Pipeline from page 204 16 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Strategic Report Return to growth Strategic priorities Key performance indicators Focus on Growth Platforms Brilinta Brilique Diabetes Respiratory Brilinta Brilique Work to deliver Brilinta Briliques potential to reduce cardiovascular deaths through ongoing clinical studies.
$839m $2,427m $4,753m Diabetes Work to maximise the Product Sales Product Sales Product Sales potential of our broad and innovative non-insulin, anti-diabetic portfolio 2016 $839m 2016 $2,427m 2016 $4,753m to transform patient care.
2015 $619m 2015 $2,224m 2015 $4,987m From January 2017, New CVMD Growth Platform combines our 2014 $476m 2014 $1,870m 2014 $5,063m Diabetes franchise, Brilinta Brilique Actual growth CER growth Actual growth CER growth Actual growth CER growth and any new launches.
Continued progress was 9% 11% at CER despite intense Respiratory Product Sales declined by seen across the US and Europe with competition in this space with a 5% 3% at CER, the main driver of this New Oncology Aim to deliver 45% and 12% growth 15% at CER positive contribution from all Regions.
being Symbicort, which continued to six new cancer medicines to in the year respectively.
Our focus in diabetes remains on grow volume share, however, Product patients by 2020.
It became our sixth the fastest-growing SGLT2 and Sales were down by 12% 10% at CER, Growth Platform in January 2015 GLP-1 classes.
UHHFWLQJ GHYHORSPHQWV LQ WKH 86 DQG and includes Lynparza, Iressa US XURSH RVHWWLQJ WKH SRVLWLYH PHUJLQJ and Tagrisso.
Markets and Established ROW growth.
Japan Strengthen our Oncology franchise and work to maximise the success of our Diabetes medicines New Oncology Japan Emerging Markets and established brands: Symbicort, Nexium and Crestor.
Emerging Markets Focus on $664m $2,184m $5,794m delivering innovative medicines by investing in Emerging Markets Product Sales Product Sales Product Sales capabilities, with a focus on China and other leading markets, such 2016 $664m 2016 $2,184m 2016 $5,794m DV %UD]LO DQG, QGLD 7KH RQJRLQJ 2015 $119m 2015 $2,020m 2015 $5,822m transformation of our capabilities 2014 N A 2014 $2,227m 2014 $5,827m is supporting new products and LPSURYLQJ DFFHVV DQG DRUGDELOLW Actual growth CER growth Actual growth CER growth Actual growth CER growth Transform through specialty care, 2016 n m 2016 n m 2016 8% 2016 -3% 2016 0% 2016 6% devices and biologics 2015 N A 2015 N A 2015 -9% 2015 4% 2015 0% 2015 12% 2014 N A 2014 N A 2014 -10% 2014 -3% 2014 8% 2014 12% Biologics now account for about half of our NMEs in development, potentially enhancing asset longevity.
New Oncology Product Sales of In Japan, Product Sales were up Emerging Markets growth mainly A greater focus on innovative and Lynparza, Iressa US and Tagrisso E GRZQ DW & 5 UHHFWLQJ driven by Brilinta, Forxiga and our GLHUHQWLDWHG GHOLYHU GHYLFHV were $664 million.
Tagrisso continued exchange rate impact and the Respiratory franchise.
China DRUGV SDWLHQWV FKRLFH ZKLOH to demonstrate strong uptake in the mandated biennial price cuts.
We had represented just under half of the ensuring product durability.
US, Europe and Japan with global volume growth of about 2%.
Our three total Emerging Markets Product Our new specialty care portfolio is Product Sales of $423 million and 46 biggest medicines, Crestor, Nexium Sales in 2016. expected to balance our strength regulatory approvals.
Lynparza Product and Symbicort, continued to perform in primary care medicines.
well, but Crestor Product Sales were impacted by inventory reductions at our local marketing partner.
Return to growth from page 48 Therapy Area Review from page 23 Geographical Review from page 226 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 17 Strategic Report Strategy Strategy and key performance indicators continued Be a great place to work Strategic priorities Key performance indicators Evolve our culture Employee belief in our strategy Organisational structure Employees who would recommend Work to improve our employees percentage of employees within six AstraZeneca as a great place to work LGHQWLFDWLRQ ZLWK RXU 3XUSRVH management steps of the CEO and Values and promote greater understanding of and belief in our strategy.
80% 82% 74% Invest in and implement tailored leadership development programmes.
1 1 2016 80% 2016 82% 2016 74% Simplify our business 2 2 2015 89% 2015 71% 2015 83% 'HYHORS VLPSOHU PRUH HFLHQW 3 3 SURFHVVHV DQG DWWHQ RXU 2014 86% 2014 75% 2014 82% organisational structure to encourage This is a key indicator of employee This is a key indicator of our progress This is a key indicator of whether accountability and improve decision HQJDJHPHQW 'HFOLQH UHHFWV LPSDFW LQ RUJDQLVDWLRQDO HFLHQF WKURXJK employees believe AstraZeneca is a making and communication.
improved decision making, driving JUHDW SODFH WR ZRUN 'HFOLQH UHHFWV Attract and retain the best talent accountability to the right level and impact of reshaping the business.
$FFHOHUDWH HRUWV WR DWWUDFW GLYHUVH LPSURYLQJ FRPPXQLFDWLRQ RZ top talent with new capabilities.
1 1 Source: December 2016 Pulse survey Source: December 2016 Pulse survey across a sample of the organisation.
across a sample of the organisation.
2 2 Source: January 2016 Pulse survey Source: January 2016 Pulse survey across a sample of the organisation.
3 3 Source: Global FOCUS all-employee Source: Global FOCUS all-employee survey.
Be a great place to work from page 52 Employees from page 54 Do business sustainably Strategic priorities Key performance indicators 1 Deliver business success Dow Jones Sustainability Screening, diagnosis and treatment Operational carbon footprint over the long term Index ranking of hypertension as part of Healthy Deliver our business strategy in a way Heart Africa programme WKDW GHOLYHUV ZLGHU EHQHWV WR VRFLHW and the planet.
86% 2 million 1,657 kt CO e 2 Focus on: patients maintaining ethics and transparency in everything we do 2016 86% 2016 2m 2016 1,657 kt CO2e increasing access to healthcare for more people 2015 84% 2015 1m 2015 1,743 kt CO2e minimising the environmental 2014 79% 2014 N A 2014 N A impact of our products and processes.
Met the target of maintaining position Healthy Heart Africa was launched Our 2016 operational carbon footprint in the Dow Jones Sustainability World in October 2014.
By the end of 2016, met our target emission of 1,708 kt Align our work with the UN and Europe Indexes comprising the top we had conducted over two million CO e and represents a 5% reduction 2 Sustainable Development Goals and 10% of the largest 2,500 companies hypertension screenings in the from our 2015 baseline.
work to integrate our commitments with a score of 86%.
Operational carbon footprint is emissions from all Scope 1, 2, and selected Scope 3 sources.
Sustainability from page 43 1RWH &RQUPHG EUHDFKHV RI H[WHUQDO VDOHV DQG PDUNHWLQJ FRGHV RU UHJXODWLRQV JOREDOO LV QR ORQJHU UHJDUGHG DV D. 3, RZHYHU WKLV LQIRUPDWLRQ LV reported on page 52 of the Annual Report.
18 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Strategic Report $FKLHYH URXS QDQFLDO WDUJHWV Strategic priorities Key performance indicators 1 1 Drive on-market value Total Revenue 1HW FDVK RZ IURP RSHUDWLQJ Dividend per share Invest in R&D and on-market activities Growth Platforms to return to growth.
Our aim is to deliver industry-leading productivity by restructuring to create scope for $23,002m $4,145m $2.80 LQYHVWPHQW DQG D H[LEOH FRVW EDVH Maintain a progressive dividend 2016 $23,002m 2016 $4,145m 2016 $2.80 Policy is to maintain or grow dividend per share.
2014 3% 2014 5% 2014 -5% Total Revenue comprised Product Cash generated from operating Dividend is consistent with the Sales of $21,319 million down by 10% activities improved cash management progressive dividend policy pursuant at actual rate of exchange and 8% at SHUIRUPDQFH DQG RQH R WD[ UHIXQGV to which the Board intends to maintain CER and Externalisation Revenue of or grow the dividend each year.
$1,683 million up by 57% at actual rate of exchange and 59% at CER.
Decline in Total Revenue at actual H[FKDQJH UDWHV UHHFWHG WKH SDUWLFXODU weakness of key trading currencies against the US dollar.
1 1 First and second interim dividend As detailed on page 142, Total Revenue for the year.
consists of Product Sales and Externalisation Revenue.
This 5% at CER, driven by the same rate of included a gain of $0.76 on the decline in Total Revenue at CER.
Financial Review from page 62 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 19 Strategic Report Strategy Risk overview Principal Risks We face a diverse range of risks and uncertainties and this table provides insight into the Principal Risks that could have a materially adverse effect on the business or results of operations.
We outline why effective management of these risks is important and relevant to the business, how we are managing them and which risks are rising, falling or have remained static during the past 12 months.
Our approach to risk management is designed to encourage clear decision making on which risks we take and how we manage these risks.
Fundamental to this process is a sound understanding of every risks potential strategic, commercial, financial, compliance, legal and reputational implications.
Risk category and Principal Risks Context potential impact Product pipeline and intellectual property Delivery of pipeline and new products The development of any pharmaceutical product candidate is a complex, risky and lengthy process involving VLJQLFDQW QDQFLDO 5 ' DQG RWKHU UHVRXUFHV $ SURMHFW PD IDLO RU EH GHOD HG DW DQ VWDJH RI WKH SURFHVV GXH WR D QXPEHU RI IDFWRUV ZKLFK FRXOG UHGXFH RXU ORQJ WHUP JURZWK UHYHQXH DQG SURW Meet quality, regulatory and ethical drug 'HOD V LQ UHJXODWRU UHYLHZV DQG DSSURYDOV LPSDFW SDWLHQWV DQG PDUNHW DFFHVV DQG FDQ PDWHULDOO DHFW RXU approval and disclosure requirements EXVLQHVV RU QDQFLDO UHVXOWV Secure and protect product IP 'LVFRYHULQJ DQG GHYHORSLQJ PHGLFLQHV UHTXLUHV D VLJQLFDQW LQYHVWPHQW RI UHVRXUFHV RU WKLV WR EH D YLDEOH LQYHVWPHQW WKURXJK JHQHUDWLRQ RI VXFLHQW UHYHQXHV QHZ PHGLFLQHV PXVW EH VDIHJXDUGHG IURP EHLQJ FRSLHG with a reasonable amount of certainty for a reasonable amount of time Commercialisation Externally driven demand, pricing, 2SHUDWLQJ LQ RYHU FRXQWULHV ZH DUH VXEMHFW WR SROLWLFDO VRFLR HFRQRPLF DQG QDQFLDO IDFWRUV ERWK JOREDOO access and competitive pressures and in individual countries.
There can be additional pressure from governments and other healthcare payers RQ PHGLFLQH SULFHV DQG VDOHV LQ UHVSRQVH WR UHFHVVLRQDU SUHVVXUHV UHGXFLQJ RXU UHYHQXH SURWV DQG FDVK RZ Quality and execution of commercial If commercialisation of a product does not succeed as anticipated, or its rate of sales growth is slower than strategies anticipated, there is a risk that we may not be able to fully recoup the costs in launching it 6XSSO FKDLQ DQG EXVLQHVV H[HFXWLRQ Maintain supply of compliant, Delays or interruptions in supply can lead to recalls, product shortages, regulatory action, reputational harm quality product and lost sales Information technology and data 6LJQLFDQW GLVUXSWLRQ WR RXU, 7 V VWHPV F EHUVHFXULW LQFLGHQWV LQFOXGLQJ EUHDFKHV RI GDWD VHFXULW RU IDLOXUH security and privacy WR LQWHJUDWH QHZ V VWHPV FRXOG KDUP RXU UHSXWDWLRQ DQG PDWHULDOO DHFW RXU QDQFLDO FRQGLWLRQ RU UHVXOWV RI operations.
This could lead to regulatory penalties or non-compliance with laws and regulations Delivery of gains from Inappropriately managed initiatives could lead to low employee engagement and reduced productivity, increased productivity initiatives absence and attrition levels, or even industrial action.
All could adversely impact the value of the initiative Attract, develop, engage and retain Failure to attract and retain highly skilled personnel may weaken our succession plans for critical positions in the talented and capable employees PHGLXP WHUP DLOXUH WR HQJDJH RXU HPSOR HHV FRXOG LPSDFW SURGXFWLYLW DQG WXUQRYHU %RWK FRXOG DGYHUVHO DHFW at all levels the achievement of our strategic objectives Legal, regulatory and compliance 6DIHW DQG HFDF RI PDUNHWHG SURGXFWV 3DWLHQW VDIHW LV YHU LPSRUWDQW WR XV DQG ZH VWULYH WR PLQLPLVH WKH ULVNV DQG PD[LPLVH WKH EHQHWV RI RXU medicines.
Failure to do this could adversely impact our reputation, our business and the results of operations, and could lead to product liability claims Defence of product, pricing Investigations or legal proceedings could be costly, divert management attention or damage our reputation and practices litigation DQG GHPDQG IRU RXU SURGXFWV 8QIDYRXUDEOH UHVROXWLRQV FRXOG VXEMHFW XV WR FULPLQDO OLDELOLW QHV RU SHQDOWLHV DGYHUVHO DHFWLQJ RXU QDQFLDO UHVXOWV Meet regulatory and ethical expectations Any failure to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations, including bribery and corruption legislation, on commercial practices, including PD UHVXOW LQ FLYLO DQG RU FULPLQDO OHJDO SURFHHGLQJV DQG RU UHJXODWRU VDQFWLRQV QHV RU SHQDOWLHV LPSDFWLQJ EULEHU DQG FRUUXSWLRQ DQG VFLHQWLF QDQFLDO UHVXOWV exchanges FRQRPLF DQG QDQFLDO Achieve strategic plans and meet DLOXUH WR VXFFHVVIXOO LPSOHPHQW RXU EXVLQHVV VWUDWHJ PD IUXVWUDWH WKH DFKLHYHPHQW RI RXU QDQFLDO RU RWKHU targets and expectations WDUJHWV RU H[SHFWDWLRQV 7KLV IDLOXUH FRXOG LQ WXUQ GDPDJH RXU UHSXWDWLRQ DQG PDWHULDOO DHFW RXU EXVLQHVV QDQFLDO SRVLWLRQ RU UHVXOWV RI RSHUDWLRQV 20 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Strategic Report Strategy key Trend key Further information on our key risk management and assurance processes can be found in Risk Increasing risk $FKLHYH VFLHQWLF OHDGHUVKLS Be a great place to work from pages 214 to 225 which also includes a description of circumstances under which Decreasing risk Return to growth $FKLHYH URXS QDQFLDO WDUJHWV principal and other risks and uncertainties might arise in the course of our business and Unchanged their potential impact Management actions Trend versus prior year Prioritise and accelerate our pipeline Increasing importance of pipeline contribution given loss of Strengthen pipeline through acquisitions, licensing and collaborations exclusivity on key brands Focus on innovative science in three main therapy areas Quality management systems incorporating monitoring, training and assurance activities Collaborating with regulatory bodies and advocacy groups to monitor and respond to changes in the regulatory environment, including revised process, timelines and guidance Active management of IP rights Focus on Growth Platforms Global economic and political conditions placing downwards Demonstrating value of medicines health economics pressure on healthcare pricing and spending, and therefore Global footprint on revenue 'LYHUVLHG SRUWIROLR Focus on Growth Platforms Loss of exclusivity on key brands increases challenge to achieve Accelerate and risk share through business development and strategic collaborations and alliances our shortto medium-term targets Business continuity and resilience initiatives, disaster and data recovery and emergency response plans Supply chain evolving to incorporate new supply chains and Establishment of new manufacturing facilities, creating capacity and technical capability to support new to support product launches product launches, particularly biologics Contingency plans including dual sourcing, multiple suppliers and stock levels Quality management systems Disaster and data recovery plans Several key transformational programmes involving large Strategies to secure critical systems and processes IT-related aspects Appropriate project governance structure and oversight Ongoing restructuring projects Regular review of strategic initiatives by appropriate senior executive and Board level committees Evolve our culture Ongoing restructuring projects RFXV RQ VLPSOLFDWLRQ Development of our employees 5REXVW SURFHVVHV DQG V VWHPV LQ SODFH WR PDQDJH SDWLHQW VDIHW DQG HFDF WUHQGV DV ZHOO DV H[WHUQDOO The number of new products in our marketed portfolio is growing reported risks through regulatory agencies and other parties.
This includes a comprehensive and is anticipated to increase further as our pipeline develops.
Our pharmacovigilance programme supplemented by close monitoring and review of adverse events DELOLW WR DFFXUDWHO DVVHVV WKH VDIHW DQG HFDF RI QHZ SURGXFWV is inherently limited due to relatively short periods of product testing and relatively small clinical study patient samples Combined internal and external counsel management Strong ethical and compliance culture Increasing government and regulatory scrutiny and evolving Established compliance framework in place including annual Code of Conduct training for all employees compliance challenges as complexity of business relationships Focus on due diligence and oversight of third party engagements increases Established new requirements on providing appropriate information about our products Established sustainability framework in place including a refreshed sustainability strategy for 2016 Focus on Growth Platforms and innovative science in three main therapy areas Increasing challenge to balance longand short-term investments Strengthen pipeline through acquisitions, licensing and collaborations as we navigate a period of loss of exclusivity on key brands Appropriate capital structure and balance sheet Portfolio-driven decision making process governed by senior executive-led committees AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 21 Strategic Report Strategy Risk overview continued Managing risk processes implemented by management.
The three-year detailed business plan We work to ensure that we have effective Within each SET function, leadership teams recognises the significant political risk management processes in place to discuss the risks the business faces.
Every uncertainty arising from Brexit, the US support the delivery of our strategic year, we map these risks to AstraZenecas presidential election result and elections priorities.
This enables us to meet the risk taxonomy.
This process provides a in other key markets.
Risks to the sales expectations of our stakeholders and Group-wide assessment for the Board, and cost forecasts are identied at a market upholds our Values.
We monitor our Audit Committee and SET.
Quarterly, and SET function level.
The plan is used business activities and external and internal each SET function assesses changes to to perform central net debt and headroom environments for new, emerging and these risks, new and emerging risks, and prole analysis.
This analysis considers changing risks to ensure that these are mitigation plans.
These are assimilated into a severe but plausible downside scenario managed appropriately.
a Group Risk Report for the Board, Audit incorporating the Principal Risks such as Committee and SET.
Supporting tools are in market pricing and access, delivery of The Board believes that existing processes place to assist risk leaders and managers in pipeline and loss of IP.
The resilience of provide it with adequate information on the managing, monitoring and planning for risk the Group to absorb further Principal Risk risks and uncertainties we face.
Details of and we continue to work on developing our events such as regulatory litigious fines and these risks and the potential impacts on our risk management standards and guidelines.
the need to meet pension fund obligations business are contained on pages 214 to Global Compliance, Finance and Internal has also been analysed.
The Board defines those risks which Audit Services support SET by advising on adequate resilience against these and the have a potential to have a material impact policy and standard setting, monitoring and other Principal Risks due to our diversied on our business or results of operations as auditing, communication and training, as product portfolio: our global footprint: our our Principal Risks.
well as reporting on the adequacy of line robust supply infrastructure: our access management processes as they apply to to external nancing, which includes Risk management embedded in risk management.
committed facilities: and our ability to business processes manage our cost base.
We strive to embed sound risk management We have a business resilience framework in our strategy, planning, budgeting and which governs our ability to prevent or Based on the results of this analysis, the performance management processes.
quickly adapt to situations while maintaining Directors have a reasonable expectation continuous business operations and that the Company will be able to continue The Board defines the Groups risk appetite, safeguarding our people, processes and in operation and meet its liabilities as they enabling the Group, in both quantitative and reputation.
Within this we have business fall due over the three-year period of qualitative terms, to judge the level of risk it continuity plans to address situations in their assessment.
is prepared to take in achieving its overall which specic risks have the potential to objectives.
The Board expresses the severely impact our business.
These plans Brexit acceptable levels of risk for the Group using include training and crisis simulation On 23 June 2016, the UK held a remain-orthree key dimensions.
These are: i earnings activities for business managers.
leave referendum on the UKs membership and cash ow: ii return on investment: within the EU, the outcome of which was and iii ethics and reputation.
Annually, More information about our Global Compliance a decision for the UK to exit from the EU function and the Code of Conduct can be the Group develops a detailed three-year Brexit.
A process of negotiation will likely found in the Corporate Governance Report bottom-up business plan and 10-year determine the future terms of the UKs from page 90 long-range projection to support the delivery relationship with the EU, as well as whether of its strategy.
The Board considers these Viability statement the UK will be able to continue to benefit in the context of the Groups risk appetite.
In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the from the EUs free trade and similar Adjustments are made to the plan or risk 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, arrangements.
Until the Brexit negotiation appetite to ensure they remain aligned.
the Board has determined that a three-year process is initiated and completed, it is Our risk management approach is aligned period to 31 December 2019 constitutes an difficult to anticipate the potential impact to our strategy and business planning appropriate period over which to provide its on AstraZenecas market share, sales, processes.
We cross-check financial risks viability statement.
profitability and results of operations.
The and opportunities identied through the Group operates from a global footprint business planning process and integrate The Board considers annually and on and retains exibility to adapt to changing our findings into the overall risk management a rolling basis, a three-year bottom-up circumstances.
Line managers are accountable detailed business plan.
The Board also during and after the period of negotiation is for identifying and managing risks and for considers a 10-year long-range projection also expected to increase volatility and may delivering business objectives in accordance but, given the inherent uncertainty involved, have an economic impact, particularly in the with the Groups risk appetite.
believes that the three-year statement UK and Eurozone.
The Board reviews the presents readers of the Annual Report with potential impact of Brexit as an integral part The Senior Executive Team SET is required a reasonable degree of assurance while still of its Principal Risks as outlined on page 20 by the Board to oversee and monitor the providing a longer-term perspective.
rather than as a stand-alone risk.
As the effectiveness of the risk management process of Brexit evolves, the Board will continue to assess its impact.
22 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016
