28 AGRICULTURE The pace of development of our international operations has increased.
ADDING VALUE BY IMPROVING ABVista, our animal nutrition and technology business, achieved further THESUSTAINABILITY OF volume and market share growth driven by strong sales of its two leading feed enzyme products, Quantum Blue and FOODPRODUCTION Econase XT.
We have developed our pig starter feed business inSpain and the recent acquisition ofAgro Korn in Revenue Adjusted operating profit margin Denmark provides an exciting platform for further growth inspecialist proteins for pigs, calves, poultry, fish and pets.
1,084m 5.4% AB Agri China enjoyed a good year 2015: 1,211m 2015: 5.0% dueto its continued focus on sales intothe fast growing larger-farm sector Actual fx: -10% Constant fx: -11% and the development of its service business aimed at integrated international livestock producers.
These relationships, Adjusted operating profit Return on average capital employed supported by the construction of a newpre-mix feed mill which will provide an assured source of high-quality feed 58m 17.7% and is due to be completed next spring, will further differentiate our feed 2015: 60m 2015: 19.2% business inChina.
Actual fx: -3% Constant fx: -6% UK agriculture faced a number AB Agri has a strong tradition of ofchallenges this year and in that seekingways of extracting value from context AB Agri performed well, feedstock materials and has entered delivering an adjusted operating thespecialist anaerobic digestion AD profit just below last year but with products and services sector this year.
Anew business was created to market Goodresults from the specialist arange of specialist vitamin and mineral businesses and a strong finish packs, and a nutritionally balanced, byFrontier Agriculture were blended food-waste product for use as morethan offset by lower UK the feedstock for AD plants.
built an AD plant in Yorkshire, due to becommissioned before the end of The UK dairy market saw continued thecalendar year, which will enable us price pressure resulting from global topromote our nutritional, operational oversupply, and pig prices fell to their andproduct expertise in this lowest level for a number of years.
Against this background our UK pig starter feed business had a strong year Frontier Agriculture achieved record but the smaller UK sugar beet crop grainprocurement volumes from resulted in less beet feed availability farmsand benefited from strong grain which adversely affected revenue exports in the second half of the year.
andprofit at AB Connect, our UK The creation of a strategic alliance feedbusiness.
withamajor UK fertiliser manufacturer and the acquisition of a bio-stimulant specialist will further strengthen Frontiers crop inputs business.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Attracting world-class talent AB Agris growing global reputation for innovation, expertise and career opportunities isattracting high calibre recruits from all over theworld Attracting and developing the brightest talent CRISTINA MIGLIAVACCA, EUROPEAN TECHNICAL SALES MANAGER, AB AGRI S ince qualifying as a vet in Brazil in 2008, I have focused on neonatal swine health.
I joined AB Agri in the UK in January 2016.
Itwas a bigdecision I left my home, my friends and my family butit was definitely the right move.
My colleagues are incredibly knowledgeable and innovative and could not be kinder or more helpful.
I have been able to develop mytechnical understanding about animal health and nutrition, mycapabilities in sales and negotiation and my understanding of theEuropean farming sector.
As well as becoming a better sales manager, my role at AB Agri is helping me become a better vet.
Strategic report operating review 29 A cornerstone of this new operation is Significant investment has also been made CASE ourability to demonstrate our commitment to ensure we can provide comprehensive STUDY tothe AD market and our in-depth advice on the relevant range of feedstocks, understanding of the sector.
To that end additives and how to operate an AD facility wehave built our own 3MWe AD plant at at optimum capacity, to underpin the South Milford in Yorkshire which will use credentials of Amur.
This business will drive EXTRACTING 60,000 tonnes of blended food and green innovation by bringing new fully tested waste each year as its material source and products into the sector which promote VALUE FROM produce 50,000 tonnes of digestate that increased gas production.
AB Agri has willbe sold as an organic fertiliser.
This is 30years experience in managing and agas to grid plant, enabling methane to addingvalue to feedstocks and a key feature FEEDSTOCK beinjected directly into the gas network in embarking on this development has been formaximum carbon efficiency.
our success in bringing together existing MATERIALS group expertise in nutrition, biology, Whilst expected to generate a financial chemistry, environmental legislation, AB Agri has its roots in looking for return in its own right, this investment will safety, risk management, energypolicy alternative ways to extract more value also provide invaluable specialist insight, andprocurement.
from feedstock materials and this year that we can pass on to our customer base, wehave taken our first step into a new on how to consistently feed an AD process, market segment with the formation something we believe is required in order ofAmur, an anaerobic digestion AD tomaximise returns and outputs.
This is business unit which was launched at fundamentally no different to what we do theUK AD and Biogas Show in July.
Indeed AD plants are often referred to as concrete cows given It is positioned as the leading and first the similarity of the biological processes.
expert in the provision of products and services into the UK AD market South Milford plant in Yorkshire will use and is a great example of how ABAgri approaches growth and innovation and 60,000 tonnes leverages the breadth of skills to which of blended food and green waste it has access.
each year as its material source specialisms of some of the food businesses CASE elsewhere in the ABF group, we are STUDY alsosuccessfully developing alternative protein replacements.
This years acquisition of Agro Korn, RESPONSIBLY aDanishproducer of animal nutrition products, premixes and milk replacers, PRODUCED hasextended our capability in alternative protein development.
Agro Korn produces AlphaSoy, a protein that has been enzyme PROTEIN enriched and made easier to digest Global meat production has increased throughheat treatment and mechanical bysome 20% in the last ten years and, manufacture.
This means less soya withgrowth rates escalating, demand isrequired to provide young, growing forresponsibly produced protein for animalswith the necessary protein.
inclusion in animal feeds is increasing.
Like soya, yeast is rich in high-value protein.
Soya is one of the most effective protein In partnership with Ohly, another ABF sources for animal feed but increased business, research is underway into the demand has contributed to deforestation nutritional value and digestibility of yeast inSouth America.
Whilst we have been protein products for use in animal feed.
active in the development of European Wehave also developed a yeast-based industry standards to source soya protein product using the residual grain responsibly, we have also been exploring fromwhisky and ethanol production, how to use soya more efficiently.
traditionally sold as a feed for beef and dairy Bycombining our expertise in nutrition cattle, that extends its use into aquaculture andco-product development with the and the pig and poultry sectors.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
