Working together to save energy ANTONIO BAS PARDO, DIRECTOR OF AZUCARERAS GUADALETE FACTORY We have had a very positive collaboration with our colleagues fromBritish Sugars Cantley plant about their success in saving energy.
Cantley lowered its energy consumption by reducing the amount of process water used and introducing a pre-scalder inthesugar diffusion extraction process.
Formerly steam had beenused to heat the water that sugar beet passes through intheearly stages of extraction.
Pre-scalding the beet heats upthewater too saving energy.
A team from Guadalete visited Cantley to learn more about this approach.
Our UK colleagues shared their technical and project management information, which proved really helpful.
The learnings from Cantley have already enabled us to reduce our energy usage andcut our overall fuel consumption by 15%.
Strategic report operating review 23 CASE STUDY Illovos key markets are consumers and Hospital and clinic services industrial customers in its own countries are provided on-site for ILLOVO SUGAR of operation as well as in neighbouring regional African markets, employing A MAJOR anextensive network of distribution 6,500 andlogistics channels.
The groups continuing strategy ofsecuring CONTRIBUTOR employees and their increasing growth opportunities, family members inlocaland regional sugaroutlets, TO AFRICAN reducesits exposure tolower-priced EUmarkets.
This is evidenced by Refined sugar production capacity doubled in Zambia to thisyears commissioning ofZambia DEVELOPMENT Sugarsmost recent expansion project The Illovo group operates in six countries which more than doubles annual insouthern Africa.
It is the continents refinedsugar production capacity 100,000 largest sugar producer and a significant toaround 100,000 tonnes.
tonnes following As a major private investor in Africa, recent expansion Illovo owns 270 square miles of agricultural Illovooperates and markets its products land under cane which, when combined incountries that face considerable withthe 703 square miles owned by private challenges in the form of poverty, growers, yield enough sugar cane to unemployment, inequality and disease produce upwards of 1.7 million tonnes of the United Nations classifies Malawi, sugar annually at the groups 11 cane sugar Mozambique, Zambia andTanzania plants.
The group also produces a range asbeing among the worlds least ofco-products downstream of the sugar developed countries.
By providing making process, including furfural, an significant employment, accommodation, important renewable chemical feedstock, healthcare, educational assistance and and ethyl alcohol.
The majority of these basic services to rural communities, co-products are made at plants in thegroup has a significant positive SouthAfrica and Tanzania and are sold impact on theseeconomies.
In an internationally into high-value niche extensive and independent sociomarkets.
Illovos plants also utilise milled economic impact study released in2014, cane stalks bagasse as a bio-renewable it was shown thatIllovo contributed fuel to co-generate enough electricity an estimated ZAR18.5bn in2012 13 to tomeet around 90% of their own power African economies, includingdirect, requirements and, in power-deficit indirect andinduced economic impacts.
countriessuch as Swaziland, they sell surplus power into the national grid.
Our business in Mazabuka, Zambia, exemplifies the huge scale of the groups operations and the important role it playsinlocal community life.
Located in 108square miles of agricultural land is thecontinents largest cane sugar plant, providing employment within the factory andalso inmarketing and administration functions.
Villages have beenbuilt for staff housing: hospital and clinic services are provided on-site for 6,500employees and their family members, together with schools, community centres and churches: and the business also provides electricity, drinking water and refuse removal services.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 24 SUGAR CASE STUDY the support of the Guangxi government.
continuing growth in sugar beet Upon completion of the transaction, productivity will be essential to support BUILDING THE which is subject to third-party consents these changes.
This has already led to and regulatory approvals, we will receive EUwhite sugar yields, expressed on a per WORLDS LEADING consideration for our shareholdings in hectare basis, exceeding those of Brazil: thebusiness together with the repayment the relative profitability of alternative of related loans.
crops will become even more of a key SUGAR BUSINESS determinant of production scale in the AB Sugar operates in a diverse and Illovo production was lower than EUas growers look to maximise total continually changing environment with lastyear as a result of severe drought.
farmprofitability: many opportunities and challenges However, an improved sales mix and EU refiners may need to take a more thefinal round of changes to the EU sugar further cost savings across the business opportunistic view of refining, for example, regime in 2017 being just one example.
contributed to an increase in full year by focusing on periods when world sugar These changes will see the abolition of profit.
With the exception of Tanzania, prices are sufficiently below EU prices production quotas, the removal of minimum allof Illovos countries of operation togenerate attractive returns: and beet prices and the elimination of the experienced substantial currency global trade flows will adjust to artificial distinction between sugar sold for devaluations during the year but, accommodate EU exports and sales food and industrial applications in the EU.
despitethe pressure this placed on intoregions outside Europe, some of Furthermore, World Trade Organization consumers and on production which may be new markets.
WTO export constraints will no longer costs, Illovo maintained its margin beapplicable to European producers developmentthrough a combination of THE SUCCESS OF OUR although WTO-controlled import duties price increases and benefits delivered fornon-preferential sugars into the by the performance improvement SUPPLY CHAIN EU willremain in place.
The new refining and sugar conditioning facility atthe Nakambala Historically, our success as an industry As a consequence, sugar prices in the EU plant in Zambia, was commissioned hasbeen delivered through processor are likely to move more in line with world inJuly 2016, is now fullyoperational, improvement size of factory and cost prices than has previously been the case.
In andisa key step in broadening our ofproduction.
such a dynamic market, increased pressure product range to meet the demands will be placed on the competitiveness of of a fast developing domestic market.
In the future, AB Sugars success will thetotal EU sugar supply chain.
Growers, bedetermined by our ability to serve the processors, haulage companies and other Good progress was made this year customer whether local, regional or global key stakeholders will all need to ensure byVivergo Fuels which increased and by contributing to the long-term theirindividual competitiveness in order throughput in the bioethanol plant, success and sustainability of the wider tomaintain the ability of the sugar industry although achieving operational reliability supply chain and local communities.
In short, as awhole to compete.
The UK vote remained challenging.
An improvement it will be the evolving competitiveness of on Brexit clearly introduces a further in the operating result was driven ourtotal supply chain that will determine dimension to the2017 regime reform by better margins with the benefit ourability to become the worlds leading for sugar producers inthe EU.
of lower wheat prices and higher EU sugar business.
The UK Energy So, what scenarios are we most likely &Climate Change Select Committee toface beyond 2017?
recently issued a report recommending suppliers to the European market will a proposal to increase bioethanol needto improve further their efficiency inclusion in road fuel from thecurrent and competitiveness.
This will include level of 5%to 10%.
We believe this is energy efficiency, process technology and the only practical next step towards co-product development.
Well-targeted achieving theUK Governments In the future, AB Sugars success will and effective investment will be key: previously agreed 2020 renewable bedetermined by our ability to serve with inflation in other major world markets obligation for transport fuel in the near outstripping that in the EU, we have term, and would bring the UK into the customer whether local, regional already seen EU beet sugar producers linewith the US, Brazil, France improve their position in world league or global and by contributing to the andGermany.
tables for cost of production.
With the long-term success and sustainability exception of distortions generated by movements in currency exchange rates of the wider supply chain and itis anticipated that this trend will localcommunities.
bemaintained: Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report operating review 25 Managing and enhancing our supply chain CONTINUOUS from end-to-end involves our businesses operating within a local context informed IMPROVEMENT byour global knowledge network by working together we do what is right for We have an excellent track record thelocation and market.
As an example, ofactiveengagement in performance innorth China, AB Sugar has continued improvement programmes that build toput growers firmly at the centre of the capability, enhance plant performance and business by improving communication, deliver cost reduction whilst maintaining withthe development of bespoke digital ourwell-invested assets.
This drive for andsocial applications, and by attracting continuous improvement has enabled us growers tobeet production through the tomaintain our cost leadership and ensure useof innovative marketing techniques.
As staff relocate todifferent parts of our operations around the world, so this process gathers momentum RESPONDING TO THE supported by our centralised technology resource.
As an example, Azucarera has NEEDS OFGROWERS created a team that has optimised the beet In British Sugar, where both processor and supply to our factories which resulted in grower have been used to operating in a a2m cost reduction this year.
This was highly regulated environment, our approach achieved by an integrated team working, will focus increasingly on the attractiveness across the supply chain, towards a of the crop on farm.
New and innovative technologies commongoal to increase productivity beet supply for the future, we will seek to toreduce or recycle waste, such as the andreduce costs.
add further value to the growers by building development of anaerobic digestion, may flexibility into contracting options and also provide an opportunity to generate bydeveloping the capabilities of our further income on farm and secure a agricultural teams to respond to the needs sustainable, profitable revenue stream.
ofthe next generation of growers and farm Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 26 AGRICULTURE FEEDING SUCCESS Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report operating review 27 About Agriculture Finished feed manufacture AB Agri occupies a unique position A major global manufacturer and across the agri-food supply chain.
supplier of pig, poultry and dairy Itsfocus is to add value and deliver feeds, with 20 production sites in profit for partners all along that chain theUK and China.
We work closely byimproving the sustainability of with major processors and producers foodproduction.
This is achieved by tobenchmark productivity and investing in research and development, developtailored feeds and feeding driving the use of technology and regimes to improve performance exploring how data can deliver insight forevery customer.
and enable real world improvements.
Atop three player in almost all Supply chain solutions themarkets in which it operates, Working exclusively with major itcontinues to expand its global brandsand retailers for more than footprint and is rapidly becoming 15years to create value through amajor international agri-business.
theimplementation of continuous improvement programmes, working AB Agris core capabilities include: across food, agriculture and natural resource supply chains in over Specialised feed ingredients 65countries.
Offering pioneering feed ingredients, additive products and technical services Commodity risk management to the global animal feed industry as Providing customers with in-depth well as high-quality, bespoke, vitamin insight on global commodity markets, mineral premixes, starter feeds and we are also the UKs leading grain micro-ingredients developed through trading and crop inputs company world-class expertise in nutrition through our joint venture, andproduct formulation.
Co-product innovation & marketing The UKs largest and most progressive marketer of food, drink and energy industry co-products.
EFFICIENCY EXTRACTING VALUE FROM AND INNOVATION FEEDSTOCK MATERIALS Taking our first step into the IN AGRI-FOOD anaerobicdigestion market.
PRODUCTION 29 RESPONSIBLY PRODUCED PROTEIN Rising to the challenge of an increasingdemand for protein feed.
30 29 A As ss so oc ci ia at te ed B d Br ri it ti is sh F h Fo oo od ds p s pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 16 6
