Strategic Report Therapy Area Overview and Pipeline Our Therapy Area teams are focused on maximising the value of our pipeline for patients and shareholders alike.
We adopt a dynamic approach to portfolio management DQG XVH EXVLQHVV GHYHORSPHQW WR VXSSOHPHQW RXU SLSHOLQH DQG RXU RZQ HRUWV Strategy We have completed the transformation For more information on our potential We have transformed our drugs portfolio of our Oncology portfolio where we new products and product life-cycle by focusing on three main therapy areas: are balancing our efforts across four developments, please see the Therapy Area Oncology, Cardiovascular & Metabolic disease areas lung, ovarian, breast and pipeline tables on pages 26, 31, 36 and 38 Disease CVMD and Respiratory, while haematology and investing in immunoand the Development Pipeline table from selectively pursuing promising therapies in oncology IO which has the potential to page 204.
For information on Patent Expiries Autoimmunity, Infection and Neuroscience.
benefit patients in multiple tumour types of our Key Marketed Products, please see Our sales in each of these areas in 2016 are and different lines of therapy.
from page 211. shown in the table below.
As we invest in our main therapy areas Indications for each product described in We are building value by strengthening we continue to build upon our strong this Therapy Area Review may vary among our in-line portfolios through commercial commercial and medical capabilities countries.
Please see local prescribing excellence, life-cycle management and to ensure that our medicines reach the information for country-specic indications expansion into new patient populations as patients who need them most.
well as by translating our late-stage pipeline into differentiated therapies for disease Development pipeline For those of our products subject to areas with high unmet medical need.
We As shown in the table overleaf, our pipeline litigation, information about material legal continue to pursue externalisation where includes 132 projects, of which 120 are in proceedings can be found in Note 28 to the it provides an opportunity to focus and the clinical phase of development, and Financial Statements from page 185. enhance our portfolio as well as access we are making significant progress in capabilities we do not have internally.
advancing our late-stage programmes Details of relevant risks are set out in through regulatory approval with 14 NME Risk from page 214.
We are seeking to expand our or major LCM regulatory submissions comprehensive Respiratory portfolio to during 2016, and 11 major approvals.
At Partnering meet the needs of asthma and COPD the end of 2016, we had 12 NME projects As outlined in Strategy and key patients across the severity spectrum of in pivotal studies or under regulatory review performance indicators from page 16, these diseases.
Building on an ICS LABA compared with 15 at the end of 2015.
15 business development, specifically foundation with Symbicort, we are evolving NMEs progressed to their next phase of partnering, is an important element of our our monoand xed-dose combination development, 22 projects were discontinued business.
It supplements and strengthens therapies as well as optimising our delivery in 2016, 17 for poorer than anticipated our pipeline and our efforts to achieve device platforms.
safety and efcacy results, four as a result of scientific leadership.
We partner with strategic shift in the environment or portfolio others around the world, including In CVMD, we are expanding our portfolio prioritisation, and one because of a change academia, governments, industry, scientific into the cardiovascular-renal area with latein regulatory requirements.
organisations and patient groups to access stage assets such as ZS-9 and roxadustat, the best science to stimulate innovation and as well as investing to explore the potential Our products accelerate the delivery of new medicines benets of our SGLT2 and GLP-1 franchises While this Therapy Area Review to target unmet medical need.
We currently in chronic kidney disease CKD and heart concentrates on our key marketed have more than 600 collaborations around failure HF.
products, many of our other products are the world.
crucial to our business in certain countries in Emerging Markets.
Global Product Sales by therapy area 2016 2015 2014 Actual CER Actual CER Actual CER Sales growth growth Sales growth growth Sales growth growth $m % % $m % % $m % % Oncology 3,383 20 20 2,825 7 7 3,027 5 2 Cardiovascular & Metabolic Disease 8,116 14 13 9,489 3 4 9,802 11 12 Respiratory 4,753 5 3 4,987 2 17 5,063 8 10 Other Disease Areas 5,067 20 19 6,340 23 16 8,203 9 7 Total 21,319 10 8 23,641 9 1 26,095 1 3 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 23 Strategic Report Therapy Area Review Therapy Area Overview and Pipeline continued Development pipeline overview as at 31 December 2016 Phase I Phase II Late-stage development Life-cycle management projects 41 36 27 28 41 projects in Phase I, including: 36 projects in Phase II, including: 27 projects in late-stage 28 LCM projects 2 9 NMEs 2 5 NMEs development, either in Phase VLJQLFDQW DGGLWLRQDO LQGLFDWLRQ IRU VLJQLFDQW DGGLWLRQDO LQGLFDWLRQV III pivotal Phase II studies or projects that have reached Phase III for projects that have reached under regulatory review: 11 oncology combination projects Phase III 12 NMEs not yet approved in any market 7 oncology combination projects 9 projects exploring additional indications for these NMEs, of which 5 are oncology combinations 5 NMEs already approved or launched in the EU, China, Japan and or the US FRQUPDWRU VWXG IRU IXOO approval of a launched NME 10 V DQG VLJQLFDQW DGGLWLRQDO Only includes material projects ZKHUH UVW LQGLFDWLRQ LV ODXQFKHG indications.
More generally, our business development This activity creates additional value from grow the business, while we retain a activity takes many forms and can be our existing medicines as well as recurring significant proportion of the value, which broadly grouped into: Externalisation Revenue and falls broadly we also book as Externalisation Revenue.
into two categories: a collaborations that alliances, collaborations and acquisitions help us access therapy area expertise and Alongside these externalisation to enhance our portfolio and pipeline in b collaborations that help us increase opportunities, we also divest medicines our main therapy areas the number of patients and the reach of that sit outside our main therapy areas and externalisation activity to maximise medicines in which we maintain an ongoing that can be deployed better by a partner, the value of our assets interest, but which sit outside our main in order to redirect investment and resource divestments of non-priority medicines.
in our main areas of focus while ensuring continued or expanded patient access.
We continue to assess opportunities to Examples of collaborations that help us For example, in 2016, we sold to Pzer the make strategic, value-enhancing additions access therapy area expertise include: commercialisation and development rights to our portfolio and pipeline in our main to our late-stage small molecule antibiotics therapy areas, including through in-licensing in Alzheimers disease through our business in most markets outside the US.
Acquisitions completed partnership with Lilly for the BACE The agreement reinforces our focus on during 2016 included the acquisition of inhibitor developing transformational medicines Takedas respiratory portfolio, in May, in dermatology through our agreements in our three main therapy areas, while and the acquisition of a controlling equity with Valeant and LEO Pharma for realising value through Pzers dedicated position in Acerta Pharma, in February, brodalumab and LEO Pharma for commercialisation and development both of which were signed in 2015. tralokinumab capabilities in anti-infectives.
in haematology through our collaboration Over the past three years, we have with Celgene for durvalumab.
The resulting revenue from these activities completed more than 270 major or supports our R&D investments in our strategically important business development In each case we are optimising the main therapy areas.
Ten transactions that transactions, including some 80 in 2016. long-term value of each medicine through contribute to Externalisation Revenue and Of these transactions, 55 were related to the collaboration.
a further nine divestments or out-licences pre-clinical assets or programmes and 11 to were completed in 2016.
17 transactions helped Examples of collaborations that help us expand our biologics capabilities.
increase our reach to a greater number More information on our partnering activity in 2016 can be found in subsequent sections of of patients include Plendil, an established this Therapy Area Review, Business Review Externalisation is a core component of our cardiovascular medicine, and the from page 42, Financial Review from page 62 strategy and has an important role to play in anaesthetics portfolio.
We partnered and Note 25 to the Financial Statements from the delivery of our ambition as we continue with Aspen on our anaesthetics portfolio, page 173 to sharpen our focus on developing key as a company with established expertise assets within our main therapy areas.
who can dedicate the right resources to 24 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016
