Tumour drivers and resistance: AstraZeneca is investigating a number of proteins and signalling molecules designed to impact tumour growth and resistance mechanisms.
Oncology Our ambition is to eliminate cancer as a FDXVH RI GHDWK WKURXJK VFLHQWLF GLVFRYHU and collaborations.
We seek to achieve this by means of our combination-focused pipeline that exploits the power of four VFLHQWLF SODWIRUPV AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 25 Strategic Report Therapy Area Review Oncology continued Following the science Our strategic priorities Therapy area world market In Oncology, our vision is to respond to MAT Q3 16 of oncology unmet medical need by redening the cancer treatment paradigm.
We are More than eight million lives are lost doing this through scientific innovation, every year to cancer.
Even as R&D $84.2bn accelerated clinical programmes and continues to push boundaries in how Annual worldwide market value collaboration.
We have a strong heritage we understand and fight cancer, there more than 40 years in developing is still more to do.
At AstraZeneca, we cancer drugs.
By the end of 2016, several Chemotherapy $19.7bn are committed to advancing the science Hormonal therapies submissions were underway and we aim of oncology to deliver life-changing $11.0bn to deliver at least four new cancer therapies, medicines to people most in need.
Monoclonal antibodies in addition to Lynparza and Tagrisso, and MAbs $25.0bn 12 new line extensions by 2020.
In 2015, Small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors TKIs we decided to consider all new Oncology $22.6bn launches, including Lynparza, Iressa US Immune checkpoint and Tagrisso, as our sixth Growth Platform, inhibitors $5.9bn under the designation of New Oncology.
Our broad pipeline of next-generation medicines is focused on four main Four key scientific platforms are driving our disease areas: breast, ovarian, lung efforts to discover new cancer treatments: and haematological cancers, using four key scientific approaches: Immunotherapy: Our ambition is to immunotherapy, tumour drivers and be a scientific leader in immunotherapy, resistance mechanisms, DNA damage a promising therapeutic approach that response, and antibody-drug conjugates.
harnesses the patients own immune system to help ght cancer.
We are working to understand how cancer evades the immune system and to identify Oncology pipeline progressions approaches that enhance the immune systems ability to ght cancer.
Regional approvals Tagrisso lung cancer EU, JP and ctDNA blood test US, JP Tumour drivers and resistance Expedited review Breakthrough Therapy Designation: durvalumab bladder cancer US mechanisms: Potent inhibition of genetic Orphan Drug Designation: acalabrutinib blood cancers EU : selumetinib thyroid cancer disease drivers is a clinically validated US approach to shrink tumours and improve Fast Track Designation: Lynparza ovarian cancer 2nd line US, prostate cancer 2nd line progression-free survival.
Tumours, US however, eventually develop resistance Priority Review Designation: Tagrisso CN : durvalumab bladder cancer US to these therapies.
Our programmes seek Regulatory submissions Faslodex breast cancer 1st line US, EU, JP to develop therapies that target resistance Tagrisso lung cancer CN mechanisms and the mutations that Tagrisso lung cancer AURA3 study for full approval US, EU cause cancer cells to proliferate.
Durvalumab bladder cancer US DNA damage response: Exploiting Phase III investment Savolitinib papillary renal cell carcinoma mechanisms that selectively damage decisions Durvalumab tremelimumab hepatocellular carcinoma tumour cell DNA is another clinically Phase II starts progressions In collaboration with Celgene, the combination of Vidaza and durvalumab for the treatment validated approach to shrink tumours of acute myeloid leukaemia and CC486 durvalumab for myelodysplastic syndromes: and improve progression-free survival.
MEDI0680 durvalumab for solid tumours: MEDI0562 humanised OX40 for solid tumours: AZD6738 Lynparza for gastric cancer: AZD1775 Wee1 for solid tumours: Our programmes focus on identifying daratumumab durvalumab for multiple myeloma: in collaboration with Incyte, epacadostat and exploiting vulnerabilities unique to IDO durvalumab for solid tumours tumour cells to kill the tumour cells while Strategic transactions Acquisition of majority stake in Acerta Pharma providing access to acalabrutinib completed minimising toxicity to the patient.
Setbacks and terminated FDA placed and subsequently lifted a partial clinical hold on the enrolment of new patients Antibody-drug conjugates: The use projects with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma HNSCC for clinical trials of durvalumab of antibody-drug conjugates ADC is a Tremelimumab DETERMINE, Lynparza GOLD, selumetinib SELECT-1 trials failed to meet clinically validated, highly potent approach primary endpoint: voluntarily withdrew the marketing authorisation application submitted that selectively targets cancer cells.
to the EMA for cediranib in advanced ovarian cancer We seek to combine innovative antibody 7KH IROORZLQJ FOLQLFDO SURJUDPPHV ZHUH GLVFRQWLQXHG LQHELOL]XPDE IRU GLXVH ODUJH % FHOO O PSKRPD 0 ', IRU VROLG WXPRXUV LQHELOL]XPDE 0 ', ULWX[LPDE IRU engineering capabilities with cytotoxic haematological malignancies: AZD5312 for solid tumours: AZD8835 for solid tumours: drug molecules to attack and kill the Tagrisso GXUYDOXPDE &$85$ QG OLQH DGYDQFHG 5P 7 0 16& & 0 ', for solid tumours: durvalumab MEDI6383 for solid tumours: MEDI0639 for solid tumours tumour while minimising toxicity to the patient.
5RFKH KROGV OLFHQFH IRU FW'1$ EORRG WHVW FROODERUDWLYH HRUW EHWZHHQ 5RFKH DQG $VWUD HQHFD WR VHFXUH DSSURYDO 26 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Strategic Report In February 2016, Tagrisso was approved endocrine therapy.
In October 2016, at Our marketed products by the EMA for the treatment of adult the European Society of Medical Oncology patients with locally advanced or metastatic Congress, we presented positive results of Arimidex anastrozole EGFR T790M mutation-positive NSCLC.
the Phase III FALCON clinical trial comparing In March 2016, it was approved in Japan the efcacy and safety of Faslodex 500mg Casodex Cosudex bicalutamide and, by the end of 2016, Tagrisso had with Arimidex in the 1st line advanced breast Faslodex fulvestrant received regulatory approval in more than cancer setting hormone-nave patients.
In September 2016, the These positive outcomes will form the basis Lynparza olaparib FDA approved a blood-based companion of a continuous expansion of Faslodex in Nolvadex tamoxifen citrate diagnostic test for use with Tagrisso.
Tagrisso osimertinib clinically-validated companion diagnostic Zoladex goserelin acetate implant test uses either tissue or a blood sample to Details of litigation relating to Faslodex confirm the presence of a T790M mutation are included in Note 28 to the Financial Full product information on page 211 in patients.
Japan approved the same test Statements from page 185. in December 2016.
Zoladex continues to be a significant Iressa was the first EGFR-TKI to be asset in our on-market portfolio and a approved in advanced NSCLC and, as of driver of our prostate cancer and breast 31 December 2016, had been approved in cancer portfolios.
We are also focused on identifying and 90 countries.
Indicated for the treatment of developing combination therapies.
Our advanced EGFR mutation NSCLC, it is the immuno-oncology portfolio, which we leading EGFR-TKI outside the US.
Iressa believe is one of the most comprehensive received approval in the US in July 2015. in our industry, enables us to explore and exploit scientific and biological synergies Lynparza is an oral poly ADP ribose to pursue combinations that improve polymerase PARP inhibitor available to outcomes and maximise patient benefit.
patients in 31 countries for the treatment of adult patients with BRCA-mutated Our 2016 focus high-grade serous epithelial ovarian, In total, our marketed Oncology products fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer.
generated sales of $3.4 billion worldwide in In October 2016, AstraZeneca announced 2016.
Sales from our New Oncology Growth positive high level results of SOLO-2, Platform, totalled $0.7 billion in 2016, an a Phase III randomised, double-blind, increase of 458% at actual rate of exchange placebo-controlled, multicentre study 450% at CER over 2015 $0.1 billion.
We of Lynparza maintenance monotherapy continue to explore ways to maximise the in platinum sensitive relapsed BRCA benefit of our medicines for patients.
gene-mutated ovarian cancer patients who are in complete or partial response Tagrisso is the first approved epidermal following platinum-based chemotherapy.
growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase Data from SOLO-2 could form the core inhibitor EGFR-TKI indicated for patients Phase III component for an FDA NDA with metastatic EGFR T790M mutationsubmission, a Japan NDA submission positive non-small cell lung cancer NSCLC.
and an EU variation to the MAA in 2017.
This indication was approved in November 14m 2015 under the FDAs Accelerated Approval Faslodex 500mg is approved in more than Programme based on tumour response rate 80 countries, including the EU, the US and Annual cancer cases are expected to rise and duration of response.
In March 2016, the FDA approved from 14 million in 2012 to an estimated this indication is dependent on verication a new indication expanding the use of 22 million within the next two decades.
and description of clinical benefit in the Faslodex, in combination with palbociclib conrmatory trial, AURA3, for which positive Pzer, for the treatment of women with Source: WHO Factsheet February 2014 data from 2012. results were presented in December.
hormone receptor-positive HR, human The EMA and FDA accepted the AURA3 epidermal growth factor receptor 2 negative submission in October and November HER2- advanced or metastatic breast respectively, and the FDA has granted cancer whose cancer has progressed after it a Priority Review.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 27 Strategic Report Therapy Area Review Oncology continued In the pipeline Tumour drivers and resistance EMA for the treatment of chronic Our Oncology pipeline continued to mechanisms franchise lymphocytic leukaemia CLL small progress in 2016.
It now includes 32 NMEs Tagrisso is a highly selective, irreversible lymphocytic lymphoma SLL, mantle cell in development.
We also expanded several inhibitor of the activating sensitising EGFR lymphoma MCL and lymphoplasmacytic of our projects to incorporate novel mutation and the resistance mutation lymphoma Waldenstrms combinations and various types of cancer.
The product is being investigated macroglobulinaemia, WM.
Some of our projects from each of our in Phase III studies in the adjuvant setting platforms are outlined below.
for the treatment of patients with EGFRm DNA damage response franchise NSCLC and in the advanced setting as a Lynparza is being evaluated in a broad Immuno-oncology franchise 1st line treatment of EGFRm NSCLC and range of Phase III trials, including BRCAm Durvalumab MEDI4736 is an anti-PD-L1 as a 2nd line treatment of EGFRm adjuvant and metastatic breast cancer, antibody in Phase III development for T790M NSCLC.
Additionally, studies in gBRCAm pancreatic cancer, gBRCAm NSCLC as a monotherapy and in combination with small molecules are ovarian cancer and prostate cancer.
combination with tremelimumab, an under investigation.
Lynparza was granted Breakthrough anti-Cytotoxic  Selumetinib is a mitogen-activated protein Therapy Designation by the FDA for protein 4 antibody.
The lung cancer kinase inhibitor in Phase III development treatment of BRCA1 2 or ATM geneprogramme includes studies in the for adjuvant differentiated thyroid cancer.
mutated metastatic castration resistant 1st line, 2nd line and 3rd line setting.
In May 2016, selumetinib was granted prostate cancer.
In May 2016, the Additional registration studies are Orphan Drug Designation by the FDA for Lynparza GOLD study in 2nd line gastric progressing in head and neck squamous differentiated thyroid cancer.
In August cancer failed to meet its primary endpoint cell carcinoma 1st and 2nd line, and 2016, the selumetinib Phase III study of overall survival.
In October 2016, results bladder cancer 1st line.
The development SELECT-1 in 2nd line KRAS mutant from the Phase III SOLO-2 trial programme also includes additional NSCLC failed to meet its primary demonstrated a clinically meaningful and Phase I and Phase II studies in a broad endpoint of progression-free survival.
statistically significant improvement of range of solid tumours and an extensive Cediranib is an orally administered progression-free survival PFS among range of combination programmes.
In multi-Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor patients treated with Lynparza tablets February 2016, durvalumab was granted receptor VEGFR inhibitor which is 300mg twice daily compared to placebo Breakthrough Therapy Designation by currently being tested in combination and provided additional evidence to the FDA for the treatment of patients with with Lynparza in patients with platinumsupport the potential use of Lynparza PD-L1 positive inoperable or metastatic sensitive relapsed PSR ovarian cancer as a monotherapy for the maintenance urothelial bladder cancer and, in and platinum-resistant refractory PRR treatment of platinum-sensitive relapsed, December 2016, it was additionally ovarian cancer.
In September 2016, BRCA-mutated ovarian cancer.
granted Priority Review status with AstraZeneca made the decision to AZD1775 is a Wee1 inhibitor in Phase II a Prescription Drug User Fee Act set withdraw the MAA for cediranib in development for ovarian and other solid for the second quarter of 2017. combination with platinum-based tumours in combination with Lynparza.
MEDI0680 is an antiprogrammed cell chemotherapy followed by maintenance Phase I clinical studies are progressing death protein 1 PD-1 MAb that may help monotherapy for the treatment of adult for the ATR inhibitor AZD6738 2nd line promote an effective anti-tumour immune patients with platinum-sensitive relapsed gastric cancer with Lynparza and also in response by blocking the interactions ovarian cancer ICON6.
combination with ionising radiation in solid between PD-1 and its ligands.
It could AZD5363 is a protein kinase B AKT tumours, the ATM inhibitor AZD0156 for also improve the intrinsic functionality of inhibitor in Phase II development for the treatment of gastric and colorectal T-cells by triggering internalisation of PD-1, breast and prostate cancer.
cancers and the aurora b kinase a mechanism that may be unique to Savolitinib AZD6094 is a hepatocyte AZD2811 in solid tumours.
MEDI0680 is in Phase I growth factor receptor c-MET inhibitor.
development for solid tumours as a It is in Phase II development for lung and monotherapy and in combination with renal cancer.
Vistusertib AZD2014 is an inhibitor of the Other immuno-oncology agents in early mammalian target of rapamycin serine development include: MEDI6383, a threonine kinase TORC1, TORC2 and is human tumour necrosis factor receptor in Phase II development for the treatment superfamily, member 4 OX40 agonist: of solid and haematological tumours.
8.2m MEDI9447 targeting ecto-5-nucleotidase AZD9496 is a selective oestrogen CD73 : and MEDI1873 targeting receptor down-regulator SERD in Cancer is a leading cause of death  tumour necrosis Phase I development for the treatment worldwide and accounted for 8.2 million factor receptor-ligand GITRL.
deaths in 2012. agents are in Phase I development for Acalabrutinib is a Brutons tyrosine kinase a range of solid tumours and have the BTK inhibitor in Phase III development in Source: WHO Factsheet February 2014 data from 2012. potential for combination with other B-cell malignancies and solid tumours.
In molecules in the portfolio.
April 2016, acalabrutinib was designated as an orphan medicinal product by the 28 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Strategic Report combination with Incytes oral indoleamine dioxygenase-1 IDO1 inhibitor, epacadostat INCB24360.
We also extended our collaboration with Moderna to discover, co-develop and co-commercialise messenger RNA mRNA therapeutic candidates for the treatment of a range of cancers.
In February 2016, we completed a transaction for a majority equity stake investment in Acerta Pharma.
The transaction provides AstraZeneca with a potential best-in-class irreversible oral BTK inhibitor, acalabrutinib ACP-196, currently inPhase III development for B-cell blood cancers and in Phase I II clinical trials in multiple solid tumours.
In June 2016, we signed a denitive agreement with Foundation Medicine, Inc. todevelop a novel companion diagnostic assay for Lynparza to support its global Inve five five five est st st st st ti in in ing g fo f r the e future e e e: development programme.
The companion Pe P Pe Pe Pe Pe Pe Pe ers rs s son o o o alised h hea e lthc hcar a e e e P P PHC HC H H in n n diagnostic seeks to enable physicians i i im im im im imm m mu mu mu m m no no no-ooonc nc ncol ol olog og og g gy y y y I IO O O O to identify those patients most likely to benefit from AstraZenecas first-in-class PARP inhibitor.
AstraZeneca has been at the forefront Antibody-drug conjugates franchise of PHC since its inception, with 80% of Moxetumomab pasudotox, an anti-CD22 In November 2016, CancerLinQ, a non-profit current investigative molecules using a recombinant immunotoxin, is being subsidiary of the American Society of PHC approach.
This research includes investigated in a Phase III study for adult Clinical Oncology, announced a new investment in understanding the science patients with hairy cell leukaemia who non-exclusive partnership with AstraZeneca, of PD-L1 protein expression, which plays have relapsed after, or not responded to, which will use CancerLinQ Discovery, a a role in suppressing the immune system.
groundbreaking offering that aims to provide Testing for expression levels of PD-L1 MEDI4276 is a HER2 bispecic ADC, insights through the analysis of real-world may help to identify patients most likely which entered clinical development for cancer care data.
As a Founding Enterprise WR EHQHW IURP, 2 EDVHG FDQFHU WKHUDSLHV a range of solid tumours.
Partner, AstraZeneca will be able to gather However, choosing between the many insights on specic cancer care questions PD-L1 diagnostic tests available can be Key Oncology collaborations and provide critical input to maximise challenging.
We embarked on a series of and transactions CancerLinQ Discoverys utility and usability.
studies to compare the currently available Collaboration is key to accessing the best PD-L1 tests across various tumour types, science and technology, achieving scientific and demonstrated a strong association leadership and delivering innovative, concordance between most of them.
In 2016, we This research suggests that the tests continued to strengthen our portfolio and might one day be used interchangeably accelerate clinical programmes through WR HQDEOH LGHQWLFDWLRQ RI DSSURSULDWH acquisitions and collaborations.
60% patients for IO therapies, thereby driving HFLHQFLHV LQ FDQFHU FDUH In January 2016, we announced a new More than 60% of the worlds total new collaboration with Incyte to evaluate the annual cancer cases occur in Africa, efcacy and safety of Incytes JanusAsia and Central and South America.
associated kinase JAK 1 inhibitor, These regions account for 70% of the INCB39110, in combination with Tagrisso.
This builds on an existing collaboration between the two companies to explore Source: WHO Factsheet February 2014 data from 2012.
AstraZenecas anti-PD-L1 immune checkpoint inhibitor, durvalumab, in AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 29
