Strategic Report Therapy Area Review Other Disease Areas In addition to our focus on the treatment of diseases Psoriasis is a chronic disease in which the immune system causes skin cells to grow in our three main therapy areas, we are also selectively rapidly.
Instead of being shed, the skin cells active in the areas of Autoimmunity, Infection and pile up, causing painful and itchy, red, scaly patches that can bleed.
Approximately Neuroscience, as well as Gastroenterology, where 100 million people worldwide suffer from we aim to develop best-in-class therapies and follow psoriasis.
Despite available treatment options for moderate-to-severe plaque an opportunity-driven approach.
psoriasis, many patients do not experience a resolution of underlying inammation, clearing of symptoms or an improved quality of life.
Our approach in our other disease areas as infection, nephritis and cardiovascular Gout is a serious, chronic, progressive looks to maximise revenue through disease.
Inammation of the kidneys caused and debilitating form of inammatory arthritis externalisation and on-market products: by SLE known as lupus nephritis can that affects more than 15.8 million people advance the novel product pipeline with lead to significant morbidity and even in major markets.
The underlying cause partnerships where appropriate: and death.
Current treatment of SLE focuses of gout is hyperuricemia elevated serum preserve a company stake in the most on suppressing symptoms and controlling uric acid, which leads to the deposition promising assets.
disease ares and, in the case of lupus of crystals primarily in the joints and in nephritis, preventing renal failure.
This can result in recurrent attacks of inammatory arthritis and, if Autoimmunity Neuromyelitis optica NMO is a rare, lifeleft uncontrolled, can lead to chronic, Systemic lupus erythematosus SLE, threatening autoimmune disease of the progressive arthritis and tophus visible soft or lupus, is an autoimmune disease central nervous system in which the bodys tissue deposits of urate crystals formation.
that occurs when the immune system immune system attacks healthy cells, most produces antibodies that attack healthy commonly in the optic nerves and spinal Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune tissue, including skin, joints, kidney, the cord, resulting in severe damage.
NMO disease that affects about 1% of the brain and blood vessels.
SLE can cause causes severe muscle weakness and population and causes inammation in a wide range of symptoms.
Among these paralysis, loss of vision, respiratory failure, the joints, with joint pain and swelling are pain, rashes, fatigue, swelling in joints, problems with bowel and bladder function symptoms.
There is a need for novel and fevers.
SLE is associated with a and neuropathic pain.
treatments, since only about a third of greater risk of death from causes such patients treated with biologics achieve their treatment goals.
In the pipeline We are strengthening our pipeline and improving treatment options and clinical outcomes for patients with inammatory and autoimmune diseases.
Common Other Disease Areas pipeline progressions molecular pathways are often shared across multiple autoimmune diseases, Regional approvals Zurampic gout EU which provides opportunities to identify Zavicefta previously CAZ AVI serious infections EU and work with approaches that could 3DQGHPLF LYH $WWHQXDWHG, QXHQ]D 9DFFLQH SDQGHPLF LQXHQ]D 8 become treatments for more than Expedited review 2USKDQ 'UXJ 'HVLJQDWLRQ LQHELOL]XPDE 0 ', QHXURP HOLWLV RSWLFD 86 one disease.
DVW 7UDFN 'HVLJQDWLRQ 0 ', KRVSLWDOLVHG LQXHQ]D 86 $ ' $O]KHLPHUV disease US Anifrolumab is a developmental MAb that Regulatory submissions Lesinurad allopurinol FDC gout US inhibits the activity of all type I interferon IFN Phase III investment $ ' $O]KHLPHUV GLVHDVH $70 $9, IRU VHULRXV EDFWHULDO LQIHFWLRQV WUDORNLQXPDE receptors, which play a central role in lupus.
decisions for atopic dermatitis A majority of patients with SLE show a high Phase II starts progressions MEDI2070 for Crohns disease: MEDI3902 for the prevention of nosocomial pseudomonas interferon gene signature, and increased pneumonia: MEDI8897 for RSV levels of type I IFN have been shown to Strategic transactions Licensing agreements with Ironwood for the US rights to Zurampic and with Gru nenthal completed GmbH for rights in the EU and Latin America: two licensing agreements with LEO Pharma correlate with SLE disease activity and on our dermatology portfolio brodalumab for EU, and tralokinumab for atopic dermatitis : severity.
Phase II trial results presented VDOH RI VPDOO PROHFXOH DQWLELRWLFV SRUWIROLR WR 3]HU OLFHQVLQJ 0 ', WR $OOHUJDQ agreement with ProStrakan Group now Kyowa Kirin International plc for the rights to in November 2015 demonstrated that Moventig QDOR[HJRO LQ WKH 8, FHODQG 1RUZD 6ZLW]HUODQG DQG LHFKWHQVWHLQ anifrolumab signicantly reduced disease Setbacks and terminated Abrilumab for Crohns disease ulcerative colitis: MEDI7510 for prevention of RSV disease activity in moderate-to-severe SLE patients projects in older patients as measured by several SLE composite Achieved as a result of partnering: will not be progressed by AstraZeneca.
38 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Strategic Report agreement entered into in July 2016.
Valeant and LEO Pharma assume decision making on future development and all development costs associated with brodalumab.
Zurampic inhibits the urate transporter, URAT1, which is responsible for the majority of the renal reabsorption of uric acid.
By inhibiting URAT1, Zurampic increases uric acid excretion and thereby lowers serum uric acid levels.
In combination with the current standard-of-care, xanthine oxidase inhibitors XOIs allopurinol or febuxostat, Zurampic provides a dual Investing for the future: mechanism of action to increase Breaking the lupus code excretion and decrease production of uric acid, enabling more patients with inadequately controlled gout to achieve Recognition of the importance of the role endpoints.
It also improved symptoms of target treatment goals.
played by the interferon pathway in lupus lupus such as rash and arthritis.
Anifrolumab led to the development of anifrolumab, an is currently in Phase III development for SLE In April 2016, AstraZeneca entered into a LQYHVWLJDWLRQDO SRWHQWLDOO UVW LQ FODVV and Phase II for lupus nephritis.
A Phase I licensing agreement with Ironwood for the MAb that inhibits the activity of all type 1 subcutaneous administration study was exclusive US rights to Zurampic.
Anifrolumab is being completed in 2016 with plans for further was approved by the FDA in December developed with an IFN gene signature studies ongoing.
2015, in combination with an XOI, for the diagnostic test designed to identify treatment of hyperuricemia associated with SDWLHQWV ZKR PD EH PRUH OLNHO WR EHQHW In March 2016, the FDA granted Orphan gout in patients who have not achieved from treatment.
The role of the interferon Drug Designation for inebilizumab MEDItarget serum uric acid levels with an XOI pathway may go beyond lupus: elevated 551 for the treatment of patients with NMO alone.
Ironwood launched Zurampic in the type 1 IFN signature has been found in as well as neuromyelitis optica spectrum US in October 2016.
In addition, Ironwood several other autoimmune diseases.
Inebilizumab is an has exclusive US rights to the xed-dose anti-CD19 MAb currently in Phase IIb clinical combination of lesinurad and allopurinol.
The FDAs Orphan Drug Designation programme provides orphan In February 2016, the European Commission status to potential medicines intended for granted marketing authorisation for Zurampic the safe and effective treatment, diagnosis 200mg in combination with an XOI for the or prevention of rare diseases or disorders adjunctive treatment of hyperuricemia in that affect fewer than 200,000 people gout patients with or without tophi who in the US.
have not achieved target serum uric acid levels with an adequate dose of an XOI alone.
Brodalumab is a human MAb that targets the interleukin-17 IL-17 receptor.
In June 2016, we licensed out the exclusive Brodalumab is currently under regulatory rights to Zurampic in the EU, Switzerland, review in the US and Europe for adult Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein, and in patients with moderate-to-severe plaque all Latin American countries to Grnenthal psoriasis, with decisions anticipated in GmbH.
The agreement includes rights to early 2017. the xed-dose combination of lesinurad and allopurinol in gout.
Through a collaboration agreement, Valeant, an expert in dermatology, has Verinurad RDEA3170 is a potent selective an exclusive licence to develop and uric acid reabsorption inhibitor, also commercialise brodalumab globally, except intended for use as a combination uratein Japan and certain other Asian countries lowering therapy with XOIs.
Verinurad is in where rights are held by Kyowa Hakko Phase II development.
We have recently Kirin, and in Europe, where LEO Pharma initiated plans to study verinurad for CKD holds exclusive rights to develop and in a Phase II study.
commercialise brodalumab based on an AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 39 St Str ra at te egi gic c R Re ep po or rt t Therapy Area Review Other Disease Areas continued Mavrilimumab, an investigational MAb that hospitalisations and admissions to Our marketed products inhibits a key pathway in the development paediatric intensive care units and leads to of rheumatoid arthritis, achieved its primary nearly 200,000 deaths globally in children Infection and secondary endpoints in recently under five years of age, with the majority 1,2 Fluenz Tetra FluMist Quadrivalent inuenza completed Phase IIb trials.
Results showed of deaths occurring in developing countries.
vaccine live that mavrilimumab improved signs and Synagis is approved in more than 80 3 Synagis palivizumab symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis, measures countries and is the global standard of care of disability and patient-reported outcomes.
We continue to work Full product information on page 211 with our worldwide partner, AbbVie, to 1 protect vulnerable infants.
Infection 2 Daiichi Sankyo holds rights to Fluenz Tetra FluMist Seasonal inuenza is a serious public Quadrivalent in Japan.
MEDI8897 is a novel extended half-life MAb 3 US rights only.
AbbVie holds rights to Synagis outside health problem that causes severe illness the US.
for the prevention of serious respiratory and death in high-risk populations.
In disease caused by RSV in infants.
It requires 2016, the US Centers for Disease Control dosing only once per RSV season a and Prevention CDC issued an interim Neuroscience potential breakthrough in RSV prophylaxis.
recommendation that FluMist Quadrivalent Movantik Moventig naloxegol In November 2016, the first patient was Fluenz Tetra should not be used in the US Seroquel IR quetiapine fumarate dosed in a Phase IIb trial.
The FDA granted for the 2016 to 2017 inuenza season based Seroquel XR quetiapine fumarate Fast Track status to MEDI8897 in April 2015. on concerns regarding low effectiveness 1 Vimovo naproxen and esomeprazole of the vaccine in the US during the last magnesium Through a broad collaboration and three inuenza seasons 2013 to 2016.
Zomig zolmitriptan significant funding, AstraZeneca joined in The vaccine remains licensed in the US a public-private partnership with Vaccines and AstraZeneca MedImmune remain Full product information on page 211 Europe, the European Commission, the committed to FluMist Quadrivalent and 1 European Federation of Pharmaceutical LFHQVHG IURP 3R]HQ 'LYHVWHG 86 ULJKWV WR RUL]RQ supporting it in the US and in the rest of the 3KDUPD 86$, QF HHFWLYH 1RYHPEHU Industries and Associations EFPIA and the world.
The FDA continues to nd that the Innovative Medicines Initiative IMI to further benets of FluMist Quadrivalent outweigh define the substantial unmet needs of RSV Gastrointestinal any potential risks.
We are conducting in paediatrics and older adults.
Funding Losec Prilosec omeprazole non-clinical and clinical studies in order to for the partnership, called RESCEU, will provide data to help support a renewed Nexium esomeprazole magnesium support the existing MEDI8897 programme recommendation for use in the US in future and further strengthens our relationship seasons.
The vaccine continues to be Full product information on page 211 with IMI.
recommended for use in many countries outside the US based on their respective In June 2016, the European Commission public health authorities review of existing granted marketing authorisation for and recent vaccine effectiveness data.
We Zavicefta , previously also recently reached an agreement with known as CAZ AVI, a new combination the WHO to donate and supply at reduced antibiotic for the treatment of patients with prices a portion of vaccine production in serious Gram-negative bacterial infections the event of an inuenza pandemic.
MEDI8852, an investigational human 3-5m Zavicefta has been developed in response MAb for the treatment of patients to the urgent need for new antibiotics to hospitalised with Type A strain inuenza, $QQXDO LQXHQ]D HSLGHPLFV DUH treat serious infections that are becoming received Fast Track Designation from the estimated to result in about three increasingly resistant, such as multi-drug FDA in March 2016.
WR YH PLOOLRQ FDVHV RI VHYHUH LOOQHVV resistant P. aeruginosa, carbapenemand about 250,000 to 500,000 deaths.
resistant Gram-negative pathogens, and Since its approval in 1998, Synagis has ESBL-producing Enterobacteriaceae.
helped protect at risk babies globally against Source: WHO Factsheet November 2016. respiratory syncytial virus RSV.
RSV is In December 2016, we confirmed the a common seasonal virus and the most completion of an agreement to sell the prevalent cause of lower respiratory tract development and commercialisation rights infections among infants and young of our late-stage, small molecule antibiotics children, affecting approximately two-thirds business to Pzer.
The portfolio comprised of all infants in their first year of life 68% Zinforo, Zavicefta, Merrem, ATM-AVI and by 12 months of age and 97% by 24 months CXL in all markets where we held the rights.
It is the leading cause of 40 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Strategic Report We are committed to ensuring that pain patients who need to manage the side effect of opioid induced constipation continue to get access to Movantik Moventig.
In March 2016, AstraZeneca announced an agreement with ProStrakan Group, now Kyowa Kirin International plc, for the rights to Moventig naloxegol in the EU, Iceland, Norway, Switzerland and Liechtenstein.
In December 2016, we completed a sub-licence to Knight Therapeutics Inc. to commercialise Movantik Moventig in Canada and Israel.
Investing for the future: This follows the 2015 co-commercialisation Searching for a treatment for agreement with Daiichi Sankyo for Movantik $O]KHLPHUV GLVHDVH in the US.
These agreements are in line with delivering on our externalisation strategy to create value by partnering on $O]KHLPHUV GLVHDVH UHPDLQV RQH RI WKH Neuroscience pipeline assets that are outside our three largest areas of unmet medical need and Current commercialised AstraZeneca main therapy areas.
FRQWLQXHV WR JHQHUDWH VLJQLFDQW VRFLDO neuroscience molecules include DQG VFLHQWLF LQWHUHVW $ ' RXU Zomig triptan and Seroquel atypical Gastrointestinal BACE inhibitor in collaboration with Lilly antipsychotics, which have lost exclusivity In 2016, use of Nexium continued to grow received Fast Track Designation by the in all major markets.
In November 2016, in markets including China and Japan.
FDA in August 2016. two licensed generics of Seroquel XR Demand for Nexium in China is expected were launched in the US.
In June 2016, to continue to grow over the next several AstraZeneca announced an agreement years, based on broader geographic with Aspen Global Incorporated, part expansion as well as anticipated label of Aspen Group, for the rights to the expansions, and has the potential to global anaesthetics portfolio outside become a top-selling medicine in its class, the US.
The agreement covered seven as in Japan.
Patent protection for Nexium established medicines Diprivan general remains in Japan.
For the rest of the world, anaesthesia, EMLA topical anaesthetic Nexium is subject to generic competition.
and five local anaesthetics Xylocaine Xylocard Xyloproct, Marcaine, Naropin, Carbocaine and Citanest.
AZD3293 is our BACE inhibitor which we are progressing in collaboration with Lilly for the potential treatment of Alzheimers disease.
It experienced several critical milestones throughout 2016, including continuation of the Phase II III trial AMARANTH into Phase III and the initiation of DAYBREAK-ALZ, a new Phase III trial to evaluate the safety and efcacy of AZD3293 in people with mild Alzheimers dementia.
The investigational treatment also received Fast Track Designation by the FDA in August 2016.
Further underpinning AstraZenecas commitment to Alzheimers disease, in December 2016, we announced that MEDI1814, an investigational MAb selective for toxic proteins associated with Alzheimers disease, will be developed beyond Phase I, also in collaboration with Lilly.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 41
