Strategic Report Resources Review Resources Review If f w we e are to ac ch hieve our stra at te egic prior ri it ties, we need Employees WWRR HQVXUH WKKDDWW ZZH GHSOR RXU DDVVVHWV HHFLHQWO DQG PDDQQDJH RXXUU UHVRXUFHV WR EHVW HHHFW 22XU HPPSSOOR HHV To achieve our strategic priorities, we continue to acquire, retain and a ar re e o our gr re eatest asset but we als so re el ly on o our develop a talented and diverse intellectua al l property and our R& &D i in nvestm men nt t, our workforce united in the pursuit of our Purpose and Values.
manufa ac ct tu uring resources a an nd d o our i inform ma at ti io on n servic ce es VVXXSSSSRUW : :H DOVR VHHN WR PDQDJJHH RXU  Overview UHVRXUFHV HFLHQWO Hired 9,200 permanent employees to help us achieve our strategic priorities Piloted an online Leading People development experience Overview Established a global target for all employees to have a development 59,700 employees in more than 100 countries conversation with their manager People strategy built around four key pillars: build and develop and associated development plan organisations and capabilities: develop a strong and diverse pipeline Increased the gender diversity of leaders: drive a vibrant, high-performing culture: and generate a passion of our leadership for people development Piloted a global Women as Leaders &RPPLW VLJQLFDQW UHVRXUFHV WR HVWDEOLVKLQJ DQG GHIHQGLQJ RXU SDWHQW programme and related IP protections for inventions 31 sites in 18 countries where we are working on the development, manufacture and supply of our products Launched our Operations 2020 strategy to enhance supply capabilities We value the talents and skills of our in order to respond better to patient and market needs employees and our people strategy Three strateg gic R&D centres: in the US Gaithersburg, g, MD : : UK supports our strategic priority of being Cambridge : and Sweden Gothenburg.
A total of nine R&D sites in a great place to work.
YH FRXQWULHV Our vision for IT focuses on areas that will enable competitive advantage Build and develop organisations for us and capabilities Embedding our 2025 Safety, Health and Environment strategy into During 2016, we hired 9,200 permanent our business employees.
An additional 200 employees joined us through acquisitions, most notably Takeda and Acerta Pharma.
We are committed to hiring and promoting talent ethically and in compliance with applicable laws.
Our policies and procedures are designed to help protect against discrimination on any grounds including disability and cover recruitment and selection, performance management, career development and promotion, 54 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Strategic Report Sales and Marketing transfer, training, retraining including Voluntary employee turnover increased workforce retraining, if needed, for people who have marginally to 9.6% in 2016 from 8.6% in composition % become disabled, and reward.
The voluntary deliver our strategic priorities, we are employee turnover rate among our high Emerging Markets 57% identifying and recruiting emerging talent, as performers also increased in 2016 to 6.1%.
Established Markets 43% well as investing in internships and We seek to reduce regretted turnover recruitment opportunities globally.
For through more effective hiring and induction, example, we conduct a global programme high-level reviews of resignations, risk to hire recent graduates for our assessments and retention plans.
procurement, quality, engineering, IT and supply chain functions.
We also have a We continue to focus on diversity and Develop a strong and graduate programme for IMED, which inclusion with a goal to increase the diverse pipeline of leaders complements our established IMED Post presence of women on our leadership To foster innovation, we seek to harness Doctorate Programme for researcher teams.
In 2016, we piloted a European different perspectives, talents and ideas as recruitment.
Additionally, we offer a 12-week Women as Leaders experience to well as ensuring that our employees reect internship opportunity for business school support the accelerated development the diversity of the communities in which students to contribute to key initiatives in our of high potential women in AstraZeneca.
In 2017, this programme will be offered globally.
As shown in the gender diversity During 2016, we implemented new talent Hiring over recent years means that gure on the next page, women comprise management and succession planning employees with less than two years 49.9% of our global workforce.
This focused on the deliberate service now represent 30% of our global currently three women on our Board 30%.
identication, sourcing and accelerated workforce up from 20% in 2012.
This Below Board level, the representation of development of our highest potential talent, provides a greater balance in terms of women in senior roles ie roles at Career seeking to ensure that we have credible refreshing talent and retaining organisational Level F or above which constitute the six successors with the capabilities and experience.
The composition of our highest bands of our employee population experiences necessary for our business international workforce has also changed increased to 43.2% in 2016, which critical roles.
This can be seen exceeded our Scorecard target of 42.5% in the Sales and Marketing gures to the for this measure and compares favourably right, which shows a greater concentration to external benchmarks.
A global business 6,500 5,700 700 1,300 employees employees employees employees in UK in Sweden in Canada in Russia 13,000 10,800 10.9% 9.6% 1.2% 2.1% employees employees in US in China 59,700 21.8% 18.1% employees by geographical area 2,900 7,400 Co-locating around three strategic employees employees in R&D centres in Japan Other Europe Cambridge, UK 2,000 employees 4.9% 12.4% Gaithersburg, Maryland US 2,900 employees Gothenburg, Sweden 2,200 employees Employees by reporting region % US 21.8% Europe 32.9% Established 5,700 3,000 1,700 1,000 Rest of World 7.7% employees in employees in employees in employees Emerging 2WKHU $VLD 3DFLF Central and Middle East in Australia Markets 37.6% 9.6% South America and Africa and New Zealand 5.1% 2.7% 1.6% All numbers as at 31 December 2016 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 55 Strategic Report Resources Review Resources Review continued We continue to develop high-quality leaders.
Equally important are our performanceGenerate a passion for In 2016, 15% of the approximately 130 related bonus and incentive plans.
We people development leadership roles that report to our senior encourage participation in various employee We encourage employees to take leadership team were either promoted into share plans, some of which are described ownership of their own development the leadership population, or moved roles in the Directors Remuneration Report and encourage leaders to spend time within the leadership population.
To ensure from page 103, and also in Note 27 to the supporting their employees development.
our senior leadership reects our diverse Financial Statements, from page 182.
To support this, in 2016 we implemented geographic footprint, we track the country a global platform to increase the visibility of origin of senior leaders and reect this Employee opinion surveys help us measure and accessibility of job opportunities.
In 2016, 14.5% of employee satisfaction and engagement leadership roles that report to our senior and how we are doing in our aim of being We strive to attract talent by offering leadership team have a country of origin a great place to work.
Our most recent rewarding careers that connect the potential that is an Emerging Market or Japan an survey, carried out in December 2016, of our people with the capabilities required increase from 5% in 2012. showed a decline compared to the survey by our business.
We are focusing on at the start of the year in scores for all ensuring development opportunities are Drive a vibrant, high-performing 10 items common to both surveys.
available to all employees, alongside our culture Although this might not be unexpected investment in our highest potential talent.
Continuing our emphasis on high given the action we are taking to reshape In 2016, we piloted a new best-practice performance, in 2016, we extended our our business to improve long-term technology-enabled leadership experience, single global performance management competitiveness, we are continuing to focus rooted in social learning, with 180 supply framework and approach to cover 94% on improving areas identied in our surveys and manufacturing leaders based in West of the workforce.
We also implemented as being important drivers of employee Chester and Mount Vernon in the US, and a global annual salary and incentive engagement.
For example, we are driving Vorsino in Russia.
This experience can be review process which covers 60% of the our agenda around people development, accessed on any device at any time, with workforce.
We require every employee encouraging improved dialogue between the goal of implementing global technology to have high quality objectives, aligned to colleagues and their line managers on enabled development programmes in 2017. our strategy, which we monitor closely.
We have also continued our Managers are accountable for working with efforts to simplify the work environment Human rights their employees to develop individual and for colleagues, whether this be through We are committed to respecting and team performance targets, and for ensuring simplifying business processes or improving promoting international human rights not employees understand how they contribute the IT tools we use in the workplace.
only in our own operations, but also in our to our overall business objectives.
wider spheres of influence such as our third party providers.
To that end, we integrate human rights considerations into our policies, processes and practices.
We are also committed to ensuring that Gender diversity there is no modern slavery or human trafcking in our supply chains or any part Directors of the Board of Directors of our business.
Our full statement required Companys of the Company 10 under section 54 of the UK Modern Slavery subsidiaries 435 Act will be published on our website, Male 70% Male 71.7% www.
Female 30% Female 28.3% We support the principles set out in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organizations ILO standards on child SET 12 AstraZeneca labour and minimum wages.
We are also employees 59,700 members of the United Nations Global Compact on Human Rights.
Male 67% Male 50.1% Female 33% Female 49.9% In 2016, we began conducting our third biennial Human Rights labour review in all countries where we have a presence.
The review focuses on ILO core themes, including freedom of association and For the purposes of section 414C 8 c ii of the Companies Act 2006, Senior Managers are the SET, the directors of all collective bargaining, child labour, of the subsidiaries of the Company and other individuals holding named positions within those subsidiaries.
56 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Strategic Report discrimination, working hours and wages, patent proceedings.
For information about including questions on the Living Wage.
Intellectual Property third party challenges to patents protecting Where a gap to ILO minimum standards our products, see Note 28 to the Financial is identied, we will put in place local plans Discovering and developing Statements from page 185.
For more to close those gaps.
In 2016, AstraZeneca information on the risks relating to patent PHGLFLQHV UHTXLUHV D VLJQLFDQW became accredited with the Living Wage litigation and early loss and expiry of investment of resources by researchFoundation in the UK and will treat this as patents, please see Risk from page 214. based pharmaceutical companies.
an experience to be evaluated alongside The process can take a decade or all other associated evidence in respect The basic term of a patent is typically more.
For this to be a viable of seeking a global solution, for example, 20 years from the ling of the patent investment, new medicines must be monitoring impact on our cost base.
application with the relevant patent safeguarded from being copied with ofce.
However, a product protected by a reasonable amount of certainty for Managing change a pharmaceutical patent may not be a reasonable period of time.
In 2013, we announced plans to invest in marketed for several years after ling, three strategic R&D centres as outlined due to the duration of clinical trials and in Organisation on page 42.
This affected regulatory approval processes.
Patent Term employees in the US and the UK.
We Extensions PTE are available in certain Our industrys principal economic safeguard encouraged and supported employees to major markets, including the EU and the is a well-functioning patent system that relocate and have made good progress.
For US, to compensate for these delays.
recognises our efforts and rewards example, as at 31 December 2016, 2,000 The term of the PTE can vary from zero innovation with appropriate protection employees were working in Cambridge and, to five years, depending on the time taken and allows time to generate the revenue of these employees, 500 have relocated to obtain any marketing approval.
The we need to reinvest in pharmaceutical from other sites in the UK.
In addition to the maximum patent term, when including PTE, innovation.
Patent rights are limited by 750 employees hired in 2015 and 2016, we cannot exceed 15 years EU or 14 years territory and duration.
A significant portion expect to hire a further approximately 350 US from the first marketing authorisation.
of a patents duration can be spent during employees in Cambridge in 2017.
We are R&D, before it is possible to launch the using interim infrastructure in and around Patent expiries protected product.
Therefore, we commit Cambridge to house these employees The tables on pages 211 to 213 set out significant resources to establishing and until our new site is ready.
For employees defending our patent and related IP certain patent expiry dates and sales for who do not accept offers to relocate to protections for inventions.
Cambridge, we provide career support, outplacement support and competitive Patent process Other exclusivities severance packages.
We le patent protection applications In addition to patent protection, regulatory for our inventions to safeguard the large data protection RDP or data exclusivity is For more information on Cambridge, see page investment required to obtain marketing an important IP right, which arises in respect 7: on our restructuring programme, please see approvals for potential new drugs.
As we of data which is required to be submitted Restructuring from page 69 and Financial further develop a product and its uses, to regulatory authorities to obtain marketing Review from page 62 these new developments may necessitate approvals for our medicines.
We apply for patents investment is required to generate such Employee relations through government patent ofces around data for example, through conducting We seek to follow a global approach the world.
These assess whether our global clinical trials and this proprietary data to employee relations guided by global inventions meet the strict legal requirements is protected from use by third parties such employment principles and standards, for a patent to be granted.
Our competitors as generic manufacturers for a number of local laws and good practice.
We work to can challenge our patents in patent ofces years in a limited number of countries.
The develop and maintain good relations with and or courts.
We may face challenges early period of such protection, and the extent local workforces and work closely with in the patent application process and to which it is respected, differs signicantly our recognised national trade unions.
The grounds for among countries.
RDP is an important We also regularly consult with employee these challenges could be the validity of a protection for our products, and we strive to representatives or, where applicable, trade patent and or its effective scope and are enforce our rights to it, particularly as patent unions, who share our aim of retaining key based on ever-evolving legal precedents.
rights are increasingly being challenged.
skills and mitigating job losses.
We are experiencing increased challenges in the US and elsewhere in the world such The RDP period starts from the date of the as in Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, first marketing approval from the relevant Europe and Japan and there can be no regulatory authority and runs parallel to any guarantee of success for either party in patent protection.
RDP generally expires prior to patent expiry in all major markets.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 57 Strategic Report Resources Review Resources Review continued If a product takes an unusually long time inspections together with the outcomes to secure marketing approval, or if patent Manufacturing of internal audits and, where necessary, protection has not been secured, has implemented improvement actions.
expired or has been lost, then RDP may be Our 2020 strategy provides a focus the sole IP right protecting a product from We are committed to maintaining the for our investments to help ensure copying.
Generic manufacturers should not highest ethical standards and compliance we are able to respond to patient and be allowed to rely on AstraZenecas data to with internal policies, laws and regulations.
market needs for our medicines.
support the generic products approval or We review and comment upon evolving marketing until the RDP right has expired.
national and international compliance Overview In the EU, the RDP period is eight years regulations through our membership of Operations 2020 strategy started with followed by two years marketing exclusivity.
industry associations including IFPMA, a number of global initiatives in 2016 EFPIA and PhRMA.
Biologics manufacturing footprint In the US, new chemical entities NCEs are increased in preparation for new product entitled to a period of five years exclusivity Pharmaceutical Technology & launches under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Development PT&D The Pharmaceutical Technology & Act.
This period of exclusivity runs parallel In January 2016, the integration of PT&D into Development teams have been integrated to any pending or granted patent protection Global Operations commenced to support into Operations to enhance the way we and starts at the approval of the new further and accelerate successive new design, develop, manufacture and launch application.
As with RDP, there are product launches, new device platforms new products circumstances where this protection could and manage an increase in the overall be the sole IP right protecting a product product portfolio complexity.
The integration from being copied.
Further, under the is also expected to enhance collaboration Biologics License Application process, the Strategy and alignment and our focus on late-stage FDA will grant 12 years data exclusivity for a Operations 2020 strategy was launched in development, adding substantial scientific new biologic to an innovator manufacturer.
2015 to enhance supply capabilities in order expertise and leadership to Operations.
to respond better to patient and market Under Orphan Drug laws in the EU and US, needs.
Our strategy focuses on supporting We are actively working on over 150 drug exclusivity is granted to an innovator who the delivery of our new product launches, projects across our R&D and Commercial gains approval for a pharmaceutical product strengthening our science and technology portfolios, supporting more than 300 developed to treat a rare disease.
What capabilities across the globe, creating a AstraZeneca clinical studies worldwide qualies as a rare condition differs between more agile and exible supply chain, and and an additional 400 External Sponsored the EU and US.
Qualifying Orphan Drugs embedding Lean principles throughout our Research studies.
We also support over 100 are granted 10 years market exclusivity in network.
Our objective is to be recognised in-line brands and small molecule products.
the EU and seven years market exclusivity as a leader in biopharmaceutical supply in the US.
Our continued science and technology innovation allows us to enable and Compulsory licensing Quality, regulation and compliance differentiate products including Lynparza, Compulsory licensing where a Patent We are committed to high product Tagrisso, acalabrutinib, Brilinta and new Authority imposes a licence on the Patentee quality, which underpins the safety and respiratory products such as PT010 as they is on the increase in certain markets in efcacy of our medicines.
We maintain are introduced into the marketplace and which we operate.
We recognise the right of a comprehensive quality management ultimately into the hands of patients globally.
developing countries to use the exibilities in system to assure compliance and quality.
the World Trade Organizations Agreement Similarly, we set strict standards for safety, Manufacturing capabilities on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual health and environment at each of our sites.
Our principal tablet and capsule formulation Property Rights including the Doha Manufacturing facilities and processes sites are in the UK, Sweden, China, amendment in certain circumstances, such are subject to rigorous and continuously Puerto Rico and the US, with local regional as a public health emergency.
We believe evolving regulatory standards.
They supply sites in Russia, Japan, Indonesia, this should apply only when all other ways are subject to inspections by regulatory Egypt, India, Germany, Mexico, Brazil, of meeting the emergency needs have authorities, who are authorised to mandate Argentina and Algeria.
We also have major been considered and where healthcare improvements to facilities and processes, formulation sites for the global supply of frameworks and safeguards exist to ensure halt production and impose conditions for parenteral and or inhalation products in the the medicines reach those who need them.
US, Sweden, France, Australia and the UK.
Most of the manufacture of API is delivered In 2016, we hosted 33 independent through the efficient use of external sourcing inspections from 18 regulatory authorities.
that is complemented by internal capability We reviewed observations from these in Sweden.
58 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Strategic Report At the end of 2016, approximately 12,200 pR& eople we D r re e es m o pu lor yc ede at 3 s 1 Operations sites in 18 countries.
We have approximately 8,400 employees in our R&D organisation, working in various sites around the world.
Our small molecule sites are located in the UK Alderley Park, Cambridge and Maccleseld, Sweden Gothenburg, the US Gaithersburg, Maryland, Waltham, In Inve five est st s in in ng g fo for r r th th the e e fu fu u utu tu t re re: : : : Massachusetts and California, Japan Ma Manu ufact ct ctur urin ing bi b ol olog og gic ics Osaka and China Shanghai.
Our biologics sites are located in the UK Cambridge and in the US Gaithersburg, Maryland We are investing in our supply network, For biologics, our principal commercial and California.
Our Gaithersburg, Maryland with a focus on increasing production manufacturing facilities are in the US US: Cambridge, UK: and Warsaw, Poland capacity to support the growing demand Frederick, Maryland: Greater Philadelphia, sites focus on late-stage development for for biologics.
The addition of three new Pennsylvania: Boulder and Longmont, small molecules and biologics across our high-tech biologics manufacturing Colorado, the UK Speke, and the entire portfolio.
facilities Grtuna in Sweden above, and Netherlands Nijmegen with capabilities in Boulder and Longmont, both in Colorado process development, manufacturing and In 2016, R&D expenditure was $5,890 in the US to our supply network will distribution of biologics, including global million in our R&D organisation 2015: leave us well-positioned for the future.
supply of MAbs and inuenza vaccines.
$5,997 million: 2014: $5,579 million, including core R&D costs of $5,631 million We are developing our manufacturing 2015: $5,603 million: 2014: $4,941 million.
capability in biologics and expect our bulk In addition, we spent $821 million on manufacturing facility in Boulder, Colorado acquiring product rights such as US to be licensed for commercial in-licensing 2015: $1,341 million: production by the end of 2017.
We also invested we expect our new $285 million biologics $178 million on the implementation of manufacturing facility to be available for our R&D restructuring strategy 2015: clinical trial programmes by the end of $258 million: 2014: $497 million.
The 2018 and fully operational by 2019.
These allocations of spend by early-stage and projects, in addition to an expansion plan late-stage development are presented at Frederick, Maryland US, will increase in the R&D spend analysis table below.
production capacity to support the growing demand for biologics, which represents R&D spend analysis about half of our development pipeline.
We 2016 2015 2014 acquired our facility in Longmont, Colorado Discovery and US, in 2016 which will both support our early-stage development 36% 39% 47% operations in Boulder and provide space for additional biologics expansion as required.
Late-stage development 64% 61% 53% For small molecules we are constructing a new small scale development and launch facility alongside our existing manufacturing facility in Wuxi, China.
In addition, regulatory 8,400 validation work continues at Vorsino, Russia, which opened in 2015.
First commercial Around 8,400 employees production commenced in early 2016, in our R&D organisation.
improving our ability to supply local markets.
At the end of 2016, approximately 12,200 people were employed at 31 Operations sites in 18 countries.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 59 Strategic Report Resources Review Resources Review continued We are working to reduce our greenhouse Information technology Environment gas emissions by, among other things, investment in improving energy and fuel and information services We follow the science to protect efficiency and pursuing lower-carbon resources alternatives to fossil fuels, utilising a the planet by managing our impact hierarchy approach of Avoid-Reduceon the environment across all Our continuing vision for IT is to Substitute.
During 2016, site energy use our operations.
focus on areas that may provide a improved to reduce consumption by 0.2% and procurement of electricity from certied competitive advantage for Overview renewable sources increased to represent AstraZeneca.
QGHSHQGHQW YHULFDWLRQ RI VFLHQFH EDVHG 58% of total electricity imports.
Our travel climate change targets and commitment and freight transport emissions decreased to responsible water stewardship due to reduced business air travel, 2016 greenhouse gas footprint reduced At the end of 2016, we successfully increased fuel efficiency of our commercial by 5% completed our three-year IT Transformation sales fleet and continued achievement in 2016 waste management generation Programme.
The wide-ranging programme switching freighting of goods from air to sea.
increased by 1% has delivered improved productivity, 2016 water consumption performance efficiency, responsiveness and innovation reduced by 5% allowing us to better support our business Operational greenhouse gas footprint priorities while at the same time signicantly emissions tonnes CO2e reducing cost.
2016 1,656,917 1DWXUDO UHVRXUFH HFLHQF 2015 1,743,199 First, to implement our vision for IT, we seek As outlined in Safety, Health and 2014 N A to identify, prioritise and drive adoption of Environment strategy on page 45, we have new technologies to support the business begun work on delivering our 2016 to 2025 and enable our science.
Second, we aim Safety, Health and Environment SHE Waste production tonnes to make significant investments in data and targets.
Our 2016 natural resource targets analytics to allow the business to manage included reducing: 2016 37,923 information more effectively in order to 2015 37,510 drive faster, more effective decision making.
operational greenhouse gas footprint by 2014 35,797 Finally, we seek to drive operational 2% to 1,708,335 tonnes CO e 2 excellence and improvements in the waste generation by 2% to 36,760 tonnes 3 performance, stability, security and cost water use by 2% to 4.13 million m. 3 Water use million m of the underlying application landscape and infrastructure of our IT.
The table to the right provides data on our 2016 3.99 global greenhouse gas emissions, waste 2015 4.21 Protecting our IT systems, IP and production and water consumption for 2014 3.79 condential information against cyberattacks 2016.
The data coverage includes 100% is a key concern.
Our IT organisation of our owned and controlled sites globally.
seeks continuous improvement of our IT 2015 data was recalculated to include protection by developing and implementing acquired sites that form part of the 2016 robust, effective and agile risk-based to 2025 strategy baseline.
approaches to protect our resources and keep pace with the rapidly evolving We continue to integrate environmental cybersecurity risk landscape.
To help guard considerations across a medicines entire against cybercrime, we have adopted a life-cycle, from discovery, R&D to comprehensive cybersecurity process manufacturing, commercialisation and and policy, which we regularly review and disposal.
This considers the natural update.
We monitor our systems and data resources used to manufacture our with sophisticated technology to identify products and the environmental impact of and address potential weaknesses in the our active pharmaceutical ingredients APIs.
At the end of 2016, our IT organisation comprised approximately 3,500 people across our sites in the UK, Sweden, the US, and our new technology centres in India Chennai and Mexico Guadalajara.
60 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Strategic Report We recognise the need to use water responsibly and, where possible, to minimise water use in our facilities.
In 2016, we targeted a 2% reduction from our 2015 water use.
In 2016, our water 3 footprint was 3.99 million m, a 5% reduction.
This was achieved in part by investing in water efficiency projects such as the reclamation and reuse of water at a number of our manufacturing sites in Australia and the US.
During 2016, our major sites completed Water Conservation Plans and we standardised the assessment In nve five e est st st tin in in in ing g g g g fo fo fo fo for th he e e e e future: of water stress across our network, enabling Fo Foll ll l ow ow w win in in in ing g g g g th th th th the e sc scie ie en nc n n nce to protect prioritisation of water efficiency in areas th th he e en en nvi viro ro ro onm nm n n en ent t where water scarcity is of greatest concern.
We are also working on measuring and We were one of only four FTSE 350 Our pMDI inhaler therapy relies on reporting the environmental impact of our companies to have had our climate hydrouoroalkane HFA propellants which external manufacturing activity and work change targets approved by the Science affects our greenhouse gas footprint.
While to set appropriate environmental targets Based Targets initiative which is a HFAs have no ozone depletion potential with our suppliers.
We capture data for partnership with CDP, the UN Global and a third or less of the global warming more than 90% based on spend of the Compact, World Resources Institute, potential than the chlorouorocarbons they globally managed outsourced manufacture and World Wide Fund for Nature.
The replace, they are still potent greenhouse of key intermediates and APIs, formulation initiative seeks to create a systematic gases.
During 2016, we continued to and packaging for our established brands.
change in how targets are set, so that explore practical opportunities to reduce Understanding and management of companies contribute their fair share of the climate impact of these devices while our external supplier footprint will be a the challenging emissions reduction continuing to full patient needs.
Including continued focus of our SHE commitment needed to limit global temperature emissions from patient use of our inhaler going forward.
inc cre ea as se et to ou unde der tw two od fide eg grees eesc ce enttig grade.
therapies, our aim by 2016 was to reduce our operational greenhouse gas footprint With regard to pharmaceuticals in the by 2% from our 2015 level.
We achieved environment PIE, we manage the this, with our operational greenhouse gas manufacturing emissions of our APIs footprint totalling 1,656,917 metric tonnes in a responsible manner to ensure that in 2016, a reduction of 5% from our we do not exceed the safe discharge 2015 baseline.
standards set for our own manufacturing sites and those of key suppliers.
We review For more information on carbon reporting, compliance with these safe discharge please see Sustainability: supplementary standards annually.
Using a concept information from page 231 called ecopharmacovigilance, we review emerging science and literature for new Waste management is another key information that might change the way we aspect of our commitment to minimise assess and manage any environmental risks environmental impact.
In 2016, we targeted associated with our products.
Our proactive a 2% reduction in waste generation from our SHE research also addresses some of the 2015 baseline.
In 2016, our total waste was key risks posed by PIE.
In 2016, we signed 37,923 metric tonnes, a 1% increase on an industry declaration presented to the 2015.
Although we initiated waste reduction United Nations General Assembly ensuring projects, such as major investment to the responsible use, patient access and enable solvent reuse at a Swedish production of antibiotics to help combat manufacturing site, these were insufficient the threat of antimicrobial resistance.
to offset the increase in activity across our network.
While waste prevention Further information, including environmental risk assessment data for our medicines, is is an essential goal, we seek to maximise DYDLODEOH RQ RXU ZHEVLWH ZZZ DVWUD]HQHFD treatment by material recycling and com sustainability  landll disposal when prevention sustainability.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 61
