56 Directors' report The directors of the Company present their report together with the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31March 2016.
As permitted by legislation, the following information and disclosures that are required under company law, the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules the LRs and DTRs respectively, are included elsewhere in the Annual Report and are incorporated into this report by reference: Disclosure Section of Location Disclosure Section of Location Annual Report Annual Report Board of directors Our Board of Review of performance Strategic report 52 02 directors and future development of the Group Business model Our business Greenhouse gas emissions Our responsibility 09 49 Group code of conduct Corporate Human rights Our responsibility 67 50 governance report Conflicts of interest Corporate Important events affecting CEO's business 64 16 governance report review the Company during the year Directors share interests Annual Internal controls Corporate 166 66 remuneration report governance report Directors' service contracts Directors' Employment matters including Our people 89 42 remuneration policy diversity and inclusion Dividends Chairmans Principal risks and Principal risks and 05 36 statement uncertainties uncertainties Events occurring after the Financial Results for the year Our Group 191 02 Statements note 40 reporting period Financial instruments and Financial Statements 157 note 20 and 21 financial risk management Information required under LR 9.8.
4R Section Information requirement Section of Annual Report Location 58 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends Directors report 58 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends Directors report WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Directors' report 57 Annual General Meeting The Annual Report will be laid before shareholders at the annual general meeting AGM to be held at: The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED at 1100 on Tuesday 2 August 2016.
Details of the business to be considered at the AGM, together with an explanation of each of the resolutions, are set out in the separate notice of meeting.
Post-balance sheet events On 11 April 2016 the Group acquired the projects, products and technology PP&T segment of EnergySolutions for a cash consideration of $318m approximately 226m, subject to working capital adjustments.
The acquisition includes the integration of 650 people who deliver a wide range of technical engineering and programme management services for the decontamination and decommissioning of high hazard nuclear facilities.
Most of these staff are based in North America.
The acquisition expands the Groups service offering in the nuclear energy sector and will significantly enhance the Groups current nuclear capability, particularly in North America.
PP&T also adds a significant portfolio of innovative, proprietary nuclear waste treatment technologies.
Further details regarding the transaction can be found in note 40 to the Financial Statements page 191.
Directors Each director listed in the Board of directors section of the Annual Report pages 52 to 55 served throughout the year, except Catherine Bradley and Gretchen Watkins who were appointed to the Board on 9 June 2015 and 1 August 2015 respectively.
Appointment and replacement of directors In accordance with the Companys articles of association directors can be appointed or removed by the Board or by shareholders in general meeting.
Under the Companys articles of association all directors must retire at the first annual general meeting AGM following their appointment by the Board and may offer themselves for election by shareholders.
Gretchen Watkins, following her appointment by the Board as a non-executive director from 1 August 2015, will stand for election at the AGM.
In line with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors retire at each AGM and, if eligible, may offer themselves for re-election.
This year all the directors, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
The Board considers that each of the directors standing for re-election continues to be effective and that each of them demonstrates a strong commitment to their role.
In addition, the Board considers all non-executive directors standing for election and re-election to be independent in character and judgement.
Powers of the directors Subject to the provisions of relevant legislation, the Companys articles of association and any directions given by a special resolution of the shareholders, the Board of directors may exercise all the powers of the Company and may delegate authorities to committees and management as it sees fit.
Details of the main committees of the Board are contained in the Corporate governance report pages 61 to 68, the Nomination Committee report pages 69 to 72, the Audit Committee report pages 73 to 79, the Remuneration report pages 80 to 111 and on the Groups website www.
Directors indemnities Directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries benefit from directors and officers liability insurance cover in respect of legal actions brought against them.
In addition, directors of the Company are indemnified in accordance with article 138 of the Companys articles of association to the maximum extent permitted by law, such indemnities being qualifying third party indemnities.
Prior to the adoption of new articles of association by shareholders on 3 September 2008, all directors in appointment on that date had separate deeds of indemnity.
These indemnities, which still remain in force, are available for inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and will be available for inspection at the AGM.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnities provide cover where the relevant director or officer has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Articles of association The Companys articles of association set out the Companys internal regulation.
A copy of the Companys articles of association is available on the Groups website or on request from the company secretary.
Amendments to the articles of association must be approved by at least 75% of those voting in person or by proxy at a general meeting of the Company.
Research and development The Group develops and delivers innovative technical solutions to its clients, the costs of which are expensed to the Consolidated Income Statement page 121.
The Group obtains enhanced tax relief for these costs in certain territories, particularly the UK and the US.
In the UK, the Group has adopted the RDEC research and development expenditure credit regime, further details on which are provided in note 1 to the Financial Statements page 132.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 58 Directors' report continued Political donations The Group made no political donations and incurred no political expenditure in the UK or European Union EU during the year ended 31March2016 2015: nil.
Since 1 April 2012, our policy has, in accordance with relevant US federal and state election laws, been to make corporate political donations only on the following basis: directly to non-partisan ballot initiatives supporting infrastructure development and maintenance to individual candidates and political parties only via the affiliated political action committees PACs, funded entirely by employee contributions.
Under this policy there were two donations totalling $13,000 made to non-partisan US ballot initiatives during the year ended 31 March 2016 2015: $48,000.
In addition, we have one PAC in the US that makes donations funded entirely by employee contributions.
Shares Share capital As at the date of this report, the Companys share capital consists of 104,451,799 issued and fully paid ordinary shares each with a nominal value of 0.5p, listed on the London Stock Exchange, of which 4,341,000 ordinary shares are held in treasury.
Shares may be held in certificated or uncertificated form.
Further details of the Companys issued share capital, including changes during the year, can be found in note 32 to the Financial Statements page 184.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are contained in the Companys articles of association and the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
In summary: the ordinary shares allow holders to receive dividends and to exercise one vote on a poll per ordinary share for every holder present in person or by proxy at general meetings of the Company shares held in treasury are not entitled to vote or receive dividends.
Restrictions on transfer of securities There are no restrictions on the transfer or sale of ordinary shares and no requirements for prior approval of any transfers, except: under the Companys articles of association, the directors have the power to suspend voting rights and the right to receive dividends in respect of ordinary shares and to refuse to register a transfer of ordinary shares in circumstances where the holder of those shares fails to comply with a notice issued under section 793 of the Act the directors also have the power to refuse to register any transfer of certificated shares that does not satisfy the conditions set out in the articles of association.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that might result in the restriction of transfer or voting rights in relation to the shares held by such shareholders.
ADR programme The Company has a Level 1 American Depositary Receipt ADR programme, which enables US investors to purchase the Companys American Depositary Shares ADSs.
Each ADS represents one ordinary share and allows each holder, subject to the terms and conditions of the ADR programme, to receive dividend payments and vote by proxy on resolutions at a general meeting.
Rights under the employee share schemes Shares acquired through Atkins employee share schemes rank equally with all other ordinary shares in issue and have no special rights.
The trustees of the Companys employee benefit trusts EBTs have waived the rights of the EBTs to receive dividends on shares they hold, with one EBT fully waiving this right and another waiving the right to dividends in excess of 0.01p per share.
In addition, neither of the trustees of the EBTs exercises its right to vote in respect of such shares.
Shares held in trust on behalf of participants in the Atkins Share Incentive Plan are voted by the trustee, Capita IRG Trustees Limited, as directed by plan participants.
Details of share-based payments, including information regarding the shares held by the EBTs, can be found in note 33 to the Financial Statements page185.
Own shares At the AGM held in 2015, shareholders granted authority for the directors to allot relevant securities up to approximately one third of the issued share capital and a further one third in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue.
The directors intend to seek shareholder approval for equivalent authority at this years AGM, details of which are contained in the notice of meeting.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Directors' report 59 The Company was granted authority, by shareholders, at the 2015 AGM to purchase up to 10,011,000 ordinary shares, representing approximately 10% of the Companys ordinary share capital as at 10 June 2015.
No ordinary shares were purchased pursuant to this authority during the year ended 31March2016 or to the date of this Annual Report.
This authority will expire at the forthcoming AGM and the Company will seek shareholder approval for an equivalent authority such authority being in accordance with current best practice at this years AGM.
4,341,000 ordinary shares of 0.5p each, representing approximately 4.2% of the Companys issued share capital, were held in treasury throughout the year and to the date of this Annual Report following a historic share buyback programme.
Significant shareholders The table below shows the holdings of 3% or more of the total voting rights attached to the Companys issued share capital that had been notified to the Company as at the year end and the date of this Annual Report.
Number and percentage of voting rights per last notification received by the Company.
Change of control No agreement with a director or employee of the Company provides for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs as a result of a change of control.
Change of control provisions for employee share schemes are outlined in table 5 of the Remuneration report page 90.
The Company is not a party to any other significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control other than its debt facilities, which provide that in such a situation the Company may be unable to draw down any further amounts under the facilities and or that they may be cancelled, thus restricting the Company's ability to operate.
Independent auditor The Companys independent auditor,  LLP, has expressed its willingness to continue in office and resolutions for its reappointment and to authorise the directors to determine its remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Further information regarding the audit tender process and the anticipated proposal that KPMG LLP be appointed as the Companys independent auditor for the financial year ending 31 March 2018 can be found in the Audit Committee report page 77.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Richard Webster Company secretary 15 June 2016 WS Atkins plc, Woodcote Grove, Ashley Road, Epsom, Surrey KT18 5BW, England Registered in England and Wales No.
1885586 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
