Strategic Report Segmental performance Energy 33 Segmental performance Energy A mixed year with continued challenges for oil and gas Key performance indicators 2016 2015 Change Financial metrics Revenue 201.3m 182.0m 10.6% Operating profit 16.7m 20.4m -18.1% Operating margin 8.3% 11.2% -2.9pp Work in hand 30.5% 29.8% 0.7pp Safety AIR 55 63 -8 People Staff numbers at 31 March 1,806 1,813 -0.4% Average staff numbers for the year 1,840 1,633 12.7% Staff turnover 8.8% 8.6% 0.2pp countries are looking to develop nuclear Performance Strategy power as part of their long-term strategy Our Energy business has had a mixed Following the completion of the for more secure, low carbon energy.
Our nuclear, power and renewables acquisition of the projects, products skills are in high demand across the entire businesses delivered a good performance and technology PP&T segment of nuclear lifecycle.
while most of our oil and gas markets, EnergySolutions nearly 70% of Energys except the Middle East, faced challenges.
revenues will come from the nuclear In oil and gas, we see a similar focus Revenue rose to 201.3m 2015: 182.0m industry reflecting our confidence in the on keeping existing production and due in part to the benefit of acquisitions in growth opportunities in this area.
We distribution facilities operating safely the second half of last year.
However, both also foresee an increasing contribution to for longer, drawing on our safety and operating profit at 16.7m and margin at our business from renewables projects.
The oil and gas industry 8.3% reduced, reflecting continued pricing The oil and gas industry may need to needs to reduce operating costs further pressure and the impact of the deferral and accept a lower price environment for the as a consequence of the low oil price and cancellation of some projects in the oil and foreseeable future and we are actively this is driving demand for our advanced gas market.
adjusting our business model accordingly.
engineering skills and lifecycle expertise.
Nevertheless, we are confident that Business model hydrocarbons will remain part of the Operations global energy mix in the long term.
The Energy business operates worldwide Nuclear competing against a wide range of We have a robust, broad-based nuclear We continue to look at selective investment businesses, from large multinational portfolio that is performing well.
opportunities to expand our geographic engineering consultancies to specialist footprint and service offering through niche players.
In the UK, our position in the nuclear new organic growth, as well as extending and build market remains strong.
In line with creating new partnering arrangements and Focus remains on nuclear, oil and gas, our strategy, engineering and related targeting acquisitions.
conventional power generation and technical services are provided to EDF renewables.
In these industries we are Energy, Horizon Nuclear Power and NuGen Business drivers applying our high end, multidisciplinary for a new generation of nuclear power engineering skills during both design and Our business is underpinned by continued stations in the UK.
We have recently finished operational phases to assure the safety, global growth in energy requirements as our commission for the UK Government integrity and economic performance of our many countries seek to balance increasing on the techno-economic assessment clients facilities.
demand with a desire to decarbonise and are positioning to take a leading role in order to mitigate the effects of as engineering partner for the future climatechange.
development of small modular reactors.
In nuclear and conventional power the need to keep existing generation and distribution facilities operating safely for longer remains.
There is a continuing requirement for technical support around nuclear decommissioning.
A number of WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 34 Segmental performance Energy continued Revenue m Operating profit m Staff numbers at 31 March 201.3m 16.7m 1,806 16 201.3 16 16.7 16 1,806 15 182.0 15 20.4 15 1,813 14 169.6 14 15.1 14 1,461 10.6% -18.1% -0.4% Revenue by sector % Revenue by client type % 47 2 Nuclear Public sector: local government 36 15 Oil and gas Public sector: national government 17 Power including renewables 29 Regulated 54 Private sector Following the successful conclusion Oil and gas of a five-year framework, covering project of termination negotiations and the management services for major pipelines The performance of our oil and gas demobilisation of the Silos Directand a wide range of projects.
business continues to be mixed.
encapsulation Plant project, additional Our portfolio of work in the international A further deterioration in trading decommissioning work at Sellafield was liquefied natural gas LNG market is conditions, particularly in our North secured.
Our joint venture with AREVA and expanding.
Building on our ongoing American business, was offset to some Doosan has been appointed to Sellafields relationship with Shell, we were appointed extent by growth in the Middle East.
In the decommissioning delivery partnership to develop asset integrity models for future UK, we continue to see focus on keeping under a framework agreement which is inspection and maintenance of its Prelude existing production and distribution expected to run for 10 years and involves FLNG project, the largest floating LNG facilities operating safely for longer, which decommissioning and maintenance work project in the world.
Work on the INPEXis drawing on our safety and integrity on a broad range of facilities.
We are busy operated Ichthys LNG project is ongoing services.
In line with the industry as a on existing nuclear generation and life and we act as technical advisor and whole, we remain cautious and continue extension work through our role as an EDF engineering designers on Singapores LNG to monitor productivity closely, while Energy UK Strategic Supply Chain Partner.
terminal as part of a five-year engineering delivering both consultancy and design We see significant opportunities in North services agreement.
services under our long-term framework America and other markets outside the UK agreements with major international oil and Power and continue to expand the international gas operators.
Our power division had a very strong year, portfolio of our nuclear business.
A broad Our Middle East oil and gas business has trading above our expectations.
range of services are provided to the doubled in size during the year and is Emirates Nuclear Energy Corporation in Our renewables business has further seeking to establish a new joint venture in the Middle East on the 20bn Barakah strengthened its position in the UK offshore KSA.
Further expansion has been achieved New Nuclear Programme and to the 15bn wind market.
We are currently one of the in the UAE and Qatar with design and International Thermonuclear Experimental largest suppliers of engineering work in this consultancy services for ADNOC and Qatar Reactor programme in the south of France.
market and are at the forefront of driving Petroleum.
Our relationship with Shanghai innovative design for floating offshore wind Our international footprint in nuclear was Electric Power to deliver projects to Aramco to maximise energy yield for clients in this significantly enhanced in April 2016 when, has been extended to include the design fast-moving sector.
In February 2016, the following US Government regulatory of a third gas compressor booster station, Swedish company Hexicon appointed us as clearance, we completed our acquisition as well as securing the design of a major engineering partner for its innovative multiof PP&T which designs solutions for pipeline project with Saudi Kad.
Working turbine offshore wind floating platform to the treatment and stabilisation of high, in collaboration with our Faithful Gould be deployed off the north coast of Scotland.
intermediate and low level nuclear waste.
colleagues, a major contract has been This positions us well across all tiers of the secured with a key client in KSA to support international decommissioning and waste the execution of capital projects as part management market.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Segmental performance Energy 35 In 2015, Seaway Heavy Lifting appointed an informed manner: 130 staff have now continue to invest in our in-house training us to design the jacket foundations for attended.
During the year it was adopted academy that now provides externally the 664MW Beatrice offshore wind farm.
into the Groups corporate curriculum for recognised courses.
This year over 300 We are also designing eight offshore use by the wider business.
people were welcomed onto these courses.
substation platforms across four of DONG We will work to increase the proportion For more information on the risks that Energys proposed offshore wind farms.
of female employees and offer a range of our businesses face and the actions we Statoil named us as one of three winning flexible working options to help us both are taking see the Principal risks and companies of the Hywind Installation recruit and retain staff.
We implemented a uncertainties section page 36.
Challenge innovation campaign for the programme to support women returning to design of a novel assembly and installation Outlook work after maternity leave in 2015 which concept for floating structures.
has now been extended to other UK-based Our secured work in hand is 30.5% We were involved as an official advisor to female employees.
2015: 29.8% of next years budgeted DECC for their energy storage competition revenue, which excludes PP&Ts work Safety and sustainability programme which supported UK businesses in hand.
to develop and demonstrate innovative The improvement in the AIR result is due to The outlook for our Energy business overall energy storage technologies.
the increase in headcount during the year remains positive, with the fundamental with no decrease in reportable accidents.
In November 2015, Stoke-on-Trent City drivers for growth unchanged as the Council appointed us as primary project We are helping society to make the worlds requirement for energy continues consultant to deliver a ground-breaking transition to a low carbon economy to increase.
We continue to seek ways to new low carbon district heating network through our work on a wide range of grow the business organically, while also for the city.
low carbon enabling technologies such exploring further acquisition opportunities.
as nuclear, offshore wind, tidal, carbon Our presence in the Middle East has been Despite difficult trading conditions in capture and storage, and biomass.
increased with the award by Hyundai the oil and gas market, we believe we We also help to ensure that extraction Engineering and Construction to provide are well positioned for the medium and of the worlds remaining oil and gas engineering design services for the Abu longer term.
We are adapting to a more reserves respects both life and the wider Dhabi Water & Electricity Authority Mirfa cost conscious oil and gas market and are environment.
independent water and power project.
seeking further opportunities to leverage We have also been appointed to support our skills in LNG and floating structures.
Risks the design and implementation of Dubai We see significant opportunity for growth Continuing deterioration of the oil price Airports energy management programme.
in nuclear across new build, maintenance is a key risk for Energy.
During the year As well as building our pipeline in the and decommissioning supported by mitigating action was taken by reducing Middle East, our role supporting China our acquisition of PP&T with its proven headcount and our overall cost base.
Light and Power in Hong Kong is expanding track record in the management of We continue to address productivity and as it looks at options to extend the life of its Tier 1 nuclear licensed sites.
The outlook rebalance the business to meet demand.
for power is positive and we will continue The safety, environmental and reputational to internationalise the business while consequences of an error in our work, People expanding our renewable energy portfolio.
given the high hazard nature of the facilities Headcount decreased slightly to 1,806 on which we work, is another key risk.
2015: 1,813, with the reduced workload in our UK and US oil and gas businesses As with any acquisition, there is the being offset by organic growth of our potential risk of failure to integrate the nuclear, power and Middle East oil and gas acquired PP&T business into Atkins which businesses.
Staff turnover has remained could lead to a loss of shareholder value steady at 8.8% 2015: 8.6%.
with expected benefits and synergies not achieved.
This risk is mitigated by thorough We measure employee engagement due diligence ahead of acquisition, a through our Group wide Viewpoint detailed integration plan compiled in employee opinion survey.
Our overall conjunction with the acquired business and engagement score for Energy remains well resourced implementation plan, with significantly better than the benchmark for progress against the plan fed back regularly our industry sector.
Our popular Energising Your Career Our plans for growth are potentially course supports the development of our affected by the availability of skills in the mid-career staff by helping employees to right locations.
To mitigate this risk we consider their future career development in WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 36 Principal risks and uncertainties We recognise that effective risk management is fundamental to helping us achieve our strategic and operational objectives.
Board The Board reviews the Group operational and strategic risk registers at least quarterly.
It delegates authority for the service delivery process and risk management process to senior management.
Audit and Group Risk Committees The Group Risk Committee, chaired by the Group CEO, oversees the operation of the Groups risk management framework and provides support to the Board and the Audit Committee.
It reviews the Group operational and strategic risk registers regularly.
Group commercial and risk management director Consolidates the risks submitted by functional areas and businesses to compile the Groups key risks.
Operational risk logs are updated monthly and strategic risk logs quarterly.
Senior management of each Senior management of Group operational business sector and functional areas identifies the key risks divisions identifies the top risks and and develops mitigation actions.
Effective risk management is embedded manage and report risks of both a strategic mitigation measures, controls and key in our governance framework, which is and operational nature.
Our strategic actions that are required to manage it.
summarised in the Corporate governance and operational risk registers allow us to We also assess all potential project report page 61. assign owners and mitigation strategies to opportunities using an online service identified risks.
Ownership is not the exclusive Our risk management framework supports delivery process which includes a risk responsibility of senior management but is the Board in governing, reviewing, assessing categorisation tool that scores and ranks passed down to appropriate staff members.
and determining the nature and extent of these opportunities using a traffic light the significant risks it is willing to accept The registers are routinely reviewed by system.
This determines the risk profile and in achieving its strategic and operational the Group Risk Committee.
It also receives is the initial factor that informs the required objectives.
This framework, and the presentations from selected risk owners to level of review of each opportunity as it associated risk management structure, allow provide a more detailed explanation of the progresses through the Groups stage us to identify consistently, assess, prioritise, risk, including the effectiveness of associated gate bid approval process.
This process, WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties 37 combined with the risk management Where applicable, we cross-reference and monitored by senior management, the framework together with the long principal risks with segment-specific risks.
Audit and Group Risk Committees and the established internal delegated authority Board to determine the overall risk profile Risk appetite structure, is applied across the Group both qualitatively and quantitatively.
This and is designed to achieve progressive process enables the residual risk to be The Group's risk appetite is determined by improvement in the quality and rigour of assessed and the risk appetite of the Group the risk framework, reinforced by specific our bidding and project delivery processes.
risk management processes and approval.
The Group seeks to reduce the potential We continue to manage a number of The Group has carried out a comprehensive impact of the risks by regular monitoring potential risks and uncertainties which review and assessment of each principal and review in order to meet strategic and could have a material impact on our risk in the organisation of which there operational obligations and objectives.
To assist with the Many of these risks are common to monitoring and management of the There are a number of principal risks other companies and we assess them principal risk, further work has been identified which are inherent to the Group regularly to establish the principal risks and undertaken in the Group to establish and and also to other organisations in our sector.
consider the specific risk appetite for each We have processes and procedures within principal risk.
The overall nature of these the risk framework which assist in the The table outlines the principal risks, risks has generally remained unchanged control and mitigation of each specific risk to the mitigating activities undertaken in over the year.
The principal risks are set minimise the probability of the risk occurring respect of each of them and indicates the out overleaf.
and or minimise the residual impact in direction of change of each in the year.
We the event the risk occurs.
These risks are continue to assess these risks under two regularly reviewed, challenged, prioritised main categories: strategic and operational.
Viability statement Assessment of prospects Assessment of viability The Group considers the development of the business and the In assessing the Groups viability, the Directors have carried industry in which it operates over many time horizons.
The out a robust assessment of the principal risks in the business.
broader macro trends are assessed for their impact in the longer Appropriate, plausible scenarios have been considered, including term and the implications for the business are evaluated.
The the associated potential impacts on the Groups profit and Groups strategic plan, which covers the current and following loss, balance sheet, cash flows, and key performance indicators four years, is reviewed by the Directors annually.
It has been assumed that funding in the form of capital markets debt or bank debt would be available in all The contracts into which the Group enters are characterised by reasonable scenarios contemplated and that mitigating actions multiple timeframes, many of which are short-term in nature.
could be implemented as required to improve the position in the Consultancy and design work is often of a duration of less most severe scenarios.
than one year and there are a limited number of contracts or frameworks of multiple year duration within the Groups Confirmation portfolio.
While there may be a reasonable expectation of In the context of the inherent uncertainties of a multiple year securing work beyond that within the visible pipeline, there are period of evaluation, the Directors confirm that based on a number of uncertainties arising in consideration of longer time this analysis there is a reasonable expectation of the Group periods.
Consequently, there is a greater degree of certainty in continuing in operation and meeting its liabilities as they fall due the early years of the Groups strategic plan.
Based on the increased confidence provided by the Groups current contract portfolio over the shorter term, and the market and industry uncertainties in the outer years, the Directors have assessed the Groups viability over a three-year period to March2019.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 38 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Strategic Risk Activities in the year Change in alphabetical order Mitigation ended 31 March 2016 in year Economic outlook We have increased our sector and geographic diversification During the year we continued to to provide resilience at a time when many of our markets increase the utilisation of our Indian Imposition of government still experience uncertainty.
We have a clear strategic priority GDCs, increasing staff numbers austerity measures has to focus on sectors which have attractive growth prospects across our two sites Delhi and an impact on our trading with good levels of funding.
performance as spending on public sector We will undertake careful and selected regional expansion, infrastructure is reduced.
exploring the potential in North America, southeast Asia and Africa.
We will continue to focus the Group on higher Worsening economic growth, higher margin activities.
conditions lead to reduced levels of private sector To provide increased flexibility and remain competitive, we capital spend and have utilise our global design centres GDCs in India to support an adverse impact on our market opportunities and projects across the regions in clients ability to pay for which we operate.
We seek to redeploy our people around the Group to meet demand in growth markets and sectors, frequently moving work to people and people to work to enhance Group agility and staff utilisation.
We perform periodic client credit checks and maintain regular management reviews of credit terms, trade debtors and work in progress.
Financial We review the Groups trading and funding position on an During the year, we negotiated a ongoing basis.
new 100m, three year revolving A deterioration of the credit facility RCF with our tier one Groups financial position The Groups treasury function manages and monitors relationship banks.
This new facility limits our ability to invest external funding and investment requirements and risks is in addition to the Groups existing in growth.
arising from the Groups financial instruments risks, including 200m five-year RCF and $75m foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and price risk, credit Adverse movements in US Private Placement debt, with risk and liquidity risk.
liability assumptions or asset maturity dates of 2021 and 2019 values result in a significant respectively.
We have made good progress in implementing our strategy increase in the Groups to continue to fide-risk our defined benefit pension schemes.
During the year we have agreed a defined benefit pension long-term, fide-risking investment obligations, increasing the strategy for the Group's principal cash funding required to pension plan.
Further information repay the deficit and reducing is contained in the UK and Europe our ability to invest in further review page 22. growth opportunities.
Geopolitical We are focused on geographies that have more stable trading During the year we continued to markets and environments with regional growth resulting develop the security and safety Political instability in the from economic diversity, population growth and urbanisation.
standard for our staff when working regions within which we in low, medium and high risk operate has a negative We monitor closely our operating geographies and markets geographies.
impact on our ability to to identify geopolitical change that could potentially have an deliver contractual services impact on the trading conditions for our operating business.
and receive payment, and We obtain the latest professional risk and security endangers the safety of information provided by external organisations before our people.
engaging in contracts in new geographies and we monitor Political transition leads to regularly the economic stability and the security of the uncertainty or deadlock markets in which we continue to trade.
delaying government The operational leadership team and senior management funded programmes.
review periodically geopolitical influences that have the potential to affect the economic and safety environment in our operating geographies and markets.
Risk increasing Risk decreasing No material change to risk WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties 39 Risk Activities in the year Change in alphabetical order Mitigation ended 31 March 2016 in year Market We have robust, integrated online service delivery review During the year we continued to processes, which include risk classification, peer reviews and drive operational performance across Worsening market Group authority approvals during the key stages of bidding the Group to improve our margins.
conditions, for example a work, entering into contracts and during delivery of our fall in commodity prices or This year we successfully projects.
a shift in industry demand, implemented the online service lead to changes in contracts We continue to embed our integrated online service delivery delivery process in NorthAmerica.
resulting in increased risk process across the Group.
During the year we took specific transfer from clients and We continue to focus our strategy on sectors with strong action to reduce our resources in our a need to accept more sustainable growth prospects, good levels of funding and oil and gas business, redeploying onerous contract terms to higher technical barriers to entry.
elsewhere within the Group where win work.
possible to meet demand in other We have a strategic focus on operational excellence and, Reductions in the growth markets and sectors, in through a series of initiatives together with the increasing amount of available work response to reduced demand for our use of our GDCs in India, we aim to deliver a competitive through client delays or services from a number of our clients cost base while also supporting and enabling growth across cancellations, together with as they have responded to the fall in the Group.
reduced win rates from oil prices.
increased competition, We carry out our annual review of our online service We reduced our resource levels result in insufficient work delivery process to ensure it continues to provide a robust in the Middle East property and for our people.
standard for winning, delivering and reducing contract and infrastructure business to reflect commercial risk across the Group.
reduced demand and delayed awards for our services in these markets.
Regulatory Legal We seek external advice about new and or changing trading To ensure the Group code of restrictions, communicating these changes across our conduct has been read and is Legislation and regulations business asnecessary.
understood all our people have been restrict our ability to operate required to complete an e-learning in certain locations or We operate a Group trading standard and associated country module during the year.
perform certain activities approval list, detailing the approved procedure for trading leading to the need to exit worldwide.
The country approval list details the risk profile During the year we carried out a these markets.
for countries around the world across matters including trade planned review and update of the restrictions, corruption and travel security, which determine Group country approval list and Breaches of regulation the level of approval required to trade there.
the associated risk profile for or legislation result in the countries.
fines, imprisonment and All overseas projects and those that carry elevated risk reputational damage.
on the project risk categorisation tool are automatically We improved our due diligence screened by Group compliance to confirm legal compliance offering by moving to new screening and assess project risk in line with the approved procedure.
software to give us greater access to more databases and media We continue to invest in training and communication in the sources that inform our project area of compliance.
We have a whistleblower hotline that is available to all our We further enhanced our ability people, suppliers, subcontractors, clients and third parties.
to secure the compliance of our external partners through The Group code of conduct was launched across the the introduction of third party Group in 2015 with all our people either receiving or being questionnaires and policy provided with access to a copy.
We review and update the Group's trading standard and the associated country approval list annually.
Strategic acquisition We have a robust acquisition process and stage gates, which During the year, we continued and integration include Group authority approvals during key stages of the to improve our approach to due acquisition process.
diligence and integration planning, Failure to integrate the based on learning from previous acquired businesses into We undertake thorough due diligence ahead of acquisition, acquisitions.
Atkins lead to a loss of jointly develop a detailed integration plan with the acquired shareholder value with business and implement a well-resourced implementation expected benefits and plan, with progress against the plan regularly monitored by synergies not achieved.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 40 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Operational Risk Activities in the year Change in alphabetical order Mitigation ended 31 March 2016 in year Crisis event We have a Group crisis management plan in place to enable us A review of the Groups crisis to respond quickly to such events.
management plan was carried out A significant one-off event during the year.
This included a affecting a key business We carry out regular reviews of the Groups crisis management simulated exercise of a regional crisis location, project or our plan and carry out tests to establish the effectiveness and event in the Middle East and the people could interrupt adequacy.
The test should include a simulated exercise of a UK that was escalated to the Group service delivery, threaten life regional crisis event that was escalated to the Group.
and or cause reputational damage to our business.
Health, safety and We have consistent safety standards worldwide and senior During the year we rolled out the AOS environmental management leadership on health, safety and environmental system across the Middle East and matters is regularly reinforced via targeted campaigns.
Shortcomings in our design or works supervision Our Group wide behavioural awareness campaign, Safe and result in a health, safety Secure by Choice, focuses on the safety behaviours of our or environmental incident employees, highlighting the importance of reporting all health and involving our people, clients safety incidents.
It supports our commitment to creating a leading or other third parties leading health and safety culture and includes sections on personal safety, to injury, loss of life and or ability to challenge, driving and near-miss reporting.
significant damage to We mandate accident and near-miss reporting and provide our reputation with all a whistleblower hotline to enable our people, suppliers, stakeholders.
subcontractors, clients and other third parties to raise concerns confidentially.
We invest in the training of and communication to our people about the importance of safety and security in the workplace.
We operate a global standard to assess the competency of construction contractors and set the minimum requirements expected on site during the supervision of the services.
Atkins has implemented an online operating safely system AOS, which includes an online risk assessment and enables employees to be tracked while working on site.
Physical and data security We use appropriate physical security, secure networks and During the year, we continued encryption to protect data.
to provide information assurance Confidential client business guidance and training across our and or personal data is We train our people and provide guidance on best practice business.
Information assurance mishandled, resulting in in information assurance.
guidance and behaviour based breach of contract, the training modules for the Group are The Group security officer seeks to ensure best practice and inappropriate release of also being developed to complement continually raise the profile of security across the business.
commercially sensitive and improve the effectiveness of our information or the loss of We continue to provide information assurance guidance and controls in this area and these will be the personal information training across our business.
made available to all our people.
of our clients and or We have developed a security standard protecting our our people.
During the year, we have cascaded people and property and an information assurance our security standard protecting Our business systems suffer standard.
our people and property and an an attack from hackers information assurance standard or viruses.
We recognise there is an increased focus on privacy, the across the Group.
protection of personal data and the expectations of our The safety and security of clients, people and other stakeholders in this area.
A Group our people is threatened.
data protection manager has been appointed to develop further our approach to data protection.
We maintain certification to the UK Governments new Cyber Essentials Plus standard.
Risk increasing Risk decreasing No material change to risk WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties 41 Risk Activities in the year Change in alphabetical order Mitigation ended 31 March 2016 in year Projects We have invested in the deployment of our online During the year we continued to invest in project management system to drive consistently high increasing project management capabilities Poor management of standards across the Group.
across the UK and Europe and the Middle projects leads to client East, in particular.
dissatisfaction, damage Investment in ongoing project management excellence to our reputation for training programmes for our people, including technical excellence and a the development of a new project management deterioration in the Groups competency framework.
We seek continually to improve project controls, which include regular financial and operational reviews of project performance and delivery.
Staff recruitment Regular business reviews evaluate a number of metrics Sector succession plans are developed, and retention including headcount, staff turnover, vacancy levels and reviewed and implemented each year to employee engagement.
ensure that we retain our best talent.
Failure to attract and retain the most talented, motivated A talent management pilot has been Maintenance of a detailed succession management plan professionals in their launched to focus on our high potential across the Group.
respective fields makes us people in succession management planning Regular succession planning reviews provide support unable to deliver on clients across the Group.
for internal mobility, development of an effective talent expectations and respond We implemented improvements across the pipeline and career path management.
to the most technically Group during the year to define and support challenging and time critical An annual review of our staff engagement through career paths within the Group including projects, thereby eroding our our Viewpoint survey ensures that the morale and technical, project management, business market share and damaging motivation of our people is managed effectively.
management and business development our financial performance.
Technical delivery Our robust service delivery process, and the associated We have continued to develop our stage gate review procedures during the bidding, standards for project manager competence Design errors or omissions contracting, delivery and completion stage, ensure and electronic data management across all lead to client dissatisfaction, that the Group has the capability to deliver the sectors during the year.
financial losses and damage technical requirements within our contracts.
to our reputation for We continued to cascade our technical technical excellence.
We use seven design principles which govern all our assurance standard during the year technical work and are embedded in our business establishing the minimum assurance management system.
Technical reviews and checking requirement for our technical deliverables during delivery of our projects remains a key control.
to our clients in the Group.
We also refreshed the technical assurance guidance Our technical assurance guidance and standard is in our business management system.
included within our business management system.
We have implemented a programme of continual technical training and development.
Network chairs lead our technical centres of excellence across the Group.
We have established a working group of representatives from all our operating businesses and relevant corporate functions to develop and disseminate best practice regarding technical assurance and governance.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
