10 Strategy 20112016 The overall strategy for the Group was established and communicated in 2011, when we set out the primary objectives and the three pillars that formed the basis of our strategic activity.
Group strategy The three pillars of our strategy set out in 2011 were operational excellence, portfolio optimisation, and sector and regional focus.
Annual reviews have tested the progress and continuing relevance of each aspect of the strategy.
Pillars and progress Pillar Description Progress We set a path of improved operational We have made very good progress with Operational excellence performance across the Group as a our operational excellence programme foundation for our progress towards our including streamlined organisational medium-term operating margin target structures in all four of our geographic including an emphasis on optimising financial regions.
delivery on our projects, with a continued focus on utilisation, margin, and billing and cash collection.
To ensure we are well positioned for the We made excellent progress in this area Portfolio optimisation future we instigated an ongoing review of over the last several years with the sale the businesses in our portfolio, continuing to of our sub-scale businesses in Poland focus the Group on higher growth, higher and Portugal, the UK highways services margin activities.
operations and the disposal of the Peter Brown construction management at risk business.
It is clear that a number of our existing The sectors and regions have evolved Sector and regional focus sectors have attractive growth prospects.
Energy in particular has been We established areas of particular focus for an important area of focus as a sector investment these have changed over time addressing global clients and has and in 2015 16 comprised Energy and the benefited from ongoing investment.
regions of Asia Pacific and North America.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Strategy 20112016 11 Strategic evolution 8.0% 7.6% We have achieved our 6.7% 6.5% 6.4% underlying operating margin target in 2016 margin 12 13 14 15 16 Strategic objectives and progress Objective Description Progress We outlined our primary objective of We have delivered our target with Operating margin developing the operating margin as a a reported underlying operating margin key target and determinant of quality of of 8% this year.
We set a medium-term target to generate an underlying operating margin above 8% across the Group.
We originally added a subsidiary objective While investment, particularly for Geographic balance to adjust the geographic balance of the acquisitions, has focused outside the Groups operations over time and set a UK, the good performance of the UK broad aim to generate more of our revenue itself means that it has continued to from our non UK and Energy businesses.
play an important part in the Groups The initial target suggested we should aspire development.
The drive to diversify from to have less than 25% of our revenue being our home market remains important.
We noted that we would continue to Organic and acquisitive growth has Growth organically direct investment into areas in which we offset the reduction in revenue from and by acquisition see value as we look to grow organically disposals.
Over the last few years, we and supplement that growth by appropriate have announced the acquisition of acquisitions.
PP&T, Howard Humphreys East Africa, Nuclear Safety Associates, Houston Offshore Engineering, Confluence Project Management and Terramar.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 12 Strategic growth drivers Markets are changing and our own business is evolving.
With substantial completion of the journey started in 2011, we are now setting out the next phase of ourstrategy.
Economic growth Urbanisation Economic growth is projected over the Urbanisation continues apace, particularly next few years particularly in emerging in developing markets.
The UN estimates markets, but 2016 sees continued volatility that more than half of the worlds in a number of areas of the world.
population now lives in cities and that by 2050 this number will be almost two thirds of a projected nine billion population.
Implication As PwC notes in a report on economic This will create ongoing demand growth projections The World in for strategy, planning, design 2050, global strategies need to strike and engineering, and project and the right balance between mature, programme management services.
lower-risk, advanced economies and faster growing but generally higher-risk emergingmarkets.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Strategic growth drivers 13 Demographics Technology Resources As we change the way in which we work, The scope, scale and economic impact of Oil prices are expected to remain society is also adapting and ageing.
changes in technology are accelerating, low over the medium term and the According to the UN, two thirds of the with businesses either disrupting their geopolitical landscape remains subject growth in the overall population to 2060 markets and competition, or being to someuncertainty.
will be in the 40-to-79 year age group.
This will have implications for the Technological advances in the design The implications of lower fossil fuel way we work as the priorities and engineering of projects are already prices in the near term and the and needs of the population and having an impact on our industry.
longer-term move to energy production infrastructure change.
Equally there with a lower carbon impact provide a will be implications regarding our number of engineering challenges.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
