26 Segmental performance North America Transitional year with significant wins Key performance indicators 2016 2015 Change Financial metrics Revenue 362.6m 341.4m 6.2% Operating profit 20.4m 20.0m 2.0% Operating margin 5.6% 5.9% -0.3pp Work in hand 49.1% 61.6% -12.5pp Safety AIR 36 31 5 People Staff numbers at 31 March 2,747 2,735 0.4% Average staff numbers for the year 2,754 2,794 -1.4% Staff turnover 14.3% 10.7% 3.6pp Our ongoing operational excellence Performance Operations programme aims to centralise, simplify and This has been a transitional year for our Our DOT business continues to improve streamline key shared services functions North America business with the start of and has grown revenue 12% year on year, to deliver structural cost reductions in the a portfolio shift towards larger projects particularly with key clients such as the medium term.
During the year we were Colorado, Florida, Texas and Georgia DOTs.
delighted to be appointed to Project NEON In October 2015, we won the $45m design Strategy for Nevada Department of Transportation contract for Project NEON, the widening Growth is targeted by concentrating on DOT and the Purple Line light rail project of I-15 for the Nevada DOT, as part of the excellent project delivery and client service, in Maryland, both significant wins for the Kiewit Infrastructure West team and are expanding our services and focusing on region.
Revenue has risen to 362.6m now in full production.
We 2015: 341.4m, at a margin of 5.6% have already seen an increase in both our win Public and private is focused on the water, 2015: 5.9%, which reflects significant rate and the average size contract secured.
environmental, city and county markets and bidding activity in support of these major was impacted during the year by delays in project opportunities.
Our focus is shifting to major infrastructure project task awards.
Work to reshape and projects and programmes in our core position this business for more substantial Business model markets and strengthening our capability and sustainable growth built around We aim to help address the complex to compete by drawing on resources from larger, longer-term projects is ongoing.
In challenges of North Americas ageing across the business and leveraging the the key focus area of major programme infrastructure by partnering with our Groups worldwide capabilities.
management, there were notable wins clients to deliver flexible solutions that during the year for Miami-Dade County answer both present and future needs.
Business drivers and Broward County Schools in Florida and Our consultancy operating model consists The majority of North Americas projects Cobb County in Georgia.
of client-focused businesses supported are government funded, in part or in by a technical professional organisation The federal market continues to face whole, either through a state or local TPO to ensure the right people are political uncertainty and budget restrictions government or directly by federal assigned to the work quickly and efficiently, ahead of the presidential election, as agencies.
Publicly funded projects provide irrespective of staff location.
In addition, well as challenges from global economic greater stability although they tend to be our Faithful Gould and Energy businesses uncertainty.
Task order assignments are awarded more slowly and are at greater share administrative resources and office being pursued under existing contracts risk of being delayed due to changing space wherever feasible.
with the Federal Emergency Management priorities or political scrutiny.
Indeed, the Agency, the Army Corps of Engineers and current political climate in the US, along The TPO is focused on recruiting, retaining, the National Guard.
We are also working with federal budgetary challenges, has developing and deploying world class with other parts of the Group to target caused spending delays.
This supports our federal Government contracts outside need for significant upgrading of ageing objective of providing new and innovative North America.
technical and business solutions to our clients, resulting in broader, deeper client relationships and the opportunity to work on their largest and most complex projects.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Segmental performance North America 27 Revenue m Operating profit m Staff numbers at 31 March 362.6m 20.4m 2,747 16 362.6 16 20.4 16 2,747 15 341.4 15 20.0 15 2,735 14 380.9 14 19.1 14 2,836 6.2% 2.0% 0.4% Revenue by client type % Revenue by sector % 48 55 Roads Public sector: local government 12 6 Water and environment Public sector: national government 8 Aerospace and aviation 2 Regulated 7 Defence and security 37 Private sector 5 Industrial 4 Buildings 2 Rail including mass transit 14 Other Our strategic ventures business has programmes and funding.
We are closely People a diverse portfolio of rail, transit and monitoring Congresss activities for continued Closing staff numbers rose slightly to 2,747. municipal clients for whom we provide programme funding, particularly around Focus remains on attracting and retaining environmental, planning, permitting, transportation and highways, where delays key staff, which has been a priority as programme management, asset would have the most significant impact competition for resources remains keen.
Congresss support of Staff turnover increased to 14.3% from February, we were delighted to be selected federal funding for military and civilian 10.7% reflecting these improved labour as part of the Purple Line Transit Partners programmes is also of particular concern in market conditions.
team for the $100m lead design contract North America, as we hold a number of task on the Purple Line project for Maryland order based contracts.
We measure employee engagement through DOT.
Work has started on the project, our Group wide Viewpoint employee For more information about risks across which is scheduled to complete in 2022. opinion survey and are working with an all of our businesses and the actions that This represents the businesss largest single employee focus group to address areas that we are taking, see the Principal risks and project award since joining the Atkins it highlighted.
The overall score in 2015 uncertainties section page 36.
Group in 2010. improved five points and is well ahead of industry norms.
Outlook In aviation, where architectural and engineering services are provided at Our secured work in hand in North America We are committed to recruiting, retaining, major airports including New Orleans, Los is 49.1% 2015: 61.6%.
This figure excludes developing, and elevating minority and Angeles, Orlando, Nashville and Atlanta, the recent Purple Line project award which, women professionals through initiatives such performance improved during the year.
if included, would increase the level to as our sponsorship of WTS International.
Together with our Project NEON Founded in 1977, WTS has a specific mission Faithful Gould has delivered an improved workloads, this gives us confidence for the of fostering lifelong career goals for women year on year performance.
projects include work at San Francisco, Denver and San Diego airports and for We see stable market conditions ahead, Safety and sustainability United Airlines.
The appointment to while federal funding remains uncertain.
Our safety culture plays a central role in how provide programme management services The agreement reached on a five-year we deliver work.
Sustainability and employee on John Wayne Airports five-year capital Transportation Bill should provide wellbeing continued to be an area of focus.
improvement programme continues our greater pipeline visibility, although no While there was a slight deterioration in the longstanding work there.
In the energy material impact is expected until after the AIR for North America this arose as a result sector, additional work was secured forthcoming presidential election.
Looking of reduced office-based staff numbers in our with Bruce Power and work continues forward, the benefits from our simplified Faithful Gould business in the region.
with Ontario Power Generation and BP organisational structure are expected to as well as with PacifiCorp on electricity deliver improved efficiency and we believe Risks transmission.
Other appointments include this, coupled with volume growth, will drive A majority of our work is government funded new projects in the hospitality and margin improvement.
and, as a result, political uncertainty and manufacturing sectors.
deadlock caused by the 2016 presidential election may lead to delays in federal WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
