28 Segmental performance Middle East A very good year driven by peak delivery on metro projects Key performance indicators 2016 2015 Change Financial metrics Revenue 248.3m 216.7m 14.6% Operating profit 29.5m 22.5m 31.1% Operating margin 11.9% 10.4% 1.5pp Work in hand 48.0% 74.2% -26.2pp Safety AIR 39 36 3 People Staff numbers at 31 March 2,459 2,668 -7.8% Average staff numbers for the year 2,580 2,421 6.6% Staff turnover 10.7% 16.1% -5.4pp Performance Strategy Business drivers Our Middle East business delivered very In the Middle East, we focus on The economic climate in the Middle East good overall performance this financial transportation infrastructure and property is primarily driven by the global oil price, year with revenue up 14.6% to 248.3m in the UAE, Qatar and the KSA, which which affects demand for our services since and operating profit up 31.1% on last year, we believe to be the region's more robust regional spending ultimately flows through driven by the Central Planning Office CPO markets and sectors.
The region offers to capital investment in infrastructure, project in Qatar and peak delivery on our good opportunities linked to the drive for transportation and property.
Operating margin improved economic diversification and the need to The prolonged low oil price, in particular, to 11.9%.
However, cash flow was not invest in social infrastructure.
Our strategy has caused client decision-making to slow, without its challenges in a region coming is aimed at carefully selecting and securing with increased uncertainty around the under increased liquidity pressure as a critical, complex projects and programmes award of projects.
While we believe the result of the depressed oil price.
with established key clients who need longer-term need to invest in strategically a long-term partner.
In addition, local important infrastructure that supports Business model resources support our energy business in economic growth and diversification will the region, which is reported within our Our business model is to maintain strong continue to drive demand for our services, Energy segment.
local resources in our chosen markets, project timing and scope are increasingly working with our clients to deliver In March 2016, we were pleased to subject to review.
the complex projects that create and announce our agreement to acquire support sustainable, people-centric urban Howard Humphreys East Africa, a 200 environments across the Middle East.
strong multidisciplinary consultancy based in Kenya and Tanzania, providing an We complement this with multi-skilled important catalyst to develop our presence design centres within the region and in across East Africas rapidly growing India.
This provides agility and efficiency infrastructure market.
by maximising our ability to mobilise for major projects, while minimising exposure to individual market resource demands and constraints.
In April 2016, we brought together our rail and infrastructure capabilities into one market-facing division.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Segmental performance Middle East 29 Revenue m Operating profit m Staff numbers at 31 March 248.3m 29.5m 2,459 16 248.3 16 29.5 16 2,459 15 216.7 15 22.5 15 2,668 14 168.4 14 14.4 14 2,071 14.6% 31.1% -7.8% major transport infrastructure programmes.
We measure staff engagement through Operations We continue to work on a significant our Group wide Viewpoint employee Our business performed well in the framework to upgrade Dohas roads and opinion survey.
Our overall engagement first half and built on this in the second drainage system.
score for the Middle East improved by six half to deliver another very good full percentage points year on year, putting year performance, further reinforcing In addition to our metro work in KSA, us 10 points above the benchmark for our our position among the Middle Easts during the year we successfully supported industry sector.
This is reinforced by the leading design, engineering and project strategic programmes to drive the large proportion of people who indicated management consultancies.
Kingdoms long-term economic growth and in the survey that they are proud to work diversification.
The need to prioritise and for Atkins and that they care about Delivery continues on the design of our manage infrastructure investment is leading our success.
major metro projects, including Riyadh to advisory services opportunities with Metro and Doha Metro, positioning us public sector clients.
During the course of the year, the Middle well for any future metro opportunities East womens professional network in the region.
Our Faithful Gould business in the Middle continued its engagement internally and is East has had another good year with progressively becoming more recognised Property sector activity in the UAE remains growth across the UAE and KSA.
In the externally within the region.
In addition focused primarily on expanding Dubais UAE, our focus is on the property sector, to providing development opportunities offering to visitors and residents, especially with recent appointments for a large and coaching and mentoring activities to where linked to the hosting of Expo 2020. mixed use development in Abu Dhabi and our female employees, we want to attract Our current projects include the Dubai as programme manager for Emaar on the the best talent in the region and be the Opera, which is scheduled to open later Dubai Creek Harbour project.
We have employer of choice.
We also secured the design and also been appointed as project manager in the most important capabilities and supervision of a 95,000 m extension to on a 100 bed hospital in Dubai.
In KSA, behaviours required to deliver our major a Dubai shopping mall for a large retail we continue to work in conjunction with projects successfully.
development client, while in Abu Dhabi our Energy colleagues to explore wider we have been awarded the design of opportunities under a new five-year Safety and sustainability a new residential community for up to framework agreement with a key client.
The slight deterioration in our AIR was driven by the reduction in headcount, the People In Qatar, we are working with the number of major accidents was unchanged.
Government towards meeting its National Headcount fell to 2,459 2015: 2,668, Vision 2030.
Our role on the CPO has reflecting the downsizing of our property We have continued to encourage higher been completed, with the success of our and infrastructure teams, completion of our standards of health and safety, presenting advisory work having made an important work on the CPO and as delays to project Atkins minimum requirements and working contribution to the coordination of Qatars awards continued.
Staff turnover decreased with Qatars Ministry of Municipality and to 10.7% 2015: 16.1% across the region.
Urban Planning to improve and standardise accommodation for the local work force.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 30 Segmental performance Middle East continued Revenue by sector % Revenue by client type % Revenue by geography % 39 Rail including mass transit 2 Public sector: local government 43 Qatar 20 22 24 Urban development Public sector: national government Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 11 76 19 Roads Private sector Dubai 9 Buildings 9 Abu Dhabi 7 Tourism and leisure 3 Sultanate of Oman 14 2 Other Other Construction safety remains an elevated particularly in property and infrastructure.
Risks risk in the Middle East.
We are mitigating Our advisory services team, which now Certain countries within the Middle East this wherever possible and have been exist within our Atkins Acuity business, have greater potential for political change.
instrumental in creating improved standards are developing plans to participate In addition, it is a region where there for the industry through initiatives such as more actively in the new framework is an increased risk of payment delays.
opportunities developed by Faithful Gould Our extensive experience of operating and Energy, where we see good potential in the Middle East over the last 40 years More detail on the risks that our businesses for infrastructure support.
gives us a level of insight into the political face can be found in the Principal risks and environment which, combined with our uncertainties section page 36.
Activity is now underway to establish the focused strategy of carefully selecting both new transport and infrastructure division's the countries in which we operate and our Outlook strategy and structure in order to respond clients, helps us to mitigate political and fully to the needs of clients more effectively Our order book stands at 48.0% of next commercial risks.
The primary focus will be on years budgeted revenue 2015: 74.2%, our core Middle East markets and Africa.
with the annual reduction reflecting prior Further uncertainty around the oil price year awards of major contracts and the presents a key risk because of the impact The acquisition of Howard Humphreys significant challenges faced by the region on government spending and the knock East Africa gives us an excellent platform due to the low oil price.
on effect on private sector confidence.
Our to develop our presence in Africa, where focus on strategically important projects major investment in transportation, While long-term major project and programmes gives us some insulation infrastructure and energy is creating opportunities continue to come to the from short-term changes, which partially demand for multidisciplinary design and market, contract awards in the Middle mitigates this risk.
We will continue to East are expected to remain slow.
We are explore other opportunities to increase our cautious about the outlook for the region, regional footprint.
given increased uncertainty on the timing and funding of our pipeline opportunities, WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016
