N O I I T N A F T R R A Y O S G P T S R 14 Our strategy Our strategy is to focus on revenue growth and, selectively, to increase our geographic footprint and capabilities through targeted international expansion organically and by acquisition.
Strategic objectives Focus Our goal is to generate shareholder value measured by growth Our main focus will be on energy, transportation and in underlying fully diluted earnings per share.
We have launched Atkins Acuity offering seamless this objective by growing underlying operating margins in all our end-to-end advisory services to our clients worldwide.
We will businesses to 8% and then growing revenue where businesses are undertake careful and selected regional expansion, exploring already consistently at or above 8%.
the potential in North America, southeast Asia and Africa.
We will continue to focus the Group on higher growth, higher marginactivities.
Highways and intelligent transport systems Rail and urban transport Aviation Ports and coastal View case studies online at: www.
com transportation Nuclear Oil and gas Conventional power ADVISORY Renewables View case studies online at: www.
com energy Strategic and economic planning Organisation development Urban development Operations improvement Property Due diligence Security Water and environment View case studies online at: View case studies online at: www.
com infrastructure WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 R N E U N A C E R T T U R E Strategic Report Our strategy 15 Acuity is the new advisory business from the Atkins Group.
We help to successfully deliver our clients ambitions in infrastructure and energy, worldwide.
Combining deep business acumen with the engineering expertise of Atkins, we offer seamless, end-to-end advisory services that build higher value, more rewarding partnerships.
Differentiation Three areas of differentiation form the basis of our evolved strategy.
We aim to put our clients at the centre of what we do, work more collaboratively and exploit technology wherever we can to secure future profitable growth.
Clients Collaboration Technology Our thought leadership, key account External partnerships provide both We are pursuing advances in design and management and agility place us well domestic and international opportunities engineering.
Innovation and research for increased client intimacy and focus.
Internal cooperation drives & development is taking place in client We strive to reduce anything that distracts more effective working to win and execute programmes and Group activities.
us from winning work and delivering large programmes.
Action We will progress our client-centric We will collaborate more externally by We will invest in technology and growth programme implementing selecting and engaging with specific innovation for growth.
The initial quantitative goals to enhance revenue in partners or alliances and internally investment areas will include: the key accounts across the Group.
especially using our global design Digital engineering centres in Bangalore and Delhi in India.
Intelligent mobility Digital enterprise asset management Renewables.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
