Strategic Report Segmental performance Asia Pacific 31 Segmental performance Asia Pacific Positioning for long-term growth Key performance indicators 2016 2015 Change Financial metrics Revenue 106.1m 109.7m -3.3% Operating profit 8.5m 9.8m -13.3% Operating margin 8.0% 8.9% -0.9pp Work in hand 46.1% 49.2% -3.1pp Safety AIR 209 77 132 People Staff numbers at 31 March 1,354 1,523 -11.1% Average staff numbers for the year 1,448 1,561 -7.2% Staff turnover 18.7% 12.2% 6.5pp being strengthened through our design We see progress in diversifying our Performance and build projects.
In mainland China, service offering to our major clients.
We In our Asia Pacific region operating margin property market conditions have led to have won a design consultancy contract was 8.0% on revenue of 106.1m the restructuring and right sizing of our for Hong Kong International Airport for 2015: 109.7m.
In 2016, architecture, landscape, advance modification works on the airport cash flow performance were impacted and urban planning and consultancy were taxiway network to facilitate future aircraft by delays to the start of a number of key consolidated into a new property business movements during the initial construction opportunities and cash receipts from clients designed to increase operational efficiency phase of the new third runway.
and allow a multidisciplinary approach Our Hong Kong office is increasing its to chosen clients.
We will increasingly Business model exploration of outbound projects including target state owned enterprises and We operate predominantly in Hong Kong opportunities in Indonesia and Vietnam.
larger developers who have the financial and mainland China supplemented by a We are providing the transit oriented capability to take major projects forward.
network of offices across Malaysia, Vietnam, development masterplan along the new Singapore, India and Australia.
Using our Opportunities to expand our Atkins Acuity Jakarta-Bandung high speed rail corridor, local knowledge combined with our skills business across the region, but particularly Indonesia's first high speed rail project.
and experience in delivering complex in southeast Asia, are increasing as strategic projects around the world, we offer our In mainland China, the property market partnerships are formed with engineering clients a range of services throughout the slowdown has continued and opportunities companies and contractors to secure higher entire cycle of urban development.
We for our property team to work together value opportunities.
work in partnership with chosen Chinese with local design institutes are being contractors and support them both within investigated.
In mainland China, while we Business drivers the region and further afield.
welcome the Government programme Our growth potential in the region is of anti-corruption measures it continues underpinned by the scale of urbanisation Our regional capability in project to slow down the release and award of driving both government spending and the management has been strengthened, projects which is impacting our workloads rate of private sector investment.
Outside helped by the 2013 acquisition of and has led to resource adjustments.
Asia Pacific, good business opportunities Confluence, and we draw upon our exist for the Group as a whole as major Group wide expertise to deliver the most We were appointed recently to provide Chinese companies invest in large scale technically suitable solutions to our clients.
support to Prasarana in a client advisory infrastructure development projects outside role on the delivery of its LRT3 light railway their domestic market.
Strategy project in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
Our strategy of geographic diversification Operations Our overseas work with Chinese has a focus on urban planning, transport In Hong Kong, the largest part of our Asia contractors includes support to China infrastructure and property.
Our relationships Pacific business, the political situation Merchant and Djibouti Ports and Free with Chinese contractors seeking to grow appears to be stabilising following the antiZones Authority on a feasibility study for a and invest outside their domestic market are Government protests of late 2014.
We have port oriented free trade zone investment progressing.
Our presence in the southeast continued to bid for major new government in Djibouti, where the downstream Asian markets is being developed.
contracts but are closely monitoring a masterplan work was secured.
Work with slowdown in the rate of funding approval China Communications Construction In Hong Kong, our client base is and increased competition.
Company and its subsidiaries on a number diversifying and our relationships with of outbound opportunities in the UK, Asia, internationally renowned contractors is WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 32 Segmental performance Asia Pacific continued Revenue m Operating profit m Staff numbers at 31 March 106.1m 8.5m 1,354 16 106.1 16 8.5 16 1,354 15 109.7 15 9.8 15 1,523 14 100.5 14 8.0 14 1,498 -3.3% -13.3% -11.1% Revenue by sector % Revenue by client type % Revenue by geography % 26 16 45 Buildings Public sector: local government Hong Kong 16 10 29 Rail including mass transit Public sector: national government Mainland China 11 Urban development 74 Private sector 10 Singapore 10 3 Water and environment Australia 10 3 Tourism and leisure Vietnam 27 10 Other Other Africa and the Middle East is ongoing.
We In November 2015, the Asia Pacific Expanding our footprint across the region are supporting a number of contractors womens professional network was brings increased risks such as lack of in Africa and the UK to assist in securing launched with the mandate to promote commercial transparency, political instability construction contracts and investment gender diversity in the workplace and and risks associated with operating within prospects in the transport, property and engage and encourage female staff in their unfamiliar regulatory, tax and employment energy sectors.
We undertake research into both the market and specific clients, as well as In southeast Asia, two new city Our employment approach has helped using professional advisors to assist with development contracts were secured with attract and retain female employees and legal and regulatory compliance.
Vingroup and Sands Corporation has they now account for 38% of the overall appointed us as lead consultant for projects headcount.
Over 37% of all our new hires We discuss risks in more detail in the at Marina Bay Sands in Singapore.
for graduate engineer positions, outside Principal risks and uncertainties section Faithful Gould, were women.
Our Faithful Gould business had another design centres GDC, 23% 2015: 20% good year, with its role as engineering Outlook of the workforce and 16% of our overall project manager on the Formula 1 graduate engineers hired are female.
Our order book stands at 46.1% of next Singapore Grand Prix and a strong years budgeted revenue 2015: 49.2%.
pharmaceutical and manufacturing sector Safety and sustainability The political situation in Hong Kong is workload.
Recent wins include a large scale AIR has increased in Asia Pacific partly stabilising, however delayed approval of retail development in Malaysia, luxury retail reflecting three reportable accidents funding continues to impact our pipeline stores in Macau and premium brand hotel compared with two last year.
The slowdown in mainland projects in Singapore and India.
While China is expected to continue and our aim economic growth has slowed in China, Risks is to improve operational efficiency with we continue to see opportunities in the the formation of the new property division.
During the financial year, the welcome manufacturing and hospitality sectors.
We see increasing opportunities for Atkins anti-corruption measures introduced Acuity to provide advisory work in previously in mainland China resulted in People the region.
increased risk for our business as contract Overall headcount in our Asia Pacific region awards were delayed.
We continue to decreased in the year to 1,354 2015: 1,532 monitor developments closely and to take primarily as a result of actions taken to appropriate action regarding resourcing.
restructure and resize our team in mainland China.
Staff turnover has increased to 18.7% 2015: 12.2%.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016
