22 Segmental performance UK and Europe Double digit growth in operating profit and positive outlook Key performance indicators 2016 2015 Change Financial metrics Revenue 943.6m 903.8m 4.4% Operating profit 73.8m 60.7m 21.6% Operating margin 7.8% 6.7% 1.1pp Work in hand 44.4% 45.3% -0.9pp Safety AIR 83 105 -22 People Staff numbers at 31 March 9,591 9,642 -0.5% Average staff numbers for the year 9,707 9,405 3.2% Staff turnover 11.3% 11.9% -0.6pp market-led approach places greater Our ability to leverage skills and capability Performance emphasis on aligning more closely with from a variety of industry sectors and Our UK and Europe business delivered the needs of our key clients, and is professional disciplines provides a strong very good results with a 21.6% increase in supported by our practices, which provide proposition to our clients.
We see operating profit to 73.8m 2015: 60.7m.
cross-sector technical skills and resource multiple opportunities for our broad, Revenue rose to 943.6m and margin flexibility to our projects.
During the year, multidisciplinary offering, providing good improved by 1.1pp to 7.8%.
we identified a further opportunity to growth potential.
consolidate our design and engineering, Business model Business drivers and water, ground and environment Our focus is on planning, designing and divisions.
This new infrastructure division The UK economic environment and enabling our clients capital programmes will enable us to pursue large and complex social policy, such as development of and projects in and around infrastructure projects, particularly in the cities and urban the Northern Powerhouse, the roads and transportation, as well as providing development market, more efficiently and investment strategy and ongoing engineering consultancy services to effectively as a single team.
development of major cities such as wider markets.
We are increasingly London, Birmingham and Manchester, active in the digital economy including Strategy significantly affect the opportunities intelligent mobility which is about how we Our strategy focuses on maintaining our available to our business.
The digital connect people, places and goods across market leadership positions in the UK economy, with its forward-thinking use transportation networks.
Our Europe and realising the opportunities arising of technology in areas such as intelligent business is primarily focused on the rail from the UK Governments continued mobility, is another increasingly important and highways infrastructure markets commitment to infrastructure investment driver for our business.
and from regulatory spend in rail, utilities portfolio provides resilience against market and airports.
Our aerospace, defence and fluctuations, as does the fact that a number We are a technical consultancy, providing security markets provide diversity to our of our most important markets remain advice, design and engineering together infrastructure exposure.
with project management skills for public and private sector clients.
Added Our operational excellence programme Scandinavian markets continue to benefit resilience is brought to our UK business by continues to improve the underlying from investment in infrastructure from both its ongoing support for projects in other processes of the business, ensuring the public and private sectors, providing regions, together with the use of our global increased time to focus on our clients stable market conditions.
design centres in India, which provide needs and project delivery.
flexibility of delivery and access to high quality, lower cost resources.
We aim to be innovative in the delivery of the largest and most complex, longIn this financial year, we implemented term projects and to support other Group successfully our new UK operating model, businesses with our specialist expertise.
which reorganised the business from six into four market-facing divisions.
Our WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Segmental performance UK and Europe 23 Revenue m Operating profit m Staff numbers at 31 March 943.6m 73.8m 9,591 16 943.6 16 73.8 16 9,591 15 903.8 15 60.7 15 9,642 14 998.3 14 62.6 14 9,544 4.4% 21.6% -0.5% projects for Network Rail, including the been appointed onto Scottish Waters Operations Stafford Area Improvement Programme technical support consultancy contract The infrastructure market in UK roads, and projects at East Kent and Cardiff.
In as part of the ARC joint venture.
The rail and water remains well funded and December 2015, the East West Rail Phase 2 framework runs throughout the current investment continues to enjoy Government scheme was secured as part of our alliance Scottish Water SR15 business plan period support.
In particular, the Budget and with Volker Rail, Laing ORourke and 20152021.
Autumn Statement confirmed our Network Rail.
This multi-year contract is expectations that capital investment for In January 2016, our joint venture with expected to deliver up to 100m of revenue infrastructure projects will remain strong.
Arup was appointed to deliver a range of for the Group.
In September, the five-year design and engineering services for the programme to improve capacity and the Transportation BMB joint venture between BAM Nuttall, passenger experience at Birmingham New Transportation has performed well this year.
Morgan Sindall and Balfour Beatty on Street station, for which we were lead the west section of Londons new sewer, designer, was completed.
Our appointment by Highways England Thames Tideway Tunnel.
as one of its key suppliers on the As part of a joint venture with CH2M Collaborative Delivery Framework CDF We are seeing increasing opportunities to and SENER, we have won a contract to is proving successful and we are well cross-sell the skills and expertise within this become engineering delivery partner positioned to bid on the largest projects.
business into the transportation and energy for High Speed 2.
The contract, valued Under the CDF, Atkins and CH2M were markets.
For example, work on Crossrail at between 250m and 350m for the awarded the detailed design contract for and High Speed 2, and recent awards on consortium, is expected to run for 10 years the 1.5bn A14 Cambridge to Huntingdon major highways and other rail projects, are and will see us provide engineering support upgrade programme, and our joint drawing on our specialist environmental for the delivery of phase 1 of the project venture with Jacobs was awarded the and ground engineering teams.
This was a which runs from London to Birmingham.
design contract for three smart motorway key reason behind the decision to merge schemes.
In joint venture with Arup, Our investment to shape the future the WG&E and design and engineering we achieved another key win in the of transportation in the UK has made businesses to create our new infrastructure second half of the year with Highways progress with leadership on intelligent division from April 2016.
England which appointed us to develop mobility projects such as Venturer, the proposals for a tunnel on the A303 Design and engineering driverless vehicle pilot in Bristol, and nearStonehenge.
Our design and engineering business FLOURISH, the BIS funded project to has performed well during the year with support the development of connected The Hendy Review into project delivery strong volumes and high productivity.
in Network Rail resulted in some scheme The business saw continued growth in delays and the extension of works Water, ground and environment its core markets and works closely with programmes into the next spending control WG&E the Groups Energy business to deliver period.
However, we are encouraged that WG&E has had a good year.
Our healthy the buildings and infrastructure elements the overall level of investment increased pipeline of work from water utility clients of major UK projects.
Our proposition as a result of the review to 40bn.
This includes our support for the delivery of to local authorities and developers for included the funding of a significant the programmes for the 2015 to 2020 residential-led regeneration and social number of our projects, particularly in the regulatory period asset management plan infrastructure is developing with the recent electrification programme, on the Great AMP6 for Thames Water, Severn Trent appointment to design 600 new homes as Western mainline between London and Water and United Utilities.
We have also part of a mixed-use regeneration scheme South Wales and the Midland mainline.
continue to deliver a range of complex WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 24 Segmental performance UK and Europe continued In the education sector, the market Faithful Gould We are focused on expanding our position remains active and continues to represent in the Norwegian infrastructure and Our UK business has performed well with a significant proportion of our portfolio.
project management markets, helped by a steady stream of work, particularly in Recently secured projects include the successful integration of the Terramar higher and further education, as well as work for the universities of Glasgow, project management consultancy.
We commercial property in London and the Wolverhampton and Bournemouth and we have recently secured a rail infrastructure South East.
Our work on the Scape Asset will continue to focus on higher and further project as well as several important Management, Surveying and Design education opportunities.
Services public sector framework has provided a steady stream of work and Our airports team is delivering significant In the year, further progress on our is subject to rebid this year.
Project wins programmes of work at London Heathrow portfolio optimisation strategy was made, include appointments at the universities and Gatwick, as well as to support the with the disposal of our 48 person business of Edinburgh and Glasgow and with wider Group on international opportunities.
Westminster City Council and CapInvest.
Our defence infrastructure portfolio We were pleased to win Construction People includes major programmes of work Consultant Surveyor of the Year at the for BAE Systems and designing facilities Closing staff numbers reduced slightly to Building Awards 2015. for air and sea-based defence.
We have 9,591 2015: 9,642, UK: 8,873 2015: 8,885 : also supported initial nuclear new build Our market position in the nuclear sector Europe: 718 2015: 757 after allowing infrastructure work in the UK, including continues to grow as we work to develop for the disposal of the Portuguese business.
EDF Energys proposed new Hinkley Point opportunities with our Energy business and Staff turnover decreased to 11.3% power station, and remain involved in to support EDF Energy on the proposed from 11.9%.
nuclear decommissioning work with our Hinkley Point C with our renewed In the UK, we continue to implement colleagues in the Energy business.
appointment for contract management programmes to assist with the attraction, and administration services.
Aerospace, defence, security and engagement and retention of talented technology ADS&T We successfully secured a place on people and are recognised by a number of ADS&T has had a mixed year.
In aerospace, Highways England's Specialist Professional independent organisations as a great place during the early part of the year workload and Technical Services framework.
We were once again named in The was cancelled at short notice in North Sunday Times 25 Best Big Companies to Europe America and appropriate action was taken Work For, appearing in the top 25 for the Our core markets in Scandinavia remain to reduce headcount further, particularly in 10th time in 12 years.
We are one of the well funded, with a strong pipeline of North America and Europe.
The position is largest and most popular recruiters of new infrastructure projects and increasing now stabilising after securing a number of graduate engineers and were shortlisted opportunities to work with local new and diversified contracts, including our for the TARGETjobs most popular contractors as well as public bodies.
alliance with Ausy to Airbus E2S multi-year graduate recruiter in the construction, civil framework.
engineering and surveying sector in 2016.
Workload in Denmark is stable across our major rail and road infrastructure Our defence and security businesses The ongoing promotion of science, projects including two major projects traded well during the year, with increased technology, engineering and mathematics with Banedanmark the signalling volume flowing through ongoing STEM careers to young people continues programme and the design of the new rail contracts to deliver security work for to be a focus.
Over 500 STEM ambassadors line between Copenhagen and Ringsted.
Heathrow Airports took part in more than 350 STEM The design and build project for bridges IT outsourcing contract, in partnership activities with schools, colleges and on this line is progressing well, with the with Capgemini, allows us to leverage our community groups, engaging with bridges under construction.
In holistic security, thousands of students.
our team is delivering a range of projects, In Sweden, we continue to work on a During the year, 383 young people joined including a number of cyber security number of large rail projects, including the UK business on formal education assignments for multinational private Hallsberg TrV, HSL Mlnlycke TrV and development programmes including sector clients.
and the Molnby depot project, which is 81 apprentices.
progressing into the detailed design stage.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Segmental performance UK and Europe 25 Revenue by sector % Revenue by client type % 34 14 Rail including mass transit Public sector: local government 15 Defence and security 27 Public sector: national gover nment 14 28 Roads Regulated 8 31 Water and environment Private sector 7 Aerospace and aviation 6 Education 4 Urban development 3 Buildings 9 Other While we maintain our commitment to We assess risks across all of our businesses Risks achieving gender diversity, the scope of and this is explained in more detail in the There is a risk in the medium and longer our diversity and inclusion D&I activity is Principal risks and uncertainties section term of a shortage of professional widening in the shape of a five-year D&I page 36. technical staff in our industry.
The plan will be aligned with the we released a report, The skills deficit: Outlook 10 steps, developed by industry members consequences and opportunities for UK and partners of the Royal Academy of Our secured work in hand in UK and infrastructure, focusing on the challenges Engineering and the WISE campaign Europe is 44.4% 2015: 45.3% of next of an engineering skills shortage, which in2014.
years budgeted revenue and, with the highlighted apprenticeships as one of continued optimisation of our business in the most effective ways to solve it.
We Focus on increasing the proportion of female the UK, this gives us confidence for the have outlined in the Our people section employees continues and a range of flexible year ahead.
page42 our approach to recruiting working options has been developed to help apprentices and sponsoring students and us both recruit and retain staff.
We recruited We see a healthy pipeline of opportunities graduates to help mitigate this risk.
91 female graduates in the September 2015 in the UK, particularly in transportation and intake, an increase of 4%.
Our core markets We believe that the availability of talented in Scandinavia remain well funded and engineers and scientists from Europe In line with the rest of the Group, employee supported by government commitments.
without restrictions means that it is in our engagement is measured through our best interests for the UK to remain within Viewpoint employee opinion survey.
In the March Budget the Chancellor the EU.
However, we do not believe that Across the region, our results in 2015 were announced funding for improved a vote to leave the EU would constitute unchanged compared with the previous connectivity in the Northern Powerhouse a material risk to the Group from an year, a pleasing result given the reshaping and the initial development of Crossrail2.
of our UK business and the difficult The Government has also committed conditions in some of our markets.
The to making a decision on south east The majority of the Groups postresult continued to outperform the global airport capacity in the summer and the employment benefit liability sits within the norm for the professional services sector.
parliamentary process for phase 1 of High UK business and is comprised of defined Speed 2 is in its final stages, with the benefit pension obligations, the largest of Safety and sustainability intention for construction to begin in 2017. which is within the Atkins Pension Plan, Workplace health, safety and wellbeing However, there may be some slowing of which is closed to the future accrual of continue to be a high priority and our decision-making and in the award of major benefits see note 30 for more details.
overall AIR has improved due to a reduction projects due to continued Government The pension obligations are recognised in the number of reportable accidents.
as a risk due to their size and the fact that the ongoing liability is a function of a number of assumptions, not least the life expectancy of members.
This risk is mitigated by ongoing cash contributions to the pension fund, which have been agreed with the pension trustee, along with measures to manage ongoing volatility.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
