m a n A a s g s e e m t e n t C m o a n n s a t g r u e c m t i e o n n t g p n r i P o n j r e n o c a g t l r P a m m a n m a e g e a m n e d n t 08 Our business Our core business is helping our clients to plan, design and enable major capital programmes.
The solutions we provide range from upfront strategic advice to large, outcome-focused programme management engagements.
What we do Plan We plan every aspect of our clients projects, from strategy, financial analysis and risk planning, feasibility studies and logistics, to impact assessments and stakeholder engagement activities.
Enable Design Our clients trust us with the We design physical structures management of projects, ranging from buildings, people and issues, ensuring highways, bridges and tunnels, that deadlines are met, costs to offshore oil platforms.
are controlled and desired We also design management outcomes are delivered.
systems, business processes and advanced technology systems such as biometric scanners and superfast broadband networks.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 D e s i g n a y n g e d t e a r n t g S i n e e r i n g C o n c e p t d e v e l o p m e n t Strategic Report Our business 09 Our business model Market size and share Competitive environment Design, engineering and project There are a number of industry surveys Due to the breadth of activities that the management services are key to that capture the top firms in regions and Group undertakes, competitors are often infrastructure development.
When clients sectors by revenue.
The calculation of true sector or service specific.
are undertaking capital projects they market share remains difficult due to the Each region of the world is characterised by need professional support with planning, large number of very small firms in each a small number of large players, often with designing and enabling activities from region that do not form part of these multinational reach, together with a large policy, strategic choices, feasibility, concept surveys.
However, we use the information number of smaller companies that tend and detailed design, through to project and available, together with our own industry to have very specific niche skills.
Typically, programme management, implementation knowledge, to develop our own best therefore, competitors at the local level and operation.
At each stage, services estimate of market share.
are divisions of large companies or smaller are sought from design, engineering and We estimate that the market for our skills in privately owned specialists.
selected geographies is in excess of 100bn Barriers to entry vary across the sectors in Large or particularly complex projects per annum and, such is the fragmented and which we operate from very high in areas may only be able to be undertaken by extensive nature of the competition, we such as nuclear, where specific domain organisations of scale, where a breadth of command an overall share of less than 2% knowledge and certification is required, expertise and deep technical knowledge of our addressable market.
to much lower barriers in more generalist must be applied in combination to deliver Market shares vary enormously by areas of civil infrastructure design.
individual sector from around a third in How we add value Our business may be characterised UK rail signalling works structures down to as follows: very small market shares in niche activities.
Our strength lies in our client relationships By region, we estimate our market share as and the breadth and depth of our technical we service public and private more than 5% from our significant position expertise, which enable us to provide sector clients involved in complex in the UK and, demonstrating the potential practical solutions to the most complex infrastructure developments for growth, around 2% in the Middle East challenges for clients.
we are a people business selling the and less than 1% in each of the US, Europe specialist output from our talented teams and Asia Pacific.
the services we provide demand high end critical thinking and expert judgement we operate in many parts of the world and in many market sectors.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
