N O I T U B I R T N O C T C E R I D N I T N E DIRECT CONTRIBUTION I L C N O I T U B I R C T L N I 46 Our responsibility Within our corporate sustainability reporting we showcase the expertise and drive that exists within Atkins to support our clients to tackle sustainability challenges.
The future depends on what we do today.
Sustainability is an integral part of our shortages, energy security and climate Nested below these pillars are a total of 11 purpose.
Within our corporate sustainability change.
In order to measure our impacts sustainability principles.
We provide detail of reporting we showcase the expertise on society, the environment and the our progress against each of these principles and drive that exists within Atkins to economy, we theme our sustainability on our website www.
com support our clients to tackle sustainability activities around three pillars: a society for responsibility and highlight some of the challenges, such as population growth, our future, an environment with a future most significant developments within urbanisation, resource scarcity, skills and a responsible business of the future.
Society Environment Business DIRECT CONTRIBUTION WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 E O N C T T C E R I D N I T N E DIRECT CONTRIBUTION I L C N O I T U B I R T N O C T C E R I D N I Strategic Report Our responsibility 47 As one of the world's major design, leadership training has been rolled out to A society for our future engineering and project management senior managers and directors Group wide Inspiring the next generation consultancies, we help to provide the as we seek to lead and positively influence We recognise that inspiring the next minds and ideas behind transforming our industry and set its standards.
generation of engineers to build a the worlds built environment and play sustainable future is critical and our careers We continue to place great emphasis on a central role as stewards of societys website advertises all of our early career our technical leadership through Atkins economic, social and environmental opportunities with dedicated graduate Fellows, a group of experts in their fields, fabric.
This can be considered our indirect pages.
We also run a variety of science, and our technical networks.
Our direct contribution is technology, engineering and mathematics technical leadership is highly relevant to the who we are and how we behave as an STEM outreach programmes focused sustainability challenges that society faces.
organisation, demonstrating responsibility on encouraging young people to study An example is a report we have published and accountability to our stakeholders.
We STEM topics and consider related careers.
on Journeys of the Future Introducing believe we have a responsibility to help Further information about our approach Mobility as a Service.
This looks at how enable a sustainable future through our and the number of people attracted to our technology will be a critical driver of change leadership role, our operations and the graduate and apprenticeship programmes in the transport sector in the coming years services we provide.
can be found within Our people page 42. and how traditional assumptions regarding By far our greatest contribution to transportation will be challenged.
Supporting our peoples development sustainable development is through the We are committed to supporting our Raising safety and welfare standards work we carry out for clients and so peoples development, equipping them to We continue to promote improvements much of our reporting relates to our deliver innovative and sustainable solutions.
in health and safety standards across our indirect contribution.
We have held a series of webinars about industry.
An important channel for this is carbon critical buildings, open to all Leadership the global network of Consultants Health employees Group wide and hosted by our and Safety Forums which we have often As part of our commitment to becoming own sustainability experts, and challenged been instrumental in establishing.
Our a more responsible and sustainable our people to contribute to the debate people also play their part in driving up organisation we continue to share best about whether, and how, we can make standards through engagement in industry practice with senior leaders throughout buildings zero carbon by 2020. leadership and participation in professional the Group.
Kelvin TOPSET training forums and conferences.
has been rolled out across the Group excluding mainland Europe.
TOPSET This is the sixth year that health and safety teaches companies how to investigate standards in our UK business have been incidents, to understand the causes and recognised by a Royal Society for the to prevent incident recurrence, while Prevention of Accidents Gold Medal.
helping to standardise and simplify incident investigation procedures.
As part of our behavioural safety programme, safe by WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 48 Our responsibility continued Social and community investment AIR staff & contractors We encourage and support our people to make an even greater contribution to the 1000 social, environmental and economic health of our communities.
Across each segment, we focus our efforts where we believe our 800 skills can do the most good.
For example in North America, The Atkins Foundation, 600 which funds STEM related activities, student scholarships, and communitybased programmes, donated over $96,000 400 to fund projects across America.
In Asia Pacific, our Indian offices have raised funds for the SUKRUPA education centre, 200 which provides free schooling, food and basic health care for pre-school children, 0 and also supported a local orphanage.
1112 1213 1314 1415 1516 In the UK, we received the Gold Defence Employer Recognition Scheme award from Year the Ministry of Defence in recognition Office actual Engineering actual Construction actual of our support for staff who are Armed Forces Reservists.
Atkins operating safely, a bespoke system Safety performance A healthy, safe and secure workplace designed to help keep our people safe We are committed to providing and The accident incidence rate AIR is an when they are visiting sites and unfamiliar maintaining a safe and healthy working industry measure of the number of offices, was successfully launched in environment for our employees and reportable accidents per 100,000 staff.
2014 15 in the UK and the system is now ensuring the safety of others affected by Our AIR figures summarise employee being used in North America and the our operations and services.
performance is categorised into working Through our corporate Wellbeing in offices, in engineering environments We are focused on promoting our security programme, we have adopted a range e. g. on-site support activity and in principles across the Group to build of strategies to improve employee health construction, involving installation or our security culture.
Part of our code of and wellbeing.
For example, we have construction activity.
In each case, our conduct focuses on the safety behaviours started to pilot desks that enable people level of performance compares well with of our employees, highlighting the to stand as they work, generating a industry averages.
importance of reporting any health and range of health benefits, as part of our safety issues or near misses.
We continue agile working initiative.
We have also Our office and construction AIRs have TM to work with colleagues, clients and our launched Wellbriefing, a tool that helps improved again this year, however supply chain to try to ensure that health, our clients put peoples wellbeing at there has been a very small increase in safety and security are fully integrated into the heart of building design.
It focuses the engineering AIR.
This is due to one our decision-making processes.
on nine interconnected physical and additional accident in this category psychological aspects and provides a useful being reported.
benchmark for post occupancy evaluation of the building, assessing whether our designs have been effective in improving occupants wellbeing.
This is a reduction on the ratio for the year ended 31 March 2 2015 of 3.1 tonnes CO e per employee.
2 Transition to a low carbon economy A multidisciplinary Atkins team recently An environment with a future carried out a research project for the We are taking action to reduce the A low carbon economy Energy Technologies Institute ETI which environmental impact of our own offices.
We have continued our work to forms part of a new report into the future For example, in the UK, we have designed a become a low carbon organisation.
development of the UKs energy systems.
new 1,000 person purpose-built office for The Power Plant Siting Study provided our teams, allowing us to exit and demolish Measuring and reporting emissions analysis into the siting constraints of an energy inefficient 1950s office block.
to stakeholders and investors potential locations for new low carbon and We have disclosed data to CDP formerly In Tianjin province of China, the Atkins nuclear power stations and promoted the the Carbon Disclosure Project, the global designed TEDA H2 building won a benefits of a mix of generation options platform for organisational disclosure of certificate of excellence in the A&D Trophy including conventional nuclear reactors investor-relevant climate change data, for Awards 2015 under the category of Green and small modular reactors SMRs, carbon the last seven years.
This is the worlds first lowcapture and storage and other low carbon carbon building to have been accredited technologies to produce a more robust The Group again achieved certification to with four green building certificates under and fit for purpose system.
According to the ISO 14064 international standard for different assessment schemes: the US the report, published by ETI, both large quantification and reporting of greenhouse LEED Gold, the Chinese 3-Star 3 stars, scale new nuclear plants and SMRs will gas emissions.
We report on gas, electricity the Japanese CASBEE S Class and the UK potentially play a major role in the move to and liquid fuel consumption, and travel BREEAM Very Good.
The building was an affordable low carbon economy.
Table 1 shows total emissions also named the Best Green Development by by region split between scopes one, two As discussed in our Energy segmental China Property Awards 2015. and three, as defined by the Greenhouse performance review page 33, we have Gas Protocol.
Affordable, reliable and clean energy developed for Hexicon an innovative As well as working to reduce emissions multi-turbine offshore wind floating Reducing our emissions from our own operations, we also use platform.
It will be tethered to the seabed We have consolidated office space and our technical expertise in this area to help by an innovative active mooring system, moved to agile office environments to clients incorporate energy efficiency and allowing the whole structure to be rotated help to reduce the energy we consume low carbon design into their projects.
For by up to 45 degrees to maximise the energy in our offices.
We are also making example, we are working with clients on capture and minimise wake effects from better use of telecommunications and the installation and use of combined heat the adjacent turbines.
video conferencing to reduce travel and power CHP generation systems.
The related emissions, in particular with the Atkins in Norway has a central role in project aims to turn the excess biogas introduction of Skype for business.
the planning and development of five produced into useful energy.
Being able to solar power plants in Egypt where the use both renewable and fossil fuels, CHP Government plans to supply 20% of plants can provide electricity with efficiency installed capacity for renewable energy.
ratings in excess of 80%, helping to reduce energy costs and greenhouse gas emissions effectively and contributing to the development of a sustainable environment.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 50 Our responsibility continued Respect for human rights is critical to us and we seek to have a positive influence wherever we operate.
In Jeddah, KSA, we are working in Economic and environmental resilience A responsible business partnership with Al Muhaidib, Vinci and We work with our clients and other of the future the National Water Company, designing partners to translate investment in Technical excellence the Briman Strategic Water Reservoir, infrastructure and technology into We continue to provide sustainable value the worlds largest drinking water economic and environmental resilience.
and technical excellence for our clients, storage facility.
We are collaborating to produce research using management standards to develop to inform and influence decisions about more collaborative client relationships.
For Respect for the environment the best steps to ensure future economic example, our Right First Time behavioural Managing resources prosperity.
In the UK, our future proofing programme, builds on the technical Our office sustainability programme, cities team worked in partnership with assurance standard that we have developed RACE2, is designed to get all of our people Oxford Economics and Centre for London to define the requirements for all technical thinking and acting more sustainably and to identify that London is significantly deliverables across the Group.
has continued to put our sustainability underestimating the level of investment in principles into action in our offices infrastructure required to keep up with the We are using new materials to achieve worldwide.
Awards for contributions to the citys growth over the coming decades.
the kind of technical excellence required programme are being opened up across the to drive the development of sustainable Strong governance and accountability Group for the first time in 2016. infrastructure.
For example we won the Our commitment to behaving as a Civil Engineering Project of the Year at Environmental projects for clients responsible business, demonstrating the British Construction Industry Awards In North America, we designed South transparency and fairness, is outlined by our for Church Bridge Reconstruction, in Pointe Park Pier which was named as Group policy statements and sustainability South Gloucestershire.
Through the use of Project of the Year by the Miami-Dade principles.
Our code of conduct, Behaving adapted composite technology, familiar to Branch of the American Society of Civil the Atkins Way, which sets out what it us through our advanced engineering work Engineers in the $10m or less construction means to think and behave as part of for the wings of advanced civilian aircraft, cost category.
Protecting corals and water Atkins, has been firmly embedded across our team designed and created one of the quality was pivotal to the project.
UKs largest composite road bridges made entirely out of glass and carbon fibre.
In Respect for human rights is critical to us the long term it is hoped this could help and we seek to have a positive influence pave the way for a new generation of wherever we operate.
We are proud of structures which cost substantially less Atkins minimum requirements AMR, over their lifetime than their concrete and which we developed a few years ago steel equivalents.
to enable us to influence clients and contractors in the Middle East to raise Our technical networks support people standards of health, safety and welfare in achieving technical excellence.
The principles Urban planners from around the of AMR have now been adopted by a range Group met in Shanghai in October of clients, consultants, contractors and for the annual conference of Atkins others across our industry.
The UK Modern Urban Planning Technical Network.
Slavery Act resonates with our values Innovative projects ranged from planning and approach.
for rapid urbanisation, tourism and industrial development in Asia Pacific to  regeneration projects in the UK and small scale urban design interventions in Scandinavia.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Our responsibility 51 Strategic engagement for innovation In the UK, we have launched a centre for We are very proud of our peoples research and innovation with the University commitment to Atkins sustainability Across our worldwide business, we are of Birmingham, Imperial College London principles and of their growing effect on playing our part in strategic engagement, and the British Geological Survey.
Over our activities and operations.
We have aimed at developing innovative, sustainable the next five years, the centre will bring a central role as stewards of societys infrastructure, responding effectively to together academics, researchers and economic, social and environmental fabric climate change and initiating environmental industry to build an integrated approach to and, as a result, have a direct impact on protection initiatives.
managing the economic and environmental the future through the work we do and We are delighted to have been appointed impact of groundwater infiltration into the way that we do it.
Playing our part as as the lead consultant for developing infrastructure.
The long-term aim is to a responsible business is important to us, sustainable infrastructure under the develop preventative techniques that will and we look forward to making further new Infrastructure Project Preparation reduce ongoing asset management costs progress in the year ahead.
Framework established by the European and improve environmental standards for Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
the industry while reducing the risk of Over a three-year period 20152017, we flooding in towns and cities.
This Strategic Report was approved by will work to improve the efficiency and the Board and signed on its behalf by replicability of infrastructure projects for the benefit of the Banks clients.
Our knowledge partnership with Prof Dr Uwe Krueger Connect4Climate, a World Bank-sponsored CEO initiative dedicated to raising awareness about climate change issues globally, is 15 June 2016 based upon our future proofing cities work, which creates a framework for understanding and addressing the risks that cities face.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
