Delivering on our priorities A clear focus on our six operating priorities allows us to monitor our strategic progress and deliver results, consolidating our position at the forefront of the UK automotive marketplace.
Bringing buyers and sellers together Increase consumer audience, advert views and use of our valuations tools Progress during the last year: 6x larger than our nearest competitor in terms of minutes spent on site.
Full page advert views rose 7.5%.
Consumers conducted 13.7 million valuations in the year to March 2016.
20 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Protecting consumers and customers Promote trust and fairness in the marketplace Progress during the last year: Forced removal of adverts that deliberately misled consumers.
Mandated disclosure of category C and D vehicles in our search results.
Continued to harmonise retailer pricing structures towards complete consistency.
Creating value for customers Grow ARPR in a balanced, sustainable way by creating value for our customers Progress during the last year: All retailer customers received a price increase, linked to the value of the products provided.
Increased average stock on site year-on-year.
Sales and service teams better equipped to upsell more effectively as a result of new Challenger training approach.
21 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Delivering on our priorities continued Be broader Extend the penetration of in our offering products outside of our core classified proposition Progress during the last year: i-Control penetration to over 1,900 forecourts.
Retailing solutions revenue growth of 11%.
Launched part-exchange tool to over 6,600 retailers, representing c. 60% stock listings.
Submitted an application to the FCA for approved introducer authorisation.
Opportunity Enhance our relevance and value to manufacturers for growth Progress during the last year: Launched new creative solutions and advertising formats to manufacturers.
Coordinated consistent, locally targeted brand advertising across manufacturers and franchised networks.
Increased total display spend by manufacturers by 31%.
22 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Operate a simpler, leaner Dataand more data-oriented business Progress during the last year: Migrated 71% of retailer forecourts onto new billing oriented system, Singleview.
Developed the AutoTrader Way methodology to standardise the approach to product development, placing data at the heart of everything we do.
strategy Re-structured our organisation to ensure our teams could operate collaboratively, share knowledge and skills in an agile manner.
23 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
