Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our strategy Our mission is to lead the digital future of the UK automotive marketplace AutoTrader is a 100% digital business and we have a clear focus on maintaining our market position as the UK and Irelands leading digital automotive marketplace for buying and selling new and used vehicles.
Strategic goals We will simplify our We will continuously We will build a digital business and integrate improve and be brilliant culture that is values our assets at everything that is driven, customer focused at our core and data oriented Operating priorities The network effect model calls for the largest and most engaged audience in order to Increase consumer audience, drive the most advert views and ultimately sales of retailers stock.
Offering useful services advert views and use of our that help consumers to buy and sell easily, like the valuation tool, is essential to keep our valuation tools marketplace relevant.
A trusted, fair and effective marketplace is core to the value we deliver to consumers, Promote trust and fairness customers and manufacturers, who expect us as operator and custodian of the in the marketplace marketplace to ensure all participants benefit.
ARPR is our primary driver of revenue growth so the more balanced we can be across Grow ARPR in a balanced, price rises, stock listing growth, product upsell and cross sell, the more sustainable our sustainable way by creating revenue will be in the long term.
value for our customers Leveraging our core business to meet the wider needs of retailers, helping them to remove Extend the penetration inefficiencies and become more profitable, whilst providing AutoTrader with a material of products outside of our source of future revenue growth and a closer relationship with its customers.
core classified proposition 1 64% of car buyers use AutoTrader in their search for a new car.
Given 1.5 billion is Enhance our relevance 2 spent on new car advertising by manufacturers and only a very small portion is spent and value to manufacturers with AutoTrader, there is a huge opportunity to promote the relevance and value of our marketplace with this audience.
Operate a simpler, Making our processes and procedures more intuitive and streamlined, together with harnessing the data from our marketplace which will benefit both our customers and leaner and more employees.
Creating a high-performing, continuously developing business will unlock data-oriented business opportunities and provide a truly digital experience for all.
1 Kantar Media, The undecided car buyer research report, 2014.
Turn over the page to learn more about our business model and how we deliver on our priorities.
17 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
