Market overview The automotive market today The UK automotive market continues to grow modestly.
New car registrations maintain strong levels which is feeding used car growth.
UK economy and associated macroeconomic conditions UK automotive drivers The UK automotive market is intrinsically New and used car sale volumes But its not just consumer confidence and Worth approximately 90 billion, the new economic recovery that are responsible for linked with the wider UK economy.
and used car markets are a substantial part growth in both new and used car markets.
In 2015 it was estimated The availability of competitive and diverse The UK remains one of the fastest growing that there were 34 million cars in the UK, finance options often heavily incentivised developed economies, with GDP growth for and 10million car transactions.
New car has made it easier than ever to secure Q4 of 2015 ahead of expectations at 0.6% registrations have increased over the last bespoke and affordable funding arrangements and annual GDP growth for 2015 of 2.2%.
four years, growing year-on-year for 50 of for new or used cars.
Personal Contract In 2016, the economy has returned to its the last 51 months according to the Society Purchase PCP agreements grew again as pre-recession size and the IMF expects of Motor Manufacturers and Traders SMMT.
predicted, accounting for over three quarters economic growth rates of consistently above They reached 2.67 million units in the 12month of consumer new car deals and over a third 1 2% over the next few years.
However, the period to March 2016, exceeding pre-recession of used car deals in 2016, as financing used levels.
New car transaction growth is translating cars becomes an increasingly popular model service sector is growing at a subdued rate into used car transaction volumes, with total amongst UK car buyers.
and other sectors, such as manufacturing, transactions up 6% in the year to March 2016. are struggling.
The UK also has a growing current account deficit, which is an indication of the vulnerability of the economy, and the 34m uncertainty surrounding Britains membership cars in the UK in 2015 of the European Union poses risks for sterling as well as trade throughout Europe.
Number of new car registrations Number of used car transactions Nonetheless, 2015 saw the return of consumer % % 000s 000s confidence, and retail sales in 2016 are 3,000 45 45 growing strongly as households benefit from 40 40 35 7,000 35 continued low interest rates and inflation.
30 30 2,500 Low unemployment, rising earnings growth 25 25 and a low oil price are also boosting spending.
20 20 5,000 15 15 2,000 10 10 5 5 3,000 0 0 5 5 1,500 10 10 15 15 1,000 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 12 month r olling total 12 month r olling total Year-on-year growth rate in that month Year-on-year growth rate in that month Opportunities If new car registrations maintain their existing With continued low interest rates and more levels, this will mean a good supply of three retailers offering PCPs on used vehicles, to six year old used cars in the coming years, there is the opportunity to increase the thus growing the used car market.
overall frequency of car sales.
An increase in the number of used car transactions generally means that our customers are performing well, allowing us the opportunity to provide more solutions to help them to manage and grow their businesses.
06 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements AutoTrader is uniquely positioned in the market and is well placed to take advantage of a range of growth opportunities.
Digital buying and selling drivers Automotive advertising drivers Changing consumer behaviour The traditional forecourt still has an important Advert views As digital technologies play an ever increasing role to play, but it is no longer the primary Advert views increased by 7.5% to 2.9 billion role in our day-to-day lives, consumers expect destination for consumers to conduct their in the year.
Advert views are click-throughs to access information anywhere, at any time and research online marketplaces are becoming from initial search result pages and are on any device, and this includes researching and the most important part of the purchase the consumer activity measure most 1 buying a car.
As the UKs largest digital automotive journey.
That research plays a significant correlated to vehicle transactions between marketplace, we are able to observe how role in which forecourt a consumer might consumers and retailers.
This means that consumers research their next car online.
visit 71%of buyers first visit a forecourt more than 93 vehicles are being virtually 2 Consumers spend on average nearly 11 hours to test drive or transact on a specific car.
inspected every second of every day on choosing the exact vehicle that is right for AutoTraders marketplace.
This shift online has created a digital Consumers expect car buying to be like any forecourt, which allows consumers to make other retail business.
This demand is challenging Transition of automotive advertising their car purchase decisions long before they the traditional way car dealers do business.
In 2015 it was estimated that 72% of 3 set foot onto a physical forecourt.
Our research Dealers need to operate as digital retailers automotive classified spend was online.
tells us that twice as many hours are now to adapt to these changes.
Some already We expect this figure to increase further 1 spent researching used cars online as offline.
have, by adopting digital strategies to run in the next couple of years.
It is also worth This in turn leads to fewer forecourts visited their business.
Many understand the need noting that the overall automotive classified than seen historically, so it is key that retailers to implement multi-channel approaches, expenditure in 2004 was 40% greater advertise all their stock online if it is not so that the online and offline experience for than we see today over 500m so there online, it is effectively not for sale.
consumers is consistent and meets the needs is scope within the existing cost base to of car buyers.
More progressive car retailers put a greater emphasis back on core also exploit data to run their businesses classifieds, particularly with the more key to enabling them to buy desirable stock prominent role being played by digital.
for their area, at the right price and sell at Beyond that, we estimate that we account market value.
for only a small proportion of a retailers 70% gross profit.
There is scope to grow this customer searches that come by increasing penetration of products that from mobile and tablet devices meet customers needs beyond core classified advertising, such as i-Control.
11 hours average time spent by consumers 7.5% researching their next car online increase in advert views to Opportunities 2.9 billion in the year With the growing UK car automotive market coupled with consumers conducting the majority of their research online, we anticipate a growth in usage in our consumer valuations tool, something we are focused on embedding as a benchmark for the industry.
Our research tells us that 64% of new car 4 buyers visit AutoTrader, meaning we are highly relevant to manufacturers.
This is an area we believe we can add increased value to through our display advertising propositions.
There is also the opportunity to use our 1 The Finance and Leasing Association.
market position to continue to develop 2 1 0.6 average hours online vs. 4.5 hours products within and outside of our core offline for used cars, Annual Buying Behaviour classified offering to better meet the needs Research Study in conjunction with GfK.
3 E NDERS, used car marketing outlook, of consumers and therefore improve December 2015. market efficiency.
4 K antar Media, The undecided car buyer research report, 2014.
07 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Market overview continued Auto Traders role in the car marketplace The automotive marketplace is complex and often inefficient: Auto Traders aim is to make it simple and more efficient.
UK car marketplace with over 10 million transactions per year 2.7 million new registrations and 7.4 million used transactions Consumer motoring services Valuations A variety of services for consumers offered at the Enabling an ef cient and transparent marketplace Enabling an ef cient and transparent marketplace Embedding an area of common point of purchase.
The role we play ground between trade and consumers around valuations.
Through our digital platforms and data we simplify and speed up the majority of Services offered direct the 10 million transactions to end users to consumers around the marketplace each year.
Finance Managing New car make model National display forecourt page index and editorial A platform for Insurance reviews manufacturers to promote their Using data to brands to the largest and optimise stock Offering an improved buying Vehicle Check most engaged automotive turn and improve journey with increased new classi ed audience.
2.7m New car registrations 8.6m New cars sold via retailers New cars direct to consumers 1.3m 1.2m Cars sold to consumers new and used New cars Used cars Manufacturers Selling Marketing Get stock in front of as Powering retailer websites and Trade many buyers as possible offering a range of display Buying classi ed advertising.
Consumers 1.4m A listings platform for trade buyers and sellers to Used car sales transact directly.
4.6m to consumers Fleet Trade-to-trade 2.8m transactions & lease  of used cars customers to-consumer Commercial buyers transactions of new cars 0.1m Part-exchange Facilitating the most ef cient journey of used cars directly back to the retailer from consumers.
Private sales Business Key Consumers can Direct car sales list their vehicles to businesses Used car ow using a for direct sale to third-party intermediary other consumers.
New car ow Trade and consumer Third-parties used car ow Auction making cash Consumer to consumer Used car sales to immediate cash buyers Buying and selling offers to used car ow by all types of car traders consumers Squares represent Providers and Intermediaries Circles represent Vehicle Users 08 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Read more Business model 18 UK car marketplace There were over 10 million car transactions in the year to March 2016 of which 27% were Consumer motoring brand new registrations from the manufacturers services to a combination of consumers, fleet and lease Valuations A variety of services for companies and direct to businesses.
According consumers offered at the Enabling an ef cient and transparent marketplace Enabling an ef cient and transparent marketplace Embedding an area of common 1 to IDC, manufacturers spend 1.5 billion point of purchase.
The role we play ground between trade and advertising their brand in the UK but only a small consumers around valuations.
Through our digital platforms and data proportion of this is online, despite online being we simplify and speed up the majority of a key influencer in the purchasing decision.
Services offered direct the 10 million transactions to end users to consumers around the marketplace each year.
New cars are typically traded in after a Finance Managing New car make model National display three to four year period, entering a cycle forecourt page index and editorial A platform for between retailers, consumers and third-party Insurance reviews manufacturers to promote their Using data to intermediaries.
Greater prominence of finance brands to the largest and optimise stock Offering an improved buying Vehicle Check in new car transactions is reducing the time lag most engaged automotive turn and improve journey with increased new from new to used.
These used car transactions classi ed audience.
make up 73% of the market and this is where our role is currently most prominent.
2.7m New car registrations With the largest and most engaged classified automotive audience, we help anyone listing a 8.6m New cars sold via retailers New cars direct to consumers 1.3m 1.2m vehicle to connect with potential buyers.
Our Cars sold to consumers new and used audience and volume of vehicles and retailers also New cars Used cars mean we have the largest source of automotive Manufacturers Selling Marketing classified data in the UK, which we believe we can use to better connect buyers and sellers Get stock in front of as Powering retailer websites and Trade many buyers as possible offering a range of display in a more efficient marketplace.
Consumers 1.4m A listings platform Although the diagram focuses on UK for trade buyers cars, our other markets bike, truck, plant, and sellers to Used car sales transact directly.
farm, motorhomes and caravan markets, 4.6m to consumers and Ireland operate in a similar way.
Fleet Trade-to-trade 2.8m transactions & lease Outlook  of used cars customers Despite the continued likelihood of low to-consumer Commercial buyers transactions interest rates, we note other commentators of new cars who anticipate that new car volumes will 0.1m start to plateau in 2016 now that they have exceeded pre-recession levels.
However, Part-exchange we expect used car transactions to continue Facilitating the most ef cient journey of used cars to grow on the back of the new car strength directly back to the retailer over the last four years.
Private sales Business Key The evolving nature of the consumer buying Consumers can Direct car sales list their vehicles journey, driven by new technologies, continues to businesses Used car ow using a for direct sale to third-party intermediary to enhance the relevance of digital platforms.
This creates continued opportunity for us to New car ow develop products and tools for retailers and Trade and consumer innovative solutions for consumers to enhance Third-parties used car ow Auction the car buying and selling experiences and to making cash Consumer to consumer Used car sales to immediate cash buyers Buying and selling increase efficiency and transparency in the offers to used car ow by all types marketplace.
There is also still a significant of car traders consumers Squares represent opportunity to prove the value and relevance Providers and of our marketplace with manufacturers who Intermediaries currently spend only a small proportion of their Circles represent annual budgets on digital marketing.
Vehicle Users 1 International Data Corporation IDC research 2014.
09 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
