Our business model Generating shareholder value Our leading digital UK automotive marketplace benefits from the network effect model whereby the largest and most engaged consumer audience generates the most effective response for our retailer and manufacturer customers who in turn provide consumers with the most comprehensive choice of vehicles.
Data driven product Network effect model development We adopt an agile approach to product development, placing the relevant audience at We have the largest source of the heart of the process, and using our data to make informed decisions so that we automotive classied data allowing can create valuable products and services quickly for our consumers and customers.
consumers visiting our marketplace Our teams follow this process, the Auto Trader Way, for everything which means we can to research and search for vehicles launch products quickly, improve experiences and constantly make iterative changes to they would like to buy.
ensure we constantly innovate: in fact over 50 software releases are made every week.
Maintaining the largest Most effective for Understand Build retailers through: consumer audience through: We start by understanding the We then build the Exposure to the largest and most Being a trusted brand needs of our audience, be that a experience or product engaged consumer audience.
based on what might Making searching easier for the 92% of UK consumers knowing user through more lter options.
This may be achieved by visiting work or what might make the brand and knowing what 1 Delivering pages with we offer.
sites, conducting research or the experience better and classi ed core speci cations.
Delivering the best gathering feedback.
launch it to a small sample Providing full page advert consumer experience.
Largest and of the relevant audience.
views, allowing further Easy to use web platforms most engaged Most effective dialogue between consumers that are fully mobile-optimised.
consumer for retailers Access to our retailer portal, Engaging with consumers at audience allowing retailers to upload, all stages of the user journey.
manage and measure stock performance.
Consumers Retailers Data Manufacturers Maintaining the largest Increased advertising Learn Measure stock choice through: of stock through: Then, based on the We then measure to Attracting the greatest choice More listings.
learnings, we move back see if the launch is of makes and models, with Greater spend to achieve Largest stock Increased into the Understand having the impact we the most manufacturers listed.
more prominence on the Learn Measure choice for advertising of Largest price range of cars.
marketplace and greater phase to assess the next expected and that our consumers stock and greater conversion of leads to sales.
marketing spend 1 Acacia Avenue, Independent Quarterly Brand Tracker Report, March 2016.
18 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Read more Our strategy 17 Delivering on our priorities 20 Data driven product Network effect model development We adopt an agile approach to product development, placing the relevant audience at We have the largest source of the heart of the process, and using our data to make informed decisions so that we automotive classied data allowing can create valuable products and services quickly for our consumers and customers.
marketing spend 19 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
