What makes us different Leading the way by harnessing consumer insight AutoTrader receives c. 48million cross Consumers now spend around These and other topics are covered platform visits each month, and lists on 11 hours online researching their next by our Retailer Education and Insight 1 average over 437,000 cars for sale at any vehicle.
AutoTrader is the primary team who established a programme one time, which gives us an unrivalled destination in their search followed by designed to help retailers navigate the view of the automotive marketplace.
So the digital changing digital automotive landscape.
We use this data, coupled with insights forecourt is now key for retailers to derived from regular consumer research attract consumers to buy their cars.
The Retailer Education and Insight we conduct, to understand how consumer But how should they do this?
What teams programme comprises videos, behaviour impacts the automotive makes an advert stand out online?
webinars and regional masterclasses, landscape and therefore what this How can they increase their stock turn?
as well as presenting at industry-wide means for our retailer customers.
conferences and bespoke retailer conferences in 2016 alone, the team reached over 17,500 representatives from the retailer community.
1 A uto Trader research conducted with GfK in January 2016 Annual Buying Behaviour Report.
10 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Case study Retailer Education and Insight Programme I found the course excellent and very informative.
The number one thing I have taken away is just how much the game is changing and how much I need to keep on top of this to be a major player for now and the future.
With all this technology now moving so fast, you either move with it or clearly will get left behind.
Thanks for an excellent course and I look forward to more training and seeing you and your great team in the future.
Russell Paul Webborn PC Autos attended a masterclass Thanks again for today, it really was a great, informative day and I believe it has truly inspired everyone.
By the time we arrived back in the office I had more images of cars which I have attached for you to take a look at already you can see such a huge improvement and I had an email in my inbox asking for a poster to be designed offering a free phone charging point.
Great to have everyone on board and with such enthusiasm which could only have ever been achieved from such a fantastic presentation.
Victoria Lyle SERE Ltd attended a bespoke retailer conference 80% 17,500 of all minutes spent on representatives from the automotive classified websites retailer community reached are spent on AutoTrader by the Retailer Education and Insight Programme Read more in Our strategy on page 17 11 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 What makes us different continued Leading the way by leveraging the power of our data and valuations Our strategy is underpinned by Our customers operate c. 13,500 Around 13.7 million consumer leveraging the power of our data to forecourts, over 1,900 of which currently valuations and 30.1 million trade improve the process of buying and use products in our Managing Pillar: valuations were conducted in the year selling vehicles through the application i-Control and Retail Check.
These are to March 2016 as consumers look to of digital technologies, ensuring the data driven products designed to help find out what their car is worth in a consumer experience is as smooth retailers buy the right vehicle at the part-exchange or private sale, as well as possible and that retailers gain right price, in order to optimise stock as what price is required to secure their maximum value from the marketplace.
This data is also a key driver of new car of choice, from either a trade our consumer valuations tool on site.
12 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Case study i-Control i-Control is a unique data intelligence solution that helps retailers take advantage of the markets most lucrative opportunities to sell more cars, by putting retailers in control of all the relevant data on every piece of their used car stock.
This is the first time I have used i-Control and Im blown away by it, I think its fantastic.
At my previous employers, without i-Control I had to go to AutoTrader, manually input my car, search my region, and check my competitors prices before updating my ads.
Now I am able to filter independent dealerships out of my search, allowing me to compare my prices with my actual competitors quickly and effectively.
Matthew Bavin Pentagon Lincoln 1,900 13.7m customers currently valuations conducted by using i-Control consumers this year Read more in Delivering on our priorities on pages 20 to 23 13 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
