AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Other statutory information Results and dividends Directors and their interests Subject to any restrictions referred to in The Group made a profit for the The Directors who served during the the next section, members may attend year after taxation of 20.5 million year under review are shown, together any general meeting of the Company.
Revenue was with brief biographical details, on pages 201.5 million 2015 208.7 million 44 and 45.
Resolutions will be submitted There are no restrictions on the transfer and comprised software licences, to the Annual General Meeting for the of ordinary shares in the Company other software maintenance and services.
re-election of all current Directors.
than: certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws The Directors recommend the payment of The interests all of which are beneficial and regulations for example, insider a final dividend of 30.0 pence per ordinary in the shares of the Company of Directors trading laws : and pursuant to the Listing share 2015 25.0 pence.
If approved at who held office at 31 March 2016 in respect Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, of transactions notifiable under Disclosure whereby Directors and certain employees the final dividend will be paid on 5 August and Transparency Rule 3.1.
2 that have been of the Company require the approval 2016 to shareholders on the register disclosed to the Company are as follows: of the Company to deal in the ordinary at close of business on 1 July 2016. shares and pursuant to the Articles of At 31 March At 31 March Association where there is default in 2015 2016 Business review and future developments supplying the Company with information ordinary ordinary A review of the Groups operations concerning interests in the Companys shares shares during the year and its plans for the shares.
There are no special control rights Philip Aiken 1,537 1,537 future is given in the Chairmans in relation to the Companys shares.
Philip Dayer 7,696 7,696 statement, the Chief Executives strategic Jonathan Brooks 1,500 1,500 review and the Finance review.
Voting rights Jennifer Allerton 3,000 3,000 Subject to any restrictions below, on The Key Performance Indicators used by Richard Longdon 253,994 249,632 a show of hands every member who AVEVA to measure its own performance is present in person or by proxy at a James Kidd 15,563 13,108 at the Group level include total revenue, general meeting has one vote on each recurring revenue, adjusted profit before resolution and, on a poll, every member No changes took place in the interests of tax, adjusted earnings per share and who is present in person or by proxy has Directors in the shares of the Company headcount.
The figures for the year one vote on each resolution for every between 31 March 2016 and 24 May 2016. ended 31 March 2016 are set out on share of which he she is the registered page 23, together with figures for the member.
A proxy will have one vote for Directors share options are disclosed previous year and a discussion of the and one vote against a resolution on a in the Remuneration Committee principal risks and uncertainties facing show of hands in certain circumstances report on pages 49 to 63. the Group is included on pages 33 to 35. specified in the Articles of Association.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting No Director had a material interest in Research & Development specifies deadlines for exercising rights.
any significant contract, other than The Group continues an active programme a service contract or contract for of Research & Development which A resolution put to the vote of a services, with the Company or any of its covers the updating of and extension general meeting is decided on a show subsidiaries at any time during the year.
to the Groups range of products.
of hands, unless before or on the declaration of the result of the show Conflict of interest Intellectual property of hands, a poll is demanded by the Throughout the year the Company The Group owns intellectual property Chairman of the meeting.
The Articles has operated effective procedures to both in its software tools and the products of the Company also allow members, deal with potential or actual conflicts derived from them.
The Directors consider in certain circumstances, to demand of interest.
During the year no such properties to be of significant that a resolution is decided by a poll.
conflict arose requiring the Board to value to the business and have a exercise its authority or discretion.
comprehensive programme to protect it.
A member may vote personally or by proxy at a general meeting.
Any form of Share capital Financial instruments proxy must be delivered to the Company Details of the issued share capital can The Groups financial risk management not less than 48 hours before the time be found in note 28 to the consolidated objectives and policies are discussed appointed for holding the meeting or financial statements.
The rights innote 24 to the consolidated adjourned meeting at which the person attaching to the Companys shares are financialstatements.
named in the appointment proposes to set out in its Articles of Association.
vote for this purpose, the Directors may specify that no account shall be taken of any part of a day that is not a working day.
64 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A corporation which is a member of the Change of control Subject to the Companies Act, shares Company may authorise such persons as All of the Companys share-based plans may be issued by Board resolution.
At it thinks fit to act as its representatives at contain provisions relating to change the Companys last Annual General Meeting, powers were granted to the any general meeting of the Company.
Outstanding awards and options normally vest and become Directors subject to limits set out in the resolutions to issue and to buy back its No member shall be entitled to attend exercisable on a change of control, or vote, either personally or by proxy, subject to the satisfaction of any relevant own shares: similar powers are proposed to be granted at the forthcoming Annual at a general meeting in respect of performance conditions at that time.
any share if any call or other sum General Meeting.
The buy-back authority was limited to 10% of the Companys presently payable to the Company in There are no other significant respect of such share remains unpaid agreements to which the Company issued share capital.
No shares have been bought back under this authority.
or in certain other circumstances is a party that take effect, alter or specified in the Articles of Association terminate upon a change of control of Appointment of Directors where there is default in supplying the the Company following a takeover bid.
Company with information concerning The Articles of Association limit the number of Directors to not less than interests in the Companys shares.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or two and not more than ten save where members decide otherwise.
Members may Dividends, distributions and liquidation employees providing for compensation Members can declare final dividends by for loss of office or employment that appoint Directors by ordinary resolution and may remove any Director subject passing an ordinary resolution but the occurs because of a takeover bid.
amount of the dividends cannot exceed to the giving of special notice and, if desired, replace such removed Director by the amount recommended by the Board.
Articles of Association The Board can pay interim dividends Any amendments to the Articles of ordinary resolution.
New Directors may be appointed by the Board but are subject to provided the distributable profits of the Association of the Company may Company justify such payment.
The be made in accordance with the election by members at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment.
Board may, if authorised by an ordinary provisions of the Companies Act resolution of the members, offer any by way of special resolution.
A Director may be removed from office if requested by all other Directors.
member the right to elect to receive new shares, which will be credited as fully Powers of the Directors The Companys Articles of Association paid, instead of their cash dividend.
Any The business of the Company is managed dividend which has not been claimed by the Directors, who may exercise require that at each AGM there shall retire from office and be subject to re-election for 12 years after it became due for all powers of the Company, subject to payment will be forfeited and will then the Companys Articles of Association, by members any Director who shall have been a Director at the preceding revert to the Company.
Members may relevant statutory law and to any direction share in surplus assets on a liquidation.
that may be given by the Company in two Annual General Meetings and who was not appointed or re-appointed general meeting by special resolution.
If the Company is wound up, the liquidator can, with the sanction of the members by special resolution and any Substantial shareholdings other sanction required by law, divide Interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company are set out in the table below.
among the members all or any part of the assets of the Company and he she The Company had been notified, in accordance with Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5, can value any assets and determine of the following interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company: how the divisions shall be carried out as between the members or different As As classes of members.
The liquidator can at 31 March at 24 May also transfer the whole or any part of the 2016 2016 assets to trustees upon any trusts for the Percentage Percentage benefit of the members.
No members Name of holder Number held % Number held % can be compelled to accept any asset Aberdeen Asset Management 7,090,766 11.1 7,650,598 12.0 which would give them any liability.
1818 Partners 3,503,733 5.5 3,263,733 5.1 Standard Life Investments 3,416,783 5.3 1,404,846 2.2 There are no agreements between Oppenheimer Funds 3,264,194 5.1 3,271,894 5.1 holders of securities that are known Columbia Threadneedle Investments 3,226,759 5.0 3,219,503 5.0 to the Company which may result in Select Equity Group 2,723,406 4.3 3,238,857 5.1 restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights, save as described below Sheffield Asset Management 2,366,757 3.7 2,366,757 3.7 in relation to the Employee Benefit Trust.
BlackRock 2,190,546 3.4 2,131,850 3.3 Kames Capital 2,212,120 3.5 65 AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Other statutory information CONTINUED then or subsequently.
However, in Disabled employees Greenhouse gas emissions reporting The Company is required to state the accordance with the UK Corporate The Group gives full consideration to Governance Code, the Company applications for employment from disabled annual quantity of emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent from activities requires all Directors who held office at persons where the candidates particular 31 March 2016 to stand for re-election.
aptitudes and abilities are consistent with for which the Group is responsible, including the combustion of fuel, the adequately meeting the requirements Listing Rules disclosures of the job.
Opportunities are available operation of any facility, and resulting from the purchase of electricity, heat, steam or For the purpose of LR9.8.
4C R, the only to disabled employees for training, applicable information required to be career development and promotion.
Details of our emissions are set out within the Corporate Responsibility disclosed in accordance with LR9.8.
4 R can be found in the section below titled Where existing employees become section of the Strategic Report and form part of the Directors Report disclosures.
The information disabled, it is the Groups policy to concerned is in respect of shareholder provide continuing employment wherever Auditor waiver of dividends and future dividends.
practicable in the same or an alternative position and to provide appropriate A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor for the ensuing Annual General Meeting training to achieve this aim as well as The Annual General Meeting will be reasonable adjustments to the workplace year will be put to the members at the Annual General Meeting.
held on 8 July 2016 at The Trinity and other support mechanisms.
Centre, 24 Cambridge Science Park, Milton Road, Cambridge CB4 0FN.
The Employee involvement Notice of the Annual General Meeting The Group places considerable value on is being sent to shareholders along the involvement of its employees and with this annual report, which contains has continued to keep them informed details of the resolutions proposed.
of matters affecting them as employees and on the various factors affecting Employee benefit trust the performance of the Group.
This is The AVEVA Group Employee Benefit achieved through formal and informal Trust 2008 was established in 2008 meetings, employee newsletters, to facilitate satisfying the transfer of the Group intranet and presentations shares to employees within the Group from senior management.
There is an on exercise of vested options under the employee representative committee various share option and deferred bonus which meets on a regular basis to share plans of the Company.
The Trust discuss a wide range of matters affecting holds a total of 22,077 ordinary shares their current and future interests.
All in AVEVA Group plc representing 0.03% employees are entitled to receive an 2015 44,722 shares representing annual discretionary award related to the 0.07% of the issued share capital at the overall profitability of the Group subject date of this report.
Under the terms of to the performance of the individual the Trust deed governing the Trust, the and the Group.
The Group conducts trustees are required unless the Company employee-wide surveys from time to directs otherwise to waive all dividends time to gauge the success or otherwise and abstain from voting in respect of of its policies and uses this information ordinary shares in AVEVA Group plc held to improve matters as appropriate.
by the Trust except where beneficial ownership of any such ordinary shares Directors indemnity The Company has granted an indemnity was passed to a beneficiary of the Trust.
In the same way as other employees, the to its Directors against liability in respect of proceedings brought by third parties, Executive Directors of the Company are potential beneficiaries under the Trust.
subject to the conditions set out in the Companies Act.
Such qualifying third party indemnity provision remains in force as at the date of approving the Directors report.
66 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS state whether applicable UK Responsibility statement pursuant Statement of Directors to FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Accounting Standards have been responsibilities in relation followed, subject to any material Rule 4 DTR 4 to the financial statements Each Director of the Company departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and whose names and functions appear The Directors are responsible for on pages 44 and 45 confirms that prepare the financial statements on preparing the annual report and the the going concern basis unless it is solely for the purpose of DTR 4 financial statements in accordance to the best of their knowledge: inappropriate to presume that the with applicable law and regulations.
Company will continue in business.
the financial statements in this The Directors are required to prepare The Directors are responsible for document, prepared in accordance Consolidated financial statements for with the applicable UK law and keeping adequate accounting records each financial year in accordance with which are sufficient to disclose with applicable accounting standards, International Financial Reporting Standards give a true and fair view of the reasonable accuracy at any time the IFRSs as adopted by the European financial position of the Company assets, liabilities, financial position Union.
The Directors have elected to and profit of the Company and and enable them to ensure that the prepare the parent company financial financial statements comply with the the undertakings included in the statements in accordance with United consolidation taken as a whole: and Companies Act 2006 and, as regards Kingdom General Accepted Accounting the Group financial statements, Article the Strategic Report and the Directors Practice United Kingdom Accounting report include a fair review of the 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also Standards and applicable law including FRS responsible for safeguarding the assets development and performance of 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
the business and the position of of the Company and hence for taking Under company law the Directors must reasonable steps for the prevention and the Company and the undertakings not approve the financial statements included in the consolidation detection of fraud and other irregularities.
unless they are satisfied that they give a taken as a whole, together with a true and fair view of the state of affairs description of the principal risks Disclosure of information to auditor of the Company and of the undertakings The Directors who were members of and uncertainties that they face.
included in the consolidation as a whole the Board at the time of approving the as at the end of the financial year and Directors report are listed on page 64.
On behalf of the Board the profit or loss of the undertakings Each of these Directors confirms that: included in the consolidation as a whole, so far as concerns members of so far as he is aware, there is no the Company, for the financial year.
In relevant audit information as preparing those Consolidated financial defined by Section 418 of the statements, the Directors are required to: Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and James Kidd select and apply accounting policies he has taken all the steps he ought Chief Financial Officer in accordance with IAS 8: to have taken as a Director in order 24 May 2016 present information, including to make himself aware of any such accounting policies, in a manner that relevant audit information and to provides relevant, reliable, comparable establish that the Companys auditor and understandable information: and is aware of that information.
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific Fair and balanced reporting Richard Longdon requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to Having taken advice from the Audit Chief Executive enable users to understand the impact Committee, the Board considers the 24 May 2016 of particular transactions, other events Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a and conditions on the entitys financial whole, is fair, balanced and understandable This Directors Report has been position and financial performance.
and that it provides the information approved by the Board of Directors necessary for shareholders to assess the and is signed on its behalf by: In preparing the parent company financial Companys position and performance, statements, the Directors are required to: business model and strategy.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and accounting estimates that are Claire Denton reasonable and prudent: Company Secretary 24 May 2016 67
