AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Customer proposition AVEVA IS HELPING CUSTOMERS TO REVOLUTIONISE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE WITH DATA-CENTRIC ENGINEERING AND AVEVAS DIGITAL ASSET APPROACH CAPTURE CREATE KNOW Quickly and safely Transform performance Enhancing decision establishing a Digital via Integrated making across the Asset baseline Engineering & Design lifecycle Capex Data-centric engineering The Digital Asset at your fingertips At every decision point throughout Capital project investment is increasingly In markets characterised by both focused on brownfield modifications to a reducing number of projects and the assets lifecycle, accurate, relevant information is essential.
In the project enhance or expand existing production increasing competition, engineering capacity, or to extend the assets organisations looking to maintain or phase, it can help to minimise overruns against budget and schedule.
Cost pressures are also advance their market position are turning prompting the decommissioning of to technology to support substantial operations, it reduces risks to safety performance improvements.
Underpinned by our ageing or less profitable assets.
to streamlining processes, a key area for Digital Asset approach, AVEVA is improvement is the eradication of errors in redefining how organisations should Prior to a brownfield project, 3D laser scanning of the asset using technology materials management and construction access and retrieve the information that lead to costly delays and rework.
they need in order to improve the speed from the AVEVA Group company LFM, allows the capture of the as-operating Although Engineering & Design accounts and reliability of their decision making for a relatively small proportion of the across the project and asset lifecycle.
This is critical for clash-free design, in order to optimise schedule management Total Installed Cost TIC of an asset, it is typically in these early project phases Historically, access to digital information and minimise any impact to production.
Similarly, capturing a visual audit of an that these errors and inconsistencies are was limited, causing delays to decisiongenerated.
As the impact on budget and making that could introduce risk: in asset marked for decommissioning can be a useful step in securing the schedule rise exponentially the later the todays Big Data world, similar delays issues are discovered, ensuring accuracy, can result from the availability of too necessary regulatory and environmental approvals before work begins.
consistency and reliability of Engineering much information, especially if access & Design is critical if significant savings requires searching multiple systems, Opex are to be realised.
AVEVAs integrated aggregating relevant data and resolving suite of market-leading design and any differences that you might find.
Years of operation frequently results in information decay a widening gap engineering applications embeds trusted, standardised engineering information AVEVAs Digital Asset approach ensures between the digital equivalent of the asset engineering data, documents into the heart of every disciplinary the availability of  process, supporting end-to-end information precisely when and where it is and drawings and the on-site reality.
This adds risk to safety, reliability process efficiency and accuracy.
It delivers this access through our browser-based Information Management and the profitability of the asset.
As compliance obligations have increased solutions, also by embedding realtime windows into the Digital Asset via and ageing assets squeezed for efficiency, Operators are turning to 3D capabilities such as Design in Context, and through the new generation of laser scanning technology from LFM to create a digital baseline for reporting simple, powerful, touch-enabled decision support applications.
The result is and compliance, and as the foundation for the creation of a full Digital Asset for better quality decisions throughout the lifecycle, which leads to increased enhanced operational decision making.
project profitability, better quality assets and increased return on investment.
