AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Board of Directors THE DIRECTORS COLLECTIVELY BRING A STRONG MIX OFEXPERIENCE WHICH ENSURES THE BOARD OPERATES EFFECTIVELY AND PROVIDES STRONG LEADERSHIP Philip Aiken Richard Longdon James Kidd Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Length of tenure Length of tenure Length of tenure 4 Years appointed 1 May 2012 22 Years appointed 16 August 1994 5 Years appointed 1 January 2011 Philip Aiken has over 40 years experience Richard Longdon received engineering James Kidd is a Chartered Accountant in industry and commerce having been, training in the defence industry and and joined AVEVA in 2004.
Prior to his from 1997 to 2006, President of BHP then gained experience in the project appointment to the Board, James held Petroleum and then Group President management of high-value engineering several senior finance roles within the Energy of BHP Billiton.
Prior to that he held projects.
He moved into sales and Group and was Head of Finance from 2006 senior positions with BTR plc 1995 to 1997 held a series of international sales and until 2011 when he was appointed CFO.
He joined AVEVA in joined the Group at the time of the Tribon have included Non-Executive Director 1984 and shortly afterwards was made acquisition and played a significant part in of National Grid plc, Chairman of Robert Marketing Manager for the process the completion of this transaction and the Walters plc, Senior Independent Director products.
In January 1992, he relocated subsequent integration of the acquired of Kazakymys plc, Senior Independent to Frankfurt where he was responsible business.
His responsibilities have included Director of Essar Energy plc, Senior Adviser for setting up and running the Groups investor relations, the development of the Groups overseas subsidiaries, for Macquarie Capital Europe, Chairman German office.
He returned to the UK as of the 2004 World Energy Congress and part of the management buyout team standardisation of financial processes and procedures as well as being heavily serving on the Boards of the Governor of in 1994, taking responsibility for the Guangdong International Council, World Groups worldwide sales and marketing involved in the Groups recent acquisitions.
Prior to joining AVEVA James worked Energy Council and Monash Mt Eliza activities, before being appointed Business School.
He is a Non-Executive Managing Director in May 1999.
He for both Arthur Andersen and Deloitte, serving technology clients in both Director of Newcrest Mining Limited took over as Group Chief Executive in and Chairman of Balfour Beatty plc.
Richard was appointed transactional and audit engagements.
as Chairman to Process Systems Enterprises Ltd in London in January 2015.
44 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Jonathan Brooks Philip Dayer Jennifer Allerton Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Length of tenure Length of tenure Length of tenure 9 Years appointed 12 July 2007 8 Years appointed 7 January 2008 3 Years appointed 9 July 2013 Jonathan Brooks is a Fellow of the Philip Dayer qualified as a Chartered Jennifer Allerton has more than 38 years Chartered Institute of Management Accountant and pursued a corporate of Information Technology experience, Accountants and has some 20 years finance career in investment banking, most recently as Chief Information Officer experience in the technology sector.
specialising in advising UK-listed at F. Hoffmann-La Roche in Switzerland Between 1995 and 2002, he was Chief companies.
He was first appointed an with responsibility for IT strategy and Financial Officer and a Director of ARM Advisory Director in 1983 of Barclays operations for the Pharma division and Holdings Plc where he was a key member Merchant Bank Limited and since then all Group IT operations from June 2002 of the team that developed ARM to be has held the position of Corporate to July 2012.
Prior to Roche, she served a leader in its sector.
Since 2002, he has Finance Director with a number of as Technology Director at Barclaycard been a director of a number of technology banks.
He retired from Hoare Govett with responsibility for Fraud Operations companies in both the software and Limited in 2004.
Philip is a Non-Executive and IT.
Currently, Jennifer serves as an hardware sectors.
He is currently a NonDirector of Kazmunaigas Exploration Independent Director on the Board of Executive Director, Chair of the Audit Production JSC, The Parkmead Group Iron Mountain and as a Non-Executive Committee and Interim Chair of the plc, VTB Capital plc and PAO Severstal.
Director of Oxford Instruments and Remuneration Committee of IP Group Sandvik.
She holds Bachelor degrees plc, which commercialises intellectual in Mathematics from Imperial College, property from leading universities.
London, and a Masters degree in Physics from the University of Manitoba, Canada.
