AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Strategic framework For almost 50 years, we have enabled of every operating asset and at the their decision-making.
The approach some of the worlds most important heart of every major capital project, empowers our customers to capture, industries to work more safely, efficiently helping shape the world around us.
create and know everything about each and sustainably.
As we enter the next project or asset throughout its lifecycle era, our strategy is to reinforce our Our growth objectives are based around equipping them to make the informed position as the leading provider of the the customer being at the heart of decisions that are critical to success in Digital Asset to the markets we serve.
Our pioneering Digital todays dynamic, competitive markets.
It is how we Our longer-term aim is to place an empower our customers to transform Our growth objectives are realised AVEVA Digital Asset at the centre the speed, accuracy and reliability of through four growth strategies: STRATEGIC PRIORITIES OPPORTUNITY Using our knowledge gained through the Well continue to work companys long history in the integrated engineering and design space we will position with Owner Operators ourselves as the best solution provider for on large downstream brownfield and large Capex projects.
By leading with our integrated Laser, AVEVA E3D Capex projects and AVEVA Net story we will demonstrate how we seamlessly integrate with our design solutions, to offer our customers the best, PLANT fastest and most cost-effective platform for OPERATORS brownfield projects.
Key markets are those with strategic A key market for AVEVA significance due to their ability to influence AVEVAs core market dynamics.
is defined as one that isexperiencing high Today these regions are China, India, the Middle East and North America.
economic growth or is For these growing economies AVEVA will continue to invest in customer strategically significant service and support infrastructure.
HIGH GROWTH MARKETS The Architecture Engineering Construction The AVEVA concept AEC sector, which has been quick to embrace new technologies, will see of a Digital Asset to construction companies delivering a mirror the physical physical building and a digital twin theequivalent of AVEVAs Digital Asset.
one is applicable in adjacent markets Our strategy is to continue to grow in these markets through our Fabricator DIVERSIFY END business as well as extending our SaaSMARKETS based Digital Asset into these markets.
AVEVAs strategy to transition all its AVEVA will continue to applications onto to a unified platform will improve our ability to sell the whole grow market share in our portfolio.
Transitioning the AVEVA business core design business into becoming a pure Software as a Service SaaS provider of the Digital Asset will allow AVEVA to better compete in adjacent markets where cloud has already been accepted, as well as targeting 2nd 3rd EXTEND TO A DIGITAL tier EPCs who currently find the setup ASSET SAAS FOOTPRINT cost of AVEVAs solutions prohibitive.
14 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 30m cumulative revenue from AVEVA E3D WHAT WE SAID WHAT WE DID Continue to innovate our information Launched our showcase touch-driven management solutions based upon our decision support system AVEVA customers needs for reliable, available Engage T. he launch of AVEVA Engage and known maturity of information is another industry first for AVEVA, following on from the worlds first plant walk-through visualisation system and the worlds first plant design solution for lean construction AVEVA E3D See page 12 Strengthen our partner ecosystem to Partnered with many regional build new channels businesses to expand AVEVAs reach Continue to expand our reach within through its partner channel key growth markets to continue to drive Invested in our regional teams to the highest levels of customer support giveus a stronger presence closer toour customers See pages 16-17 Target steel fabrication market with Acquired fabrication management steel detailing and fabrication software provider FabTrol Systems Inc. management Combining FabTrol software together Continue to appraise acquisition with AVEVA E3D, which is already opportunities to increase our exposure integrated with AVEVA Bocad to wider capital intensive industries structural steel detailing software, creates a powerful design, detailing andfabrication solution.
The FabTrol software expands AVEVAs fabrication portfolio and provides integration See page 27 across the steel fabrication value chain Extend our 3D dominance with Migrated a record number of AVEVAE3D customers from PDMS to AVEVA E3D: our top-of-the-range, multi-discipline, 3D plant design solution which integrates with our innovative laser scanning solutions AVEVA E3D revenue now accounts for c. 10% of Group revenue See pages 24-25 15
