AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CTOs review THROUGHOUT ITS HISTORY, AVEVA HAS PARTNERED WITH ITS CUSTOMERS IN SEARCHING FOR NEW WAYS IN WHICH TECHNOLOGY CAN DELIVER MAJOR BUSINESS BENEFITS Through careful planning and targeted investment, AVEVAs technology has evolved to address these specific needs.
During the past year we have delivered a number We have developed and incorporated several major new capabilities into our of ground-breaking market leading 3D design product, AVEVA E3D.
As a result, AVEVA E3D directly innovations, spanning the addresses the requirements for asset entire solution portfolio.
modification and lifetime extension that are urgently required by our customers.
Dave Wheeldon Customers are benefiting from the Chief Technology Officer ability to handle laser data directly within and Head of Solutions the design environment.
The latest & Technology innovations allow AVEVAs laser-modelling technology to enable new capabilities such as the demolition and removal of existing plant items in the laser model prior to re-construction and installation of new equipment and systems.
The technology allows continuous updating of the laser point cloud as modifications are made to the operating asset.
By doing so, the point cloud can be maintained as a true model of the operating asset and can be used to provide a true-to-life 3D visualisation to easily and naturally navigate and access all types of information about the asset.
Continued focus on delivering innovation Lifetime extensions As a result of this unique capability, we are Often this is achieved through the Current economic conditions are now delivering what we term the Trusted transformation of how activities are challenging for many of our customers and Living Pointcloud, an evolving source of undertaken or even by eliminating entire many asset owners are looking to improve reliable, value-rich information that forms steps in their business processes, thus operating performance and to extend a core 3D component to a perpetually enhancing efficiency, driving down costs the life of their existing assets, while changing Digital Asset.
This is true for both and improving quality and business limiting their investment in new greenexisting assets and for new greenfield or agility.
Our search for transformational field facilities.
Life extension projects are brownfield projects.
We are continuing to technology ideas continues.
by their nature complex involving refitting invest in our laser-modelling technology equipment and systems into the existing and recently introduced the HyperBubble, During the past year we have delivered a facility.
There is usually no single right which delivers a photo-realistic overlay number of ground-breaking innovations, answer to the re-design or to achieve the of laser point cloud data in a freely spanning the entire solution portfolio.
re-construction, but the aim is to achieve navigable, immersive environment.
an improved, possibly extended, facility and have it operational in the shortest possible time achievable within the available budget.
In a typical project of this kind, thousands of decisions are needed across many different areas of speciality.
26 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Strategy in Action 171m 1,000 5 year R&D investment AVEVA Experience registrations Diversify end markets AVEVA WILL CONTINUE TO GROW IN THE AEC MARKET THROUGH ITS FABRICATOR BUSINESS Engineering decision support This past year has seen very good Ultra-high performance visualisation progress in our adoption of cloud brings models to life and makes technologies.
The launch of AVEVA information far more accessible, but has Experience, which provides on-demand traditionally been the domain of specialist cloud-based access to AVEVA E3D for applications and so not readily available to customers to get hands-on experience the broader population of decision makers.
of the new design platform has been The advent of large format, touch-enabled particularly well received, with over display devices removes the need to learn 1,000 registrations since launch.
a specialist application and provides an unrivalled environment for reviewing asset We continue to develop our products with information and driving more effective the eventual move to the cloud in mind in decision making.
The launch of AVEVA order to provide an appropriate solution Engage in October 2015 created a new for customers, with the cloud delivering benchmark in information accessibility a hybrid extension of their on-premise through combining ultra-high performance environment, creating new efficiencies The KAFD Conference Centre Parcel A.
visualisation with application-agnostic and flexibility for rapid redeployment of Courtesy of FZETA.
access to information via large format resources and, over time, on-demand touch devices.
The effect is amazing access to our entire application portfolio.
and inspiring and has begun to generate Case study immediate interest from owner operators I am very excited about AVEVAs FZETA and engineering contractors alike.
portfolio and the opportunities it can bring to help support our customers Based in Italy, FZETA specialises in, and These technical advances can replace in their quest for greater efficiency excels at, the kind of complex structural existing methods and, by adding greater and return on investment.
steel projects that others struggle with.
automation, streamline customers businesses making them leaner and They chose AVEVA Bocad as a tool more efficient.
AVEVAs unique objectthatwould keep them at the management platform does this by forefrontof their industry as the allowing multiple disciplines to interact AECsector drives towards ever on the same data objects, driving out .
data duplication and reducing the risk of errors and miscommunication.
Using AVEVA Bocad, FZETA can visualise the entire 3D model of a We have recently extended this structure, to quickly locate key benefit to incorporate the work of information such as weld identification electrical departments by making or specific details of joints.
AVEVA Electrical the only engineering product of its type to allow accurate Automatic creation of accurate cable-length and sizing calculations production deliverables eliminates through integration with AVEVA E3D sources of error, helping to keep for cable routing.
This enhancement projects on schedule.
reflects our continued commitment to realise our vision for AVEVA Integrated Engineering & Design by ensuring that all Read the complete case study at www.
com casestudy fzeta 2D and 3D designs are tightly integrated throughout the product lifecycle.
