AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Market review THE LONG-TERM FUNDAMENTAL GROWTH DRIVERS ACROSS OUR PRIMARY MARKETS REMAIN VERY STRONG A solid strategy for success KEY MARKETS AVEVAs products are most applicable in industries where scale and complexity are the greatest challenge.
Our success has been built on strong, long-term relationships with our customers, often spanning several decades.
Oil & Gas These relationships enable us to fully understand the industries we serve and ensure that our technology development strategy meets and anticipates our customers changing needs.
Oil & Gas The long-term fundamental growth Oil & Gas is a critical industry, meeting 60% drivers across our primary markets remain of the worlds energy needs and providing very strong despite the current short raw materials used to manufacture products term economic and political volatilities that are essential to our modern lives.
experienced by the industries we serve.
AVEVA has had a long and close relationship AVEVAs world-class products and services with the industry.
Our technology continues underpinned by our robust growth to enable many of its most advanced strategies position us to grow and exploit engineering developments, both within new opportunities created by the evolving the upstream and downstream industries business environment of our customers.
where AVEVA dominates the market.
The markets we serve: The unprecedented over-supply of oil to the markets has seen a longer-thanOil & Gas expected period of low oil prices.
This Petrochemical & Chemical has resulted in the implementation of Marine cost cutting programmes by upstream Power companies.
In contrast, companies Mining & Minerals Processing which operate downstream businesses Food & Beverage are enjoying buoyant market conditions Paper & Pulp due to the low price of feedstock.
Architecture, Construction and Steel Fabrication AVEVA has a balanced product portfolio allowing the business to be resilient in turbulent market conditions.
AVEVAs laser solutions reduce the cost involved in capturing existing site conditions and integrate seamlessly with AVEVAs design tools, making AVEVA the best for brownfield change projects.
AVEVA ProCon has a proven track record in removing significant costs from project execution through better contract management within the supply chain, helping project owners execute their projects with minimal cost overruns.
Market Drivers: Period of low oil prices due to oversupply Gradual increase in price as the supply demand balance is restored Greater investment in life extension and upgrades of assets Buoyant downstream sector with high refining margins 08 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Additional Power Marine Growth Markets Power Marine Additional Growth Markets The Power sector continues to experience Exactly 60 years ago, Malcolm McClean The features that place AVEVAs increasing demand, driven by population transformed global trade through his technology at the heart of these key growth and economic expansion.
The invention of containerised shipment the industry verticals also make a compelling IEA predict a 70% growth in electricity shipping container.
Today the Marine value case in other capital industries.
demand between 2013 and 2040 with industry is the backbone of the worlds developing economies driving this growth.
economies, opening up cost-efficient AVEVA software is being used to means for countries and businesses to today on large scale projects in During the period 2015 2040, $20 trillion trade globally.
Marine transportation close adjacent markets such as: will be invested in power generation and remains the most efficient method for infrastructure: $11 trillion will be spent transporting commodities, raw materials, Petrochemical & Chemical on new power generating capacity and fuels and products around the world.
Mining & Minerals Processing the rest on delivery infrastructure.
The Food & Beverage worlds power generation mix will change Global shipbuilding is a cyclical industry Paper & Pulp and dependence on coal as a fuel will which is influenced by many market Architecture, Construction and drop.
The share of low carbon power conditions.
Following a multi-year boom, SteelFabrication generation technologies will increase the industry is still suffering the effects from 30% to 47% in this period, due to the of overcapacity stemming from a period AVEVAs global presence and expertise growth of non-hydro renewables and a of over ordering which saw the world provides us with the flexibility and stable share of nuclear and hydropower.
know-how to respond to, and provide solutions for, the challenges faced AVEVA is already a preferred supplier AVEVA is the market-leading supplier of by these related adjacent markets, to the worlds nuclear industry and the software to the shipbuilding industries and which are similar to those encountered leading technology provider to the other AVEVAs technology provides the greatest within the energy markets.
We expect productivity advantage of any product on long-term growth in all these markets, the market.
AVEVA will continue to invest Market Drivers: especially within fast growing economies and support this significant market.
Project design and execution such as India, North America and China.
complexity Market Drivers: Industry adoption of 3D-centric Market Drivers: Marine market to stay flat over the BIMmethodologies Long-term growth in electricity medium term Health and safety, regulatory demand, growing 70% between 2013 Overcapacity in shipping continues andcompliance and 2040 tostifle new orders Efficient portfolio and asset Low carbon power generation capacity management post completion to increase Continued investment in nuclear energy worldwide Source: IEA World Energy Outlook 2015 09
