Market review 38 UK & Ireland UK & Ireland Aviva has brought its UK insurance businesses together - life insurance, general insurance and health insurance under Andy Briggs, who has become 1 CEO UK Insurance, responsible for all Avivas insurance businesses in the UK Interview with Andy Briggs Chief Executive officer, UK Insurance Whats your strategy?
We are uniquely well-positioned in general to help UK customers deal directly with us.
Q insurance, and enjoy an unrivalled brand We know that many people like to Our strategy is to demonstrate the and offer customers a wide range of hold multiple products with a single AB benets of the composite model for products, underpinned by strong provider.
We want that to be with Aviva our customers.
The strategy puts Digital capabilities in pricing, underwriting and so we can use data and analytics to assess First and helps us deliver our promises to indemnity management.
risk and provide them with personalised shareholders.
We can meet our customers Our health business is a leading products and an effortless experience.
insurance needs, whether thats helping provider of private medical insurance, So rstly, we want to improve the our customers enjoy a secure and winning health insurer of the year at the quality of our customers experience.
For prosperous retirement, looking after them Health Insurance Awards for the seventh pension customers, getting their monthly and their loved ones should they fall ill or year running in 2016. valuation online is much easier and more die, or protecting whats most precious to convenient than having to ring us up.
And by bringing our UK life, general How are you putting Digital fact, they look at their valuation around Q insurance and health operations together First?
in 2017, we can serve our customers more Digital will help us deliver the And because we have a whole variety AB simply and conveniently and deepen our benets of the composite model for of information about them we can easily presence in the UK.
We have moved our UK and conveniently pre-populate quotes for The UK is our home market and the motor insurance business from being other products and services too.
third largest in the world.
We have 15 mainly via brokers towards a digital Secondly, putting Digital First gives us million customers and a compelling platform.
Were already writing close to 1 the means to create new propositions for competitive advantage as a True Customer billion of digital business through brands customers, not least by linking up different Composite.
We are investing and growing like Quotemehappy.
But we can do more services.
For instance, we are linking up in the UK.
The UK life business is the Groups We have a real opportunity cornerstone and its a market we expect to double in the next decade.
It delivers and responsibility to help more than half the Groups profits.
Thats a major contribution to capital generation our customers look to and being able to keep our promises on the dividend.
Its the base for the rest of the future with confidence the Group to grow, and the nucleus for delivering the composite model.
Andy Briggs Chief Executive officer, UK Insurance Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Market review 39 health and wellness services to our In October, we reached a settlement with MAKING ENDS MEET protection products.
Customers want to the Financial Conduct Authority FCA stay healthy and we can help them do so.
regarding historical breaches of FCA rules relating to oversight of administration for What are the operational client money and assets on the UK life Q highlights?
adviser platform and agreed to pay a ne One significant highlight was of 8.2 million.
We have taken action to AB delivering the integration of Friends address the areas of concern and Life ahead of plan, ahead of schedule, with customers have not suffered any loss.
greater run rate synergies than we originally said.
What are the challenges and Q Our general insurance business is really risks?
HomeServe is a key Brexit is a challenge but we are well AB example and our five year partnership with placed to deal with the uncertainty.
them means we can do more for customers We see decent growth over the next Making ends meet can be tough, to protect their homes.
We are also founding decade.
The fundamental drivers for our especially if youre retired.
Since its launch in business an ageing population, digital Duncan, who lives near Sunderland in April 2016, weve transferred around and auto-enrolment are all the same.
the North of England, was certainly 11,000 policies to the scheme, with new Well also continue to innovate for nding things hard.
In fact, she told customers in high ood risk areas saving customers, for instance by protecting them us shed started to feel trapped in her an average of 500 on their premium.
against new threats such as cyber security own home.
Im also delighted by our continuing which is increasingly important in this Gills niece told her about equity work on transforming our culture.
release a lifetime mortgage on her brought in new expertise and revitalised home and recommended Aviva.
And our people Whats your final message?
We were delighted to help.
Q are also growing in confidence, with Equity release has given Gill a engagement scores improving.
Weve got Our purpose is to help people Defy whole new freedom.
Shes bought a AB new car so its easier to get out and some great people and in Colm Holmes, Uncertainty and to be there for about and enjoy life and shes having Chief Executive of Aviva UK General customers in uncertain times.
And the some essential repairs done to the Insurance, we have someone making a big world got a whole lot more uncertain in roof of her home.
He epitomises our values, in 2016.
We have a real opportunity and equity release has dramatically particular Never Rest.
responsibility to help our customers look to changed my life for the better.
But not all our highlights were positive.
Gill has a very special companion Spot, her cocker spaniel.
Now the two of them can enjoy their daily walk with an extra spring in their step.
THREE CLICKS TO BUY MyAviva iseffortlessly simple and rewards loyalty #Aviva2016 Blair Turnbull Managing Director, UKDigital MyAviva, whether thats questions we already weve also added guest as an app or online, is at have the answers to.
You can the heart of our digital Were creating an change your personal revolution.
Its where our effortless experience for details online.
Weve customers can see and our customers so they overhauled the pension manage all of their can engage with us tracker and were policies in one place and exactly when and how showing customers the benefit from a 20% they want.
Weve made benets of the composite discount on further Aviva lots of improvements model through a wide products.
In fact, we over the year to make it range of bespoke offer instant quotes with even better.
Its a three clicks to buy registration process is a beautifully simple.
Scan to see more process so we dont ask whole lot easier and aboutMyAviva Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Market review continued 40 UK & Ireland continued Life insurance Life operating profit OVERVIEW packages and bulk annuity propositions to Aviva is a leading insurer in the UK and both large and small companies, having Ireland life insurance markets, with a the largest bundled workplace dened 1,555m 1 4 14.7% share of the UK life and pensions contribution pensions business 61 5 2015: 1,455m market.
We offer a market leading range billion assets in the UK.
of propositions to individual and corporate We have access to customers across customers, including long-term savings, the UK through our unparalleled Cash remittances to Group equity release, annuities and protection.
distribution network, with a growing We have one of the largest back books in Digital Direct offering for sales and service, the UK life and pensions market.
strong relationships with independent 1,096m We have competitive advantages financial advisers, employee benefit 2015: 667m through the strength of our balance sheet, consultants, banks and estate agents.
cost efficiencies, and being a composite Operating expenses with a strong brand.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE In Ireland, we continue to grow our During the year, UK and Ireland Life annuity and long-term savings business, operating profit increased by 7% to 1,555 867m 5 progressing towards being the provider of million 2015: 1,455 million.
In the UK, 2015: 815m choice, winning the Innovation in operating profit has increased to 1,523 5 Pensions award for the third year running million 2015: 1,431 million, benefiting Value of new business at the Irish Pension Awards.
from an additional quarter of contribution We are one of the UKs leading from Friends Life and integration synergies.
protection providers in both the individual Growth in protection, long-term savings 695m and group protection markets, providing and individual annuities was partly offset 2015: 625m peace of mind to customers should they by lower bulk purchase annuity BPA die or fall ill including life insurance, volumes and investment in digital.
Ireland critical illness cover and income protection.
operating profit has increased to 32 This is supported by our market leading million 2015: 24 million as we continue digital Aviva Life Protection System ALPS, to grow market share.
a protection platform for advisers and Cash remittances to Group increased customers in the UK.
The 2016 We look after around 250 billion of payment includes 250 million, the first assets for our customers through longinstalment of the planned 1 billion Friends term savings and pensions, and we are the Life integration remittance.
third fastest growing Platform business in Operating expenses increased 6% to 2 the market.
In the UK, operating We help people save for a comfortable expenses increased to 827 million 2015: retirement.
We are the number one 788 million due to the inclusion of the provider of equity release and annuities in additional quarter of Friends Life in 2016.
Excluding this, operating expenses are We are also a leading supplier of lower due to an increase in realised services to the corporate marketplace.
We integration synergies partially offset by offer pensions, protection, exible benets investment in digital.
WHAT WE ACHIEVED Financial Friends Life Fixed the balance sheet integration advice Implemented Solvency II and managed Delivered the integration benets one Launched Aviva Financial Advice Service market turbulence following the year ahead of schedule.
- our new retirement focused in-house Brexitvote.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 KEY HIGHLIGHTS Strategic report Market review continued 41 UK and Ireland Life VNB increased by SUPPORTING CUSTOMERS IN RETIREMENT CHOICES 11% to 695 million 2015: 625 million.
UK Life VNB increased to 671 million UK Pension customers now have digitally.
UK VNB has far more choices and decisions to the scope of our advice and benefitted from an additional quarter of take about their retirement.
We covering the whole of the UK.
Friends along with continued momentum want to help them make the We want customers to enjoy a in long-term savings, increased volumes decision thats right for them.
So secure and prosperous inindividual protection and individual weve set up Aviva Financial retirement.
Aviva Financial annuities, partly offset by lower sales Advice.
2016 saw our team Advice is one way to help them ofBPAs.
working with customers in parts do that.
of the UK, both in person or MARKET CONTEXT AND CHALLENGES We continue to support our customers through the wide range of choices they have as they approach and move through their retirement with market leading propositions investment, drawdown, annuity, Equity Release, information through our Aviva Retirement Centre, online guides and tools and our newly launched in-house advice service, Aviva Financial Advice.
We look forward to further improvements to the market over the next two to three years.
We would like to see a fairer pension taxation system and a simpler regulatory environment which allows us to better serve the needs of our customers.
The Government has set up a working group to take forward recommendations assigned to it by the Financial Advice Market Review FAMR and the outcome of this could have significant implications for how we engage with our customers and their advisers.
2017 will also see a review of AutoEnrolment, where UK employers must offer and enrol their employees into a suitable pension scheme.
The review will consider the success to date and explore We have competitive advantages ways to further develop the policy.
through the strength of our 1 Association of British Insurers ABI 9 months to balance sheet and being a end Q3 2016.
2 Fundscape, Q3 2016. composite with a strong brand 3 Equity Release Council and ABI.
4 PRA returns and Aviva analysis.
#Aviva2016 5 Prior period comparatives have been restated.
Refer to Note 1 on page 154 for further information.
Andy Briggs Chief Executive officer, UK Insurance WHAT WE PL AN TO DO Help businesses Welcome Focus on Friends customers digital fide-risk Transferring the Friends Life customers All UK customers will be able to manage To support business customers wishing policies to the Aviva brand and their policies online.
toreduce dened benefit DB pension welcoming them to the wide range of risk from their balance sheets, we will Aviva services and products.
build up and broaden our existing DB fide-risking and bulk annuity capability.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Market review continued 42 UK & Ireland continued General insurance OVERVIEW WELL TAKE C ARE OF BUSINESS We provide propositions to consumers, small, medium-sized enterprises SMEs and large businesses, with a wide range of insurance products.
We have a market 1 2 share of 10.9% in the UK and 12.3% in Ireland.
Customers are able to access our multi-distribution footprint: digitally direct or via aggregators: over the phone: through our broker and partner relationships: or via our strategic partners.
Market leading service is at the heart of our business.
Customers publicly review their claims experiences with ratings over 4.5 out of 5 for both our Motor and Home policies.
We have won the Insurance Times Insurer of the Year award three years running and been named Best Large Call Centre at the Top 50 Companies for Customer Service Awards.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Excluding the exceptional charge associated with the change in the Ogden discount rate, UK and Ireland general insurance and health operating profit increased 10% to 471 million 2015: 430 million.
Our UK underwriting result We want to help our small print and have means customers increased to 232 million 2015: 154 customers Defy made whats covered applying online can million, reecting improvements in Uncertainty not least as clear as possible.
easily meet their underlying performance and lower our small business Weve also protected obligations under the absolute weather costs.
We want customers against new UK Insurance Act was lower mainly due to reductions in the to make things as innocent by answering a few internal loan.
simple and convenient underinsurance so simple questions.
Just In UK Health, operating profit as possible for them theyre far more likely three examples of increased to 31 million 2015: 21 million.
so they can to receive the right how we take care of Ireland general insurance operating concentrate on payment on their business so our profit increased to 41 million 2015: 30 making their business claim when they need business customers million, reecting continued rating and a success.
And in another can take care of theirs.
putting Digital First industry first, our Cash remittances to Group were 91 weve got rid of all the Disclosure Guarantee million 2015: 358 million as cash was WHAT WE ACHIEVED Tackling Market Customers at the heart fraud leading We continued to defend our customers Weve been independently voted the We grew by putting our customers at against claims fraud, taking over 1,500 Insurer of the Year for the third year in theheart of our business, launching cases to court and winning 70%.
a row recognising our work to improve newpropositions such as Aviva Private customer outcomes and be the partner Clients, Well Take Care of Business of choice for intermediaries.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Market review continued 43 TAKING THE HEAT OUT used to fund an increase in the internal OF FIRE RISK reinsurance arrangement.
Our operating expenses reduced to 665 million 2015: 697 million, despite a 23 million new Flood Re Levy.
UK and Ireland general insurance net written premiums increased 9% to 4,308 million 2015: 3,967 million.
The combined operating ratio COR increased 11.4 percentage points to 106.3% due to General insurance and health the change in the Ogden rate.
Excluding 3 operating profit Ogden, COR remained stable at 94.9% Electrical res are the biggest cause 2015: 95.0%.
of re in the workplace, causing 471m significant disruption.
In fact, 70% MARKET CONTEXT AND CHALLENGES of businesses that suffer from a re 2015: 430m Market conditions have remained do not reopen.
Thats why we equip competitive across our entire product our risk consultants with Cash remittances to Group range, and we expect that to continue.
thermographic cameras to help In this environment, its important that businesses protect employees from we listen to what our customers tell us, injury, property from damage and 91m responding with products and services to reduce unscheduled interruptions to meet their needs.
Thermal imaging In February 2017, an announcement allows then to identify any hot was made by the UK Government to spots in electrical installations, Operating expenses change the Ogden discount rate, which is machinery and equipment, as well as issues with light ttings, water used by the courts to calculate awards for leaks and condensation.
White areas cases involving bodily injury.
The cost of 665m denote increased temperatures that bodily injury compensation claims will 2015: 697m could be dangerous and therefore increase signicantly as a result of this require further investigation.
Injured claimants should be fully Combined operating ratio compensated for the injuries they receive excluding Ogden but it is also vital that individuals are not over-compensated to a level which creates offering specialist training programmes to significant consequences for the cost of help our customer-facing teams recognise 94.9% insurance premiums for individuals and the needs of vulnerable customers.
The oods suffered by UK customers This is one of a number of significant during the 2015 16 winter once again Combined operating ratio changes inuencing the motor insurance demonstrated the importance of ood market at the moment.
We support the Governments We have supported the need for motor ood reinsurance scheme FloodRe and 106.3% insurance reform through our Road to Flood Resilience Action Plan to reduce the 2015: 95.0% Reform campaign.
We will continue to impacts of severe weather on communities champion Road to Reform until it becomes and businesses across the UK.
1 Verdict Financial Services 2016. law and Aviva has promised to pass on 100% In the SME and corporate markets we 2 Central Bank of Ireland Insurance of the savings to its customers when it does.
are prioritising efforts to protect businesses Statistics, 2015. and reduce the impact of any accidents.
Were also reducing the number of 3 The adverse impact of the change in variations of our personal lines products We have equipped our risk management the Ogden discount rate of 475 experts with thermographic cameras which from 800 to 40.
To keep it simple, were million is an exceptional item and publishing guides to explain how an identify early warning signs of risks and therefore not recognised within prevent interruptions to normal trading.
insurance premium is calculated and WHAT WE PL AN TO DO Customer Target Digital markets interactions focus Grow our business and deepen Further digitise our interactions with Well continue to lead the industry customer relationships by expanding customers and intermediaries across all onthe big customer issues by our propositions in targeted markets areas of our business.
simplifyingproducts, increasing such as Lifestyle, Home, Digital SME transparency and launching and Corporate Multinational.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 KEY HIGHLIGHTS Market review continued 44 International International Aviva has simplied and strengthened its international focus, bringing together its 1 insurance operations in Canada, Ireland, France, Spain, Italy, Poland, Turkey and 1 India under Maurice Tulloch, who has become CEO International Insurance Interview with Maurice Tulloch Chief Executive officer, International Insurance Whats your strategy?
on delivering that objective and opportunities to improve performance and Q delivering our promises to shareholders.
build scale in our markets.
2 Our international markets are a As the second largest general insurer MT major contributor to the Group, in Canada, we want to be a customer How are you putting Digital Q accounting for 36% of total operating champion.
We listen to our customers and First?
profit in 2016, and providing a valuable have responded to how they want to Our focus is to build a digital MT source of diversication for the Group.
purchase insurance by working with our ecosystem for our intermediaries and We have 14 million customers across broker partners and striking new develop simpler processes, products and our markets, and operate a composite partnerships, such as a partnership with streamlined services for our customers.
model in France, Poland, Ireland and Italy.
Royal Bank of Canada General Insurance We have strong and diversied We have strong positions in large and RBC GI.
distribution across our international attractive markets such as Canada, France, In Europe we are focusing on building markets, which are digitally immature Italy, Ireland and Spain: and are well placed leadership positions in specic segments, compared to the UK.
Through digital, in Poland, Turkey and India our growing such as SMEs in France, Italy, Ireland and weve got the potential to disrupt our markets with relatively low insurance Poland.
We also chose our product and markets.
Id say, we aim to fundamentally penetration.
customer segments carefully and focus change insurance!
We believe Canada and Europe offer on areas where we can win, in line with Were working closely with our us clear potential for future profitable the Groups strategic objective of being intermediaries.
In Poland, we offer a fully growth.
We need to capitalise on digital sales tool with over 90% of agents Each of our international markets has a our composite potential by offering adopting it in a couple of months.
But ultimately tailored, integrated and innovative launched new ways to use social media for were there to help our customers Defy solutions to our customers.
our agents in Poland and France and Uncertainty so everything we do is focused In general insurance, we have further redesigned websites for agents in France, Italy and Poland.
Were also building and enhancing our We have the right products in the digital capabilities in France, Italy, Poland right markets and the right people 1 In 2017, we announced that Maurice Tulloch will have management responsibility for Ireland and and skills to deliver our strategy India.
However, the 2016 gures for these businesses are reported in the UK & Ireland and #Aviva2016 Asia sections respectively.
2 Market Security Analysis & Research Inc, 2015 Maurice Tulloch Chief Executive officer, International Insurance online database.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Market review continued 45 and Canada and we already have 2.2 A MOMENT OF TRUTH million registered users on digital platforms in those markets.
Well continue to The Alberta wildres in 2016 mobilised our teams of upgrade and add new functionalities to were the costliest disaster in volunteers, especially through MyAviva so it offers our customers more.
Canadian history, spreading our partnership with the Red In Canada, we have opened a Digital across 1,500,000 acres, destroying Cross, to help thousands of Garage, a new space designed to help to 2,400 homes and leading to the people affected.
And we made drive spontaneous conversations, ignite evacuation of 80,000 people.
It sure we were there for them innovation and bring Digital First to life was a moment of truth for us once it was safe to return home.
through digital, web and mobile.
and we mobilised every resource This is exactly why were in we could to help our customers.
business: to help customers when What are the operational We used digital to direct bad things happen.
customers and brokers to our The acquisition of RBC GI in Canada claims hotline, got our teams on MT was a definite highlight.
Its a great the ground within 24 hours and marriage of RBC Insurances powerful brand and sales force and our depth and manufacturing expertise.
Our market position is growing and gross written premiums increased by around CAD$470million.
In our European businesses, weve seen an improved performance in the second half of the year.
Building on the success in Canada, we have launched this year Community Funds in France, Italy and Poland.
Were committed to Care More about our communities and invest in local and sustainable projects to make a difference.
The personal loss experienced in the Alberta res was terrible but our people did a wonderful job to help our customers.
If we dont tackle climate change were going to see further increases in natural catastrophes occurring.
This goes to our role in society to protect people and to be a responsible investor and our value of Create Legacy.
Thats especially important to me as the Chair of Climatewise and a member of the Insurance Development Forum.
What about the challenges Q andrisks?
Well Brexit is clearly a challenge.
But MT we dont expect any significant operational impact for Aviva.
Our European operations operate locally within each country, are well capitalised and locally regulated.
We also continue to manage our life and general insurance businesses in a low interest rate environment, ne-tuning our business mix and focusing on customer segments where we can win.
Q Were working tirelessly so MT customers win in an insurance market undergoing major change.
We will continue to focus on transforming our businesses, to be a low cost customerfocused insurance business that puts Digital First, and reduces complexity for our customers.
We have the right products Scan to watch a lm in the right markets and the right people aboutthe Alberta res and skills to deliver our strategy.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Market review continued 46 International continued Canada General insurance OVERVIEW operating profit WHAT WE ACHIEVED We are Canadas second largest general insurer providing a range of personal and commercial lines products to over 2.9 269m 1 million customers.
We have a 10.6% 2015: 214m market share and a top five position in all Expanding major provinces.
83% of our business is intermediated, Cash remittances to Group distribution sold through a network of independent broker partners, 16% is sold through RBC Increased our access to General Insurance RBC GI agents and the customers through acquiring 130m RBC GI and entering into a remainder makes up our direct offering.
2015: 6m 15-year distribution agreement Our objective is to be the customer with RBC Insurance.
Integrated champion in Canadian insurance through Operating expenses over 550 RBC GI colleagues into building on our existing service to Aviva Canada.
customers and distributors, building our digital capabilities, and leading product 396m innovation in Canada.
2015: 298m On 1 July 2016, we acquired RBC GI Guidewire and entered into a 15-year distribution Combined operating ratio agreement with RBC Insurance.
Through transition this agreement, Aviva Canada provides underwriting, pricing and claims services.
Successfully moved Ontario direct 94.6% business from a legacy system to the This diversies our distribution, giving us 2015: 93.8% new Guidewire personal lines increased access to customers.
The new platform is a combines RBC Insurances powerful more automated policy Canadian brand and sales force with management and billing system.
Avivas depth of products and guidewire new policy and claims system.
projected to increase in the near to We continue to support our largest medium term.
The broker channels also channel, our broker partners, to help them continue to face consolidation both WHAT WE PL AN TO DO integrate digital technology.
We want to amongst brokers and through vertical lead the Canadian market with new integration with insurers.
Due to continued product innovation to allow brokers to consolidation coupled with a mature better serve customers and stay market, focusing on our competitive Disrupt in competitive.
In our opinion, further regulatory and FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE product reforms are necessary in the Operating profit increased by 26% to 269 Ontario auto market to drive both costs digital million 2015: 214 million, a 16% increase and fraud out of the system.
A panel of on a constant currency basis primarily Canadian insurers proposed to shift the Invest further in our digital driven by the RBC GI acquisition and regulators focus from rate regulation to businesses to produce innovative partially offset by increased catastrophe market conduct.
We support the steps digital customer experiences and experience, in particular the Alberta res.
taken by the Government so far and will propositions for our customers Cash remittances of 130 million were continue to work with them to help and broker partnerships.
In 2015, Canada retained its customers.
dividend within the business as a result of the RBC GI acquisition.
Customer Operating expenses increased to 396 million 2015: 298 million mainly driven We want to be by the RBC acquisition and the impact of champion foreign exchange movements.
the customer Continue to influence the market and regulators to help drive out MARKET CONTEXT AND CHALLENGES champion in costs and fraud for our customers Insurer merger and acquisition activity has in the Ontario motor market been significant over the past five years.
Canadian insurance The top five insurers currently represent around half of the overall market.
This is #Aviva2016 1 Market Security Analysis & Research Inc, online Maurice Tulloch Chief Executive database.
officer, International Insurance Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 KEY HIGHLIGHTS Strategic report Market review continued 47 Europe EUROPES FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Sogecap to continue managing in excess of Life operating profit Our European businesses have shown 10 billion of assets held by Antarius.
resilient performance during 2016, reecting the strength and diversity of our FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 844m franchise.
Despite a challenging start to the France delivered resilient results, despite 2015: 766m year, management actions led to an strong headwinds in the market.
improved performance in the second half Total operating profit was 481 million General insurance and Health of the year.
2015: 449 million, an increase of 7% but operating profit Life operating profit increased by 10% a 5% decrease in constant currency driven to 844 million 2015: 766 million but by increased investment in the business decreased marginally on a constant and weather events.
Cash remittances 120m currency basis, with growth and margin were 185 million 2015: 252 million.
2015: 114m improvements more than offset by adverse Operating expenses increased due to market movements and the impact of a investment required for growing and Cash remittances to Group new asset levy in Poland.
Our general insurance and health VNB was up 13% at 224 million 1 premiums grew by 5% to 1,673 million 2015: 198 million however at on a 449m 2015: 1,410 million, a significant constant currency basis as higher 2015: 431m achievement in markets that have been protection and with-profit sales were either at or reducing over the year.
Our offset by lower demand in unit-linked Operating expenses combined operating ratio marginally products.
increased to 95.8% 2015: 95.4% with The combined operating ratio underlying results remaining strong.
increased by 1.2 percentage points to 641m Cash remittances of 449 million were 96.9% as a result of weather events in the 2015: 526m broadly stable compared to prior year first half of the year.
1 VNB was up 7% to 480 million 2015: 400 million largely driven by a SUPPORTING GREAT IDEAS strong performance in Italy and despite challenging conditions in other markets.
FR ANCE OVERVIEW We offer a full range of life, general, health insurance and asset management products to our 3.4 million customers through a well-diversied distribution model, with half of our profits generated from channels we own or control.
We enjoy a long-standing relationship with Association Franaise dEpargne et fide Retraite AFER, the largest retirement and savings association in France, as well as a growing tied agency network.
We also have a majority stake in Union Financire fide France UFF, a leading financial adviser network in the market with 1,200 advisers La Fabrique Aviva is matches up students around a third of and strong direct businesses.
one way in which the with professionals in permanent contracts In February 2017, we announced the Aviva Community business to help them are broken before the sale of our entire shareholding in Antarius, Fund in France invests better understand end of the first year.
our joint venture with Crdit du Nord, to in great ideas that the demands and Myjobglasses.
com Sogecap both subsidiaries of Socit create a wider social prospects in different helps people really Gnrale, for c. 425 million.
Its a great think about what This transaction follows Crdit du financial profit.
One way to tackle a real they want to do and Nords decision to exercise its option to of the winners of the problem: 45% of its clearly hit the purchase Avivas shareholding.
The sale will 2016 competition was students say they target, with over realise a strong return for our shareholders.
a social enterprise dont know what job 1,000 students and In addition, Aviva Investors France called they really want to do 300 professionals entered into a new agreement with Myjobglasses.
com, a when they start out taking part already.
website which in working life and Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 KEY HIGHLIGHTS Market review continued 48 International continued BEING THERE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS MARKET CONTEXT AND CHALLENGES France is a mature and stable market with a large and well-developed insurance sector.
The combination of hardening market conditions due to persistent low interest rates, lower demand for equity linked products and increased financial regulations contributed to a challenging environment.
To respond to this, we reorganised our business and renewed our strategy to be aligned around our key customer segments, such as SMEs.
ITALY OVERVIEW We offer life, general and health insurance to 2.2 million customers.
We operate through strong bancassurance partnerships with three of the five top banks in Italy Banco Popolare, UBI Banca and UniCredit a distribution network of around 650 multi-agents and brokers, and a growing IFA network.
Leszek and Renata was diagnosed with worry about.
She FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Kotula were cancer in 2015, dying describes Wanda as Total operating profit was 205 million longstanding life and shortly afterwards.
resourceful, 1 2015: 165 million, up 10% with growth critical illness With Wandas help competent, empathic in both life and general insurance.
Cash customers with Aviva we paid claims on his and friendly.
Thats remittances improved to 76 million 2015: Poland and enjoyed critical illness cover the service we aim to 45 million.
Operating expenses increased an excellent within a few days and give to all our due to investment supporting business relationship with our on his life policy after customers in their growth.
agent, Wanda his death, so Renata time of need.
VNB improved to 124 million Jadach.
Sadly Leszek had one less thing to 2015:79 million, with growth in all product lines including over 30% growth in sales of unit-linked versus a market that Everything we do is contracted by over 30%.
The combined operating ratio of 92.7% 2015: 94.3% focusedon helping improved by1.6 percentage points as a result of pricing actions.
ourcustomers #Aviva2016 Maurice Tulloch Chief Executive officer, International Insurance WHAT WE ACHIEVED Community Digitising 2.2m funds networks Increase in registrated users on our Launched a community fund in France, Successfully launched a fully digital tool digital platforms across France, Poland, Italy and Poland to support individuals in Poland to facilitate sales processes of Italy and Turkey and introduced a suite of and entrepreneurs in realising innovative our agents.
We also developed social additional services and features for our projects which have a positive impact on media tools for agents in Poland and customers and distributors.
France and new agency websites in Italy and France.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Market review continued 49 MARKET CONTEXT AND CHALLENGES Our European businesses The Spanish economy continues to recover, with one of the highest GDP growth in have shown resilient Europe, and this is starting to benefit our business.
We grew our protection business, performance during 2016, maintaining our market position, and reecting the strength and increased our share in individual pensions, with sales outperforming the market.
diversity of our franchise TURKEY #Aviva2016 OVERVIEW Maurice Tulloch Chief Executive officer, International Insurance We are a leading pension provider with 3 19% market share, serving two million customers through our joint venture with MARKET CONTEXT AND CHALLENGES due to the impact of the asset levy and Sabanc Group, one of Turkeys leading The Italian economy continued to show additional expense from the acquisition of conglomerates.
We mainly operate signs of recovery, although financial market Expander in July 2015. through Akbank, part of the Sabanc conditions hardened in the second half of Group, with over 900 branches.
In a shrinking life insurance MARKET CONTEXT AND CHALLENGES market and stable general insurance In 2016, the insurance sector was affected FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE market, Aviva Italy has produced significant by the low interest rate environment and Life operating profit of 6 million 2015: operating profit and volume growth, the introduction of an asset-based levy for 11 million decreased due to market 1 benefitting from the completion of its bank and insurance companies.
VNB was down 9% at 25 turnaround actions in the past few years.
Despite political and economic million 2015: 27 million as a result of uncertainties, the relatively low insurance market volatility and uncertainty on the penetration continues to represent a pension reforms.
POL AND significant opportunity for further growth, OVERVIEW driven by favourable demographics and MARKET CONTEXT AND CHALLENGES We are a leading life insurer, also providing growing disposable incomes.
Despite political uncertainties, Turkey health and general insurance products, offers long-term potential.
It has the with 1.6 million customers.
second largest population in Europe with a SPAIN We continued to strengthen our young demographic and we anticipate an distribution channels.
We have the largest OVERVIEW increasing demand for financial products.
life insurance direct sales network with We provide life and pensions products to We are well placed to seize further growth 2,200 advisers and own the second largest 1.1 million customers.
We have strong opportunities in the pensions market financial adviser network Expander, as well bancassurance relationships, and operate a following the introduction of autoas a bancassurance agreement with BZ growing retail business.
WBK, the third largest bank in Poland.
Our subsidiary in Lithuania is the FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2 countrys largest life insurer.
Operating profit of 107 million 2015: 92 million was resilient despite increased FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE pressure on savings margins from the low Operating profit was 146 million 2015: interest rates.
VNB was higher at 42 1 On a constant currency basis.
1 141 million, down 5% due to a new million 2015: 31 million.
Operating expenses increased 3 Pension Monitoring Center, Turkey.
WHAT WE PL AN TO DO Invest in Customer Growth digital focus markets Expand and upgrade our digital solutions Realign our organisation and simplify Continue to develop market-leading to enhance the seamless customer and ourprocesses to deliver an outstanding positions in our growth markets distributor experiences in France and customer service and offer attractive Polandand Turkey and grow Poland, and develop a digital platform customer propositions in targeted protablyour businesses in France and for our Corporate pensions customers markets.
Italy capitalising on our True Customer inTurkey.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Market review continued 50 Asia Asia We have wholly-owned subsidiaries 1 inSingapore and Hong Kong, afnity joint ventures in China, Indonesia and 2 India, bancassurance joint ventures in Taiwan and Vietnam, and Friends Provident International Limited FPI, withbranches in Singapore, Hong Kong and the United Arab Emirates Interview with Chris Wei Executive Chairman, Asia & FPI and Global Chairman, Aviva Digital Whats your strategy?
already seeing solid progress in our shift just the armed forces, but also the Ministry Q towards financial advisory and digital.
One in four adult Our strategy is to change We recorded solid growth, especially in Singaporeans is now an Aviva customer.
CW fundamentally how we engage with markets with large populations and low We also successfully launched Aviva our customers.
That will mean different insurance penetration, like China and Financial Advisers which disrupted the things in different markets but digital Indonesia.
traditional agency channel, as well runs through much of what were doing.
In China weve made real progress in asadirect sales force which is already developing the agency model.
And in proving to be among the industrys What are the highlights Indonesia were developing new mostproductive.
distribution channels with our partner, But theres much more to come from Its been a year of transition for us as Astra International.
In particular, were going to work more CW we reinvested into our businesses to In Singapore weve done everything closely with digital leaders in countries like make up for the discontinuance of the DBS we said we would do and more.
We China, which is really leaping ahead in bancassurance agreement at the end of expanded our contract with the digital innovation.
By the end of the year, we were Singaporean government to include not 1 In 2017, we agreed to develop a joint venture in Hong Kong, with Hillhouse Capital and Tencent Holdings.
2 The 2016 gures for India are reported in Asia, however management responsibility will transfer to International, under Maurice Tulloch, as announced in 2017.
WHAT WE ACHIEVED Aviva FA FuBaoBao Digital savings launch joint venture Launched FuBaoBao in China which In August we launched Aviva Financial Agreed a new digital insurance joint allows friends and family to celebrate Advisers in Singapore to offer our venture in Hong Kong with Hillhouse keymilestones in a childs life by customers a wide range of insurance and Capital Group, a leading investment contributing to a savings plan for them investment services that exactly meet management rm, and Tencent Holdings via a social media payment platform, their needs.
Limited, the worlds fourth largest WeChat.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Market review continued 51 Life operating profit DISRUP TING TR ADITIONAL service that is transparent, high quality, FINANCIAL ADVISORY digital and in line with our values.
We know the great responsibility we 241m have to our customers and the trust we 2015: 244m have to earn from them.
We dont take that for granted.
General insurance and Health operating loss OVERVIEW We have 3.5 million customers across ourmarkets in Asia, and operate a 13 m multi-distribution strategy which includes 2015: 6 m bancassurance, agents, financial advisers, direct and telemarketing, and direct Cash remittances to Group salesforce.
We strongly believe in a needs-based FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE financial advisory service which offers Life operating profit decreased to 241 nil a broad range of insurance and million 2015: 244 million which was 2015: 21m investment choices to best meet driven by the discontinuance of the customers needs.
Thats why were bancassurance agreement with DBS and Operating expenses disrupting the way insurance has continuous investment to support business traditionally been sold, from tied growth across Asia particularly in agents to financial advisers, with the distribution, digital and analytics capabilities.
launch of Aviva Financial Advisors in 177m These investments together with the Singapore.
In a matter of months, we 2015: 141m additional quarter of FPI impacted have already built up a team of 400 operating expenses which increased to financial advisers whose results far 177 million 2015: 141 million.
The general insurance and health business reported a 13 million loss as a result of higher claims experience from the Singapore Health business.
middle-class, increasing awareness in No dividends were remitted to the retirement planning, growing market share Group during the financial year in healthcare will persist across the region, 2015:21million as we continued to and Asia will continue to outperform in reallocate capital to support growth insurance growth.
We also see an acceleration towards What are the risks and VNB declined to 148 million 2015: digital in our daily life, and a heightened Q challenges?
151 million impacted by the sense of ntechs development, which play Our future is in our hands.
So we discontinuance of the bancassurance to Avivas strength in digital and CW have to focus on delivering what we agreement with DBS, partly offset by innovation.
We are encouraged by multiple said wed deliver.
Having said that, its a growth in sales from Singapores core Asian governments support in this area, volatile time in global geopolitics and that financial advisory channel.
VNB in other and are ever more enthused in seeing can have an impact on currency and Asian markets fell due to the adverse consumers rapid adoption, such as our FuBaoBao online sales platform in China.
impact of lower sales and higher expense overruns.
In this rapidly evolving and highly competitive market, where distribution and Whats your final message?
Q MARKET CONTEXT AND CHALLENGES technologies revolutionise at an ever faster pace, our challenge is to deliver truly unique Were not following traditional While most analysts expect the Asian CW insurance models.
Were economy to record only moderate growth customer propositions that help to solve our clients problems, and to continually improve fundamentally changing the way we in the year ahead, we believe the longengage with our customers and deliver a term favourable trends of emerging our propositions to keep ahead.
WHAT WE PL AN TO DO Strengthen and Seamless Tailored experiences build offer Make the most of Group digital solutions Generate value by strengthening our Further embrace the True Customer and capabilities to deliver seamless distribution platforms and building Composite model by delivering Avivas customer and distributor experiences afnity models.
strengths in Life and Health, plus Aviva while improving efficiency.
Investors and General Insurance, tailored to different markets.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 KEY HIGHLIGHTS Market review continued 52 Aviva investors Aviva Investors We are a global investment management business, with 345 billion assets under management, focused on outcomeoriented solutions Interview with Euan Munro Chief Executive officer, Aviva Investors Fund management What is your strategy?
in difficult markets with very low levels of Q operatingprot volatility.
We want to become a global leader Were also working harder to develop EM in outcome-oriented investing.
Were alternative sources of income, such as 139m bringing our international reach and infrastructure debt and real estate and 2015: 105m expertise to solve our clients problems, benefit from the scale we bring to these most notably with the AIMS range of and other asset classes.
funds, as well as investing more in illiquid We Never Rest in scanning the horizon Cash remittances to Group assets like infrastructure.
Weve also In a world of low interest rates and made real progress in Killing Complexity.
Solvency II, we provide the solutions for the Weve reduced the number of funds we 39m Group to achieve the returns it needs.
We offer without diluting our focus on 2015: 24m offer winning solutions to the Group and delivering client outcomes.
demonstrate Care More through building Operating expenses Were excited by the development of world class controls and being responsible the Aviva digital platform.
If direct investors engaging with companies on customers select Aviva Investors funds, governance and sustainability.
Were also Creating Legacy by building 2015: 345m In terms of Not Everywhere, if we cant a winning culture.
Were much more do something to an exceptional standard outward facing now and delivering what Assets under management we wont do it.
We have stopped activities clients need.
for exactly that reason, including closing funds that were sub-scale and did not What are the risks and Q 345bn meet the needs of our customers.
2015: 290bn Brexit is a challenge for the whole of EM What are your highlights the UK.
In fact, in the immediate Q for2016?
aftermath of the Brexit vote, we Were really starting to see the temporarily suspended dealing in one of EM benets of AIMS.
Im delighted by our daily priced commerical property the inows of funds were starting to see, funds, along with many of our especially from institutional investors.
While suspension was a last pleased with the outcomes that our AIMS resort, we took this action to protect the strategies are delivering, adding real value interests of our customers and to avoid a Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 KEY HIGHLIGHTS Strategic report Market review continued 53 INVESTING FOR THE FUTURE WHAT WE WHAT WE ACHIEVED PL AN TODO Investment New Grow and protect our asset base by investing in distribution and through funds TrueCustomer Composite initiatives with the rest of Added to our range of Better infrastructure underpins a theGroup outcome-oriented funds with better society whether thats launch of Global Equity hospitals, schools or railways.
And Endurance and AIMS Fixed investing in infrastructure is also Income funds.
good for our customers, as it can Overseas deliver stable long-term returns.
To date, weve invested more than 2.2 markets billion in hospitals and medical centres in the UK alone.
That isnt Sun Life Look at further opportunities just bricks and mortar.
to form strategic partnerships Were also major investors in low Strategic partnership with Sun in key overseas markets carbon and renewables.
In 2016 we Life in Canada made one of our largest investments yet four wind farms in the UK, with the capacity to produce 60.5MW thats enough to power over 3,500 Risk and AIMS UK homes.
compliance growth Continue to invest in our risk and compliance teams to In 2016, the combined assets protect customers, under management of our shareholders and our AIMS range increased from reputation 3bn to 9bn.
damaging re sale of assets.
The FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE MARKET CONTEXT AND CHALLENGES suspension on trading was lifted in Fund management operating profit has The last 12 months highlighted the mid-December but the environment for increased by 32% to 139 million in 2016 unpredictability of markets, with political the economy remains uncertain.
The growth in events having a sizeable impact.
That is set we take a global view and there are operating profit is driven by a 56 million to continue, while the era of easy returns in interesting opportunities out there for increase in revenue from positive external most asset classes fuelled by central bank clients.
net ows, the transfer to Aviva Investors of policy is nally coming to an end.
a further 14 billion of Friends Life assets The asset management industry is Whats your final message?
during 2016, taking the total Friends Life under intense pressure to demonstrate Q assets transferred to 59 billion and the value to customers, with the interim report I want Aviva Investors to be the one change in pricing to manage funds on from the UK Financial Conduct Authority, EM to watch!
Were behalf of other Aviva entities.
Cost published in November 2016, highlighting winning mandates and taking positive increases have been controlled as we invest that there is room for improvement.
earnings momentum into 2017. to grow the business.
We have to meet these challenges Aviva Investors Multi-Strategy AIMS head on.
With volatility returning to OVERVIEW assets under management have continued markets, it will be clear which asset We are Avivas global asset management to grow to 9.0 billion 2015: 3.0 billion.
managers are able to deliver good business with expertise in real estate, xed Working closely with UK Life, origination outcomes for customers, and those that income, equity, multi-asset and alternative of infrastructure assets has increased by cant.
For Aviva Investors, it is imperative investments.
We currently invest 345 16% to 3.3 billion.
Overall net ows have we can prove our value to society and billion on behalf of our customers, continued to improve to 1.0 billion and what we do to support economic growth spanning major markets.
This gives us the the externalisation of the business is and development.
size and scale to successfully seek out progressing with 32% of revenue coming opportunities that will deliver specic from external clients.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016
