The horizon 12 My life, my way Customers will be much more in control, expecting to self-serve and self-solve.
Theywill want to be able to access data andinsight, and use it to guide their The power of owndecisions communities For more information on our customer strategy, see pages 20-23.
Government influence is reducing as the role of communities of mutual Banking app logins a day during 2015 intheUK up 50% on the previous year interests and connected networks, both virtual and local, increases For more information on our role in 11m society, see pages 58-61.
Source: Way we Bank Now, BBA, June 2016 Daily active Facebook users on average 1.23bn Source: facebook.
com, stats, December 2016 Where the world is going Our strategic framework responds to and anticipates the seven long-term trends Winning through data which will impact our industry over the next few years.
We acknowledge the risks Those who interpret data quickly and they present but aim to turn these trends intuitively to inform the development of products and services that provide real into opportunities for future growth.
value for customers will lead the way For more information on our digital strategy, see pages 26-27.
Number of vehicles in use globally with built-in telematics by 2025 430m Source: Navigant Research Newsroom, October 2016 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report The horizon 13 Older and healthier People will live longer and be healthier.
Markets will be driven increasingly by attitudes and needs as family structures evolve For more information on our customer strategy, see pages 20-23.
Active Fitbit users as at 31 December 2016 23.2m Ever-changing planet Source: Fitbit, press release, January 2017 Changing climate and extreme weather events will have a significant impact on both society and business For more information on our response to climate change, see pages 58-61.
Economic loss in US dollars caused by global natural disasters in 2016 $175bn Source: Munich Re, catastrophe losses, January 2017 The age of disruption New agile competitors will act faster to disrupt established businesses For more information on our digital strategy, see pages 26-27.
Revenue generated by UK FinTech Shifting wealth sector in 2015 Developing markets will have a much larger share of the worlds savings and 6.6bn assets pool Source: EY Publications, FinTech, February 2016 For more information on how we allocate capital, see pages 28-29.
Insurance premium growth from emerging economies 2005-2015 58% Source: Swiss Re, Sigma insurance research, May 2015 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 14 Putting our customers first We help people protect whats important to them and save for a comfortable future.
Were here to help our customers Defy Uncertainty C A RIN G A BOU T OU R C U ST OM E RS When our customers talk to us, its often because something bad has happened and they want our help.
Thats what happened when Olwyn below called us after her home ooded.
Weve rolled out training from the British Red Cross so our people cando more to help customers with their claims atthese moments of crisis.
The scheme also helps our people look after their own well-being.
Itsagreat example of caring more about our customers and one another.
A I M S : O U TC O M EOR I E NT E D S O LU T I O NS Our goal at Aviva Investors is to use our international reach and expertise to solve our clients problems, most notably with the AIMS range of funds.
These are totally focused on meeting customers needs thats especially important in an uncertain world.
Aviva Investors CEO, Euan Munro, thinks Aviva Investors is the one to watch in 2017 whether youre a shareholder or a customer.
Scan to see Olwyn tell her story Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 15 YO U N E V E R K NOW WH AT S RO U N D T H E CO R N E R Chris Wall below works at a property company and lives in Winchester in the South of England with her husband and two lovely working cocker spaniels.
A few years ago she bought an Aviva critical illness policy.
Money was tight but she saw it as a wise precaution.
Shes very glad she did because in October 2015 she was diagnosed with a rare form of bowel cancer.
That led to many questions not least whether she would be able to pay the bills if she couldnt work.
Chris talked to Aviva and within a month we had paid out on her critical illness cover.
It was one less thing to worry about.
She was delighted with how we handled her claim, telling us the service was exceptional.
Were delighted Chris has recovered and we were happy to help so she C U ST OM E RF I R ST A D V IC E could concentrate on getting better.
IN SI NG A P O R E In Singapore, lions are considered auspicious.
So when a business opens, the way to get it off to a great start is to have a lion dance.
We think Aviva Financial Advisers, launched in August 2016, can be 34.4bn pretty auspicious too for our customers.
Our service promotes independence and customer-first advice Paid out in benets and claims to our customers in 2016. on a wide range of insurance and investment Thats billions of good reasons why were in business services to meet their needs.
Scan to see Chris tell her story Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016
