Digital review 54 UK Digital Digital review UK Digital was set up in 2015.
It is our agship digital business with the purpose of connecting with our customers in the UK, and signicantly accelerating our digital and composite offering OVERVIEW business through UK Digital across the full from Ask it Once to Ask it Never.
Were Customers want to be more in control, range of our products.
And regardless of creating a beautifully simple experience for expecting to self-serve and self-solve.
They how customers buy, we want to offer our customers.
want to be able to access data in clicks.
them the ease and convenience of In 2016, the focus was on putting all of For us to disrupt in digital, we need to managing their product online.
our customer information onto a single interpret data quickly and intuitively to MyAviva, whether thats as an app or database so our customers can see all their develop the products and services that online, is at the heart of our digital products and services in one place.
By the provide real value for customers.
Its where our customers can end of 2016, we had more than 95% of We are focused on designing see and manage all of their policies in one our customers on one database, giving us innovative and easy-to-understand place and benefit from a 20% discount on a single view of our customers.
solutions which meet our customers further Aviva products, as a reward for We also focused on delivering an needs.
In fact, we offer instant effortless experience for our customers.
Customers buy products from us quotes with a three-clicks-to-buy process Our new pension tracker service lets direct, through intermediaries and via our so we dont ask questions we already have customers view their pension as well as partnerships.
We want to grow our direct the answers to.
Our long-term goal is to go make changes, such as switching funds.
WHAT WE ACHIEVED Registrations Single Selfcustomer view up service As part of the integration with Friends Doubled the number of customers who Customers can now do much more on Life we now have more than 95% of our are registered on our UK digital online, from changing their details, customers on a single database.
platforms from 2.3 million to 4.7 million.
managing their investments and viewing their documents.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Digital review 55 FIRST DIGITAL SUCCESS INTERVIEW WITH CHRIS WEI Chris Wei is the Executive What are your priorities Q Chairman, Asia & FPI and Global for next year?
We We will continue to disrupt CW asked him about his priorities in digital.
New agile for the coming year.
competitors will act faster to Quotemehappy.
com was our first disrupt established businesses.
Digital First success story and it keeps How do you think digital We want to be the worlds Q on growing.
It offers low-cost car has progressed at Aviva?
and home insurance in the UK and is In a year, weve achieved a Underpinning all of this is only available online.
We have signicantly our agile start up culture self-service insurance gives customers improved the customer blending our expertise in the exibility to manage their policies experience by xing the basics insurance and investments with online, such as downloading and laying the foundations for signicantly enhanced capability documents and making changes to disruptive innovation in 2017. in the new digital essentials of their policy.
And because they deal Weve listened to our data and digital product design.
with us digitally, we are able to offer customers and xed their pain With its base in the Digital our customers lower prices.
They can now do much Garage in Hoxton, and new more on online, from changing Digital environments in Bristol Aviva.
co. uk visits their details, managing their and Norwich, UK Digital is investments and viewing their helping to transform the culture documents.
Were making it of Aviva to ensure we are fully 32m effortless for them.
able to meet the digital needs Up 6% on 2015 And were going further to of 21st century consumers.
try to limit the number of Weve already made Aviva registrations in the UK questions we ask our customers progress, but theres much more to make dealing with us we can do.
4.7m Up from 2.3min 2015 Online direct sales in the UK 88% Up from 75% in 2015 UK digital customers 72% Consider Aviva for buying other products, compared to 63% for 1 ourcompetitors 1 GfK Annual Relationship Survey, 2016.
WHAT WE PL AN TO DO Redesign New Invest in web launches data Rolling out a beautifully simple new Leveraging new technology such as Data is the lifeblood of our great online experience across devices that is Cocoon next generation home security Digitalexperience we will continue easier for customers to use and for us to to create compelling reasons for toinvest in the core IT infrastructure maintain.
customers to continue to choose Aviva.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 KEY HIGHLIGHTS 56 Being a good ancestor Good ancestors do the right thing.
Good ancestors makeresponsible, sustainable choices, and those decisionsare judged over the long term R OA D TO R EF O RM We want to slam the brakes on the fraudsters proting from the UKs whiplash compensation culture.
It pushes up premiums for genuine customers, puts innocent motorists at risk from crash for cash scams and wastes scarce public resources such as ambulance, police and A&E time on these entirely bogus claims.
We have campaigned tirelessly for change and welcome the Governments recent whiplash reforms.
However, they will only be successful if crash for cash no longer puts innocent motorists at risk.
We will pass on 100% of savings to customers.
Read more in our report at www.
# S AV E SM A R T E R The savings gap between low and high income families in the UK has grown 25% year-on-year to 62,790 in winter 2016 7.
Our Save Smarter Campaign challenges people to understand how they can save and live on their predicted pensions and features informative but fun lms.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 57 A FF OR D AB LE H OM E IN S UR A NC E We all know the devastation a ood can cause and then people can nd it difficult to get affordable insurance.
To help, the UK insurance industry launched a scheme called Flood Re in April 2016.
Flood Re will provide affordable home insurance to many of the estimated 350,000 of UK households at high risk of ooding, funded by an insurance levy.
Since its launch last April, we have transferred around 11,000 policies to the scheme, with new customers in high ood risk areas saving an average of 500 on their premiums.
C R E AT I N G A S U S TA I N AB LE F U TU R E The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals SDGs in 2015 represent a milestone in our efforts to create sustainable future.
But we will only create legacy if we deliver them.
We have set out ways to create incentives so that business invests and act sustainably.
Our Group Chief Executive, Mark Wilson, spoke twice at United Nations events in 2016, making the case for benchmarks and sustainability league tables for business.
We think what gets measured gets managed.
Were making progress but theres a long way to go.
Scan here to see Peter tell his story Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016
