Our strategy 18 Our strategic framework provides clear direction Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Our strategy 19 OUR STR ATEGY Our strategic framework focuses on the things that really matter and puts the customer at the heart of everything we do.
It provides clear direction across all our markets for how we run our business True Customer Digital Not Composite First Everywhere We can provide customers with We put Digital First.
This is how We focus our resources where life, general, accident and we will capitalise on being a we can be most competitive.
health insurance and asset True Customer Composite.
We are not interested in management a True With their busy lives, customers planting ags or being in 100 Customer Composite.
This is are increasingly turning to countries.
We will focus on a what differentiates us.
We are digital to make things more select number of markets and the only composite insurer of convenient, easier and quicker.
business lines where we have scale in the UK.
scale and profitability or a distinct competitive advantage where we can win.
Read more on pages 20-23 Read more on pages 26-27 Read more on pages 28-29 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 AMANDAS TRAVEL Our strategy continued 20 True Customer Composite Digital First Not Everywhere We are a True Customer Composite helping customers protect whats important to them and save for a comfortable future GARYS CAFE GARYS CAFE Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report AMANDAS TRAVEL Our strategy continued 21 WHY ITS IMPORTANT WHY NOW?
HOW WEVE PROGRESSED Operating as a True Customer Composite In a digital world, the advantages of In the UK, our focus in 2016 was to means we can help our customers protect beinga True Customer Composite become improve the functionality and signicantly whats important to them and save for a more tangible.
We have a much greater increase customer registrations for comfortable future.
We understand that opportunity to deal directly with customers MyAviva, our digital platform.
This was customers have a wide range of insurance, and provide them with a wide range of enabled by a major programme to bring all protection and savings needs, and can nd products to meet their needs.
of our UK customers onto the same it challenging to manage them all.
In the past, although the financial database, so that they can see their True Customer Composite means benets of our composite model were clear products in one place.
offering all these products individually or in such as lower capital requirements through We also extended the range of tailored combinations to meet customers diversifying our risk, the operational products available to MyAviva customers in needs in a convenient, easy to understand benets were more elusive.
Very few the UK, with around 30% more products and timely manner.
customers held more than one Aviva product added to the platform during 2016.
Furthermore, True Customer because our business was distributed MyAviva now shows pre-calculated Composite means valuing and rewarding almost solely through intermediaries.
quotes for travel, home and health customers for making the choice to have If customers are not relying on products, together with a 20% discount adeeper, more loyal relationship with us.
intermediaries to analyse their needs and for existing customers so that they can share the benets of doing business with For Aviva, this means increased recommend a suitable package of products, customer retention and engagement, they could nd themselves managing us digitally.
multiple products from different providers.
This is not what customers tell us they want: what they want is a simple way to meet their insurance and savings needs.
GARYS CAFE GARYS CAFE Scan to see True Customer Composite in action Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Our strategy continued 22 True Customer Composite Digital First efficient medium long-term investment WHAT WE PLAN TO DO NEXT solution with lower volatility and the As part of Good Thinking, we will Not Everywhere option of life and illness protection.
continue to develop new propositions for In Spain we launched an online service customers in the UK, including home By the end of 2016, we had a total of 7.5 for our life protection customers to insurance and services for small and million customers registered on our global encourage healthy living, physical activity medium-sized enterprises.
We will extend digital platforms compared to 3.8 million and nutrition.
MyAviva to more countries, as part of our at the start of the year.
Of course, our aim is always to get it Digital First strategy, which includes We have also been making progress on right for our customers.
But sometimes we creating a common approach to customerTrue Customer Composite in other areas.
Our objective is to x any issues as facing digital developments.
In Singapore we launched Aviva Financial quickly as possible, so that we restore the To accelerate our strategy for growth and provide a simple, more convenient and Advisers, a fully-owned financial advisory level of service our customers rightly expect.
rm providing customers with financial better value service to our customers, we are bringing together our UK insurance solutions across life, health, general GOOD THINKING insurance and investments.
Avivas global brand strategy Good businesses - life insurance, general insurance and health insurance all under In the UK, we announced a new Thinking supports our True Customer partnership with TSB, distributing our Pick Composite and Digital First ambitions by one roof.
We aim to broaden our offering of and Protect modular home insurance both placing the customer rmly at the heart of digitally and through TSB branches.
The essence of the idea is accident and health products across several Aviva markets.
This will be underpinned by and Protect breaks down traditional home everything we do is full of good thinking insurance, allowing TSB customers the for you.
our Digital First strategy which is the key to unlocking the benets of the True exibility to tailor cover for their own In 2016, this approach inspired two insurance needs.
campaigns in the UK - #DriveSafer and Customer Composite.
In Italy, we have seen strong sales via #SaveSmarter.
As well as putting our our bank and IFA partners of our hybrid strategy and values into action we have a savings product, generating 660 million key social purpose too: tackling issues that of premiums to outpace the market in matter most to our customers, like safer 2016.
This provides customers with an roads and saving for retirement.
DIGITAL CL AIMS GARYS CAFE NINAS MUG We put Digital First so we online to le and entitled to.
With a can help customers put manage medical claims.
In the UK, some of range of helpful their health first.
It Its convenient, quick, our health customers can information and makes dealing with us and totally paperless now make claims online guidance and lots more quick, simple and and theres a host of through MyAviva.
in the pipeline in 2017, convenient.
If youre not other features to make Customers claiming for were working hard to well the last thing you life easier: whether thats back, neck, muscle and help our customers want is to deal with taking a photo of a letter joint pain can now book quickly access the care forms we want or receipt and submitting an appointment online in they need, when they customers to focus on it electronically, just three easy steps, need it most.
monitoring your claim, leaving them free to In Singapore, locating clinics, or concentrate on the customers can log in working out what youre all-important business of Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Our strategy continued 23 Global customer advocacy 13NPS 1 Improved by three points UK customer advocacy 14NPS Compared to -2 NPS for UK 1 competitors customers True Customer Composite greater UK customer advocacy 47NPS Avivas UK customers who have 1 three or more products Global digital customers 69% Likely toconsider Aviva for otherproducts, compared to 52%ofnon-digital customers GAR GARYS YS CAFE CAFE NINAS MUG 1 GfK Annual Relationship Survey, 2016.
The Net Promoter Score NPS is a measure of the likelihood to recommend brand to a friend or colleague.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 KEY HIGHLIGHTS 24 Disrupting through digital The insurance industry is ripe for disruption by digital.
Wewant Aviva to be a 320 year old disruptor, which putsDigital First so we can offer customers better, morepersonalised products and services M AK I NG D I G I TA L E A SY F OR E V E R YO N E We put Digital First because thats great for the customer.
But it also means weve got to go the extra mile for customers who arent confident or comfortable with digital, tailoring what we do so it works for them.
Were making MyAviva accessible and convenient, and our retirement hub is designed with ease of use in mind.
The Aviva Community Fund has supported local projects that help people of all ages get the skills they need to do more online.
We want our customers to be confident enough to be Digital First with us.
We want everyone to be able to enjoy the ease of dealing with us digitally #Aviva2016 Mark Wilson Group Chief Executive officer Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 25 WE C H AT, YO U S AV E In China, WeChat, a leading messaging platform, is part of peoples everyday lives and is used by 850 million people.
With our partner COFCO, weve set up a savings account available on WeChat called FuBaoBao.
It offers a simple, easy, convenient way to build up long-term savings, especially for children.
Anyone can pay in as little as 10yuan approximately 1.
Mr. Derek Wang Tianshan from Guangzhou below is one of FuBaoBaos IN THE H OT S E AT developers.
He opened an account for his six year old son and has topped it up more than 500 times.
Derek shares pictures of his son with friends and Aviva #Uncut is a great way to help build a culture in family in other cities through WeChat, and they which we have open, transparent, challenging show their love for the boy by sending him hong conversations and do better for our customers.
One bao digitally gifts of money at Chinese New Year of our senior managers is lmed answering any which is paid directly into FuBaoBao.
So distance is question without any warning and streamed live to no longer a barrier for this wonderful tradition.
Its a great way to ask burning questions and stimulate a lively debate.
And in 2016, we launched a new mobile streaming app that enables colleagues to watch #Uncut live on their phones.
Scan to see Dereks story Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Our strategy continued 26 True Customer Composite Digital First Not Everywhere Everything just clicks with Digital First Digital remains crucial to our True HOW WEVE PROGRESSED Customer Composite strategy.
We The implementation of our Digital First put Digital First because our strategy focuses on our larger markets: customers are increasingly choosing UK, France, Poland, Canada and this as their preferred way to deal Singapore.
We are adapting our strategies to reect the distribution landscape in WHY ITS IMPORTANT each market, whether thats via direct, The environment in which we operate intermediaries or our partners, bringing continues to see rapid change in simplicity and an effortless experience.
In all markets the objective is to Wehave to think Digital First across grow the share of customers we acquire allour distribution channels its how and interact with digitally.
customers want to connect and do Our Digital Garages in London, business with us.
Singapore and Canada act as catalysts JUST ASK ALEXA Digital First helps make being a for digital innovation, where creative Lets face it, business is full of jargon and TrueCustomer Composite central to minds from across Aviva and the confusing words.
We already Kill anew relationship with customers.
industry collaborate to turn innovative Complexity through our jargon buster Itbuilds on our understanding of how ideas into real products and services for on www.
Now weve gone customers want to use our products our customers.
one step further, with Amazons ina digital world.
We also look to nd and apply voice-activated assistant, Alexa, Increasingly customers want to be newways of doing business, and we providing people with more than 300 able to self-serve: researching, buying are working in partnership with a insurance terms and their denitions.
policies and making changes online.
rangeof new and existing players in Were the first UK insurer to deliver a Putting Digital First means putting thedigital space.
Skill for Alexa and its a new way for our digital at the forefront of all change and customers to interact with us.
So if you development activity across Aviva.
dont know your no claims discount This includes working to maintain from your accidental damage cover, just ask Alexa!
and improve our IT security and data encryption, because cyber security is increasingly important to reassure our customers that they can deal with us digitally with confidence.
Our Digital Garages act as catalysts for digital innovation turning innovative ideas into real products #Aviva2016 Chris Wei Executive Chairman, Asia & FPI and Global Chairman, Aviva Digital Scan to see Alexa in action Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Our strategy continued 27 REINVENTING INSUR ANCE SPACE TO INNOVATE We want to reinvent insurance for the digital We want to be a 320 year old disruptor.
Our age: to make it as simple, convenient and aim is to deliver outstanding customer service accessible as possible for our customers, and in a simpler and more cost-effective way challenge traditional distribution, selling and through digital channels.
To achieve this, we marketing methods.
Our new joint venture in are bringing together our experts and Hong Kong aims to do just that.
Our partners, encouraging them to break the insurance Hillhouse and Tencent, have tremendous industrys traditional way of doing things.
To investment and digital expertise.
Together we help our teams collaborate, focus on want to shake up the Hong Kong insurance customers needs, think bigger and work market, which currently relies on expensive differently, weve created dedicated digital intermediaries, by offering a superior digital spaces.
Aviva Canada recently opened their solution so that insurance ts with our Digital Garage in Toronto, joining our Garages customers lives and meets their needs.
in London and Singapore and spaces in our ofces in Paris, Warsaw, Bristol and Norwich.
Global digital platform registrations 7.5m 2015: 3.8m MyAviva customer satisfaction 75% Online satisfaction tool shows three AVIVA VENTURES quarters are very happy with their GLOBALL AUNCH online experience Aviva Ventures is our corporate venture capital fund.
It looks for cutting edge tech start-ups Aviva Ventures investment that can help shape the future of insurance and invests in them.
First came London, then 100m Canada, and nally Singapore.
We Weve committed to a total have partnered with businesses like investment of up to 100 Cocoon above which uses smart million through Aviva Ventures tech to deliver next generation home by 2020 security.
Weve also announced partnerships with Opun, AppyParking and Founders Factory.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 KEY METRICS Our strategy continued 28 True Customer Composite Digital First Not Everywhere Not Everywhere is all about focusing on creating value andthen delivering it 1 Does it t with How do we decide ourstrategy?
We focus on delivering our strategic ambitions and providing solutions to meet our customers needs WHY ITS IMPORTANT NOT EVERYWHERE IN PRACTICE OAKS, ACORNS AND APPLE TREES Not Everywhere is about focusing our We completed the acquisition of RBC Our Oaks, Acorns and Apple trees resources where we can be most General Insurance in Canada.
It categorisation shows how each of competitive.
Its about focusing on strengthened our market position, Avivas businesses contributes to doing a relatively small number of increasing profit and providing ouroverall portfolio, either now or things very well, rather than casting consumers with improved choice about inthe future.
Its about focusing how they access insurance solutions.
We focus on allocating capital to But Not Everywhere is also about areas where we can generate strong capital allocation something we see returns.
If were not getting the results as a competitive sport at Aviva.
We we want, we will take action.
In 2016, allocate capital to the markets, we disposed of our 70% shareholding businesses and products that offer the in Aviva Health Insurance Ireland and most attractive returns, looking at it in 2017, we announced the sale of through three lenses: strategic, Antarius, our joint venture with SocGen financial and execution.
We expect to continue to narrow In 2016, we launched Aviva our focus on what we can do best Financial Advisers in Singapore.
The throughout 2017. business advises on a full range of life, health, general insurance and Scan to see Mark Wilson investment products focused on talking about our meeting our customers needs.
portfolio of businesses Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Our strategy continued 29 Its about being clear what not to do, so we can focus and invest in what we do best #Aviva2016 Mark Wilson Group Chief Executive officer 2 3 Does this investment Can we deliver it?
We ensure outcomes can be delivered with a high degree of We aim to invest our confidence and that the risks Groupcapital efficiently are manageable and togetthe right balance understood ofriskandreturn Oaks Acorns Apple trees Solid growth, Future, Simplify, restructure, sustainable cash fastgrowth focus, improve UK: Deepen Aviva Investors: Accelerate Spain France: Focus Digital: Innovate Italy Poland: Grow Asia: Disrupt FPI Canada: Diversify Turkey: Grow India Taiwan Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016
