15.6 15.8 13.9 13.4 10.6 Defence and Security Well positioned to meet future defence needs The division is focused on three strategic actions: win, develop and expand.
Win significant UK and international defence contracts.
Develop through a dedicated international business, targeting emerging outsourcing opportunities.
Expand by building on existing contracts to move into adjacent markets where there are increasing opportunities for outsourcing complex and critical engineering and training support services.
2016 performance highlights Strategy in action Ascent joint venture awarded 1.1 billion contract for fixed wing flight training Won contract to deliver forwardmaintenance and aircraftengineering for 18% RoyalNavyhelicopters Revenue % Defence Support Group performing of Group well: significant growth in the first year of the 10-year contract Won Phoenix II contract to provide global fleet management services to MODs white fleet of vehicles Awarded five-year 49 million Hawk 2 support contract Renewed Training, Maintenance and Support Services contract with the Army Excellent performance at RoyalSchool of Military 29% Engineeringtraining wins two Order book % Cityand GuildsLions awards of Group Operating Revenue growth KPI KPI margin % 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 15.6% 4% Delivering long-term military flight training 42 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 Market overview DSG, which has more than offset the Since establishing and resourcing our loss of the Prime estate management international capability with in-country The UKs 2015 five-year Strategic contracts, and the achievement of a teams, we have taken a number of steps Defenceand Security Review SDSR 100% success rate on contract retentions.
designed to develop defence markets in moved defence fiscal policy towards In addition, we focused on operational key international territories.
investment and growth, with a future effectiveness and capturing efficiencies policy of drawing more heavily on We continue to evaluate new defenceand to maximise our operating margins.
the private sectors people and skills.
non-defence markets that complement It included a substantial programme of A key priority now is the delivery ofrevenue the Babcock business model and will investment for new defence equipment, growth whilst sustaining existing operating continue to assess potential acquisitions largely funded by over 9 billion of margins.
Our immediate strategic focus both in the UK and overseas.
We believe efficiency savings which are expected to is on service delivery transformation, that these opportunities will also create be achieved during this UK parliament.
capability enhancement and growth scope to leverage our current capabilities through our strategic partnership with the into adjacent non-defence markets.
The SDSR provides for growth UK Army, as well as securing business from opportunities on existing contracts, such Financial review the pipeline of existing and emerging as military flying training and military Revenue for the Defence and defence opportunities.
equipment support, through increased Securitydivision, including the Groups training output and increased equipment We have a unique partnership status share of jv revenue, increased by utilisation.
We believe new opportunities with the Army on equipment support 4% to 843.1 million 2015: 812.8 are emerging through a policy of and are working together on a million.
Revenue growth was driven continual defence reform intended to collaborative partnering strategy approach by the early start and procurement phase make the MOD leaner and more efficient.
for transformation, tailored for force of the Defence Support Group DSG Customers across defence are looking to generation and sustainment, manpower business, combined with the Aviation drive further operational benefits and rebalancing, capability delivery and cost and Engineering Support and Airfield savings through more innovative ways of efficiencies through existing contract Services AESAS contract and the start working with industry, including strategic models and new programmes.
of the UK Military Flying Training System support supplier partnerships.
The MOD MFTS fixed wing contract in the fourth Having agreed a charter with BAE Systems continues to develop the Whole Force quarter of the year.
to deliver Hawk aircraft platform support approach, ensuring that it makes best use growth, we are widening relationships Total operating profit for the division of industry to support the front line, with OEMs.
We are also using the increased by 2% to 131.3 million deploying forward when required.
resources of the wider Group to assist 2015: 128.7 million.
Operating margins The significant headcount reductions in winning new opportunities, such were slightly lower at 15.6% 2015: 15.8%, required across the MODs civilian as the recent contract to support the reflecting the lower margins on the workforce provide further opportunities Royal Navys entire helicopter fleet.
for the outsourcing of technical activities, underpinned by a government policy to outsource where it makes sense to do so.
Currently there are a range of complex Positive first year: DSG and technically difficult activities which It has been a positive first year for DSG, with could present opportunities for industry, progress in line with expectations and the continued delivery of services required by the such as areas where over 5,000 civilian customer whilst undertaking a programme to personnel are employed by our customer transform the performance of the business.
in a range of industrial related roles.
All seven contractual transformation International defence markets milestones have been met in full enhancing the demonstrate varying degrees of maturity improvements to the way we deliver services to in their outsourcing activities, however all the MOD.
The move from MOD to our own IT of the regions on which we are focused system has been achieved with the migration of are expanding their provision for the 30 data centres and applications.
We have delivery of equipment support and optimised our estates footprint and sized the training by industry.
We are currently business in line with efficiency savings we committed to the MOD.
This year a Usage working across the Group to support a Monitoring System pilot phase was approved by number of opportunities in these markets.
the customer and equipment fitted to 14 Strategy equipment types in advance of the roll outto 2,650MOD equipment unitsin all areas of Last year our strategy focused on winning, operation.
This will include the UK, Germany, developing and expanding our business, Canada and Kenya.
and this proved successful with the integration of the Defence Support Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 43 Defence and Security continued 1,000vehicles and management of the Operational review will provide forward maintenance and Armys stored fleet of 6,000 vehicles.
aircraft engineering to all rotary wing Our Air businesscontinued to deliver a Thetransformation is on track with all aircraft types in Royal Navy service, strong operational performance with all contractual milestones met and the as well as general airfield engineering contracts performing in line with our costbase is being transformed.
services and support to aircraft operations.
Support to UK military flying training remains a core element of our The DSG contract with the MOD started We secured the six-year Phoenix II service delivery and Ascent, our joint on 31 March 2015.
This is a first generation contract to provide fleet management venture with Lockheed Martin to deliver 10-year outsourcing contract to maintain, services to the MOD a successor to our UK MFTS, was awarded a contract worth repair, overhaul, and to provide stores and earlier Phoenix I contract.
In addition to c 0.5 billion Babcock share, to deliver spares procurement services to land consolidating the white fleet services in and manage the fixed wing flying training equipment, ranging from small arms to Germany and Northern Ireland, Phoenix II service until 2033.
This was followed in main battle tanks, delivered from seven has the potential to include international May 2016 with a further contract main sites across the UK.
It included the operations in Cyprus and Gibraltar.
awarded to Ascent c 0.4 billion transfer of 1,950 staff into Babcock on Our ALC joint venture with Amey Babcock share for the delivery of a similar 1 April 2015 and involves working with continues to perform strongly, service for rotary wing flying training.
the Army to transform the equipment with the C-vehicle contract acknowledged maintenance of its fleet of vehicles We continue to support current military as an effective and flexible service in the progressively over the life of the contract.
flying training through our Hawk provision and support of the MODs contracts.
We concluded our sole source The contract has performed very well, worldwide fleet of 2,000 construction negotiation with the MOD at the end of and has already delivered growth in vehicles.
We successfully completed the 2015 and were awarded a five-year excess of 50 million, including a project regeneration of C-vehicle equipment contract worth around50 million to to deliver 116 armoured vehicles to Latvia returning from Afghanistan.
We have continued to and the start of work with Lockheed Within our training operations, under the develop our relationship with BAE Systems Martin in preparation for the Warrior Electro-Mechanical Training contract we in support of Hawk aircraft.
successfully completed the move of the Wehave also taken on additional We reported last year that we would Royal Electrical and Mechanical Engineers responsibility for the procurement of develop our capability in military rotary REME training from Bordon and spares and repairs, earlier than planned.
wing support through collaboration with Arborfield to MOD Lyneham, Wiltshire.
This proved successful, and we were In its first year of operation, the DSG This involved the recruitment of over awarded a five-year 20 million contract teamhas delivered 50,000 maintenance 300staff and the safe move of c 250,000 to deliver AESAS to the Royal Navy at and overhaul activities, day-to-day pieces of equipment, ranging from Yeovilton and Culdrose.
Under AESAS we management of a training fleet of spanners to tanks.
At the Armour Centre in Bovington and Lulworth, we were awarded a follow-on TMASS II contract to provide Training, Maintenance The Land business unit has been awarded a and Support Services TMASS, which runs three-year contract to deliver training, for three years from 1 April 2016. maintenance and support services at the Together with DSG, this puts us at the Armour Centre at Bovington and Lulworth.
heart of delivering the UKs Armoured The new contract, Training, Maintenance and Vehicle capability.
Support Services TMASS, known as TMASS II, replaces and builds upon the requirement Performance at the Royal School of within the current TMASS contract which Military Engineering RSME continues to we began delivering in 2008.
TMASS II remain at the highest level: the contract is commencedin April 2016.
Winning the closely monitored and measured against successive contract builds on our extensive experience of working with the Army at the 147 performance indicators and so it is a Armour Centre and is a reflection of the significant achievement that there have excellent standards maintained by our TMASS been no KPI failures in the last three years.
staff at Bovington and Lulworth.
The next The RSME won two City& Guilds Lions three years will see wide-ranging change as awards in 2015 16: Tutor and Centre of new vehicles are introduced to the Army and the Year, and the Happold Brilliant Award we work with our customer to develop and for Excellence in Training.
improve the training we deliver and the support we provide.
There will also be The Fleet Outsourced Activities internal reorganisation of the Army that is Projectwhich delivers wide-ranging likely to see an expansion of the training training services to the Royal Navy has undertaken at the Armour Centre.
completed its fourth year of strong Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 44 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 performance.
We have continued to hasincreased.
Ourtwo-year development and the provision of company operate the contract below its target programme kick starts the graduate Sponsored Reserves.
Our commitment cost and have seen significant growth career, with each graduate working was recognised with a Defence since service commencement.
infourdifferent areas of the business.
Relationship Management Gold Thegraduates are actively managed Employers Award in January 2016.
A key strand of our ongoing support through early talent identification.
to the Royal Navy is the transformation of Outlook Workingwithin the Group framework itsengineering training.
The first cohort Following the award of the AESAS wehave targeted partner Universities, trained in mechanical engineering courses rotarywing contract, the UKMFTS each with a University Liaison Officer at HMS Sultan are now in operational roles fixedand rotary wing contracts and andprogramme designed to promote at sea and feedback on their performance thegood progress made in the first year opportunities to students from social and has been most encouraging.
Training of the 10-year DSG contract, which ethnic minority groups.
37% of 2016 17 utilising the transformed delivery and included winning additional responsibility graduate intake was female.
content development for the equivalent for the procurement of spares earlier weapons engineering course at HMS Our Target Zero and Dont Walk By thanexpected, we believe the division is Collingwood is nearing completion safety programmes continue to reduce well positionedfor strong performance withthe initial group of technicians both our accident numbers and severity in 2016 17. having entered the Fleet in April2016.
The Air business unit delivered a 50% Thetransformation project has proved reduction in significant events 3 days challenging but has allowed us to and there was a 21% reduction in all introduce a series of innovative approaches accidents within the Landand Sea to training with noticeable enhancements business units.
The post-acquisition being an increase in the use of imaginative introduction of the Babcock Safety culture and stimulating on-line learning supported and the Babcock Safety Lens into Babcock by facilitated instruction.
DSG has reduced accident numbers in both frequency and severity by over 50% Following the successful conclusion of the within the year.
For the fifth year running Hunter Training Project contract for the our joint venture company, ALC has Royal Saudi Naval Forces through BAE received the Occupational Health and Systems Saudi Arabia in June 2015, its Safety Gold Award from The Royal Society successor, the Hunter Training Project 2, for the Prevention of Accidents.
isnow underway and will run until 2022.
We continue to seek to reduce the Sustainability environmental impact of our activities.
Advanced pilot training for To broaden and deepen experience, The MOD Phoenixmanagement team UK military 55%of our talent pool were promoted hasimplemented a Carbon Reduction Babcock isthe most experienced ormoved into a stretch role within the Initiative, with 10,800 trees planted providerof high-quality training, last year.
Middle and senior managers across 22 acres of marginal land to engineering and equipment support to continue tosecure and participate in the capture carbon and offset some 3,000 theUKs military flying training.
We have Groups bespoke management, leadership been delivering flying training, aircraft tonnes 8% of the CO produced by the 2 and MBA programmes with the University engineering and airfield services for vehicle fleet.
Our Smart Buildings Project of Strathclyde.
morethan 70 years and we support is forecast to deliver a 20% reduction over25% of all MOD rotary and fixed inenergy usage across our estate.
Committed to the 5% Club, apprentices wingaircraft.
OurRenewable Energy strategy includes continue to be a key element of our Our key activities include the delivery renewable energy source implementation recruitment strategy.
We have expanded of pilot training, flight simulator feasibility studies across our estate our provision for Aviation Technicians and maintenance, asset management, during2016.
maintained the significant commitment to multi-activity support services and mechanical engineering apprentice Employing over half of the Groups equipment support to ensure aircraft, development within Babcock DSG.
Volunteer Reserves and co-ordinating the and their pilots, are always missionready.
Thequality of our apprenticeship Group Reserves support, we are a major We employ around 1,700 highly development has been recognised this recruiter of Volunteer Reserves and trained and uniquely skilled people to year, with Defence and Security Service Leavers.
We monitor our deliver those specialist services from apprentices winning the MODs Sir Henry commitments to the UK Armed Forces more than 30 sites across the UK.
Royce award for Engineering Excellence, Corporate Covenant.
We support Armed We are extremely proud of our long the Tom Nevard Memorial Competition association with the UKs military flying Forces Week, Reserves Day and provided and the Sir David Cardwell memorial prize.
Our commitment to excellence direct support to Armed Forces Day at in all we do is guaranteed.
We are Graduate recruitment across engineering, committed to the Whole Force concept functional and business management Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 45
