Strategic report 2 Other disclosures Directors report 76 Financials 136 Disclosure locations part of the Directors Report can be ordinary share was declared in the found in the following locations listed year 2015: 5.5p.
The Directors are The principal activities of the Group and in the tablebelow.
recommending that shareholders its subsidiaries and details of important approve at the forthcoming Annual events affecting the Group which have A statement regarding compliance with General Meeting a final dividend for the occurred since 31 March 2016 and an the UK Corporate Governance Code is year of 19.75p 2015: 18.1p on each indication of likely future developments in included in the Governance section of ofthe ordinary shares of 60p to be paid the business of the Group can be found in the Directors report on page 80. on 12 August 2016 to those shareholders the Strategic report on pages 2 to 75.
The Company on the register at the close of business The Corporate Governance Statement on1 July 2016.
Babcock International Group PLC, along with the Reports of the registered and domiciled in England Authority to purchase own shares Nominations Committee, the Audit and andWales, with the registered number Risk Committee and the Remuneration At the Annual General Meeting in July 2342138, is the holding company for Committee, as well as this section, 2015, members authorised the Company theBabcock International Group comprise the Directors' report.
to make market purchases of up to of companies.
50,419,659 of its own ordinary shares For the purposes of DTR 4.1.
5 R 2 and The Directors and their powers of 60p each.
8 R the required content of the Biographies of the current Directors Management report can be found in the That authority expires at the forthcoming of the Company are to be found on Strategic report and the Directors report Annual General Meeting in July 2016 pages 76 and 77.
The table on page81 including the sections of the Annual when a resolution will be put to renew shows the Directors who served during Report and Accounts incorporated it so as to allow purchases of up to a the year to 31 March 2016. by reference.
maximum of no more than 10% of the A summary of the rules relating to the Companys issued share capital.
No shares For the purposes of DTR 7.2.
5, a appointment and removal of Directors in the Company have been purchased by description of the main features of can be found on page 85. the Company in the period from 21 July the Groups internal control and risk 2015 the date the current authority was management systems, including in The powers of the Directors are set out granted to the date of this Report.
relation to the financial reporting process, inthe Companys Articles of Association, The Company currently does not hold can be found on pages64 to 66 and a which may be amended by way of a any treasury shares.
statement regarding the effectiveness of special resolution of the members of the internal controls can be found on Details of issues to and purchases of the the Company.
Details in connection with Companys shares made in the year to seepage 81. the Companys share capital as required 31 March 2016 by the Babcock Employee Results and dividends by DTR 7.2.
6 can be found on pages Share Trust and the Peterhouse Employee The profit attributable to the owners of 174 to 176.
Share Trust in connection with the the Company for the financial year was Companys executive share plans are to The information which is required to be 286.6 million 2015: 260.2 million.
be found in note23 on pages174 to 176 disclosed by LR 9.8.
4 R and which forms An interim dividend of 6.05p per 60p and details of purchases of the Companys shares by Capita IRG Trustees Limited in Listing Rule Topic Location connection with matching share awards 9.8.
4 1 Interest capitalised by the Financial statements, notes 12 under the Babcock Employee Share Plan Group during the year and 13 on pages 162 and 163 can be found in note24 on page 177.
4 12-13 Shareholder waivers Financial statements, note 23 ofdividends and on page 176 future dividends Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 129 Other disclosures continued Major shareholdings Financial risk management As at 31 March 2016, the Company has been notified pursuant to the Disclosure and Details relating to financial risk Transparency Rules DTR of the following major interests in voting rights attached to management in connection with the use its ordinary shares.
of financial instruments by the Group can be found in note 2 on pages 151 to 154.
Number of 60p ordinary % of issued share capital Name shares on date of notification on date of notification Greenhouse gas emissions The Capital Group The disclosures concerning greenhouse Companies Inc. 55,999,431 11.10 gas emissions required by law are Standard Life Investments Limited 50,446,775 10.00 included in the Strategic report on Invesco Ltd 50,454,702 9.97 page 63.
Cantillon Capital LLC 17,938,977 4.97 Qualifying third-party Legal & General Group Plc 14,325,920 3.97 indemnityprovisions The Company has entered into deeds On 18 May 2016 Standard Life have no present intention of exercising ofindemnity with each of its Directors Investments Limited notified the the voting rights attached to the shares who served during the year and or Company that its interest had increased held by them.
who are currently directors which are to 55,547,554 shares representing Twice a year representatives from across qualifying third-party indemnity provisions 11.02% of the share capital.
There had the UK attend the Babcock International for the purpose of the Companies Act been no further notifications between Group Employee Forum.
2006 in respect of their Directorships then and the date of this report.
of the Company and, if applicable, Further information regarding our The holdings set out above relate only of its subsidiaries.
employees and their involvement within to those institutions which have notified the business, including the Companys Under their respective Articles of the Company of an interest in the issued policy towards discrimination and Association, Directors of Group UK share capital pursuant to DTR5.
diversity, can be found within the subsidiary companies may be indemnified Employee involvement Sustainability report on page 61. by the company concerned of which they Engagement with our employees is key are or were Directors against liabilities Employment of disabled persons to Babcocks success.
and costs incurred in connection with the equal opportunities execution of their duties or the exercise of The Company operates a UK approved Babcock is committed to equal their powers, to the extent permitted by share plan, the Babcock Employee Share opportunities and will not discriminate the Companies Act 2006.
Plan which is open to all employees of on the basis of disability, age, race, participating UK Group companies.
There are also qualifying third-party colour, ethnic origin, gender, marital The Plan allows for the Company to indemnity provisions entered into status, religious or political beliefs or award free and or matching shares to between the Company and Archie Bethel sexual orientation.
The shares bought on and Kevin Thomas in their capacity as We believe that only by encouraging behalf of the employee are held in a Directors of International Nuclear applicants from the widest pool of talent tax-approved employee trust.
Solutions PLC a former subsidiary of the possible and then selecting the best Company which were in force at the date The trustees of the Plan exercise voting candidate based on their ability to do the of approval of this report.
rights attached to those shares in job, can we ensure we continue to deliver accordance with directions from the Qualifying pension scheme indemnity our best for our customers and safeguard employees on whose behalf they are held.
provisions are also in place for the benefit the future of Babcock.
of Directors of the Group companies that The Company has also established for Research and development act as trustees of Group pension schemes.
certain non-UK employees an The Group commits resources to International Plan which reflects the Significant agreements that take research and development to the extent structure of the UK Plan.
effect, alter or terminate upon a management considers necessary for the Senior employees of the Group are given change of control evolution and growth of its business.
awards under the Companys Long Many agreements entered into by the Political donations TermIncentive Plans as detailed in the Company or its subsidiaries contain Remuneration report on pages92 to 128.
No donations were made during the year provisions entitling the other parties to Shares intended to be used for satisfying for political purposes.
terminate them in the event of a change existing share awards and options are held of control of the Group Company by the trustees of the Babcock Employee concerned, which can often be triggered Share Trust and the Peterhouse Employee by a takeover of the Company.
The trustees of these Schemes Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 130 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 US DOLLAR LOAN NOTES Although the Group has some contracts Marine The Company has in issue the following that on their own are not significant to ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION OF DEVONPORT ROYAL US Dollar Loan Notes: i US$150 million the Group, several may be with the same DOCKYARD LIMITED AND ROSYTH ROYAL aggregate principal amount of 4.94% customer.
If, upon a change of control, DOCKYARD LIMITED Series A Senior Notes due 17 March 2018: the customer decided to terminate all The Articles of Association of Devonport and ii US$500 million aggregate such agreements, the aggregate impact Royal Dockyard Limited DRDL and Rosyth principal amount of its 5.64% Series B could be significant.
Royal Dockyard Limited RRDL, both Senior Notes due 17 March 2021.
Each subsidiaries of the Company, grant the The following agreements are those series is unsecured and unsubordinated MOD as the holder of a special share in individual agreements which the and ranks pari passu with all other each of those companies certain rights in Company considers to be significant unsecured and unsubordinated financial certain circumstances.
Such rights include to the Group as a whole that contain indebtedness obligations of the Company.
the right to require the sale of shares in, provisions giving the other party a specific In the event of a change of control of the and the right to remove Directors of, the right to terminate them if the Company Company before then, the Company must company concerned.
The circumstances is subject to a change of control.
in which such rights might arise include Group where the MOD considers that 1,800,000,000 EURO MEDIUM TERM BORROWING FACILITIES unacceptable ownership, influence or NOTE PROGRAMME The Company extended the maturity date control domestic or foreign has been The Company has in place a Euro Medium of its five year 750,000,000 Revolving acquired over the company in question Term Note Programme under which the Credit Facility by a further year, from 1st and that this is contrary to the essential Company could issue notes up to December 2019 to 1st December 2020. security interests of the UK.
Under the Note apply, for example, in circumstances where The facility provides funds for general Programme, the Company has in issue any non-UK person s directly or indirectly corporate and working capital purposes.
550,000,000 1.75% notes due in 2022. acquire control over more than 30% of the In the event of a change of control of the If there is a change of control of the shares of the relevant subsidiary, although Company, the facility agreement provides Company and the notes then in issue such a situation is not of itself such a that the lenders may, within a certain either carry an investment grade credit circumstance unless the MOD in the period, call for the payment of any rating which is either downgraded to given situation considers it to be so.
outstanding loans and cancel the non-investment grade or carry a nonAny level of ownership by particular foreign credit facility.
investment grade rating which is further or domestic persons may, on the facts of MULTI-CURRENCY LOAN NOTES downgraded or withdrawn or do not the case, be so treated.
The Company has in issue two series of carry an investment grade rating and the Under its Articles of Association RRDL is Loan Notes: a 60 million 4.995% Series Company does not obtain an investment not entitled to redeem the special share.
A Shelf Notes due 21 January 2017 the grade rating for the notes, a noteholder Series A Shelf Notes : and b 40 million may require that the Company redeem or, TERMS OF BUSINESS AGREEMENT TOBA DATED 5.405% Series B Shelf Notes due 21 at the Companys option repurchase, 25 MARCH 2010 BETWEEN 1 THE SECRETARY OF January 2020 the Series B Shelf Notes the notes.
STATE FOR DEFENCE 2 BABCOCK INTERNATIONAL together, the Multi-Currency Loan GROUP PLC 3 DEVONPORT ROYAL DOCKYARD SHARE PLANS Notes.
Each series is unsecured and LIMITED 4 BABCOCK MARINE CLYDE LIMITED The Companys share plans contain unsubordinated and ranks pari passu with AND 5 BABCOCK MARINE ROSYTH LIMITED provisions as a result of which options and all other unsecured and unsubordinated The ToBA confirms Babcock as a key awards may vest and become exercisable financial indebtedness obligations of the support partner of MOD in the maritime on a change of control of the Company in Company.
Unless previously redeemed or sector and covers the 15-year period from accordance with the rules of the plans.
purchased and cancelled, the Company 2010 to 2025.
The MOD may terminate CONTRACTS WITH EMPLOYEES OR DIRECTORS will redeem the Series A Shelf Notes on the ToBA in the event of a Change in A description of those agreements with 21 January 2017 and the Series B Shelf Control of the Company in circumstances Directors that contain provisions relating Notes on 21 January 2020, respectively where, acting on the grounds of national to payments in the event of a termination at their principal amount.
In the event of security, the MOD considers that it is of employment following a change of a change of control of the Company inappropriate for the new owners of the control of the Company is set out on before then, the Company must offer to Company to become involved, or pages103 and 104. pay the Multi-Currency Loan Notes interested, in the Marine division.
together with a make whole premium.
Change in Control occurs where a person or group of persons that controls the Company ceases to do so or if another person or group of persons acquires control of the Company.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 131 Other disclosures continued MARITIME SUPPORT DELIVERY FRAMEWORK principal business.
Under Regulation EC No member is, unless the Board decides AGREEMENT DATED 1 OCTOBER 2014 BETWEEN No.
1008 2008 the Regulation, a otherwise, entitled to attend or vote, 1 THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR DEFENCE 2 holder of an operating licence is required either personally or by proxy, at a general DEVONPORT ROYAL DOCKYARD LIMITED 3 to be majority owned andmajority meeting or to exercise any other right BABCOCK MARINE CLYDE LIMITED AND 4 controlled by European Economic Area conferred by being a shareholder if they or BABCOCK MARINE ROSYTH LIMITED EEA nationals which includes for these any person with an interest in their shares In October 2014, Babcock signed the purposes nationals of member states has been sent a notice under section 793 Maritime Support Delivery Framework of the European Union, Norway and of the Companies Act 2006 which confers MSDF with MOD.
If the relevant operators upon public companies the power to which runs through to 2025, MSDF cease to be owned and effectively require the provision of information with confirms the continuation of Babcocks controlled by EEA nationals, this could respect to interests in their voting shares contract to deliver services at HMNB lead to aviation regulators refusing, and they or any interested person have Clyde and HMNB Devonport to March withholding, suspending or revoking the failed to supply the Company with the 2020, replacing Babcocks Warship relevant operating licence which in turn information requested within 14 days after Support Modernisation Initiative WSMI could have a material adverse effect on delivery of that notice.
The Board may also contracts.
The MSDF agreement also the business, financial condition and or decide that no dividend is payable in covers a number of surface ship projects operations of the Group.
The Board respect of those default shares and that no which will be delivered through the believes that these companies currently transfer of any default shares shall be Surface Ship Support Alliance.
These restrictions end seven satisfy the relevant nationality terminate MSDF in the event of a change days after receipt by the Company of a requirements of the Regulation.
of control of the Company.
The provisions notice of an approved transfer of the However, as compliance with the follow those in TOBA in this respect.
shares or all the information required by Regulation is an on-going requirement, the relevant section 793 notice, the risk of this ceasing to be so cannot Support Services whicheveris the earlier.
PARENT BODY AGREEMENT BETWEEN CAVENDISH FLUOR PARTNERSHIP CFP AND THE NUCLEAR See also Nationality-related restrictions The Directors may refuse to register DECOMMISSIONING AUTHORITY NDA on share ownership on page133 below.
any transfer of any share which is not a DATED 27 AUGUST 2014 fully-paid share, although such discretion Share capital and rights attaching CFP, a joint venture between Cavendish may not be exercised in a way which the to the Companys shares Nuclear, part of Babcock International, Financial Conduct Authority regards as General and US-based Fluor Corporation with preventing dealings in the shares of the Under the Companys Articles of ownership split 65:35 to Cavendish and relevant class or classes from taking place Association, any share in the Company Fluor respectively, is the parent body on an open or proper basis.
The Directors may be issued with such rights or organisation PBO for the site licence may likewise refuse to register any transfer restrictions, whether in regard to company, Magnox Limited.
of a share in favour of more than four dividend, voting, return of capital or persons jointly.
Magnox Limited is responsible for ten otherwise, as the Company may from Magnox nuclear power plants, as well as The Company is not aware of any other time to time by ordinary resolution the Harwell and Winfrith research centres.
restrictions on the transfer of shares in the determine or, in the absence of any such The sites are all owned by the Nuclear Company other than certain restrictions determination, as the Directors may Decommissioning Authority NDA.
that may from time to time be imposed determine.
The Directors practice is to The NDA has appointed CFP as the PBO by laws and regulations for example, seek annual authority from shareholders in respect of the management of the insider trading laws.
at each years Annual General Meeting to 12 UK nuclear sites and their respective allot shares including authority to allot The Company is not aware of any decommissioning programmes.
Under free of statutory pre-emption rights up to agreements between shareholders that the terms of appointment the NDA may specified amounts and also to buy back may result in restrictions on the transfer of terminate CFPs appointment if there is the Companys shares, again up to a securities or voting rights in the Company.
a change of control to which it has specified amount.
At the date of this report 504,196,597 notconsented.
At a general meeting of the Company, ordinary shares of 60p each have been International every member has one vote on a show of issued and are fully paid up and are MCS OPERATORS LICENCES hands and, on a poll, one vote for each quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
Certain of the operating subsidiaries of share held.
The notice of general meeting Babcock Mission Critical Services Limited specifies deadlines for exercising voting engaged in the provision of the air rights, either by proxy or by being present services described on pages50 to55 of in person, in relation to resolutions to be this report are required to hold operating proposed at a general meeting.
licences in order to operate their Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 132 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 Nationality-related restrictions on The Directors will remove from the should not be treated as Affected Shares.
share ownership separate register particulars of shares The Directors may withdraw an Affected As noted on page 132 above under where they are satisfied that either the Share Notice if they resolve that the MCS 'Operators Licences' certain group share is no longer a Relevant Share or that circumstances giving rise to the shares companies must comply with the the nature of the interest in the share is being treated as Affected Shares no requirements of EC Regulation such that the share should not be treated longer exist.
1008 2008 the Regulation which, as a Relevant Share.
CONSEQUENCES OF HOLDING OR HAVING AN amongst other things, requires those DISCLOSURE OBLIGATIONS ON SHARE OWNERSHIP INTEREST IN AFFECTED SHARES companies to be majority owned The Articles empower the Company to, A holder of Affected Shares is not entitled, andmajority controlled by 'EEA nationals'.
at any time, require a shareholder or other in respect of those shares, to attend or At the Companys Annual General person with a confirmed or apparent speak whether by proxy or person at any Meetingin July 2014, shareholders interest in the shares to provide in writing general or class meeting of the Company approved the amendment of the such information as the Directors or to vote or to exercise any other right at Companys Articles of Association the determine is necessary or desirable to such meetings and the rights attaching to Articles to include provisions intended to ascertain such persons nationality and, such shares will vest in the Chairman of assist the Company in ensuring continuing accordingly, whether details of the shares the relevant meeting who may exercise, compliance with these obligations by should be entered in the separate register or refrain from exercising, such rights at giving the Company and the Directors as Relevant Shares or are capable of being his sole discretion.
powers to monitor and, in certain Affected Shares see below.
The Affected Shares Notice may, if the circumstances, actively manage If the recipient of a nationality information Directors determine, also require that nationality requirements as regards request from the Company does not the Affected Shares must be disposed of ownership of its shares with a view to respond satisfactorily to the request within within 10 days of receiving such notice protecting the value of the group the prescribed period being 21 days from or such longer period as the Directors undertakings that hold the relevant the receipt of the notice, the Company may specify such that the Affected Shares operating licences.
A summary of these has the power to suspend the right of such become owned by an EEA national, failing powers is set out below.
Reference shareholder to attend or speak whether by which the Directors may arrange for the should, however, also be made to the proxy or person at any general or class sale of the relevant shares at the best Companys Articles, a copy of which meeting of the Company or to vote or price reasonably obtainable at the time.
may be found on its website at www.
exercise any other right attaching to the The net proceeds of any sale of Affected babcockinternational.
In the event shares in question.
Where the shares Shares would be held on trust and paid of any conflict between the Articles and represent at least 0.25% of the aggregate together with such rate of interest as the this summary, the Articles shall prevail.
nominal value of the Companys share Directors deem appropriate to the RELEVANT SHARES capital, the Company may also subject to former registered holder upon surrender Relevant Shares are any shares which the certain exceptions refuse to register the of the relevant share certificate in respect Directors have determined or the holders transfer of such shares.
have acknowledged are shares owned The Articles also require that a declaration CIRCUMSTANCES IN WHICH THE DIRECTORS MAY by non-EEA nationals for the purposes in a form prescribed by the Directors DETERMINE THAT SHARES ARE AFFECTED SHARES of the Regulation Relevant Shares.
relating to the nationality of the The Articles provide that where the It is open to shareholders to make transferee is provided to the Directors Directors determine that it is necessary representations to the Directors with upon the transfer of any shares in the to take steps in order to protect an a view to demonstrating that shares Company, failing which the Directors operating licence of the Group they may: should not be treated as Relevant Shares.
may refuse to register such transfer i seek to identify those shares which MAINTENANCE OF A REGISTER OF see further below.
have given rise to the determination and NON-EEA SHAREHOLDERS to deal with such shares as Affected POWER TO TREAT SHARES AS AFFECTED SHARES The Company maintains a register Shares: and or ii specify a maximum The Articles empower the Directors, in which is separate from the statutory number of shares which will be less than certain circumstances, to treat shares as register of members containing details 50% of the Companys issued share Affected Shares.
If the Directors of Relevant Shares.
This assists the capital that may be owned by non-EEA determine that any shares are to be Directors in assessing, on an on-going nationals and then to treat any shares treated as Affected Shares, they may basis, whether the number of Relevant owned by non-EEA nationals in excess of serve an Affected Share Notice on the Shares is such that action as outlined that limit as Affected Shares the Directors registered shareholder and any other below may be required to prevent or will publish a notice of any specified person that appears to have an interest in remedy a breach of the Regulation.
maximum within two business days those shares.
The recipients of an Affected of resolving to impose such limit.
Share Notice are entitled to make In deciding which shares are to be dealt representations to the Directors with a with as Affected Shares the Directors shall view to demonstrating that such shares Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 133 Other disclosures continued be entitled to determine which Relevant been authorised by the Board.
Notified during the course of the year including Shares in their sole opinion have directly actual or potential conflicts will be internal audit reports, risk reports and or indirectly caused the relevant reviewed by the Board as soon as possible.
monthly financial and operational reports.
However, so far as The Board will consider whether a conflict The Board considers the system to be practicable, the Directors shall have or potential conflict does, in fact, exist effective and in accordance with regard to the chronological order in and, if so, whether it is in the interest of Guidance for Risk Management, which the relevant shares have been the Company that it be authorised and, InternalControl, and Related Financial entered in the separate register.
In making their and Business reporting which has judgement on this, the other Directors replaced the Turnbull Guidance.
RIGHT TO REFUSE REGISTRATION must have regard to their general duties Further information on the principal The Articles provide the Directors with to the Company.
A register is maintained internal controls in use in the Company the power to refuse registration of a share for the Board of all such disclosures and is to be found on pages64 to 66. transfer if, in their reasonable opinion, the terms of any such authorisation.
such transfer would result in shares being Going concern and viability treated or continuing to be treated as Authorisations may be revoked, or the After making enquiries, the Directors have Affected Shares.
terms on which they were given varied, a reasonable expectation that the Group at any time.
Cleared conflicts will in any has adequate resources to continue in The Articles also provide that the event be reviewed annually by the Board.
operational existence for at least one year Directors shall not register any person as In the event of any actual conflict arising in from the date these accounts were a holder of any share in the Company respect of any matter, mitigating action signed.
For this reason, they continue to unless the Directors receive a declaration would also be considered for example, adopt the going concern basis in of nationality relating to such person and non-attendance of the Director concerned preparing the financial statements.
such further information as they may at all or part of Board meetings and Directors are also required to provide a reasonably request with respect to that non-circulation to him of relevant papers.
broader assessment of viability over a nationality declaration.
longer period, which can be found Post-balance sheet events The Directors believe that currently the onpage 75.
There have been no reportable events nationality requirements, set out in the from the balance sheet date to the date regulation, are met and, based on the Auditor of this report.
Companys understanding of the The Company has conducted a tender of application of the Regulation and of its its external audit and further detail on the Internal controls and risk shareholder base, more than 70% of the tenderis set out on page91 of this report.
management share capital of those companies which There has been a process for identifying, Disclosure of relevant audit are required to be majority EEA owned evaluating and managing principal risks information and controlled is owned by EEA nationals throughout the year to 31 March 2016 So far as the Directors who are in office or funds managed in the EEA.
There can and up to the date of the approval of at the time of the approval of this report however be no guarantee that this will thefinancial statements for that year.
are aware, there is no relevant audit continue to be their assessment and that Inrespect of our financial reporting information namely, information needed it will not be necessary to declare a process and the process for preparing by the Companys auditors in connection Permitted Maximum or exercise any ourconsolidated accounts, management with the preparation of their auditors other of their or the Companys powers monitors the processes underpinning the report of which the auditors are unaware.
in the Articles referred to above.
Groups financial reporting systems Each such Director has taken all steps that Directors duty to avoid conflicts through regular reporting and review, he or she ought to have taken as a and data for consolidation into the of interest Director in order to make himself or Groups financial statements are reviewed The Company has adopted a formal herself aware of any relevant audit by management to ensure that they procedure for the disclosure, review, information and to establish that the reflect a true and fair view of the Groups authorisation and management of auditors are aware of that information.
results in compliance with applicable Directors conflicts of interest and accounting policies.
potential conflicts of interest in accordance with the provisions of the The Board, through the Audit and Risk Companies Act 2006.
Committee, reviews the effectiveness of the Companys internal control processes The procedure requires Directors formally formally at least once a year.
The Group to notify the Board via the Company Financial Controller is asked to report on Secretary as soon as they become aware the effectiveness of the Groups internal of any actual or potential conflict of controls and the Audit and Risk interest with their duties to the Company Committee reviews this report in light of or of any material change in existing all the other information supplied to it actual or potential conflicts that may have Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 134
