11.7 11.1 11.2 11.4 11.3 Marine and Technology Building on long-term relationships and experience The divisions focus remains on delivering through-life supportto the UK Royal Navys Submarines, Naval Ships and Infrastructure, whilst building its naval support capabilities.
It is also applying its expertise in complex engineering, equipment management, consultancy, information and knowledge management in adjacent energy and commercial marine markets.
The division has grown from a strong UK base and is increasingly looking to grow internationally.
2016 performance highlights Strategy in action Start of the Type 23 frigate LIFEX programme Start of the Vanguard Class LIFEX programme Completed a three-year refuel and refit of HMS Vengeance 35% Secured over 50% of all competed Revenue % MOD Maritime Equipment of Group Management contracts Delivered the second of three Offshore Patrol Vesselsfor the Irish Naval Service Won a five-year contract to deliver information and knowledge management services to the MOD Start of Canadas HMCS Corner Brook refit as part of the Victoria Class in-service support contract JV supporting Australian ANZAC 28% Class frigates enters new alliance Order book % Delivered 73 subsea structures for of Group the BP Quad 204 Programme Agreed JV termswith Oman Drydock Company to develop naval support in Duqm, Oman Operating Revenue growth KPI KPI margin % 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 11.7% 9% Critical Vanguard fleet support at HMNB Devonport Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 36 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 The liquefied gas handling market remains Market overview Strategy very strong, with a growing demand from The markets in which the Marine and As the UKs leading naval support provider international markets well suited to our Technology division operate have we maintain excellent visibility of the capabilities.
We continue to develop our remained positive during the year.
MODs equipment procurement and understanding of the potential future UK The UK MOD continues with its strategy support programme andcontinue to work offshore decommissioning market which of managing and supporting critical closely with the MOD under our 15-year Oil & Gas UK currently estimates to be naval infrastructure and assets through Terms of Business Agreement ToBA which worth between 40 billion and 70 long-term partnership agreements, provides a strong basis for growth of our billion over the next 40 years.
underpinned by the 2015 SDSR which through-life naval support capabilities.
reaffirmed the UKs investment in The Maritime Support Delivery Framework The market for cyber security services maritime capability by securing continued MSDF contract secures our position as the remains strong with global compound investment in the Queen Elizabeth Class MoDs strategic support partner at both annual growth projected to continue QEC, Frigates Type 26, Astute and HMNB Devonport and Clyde to 2020. at around 10% over the next five years.
Successor submarine programmes, Under the MSDF we work with the MOD We have experienced growing demand as well as announcements regarding to identify savings and efficiencies as well for our services driven by recent highthe development of a general purpose as constantly seeking to improve and profile cyber security incidents and Light Frigate Type 31, additional expand the scope of our services.
General Data Protection Regulation and Offshore Patrol Vessels OPVs and three disclosure legislation that will come into Our unique strategic infrastructure at new logistic support ships.
The 2015 force during 2016 17 across Europe.
Devonport and Rosyth forms an essential Strategic Defence and Security Review component of the UK naval support In Canada, the newly-elected Liberal SDSR stated increased investment in capability.
We continue to deliver our Government has expressed a strong Cyber and Intelligence, Surveillance and MSDF contract within the backdrop of commitment to support the Royal Target Acquisition ISTAR capabilities MODs strategy to establish HMNB Clyde as Canadian Navy procurement and support which we believe will present significant the base port for the entire UK submarine programmes in order to develop and opportunities for our Technology and fleet and the increase in engineering sustain their global capability and reach.
support we expect this to require.
The publication of the Australian Defence The MODs Equipment Plan 2015-2025 Additionally, we believe our integral role White Paper in February 2016 confirmed saw a 3.5 billion increase compared within the SSSA and SEPP positions us well the intention to increase defence spending with Equipment Plan 2014.
Over the to continue to progress our capabilities and to 2% of GDP.
In New Zealand, the delayed next ten years 19 billion is planned for capacity in support of new naval platforms 2015 Defence White Paper is expected to a surface ship procurement and support including the QEC, Astute, Type26, reinforce the capital investment and programme.
The Surface Ship Support Successor and Type 31 programmes.
support programme for the Navy.
Alliance SSSA continues to evolve the best and most cost-effective delivery solutions for Royal Navy complex warship V-Class LIFEX programme support activity while maintaining fleet 2015 marked the beginning of the Vanguard availability.
The next phase of the SSSA fleet life extension programme.
The arrival development will see the transition of HMS Vanguard signalled the start of the to the common support model which single largest submarine refit ever carried is expected to include further outsourcing out in the UK.
Babcocks commitment to of delegated technical authority roles.
the Vanguard Class Availability Sustainment Programme and to the long-term support We continue to consolidate our of the Royal Navy remains as solid as ever.
leadingposition in submarine support by working with the MOD, Following the completion of a three-year BAE Systems and Rolls Royce as part 350 million refuel and refit programme of the Submarine Enterprise on HMS Vengeance, shecontinues her return to operational duties with post-refit work at PerformanceProgramme SEPP to HMNB Clyde.
The waterfront teams at the drive availability and support efficiencies Naval Base continue to deliver a shortand across the submarine enterprise, focused Base Maintenance Period for which forecasts spending 43 billion HMS Vigilant.
for procurement and support over The delivery of these challenging and thenext decade.
This includes the complex programmes, using the skills and programme to develop the replacement expertise of Babcocks workforce across the for the Vanguard Class submarines UK, underlines our long-term commitment which is scheduled to progress through to meet the exacting high standards and Government approval during 2016. expectations of our customer.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 37 Marine and Technology continued Building on our leading position in the Submarine Dismantling Project design, manufacture and support of Babcock is working closely with the MOD Weapon Handling and Launch Systems toprogress the Submarine Dismantling WHLS and complex equipment for naval Project SDP.
The programmes aim is to platforms we continue to target a strong deliver a safe, environmentally responsible pipeline of international Naval Ship and and cost effective solution for the Submarine programmes.
dismantling of 27 of the UKs defueled nuclear powered submarines.
Seven defueled Our established naval support businesses submarines will be initially dismantled at in Canada, Australia and New Zealand Rosyth and a further 20 will be dismantled continue to identify and develop future at Devonport.
naval support opportunities as well as Babcock is currently carrying out targeting emerging commercial infrastructure modifications at Rosyth, opportunities in the energy and including the successful delivery of a marine sectors.
new caisson, crane and dockside furniture We believe our developing relationship to supportthe demonstrator phase of the SDP, which is planned to begin in with Oman Drydock Company in December 2016 following Duqmrepresents an opportunity to regulatoryapprovals.
support not only the UKs Royal Navy in the Middle East but potentially other international navies.
across both naval bases until March 2020.
Financial review We are on track to deliver significant The Marine and Technology division had Given the increasing importance MSDF cost savings to the MOD as well a successful year and experienced growth of cyber security, data analytics and as ensuring the increased availability in all sectors, reporting a total increase information knowledge management of the fleet and critical infrastructure.
in revenue of 9%, to 1,695.9 million to our customers, we have invested in 2015: 1,562.5 million.
Organic growth developing capability and capacity in We continue to deliver a range of at constant exchange rates was 9% our Context IS, Analytical Solutions and submarine and warship refit contracts 2015: 14%.
The main drivers of growth Managed Security Services consultancy in support of our customers programme this year have been the continued businesses to meetwhat we believeare while building additional capability and increase in activities on the QEC aircraft growing opportunities in these areas.
capacity to support increasing operational carrier programme and other warship demands.
We are working with the MOD We continue to identify global support activities through both the Naval to secure investment for the development opportunities where we can work with Marine and Technology business units.
and upgrade of the nuclear infrastructure offshore energy operators to reduce cost Opportunities in our liquefied gas required to underpin both the current and and manage their assets through-life, handling, consulting and technology future submarine support programme despite the challenges of the downturn operations were also significant drivers across these critical facilities.
Building on the success of of growth this year, and all three our work with BP and E. ON, we will We remain focused on underpinning the businesses remain buoyant.
continue to focus on opportunities to Continuous At Sea Deterrence, supporting Operating profit increased by 14% to provide integrated engineering, design the Vanguard Class submarines and on 198.9 million 2015: 173.9 million.
and specialised manufacturing services working with the MOD to maximise Organic growth at constant exchange for major offshore energy and nuclear platform availability during the transition rates was 15%.
Operating margins were operators which balance our risk and from the Trafalgar Class to the new 0.3% ahead of last year, before the effect reward.
We believe our unique facilities Astute Class.
As the class enters service of adding researchand development tax and expertise present opportunities in we deployedenhanced resources at credits into operating profit, at 11.7% future growth markets including offshore both HMNBs Clyde and Devonport.
decommissioning, offshore renewables, Our operations at HMNB Clyde liquid petroleum gas LPG and liquefied Operational review continue to develop as we put in natural gas LNG handling systems.
Over the past year the division has placethe necessary engineering In addition to pursuing sustainable continued to develop its position as the capability and capacity to meet organic growth in the UK and overseas, UKs strategic support partner, providing the increasing operational demand.
we will continue to seek to acquire deep maintenance and in-service support Weremainwell placed to support the capabilities and businesses which are to the Royal Navys fleet of submarines MOD in the creation of the Submarine consistent with our growth ambitions and warships as well as delivering services Centre of Specialisation at Clyde from and to which we can add value.
at HMNB Clyde and Devonport.
We are 2020 and are focused on building our now well into our five-year MSDF contract position in submarine training in the UK which covers a range of complex and and overseasbased on our successful critical engineering support services Astute Class Training Service.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 38 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 Additionally, progress has been made In December, the Long Overhaul We continue to develop and improve our over the past year on our positions on Period and Refuel on HMS Vengeance was warship support capability through the WHLS, for UK and international submarine completed and she successfully departed implementation of innovative technology programmes.
The arrival of HMS Vanguard and processes and are tracking significant continues in line with customer at Devonport at the end of 2015 signified new warship support opportunities expectation with four boat systems the start of a long-term deep maintenance supporting the Royal Navy in the UK delivered and installed, a fifth in customer programme and the beginning of the and overseas.
build and a further two boat systems Vanguard Class life extension programme, As a strategic partner within the Aircraft in manufacture at our facilities for with a contract value of around 200 Carrier Alliance ACA, we continue to play delivery over the next four years.
We are million for the variable cost.
a significant role in the QEC aircraft carrier approaching the next phase of work on Preparation continues for the start of build programme at Rosyth.
HMS Queen UK Successor and have now commenced the Submarine Dismantling Programme Elizabeth has progressed through the production of major long lead items.
which will develop the solution for the commissioning phase, with the diesel Onthe South Korean programme, design dismantling of redundant submarines generators and gas turbines now is well advanced and key items have been at our Rosyth and Devonport facilities.
powering the propulsion shafts and the delivered for the first of class submarine.
Critical infrastructure projects are already activation of mission systems and radars.
In addition the customer has re-started underway and the first submarine is The first compartments have now been work on the Spanish S-80 submarine planned to enter the initial dismantling handed over to the Royal Navy and are programme, enabling further Babcock phase at Rosyth during late 2016. being prepared for the ships staff to live equipment deliveries to proceed.
The second Over the past year we have delivered the Investments have been made to enhance carrier, HMS Prince of Wales, is now refit of two Type 23 Frigates as part of our manufacturing capability in order to consolidated to her full length in the theType 23 life extension programme.
support the strong pipeline of future dry dock as part of the vessel assembly Thisprogramme involves the replacement UK and global submarine equipment process at Rosyth.
We continue to work of the primary weapon system, updating programmes that we are tracking.
with our SSSA partners and the MOD to marine equipment, addressing equipment develop a support solution for the QEC Following a 10 million investment in obsolescence and extending the life of the as they enter service.
dedicated facilities at our Rosyth site, hull and superstructure.
Amphibious assault weare now manufacturing components ship HMS Albions complex reactivation We were awarded contracts for the for the Common Missile Compartment programme is progressing on schedule: this design and build ofair weapons handling being developed by our customer Electric will be the largest warship support contract systems for the first three Type 26 global Boat Corporation General Dynamics carried out at Devonport for 25 years.
combat ships by BAE Systems.
forthe future deterrent submarine programmes in the UK and USA.
The second of the OPVs built at our Context IS Appledore facility for the Irish Naval Service, As one of the first adopters of CBEST, named LE James Joyce, was commissioned Context IS is one of only nine suppliers into service in July.
The third vessel is of testing services in the UK.
scheduled for delivery in July 2016.
Financial authorities developed an Our work to support the Royal Australian intelligence-led testing framework known Navys Collins Class submarine is progressing as CBEST to assist boards of financial firms well and provides a strong basis for a and infrastructure providers to improve their longer-term agreement to support the understanding of the types of cyber-attack Collins Class fleet until the end of its life.
The that could undermine financial stability in the UK, and the extent to which the UK financial ANZAC Class support contract Naval Ship sector is vulnerable to those attacks.
Management a joint venture with UGL continues to deliver strongly.
At the request Context IS have worked closely with both a of the customer the contract has large number of financial institutions and the transitioned into the Warship Asset Bank of England to deliver more than 50% of CBEST tests to date.
These tests are intended Management Alliance with BAE Systems and to replicate the behaviours of threats, assessed SAAB, securing our position in a long-term by Government and commercial intelligence asset management solution for the ANZAC providers, as posing a genuine threat Class until its end of life up to 16 years.
Context IS has In New Zealand, the first year of our new consistently received positive feedback from their clients and we look forward to building Dockyard Management Contract has seen on the delivery of high quality, valuable and successful programme delivery and market-leading work.
continued development of our Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 39 Marine and Technology continued In our core liquid gas handling markets, relationship with the customer, including With the Safety Improvement Programme contract wins continue to exceed the successful completion on time and now well underway, newly-implemented expectations and we are progressing to cost of the propulsion upgrade Health and Safety strategies resulted anumber of engineering design programme on HMNZS Te Mana.
in a19% reduction in the All-Accident opportunities for the new generation Frequency rate and a 15% reduction in In Canada, the Victoria Class submarine liquid natural gas LNG fuel supply the number of reported RIDDOR incidents HMCS Corner Brook has started her vessels.
In April 2016 Babcock was over the past year.
This promising move refit under our long-term Victoria Class awarded two Queens Awards for towards the long-term all sites incidentIn-Service Support Contract.
We continue Enterprise for outstanding business free goal can be credited to initiatives to track several major future naval support achievement in the global liquefied including the sharing of best practice opportunities including the 35-year petroleum gas LPG sector.
The awards, across the division, a sustained focus on in-service support contract for the Arctic for International Trade and Innovation, Visible Leadership in the workplace and Offshore Patrol Ships and Joint Support are given for the highest levels of a campaign of safety communications Ships with a final request for proposal excellence in each category and including Best Practice Groups with expected to be issued in mid-2016.
In representa major achievement for support and participation from trade October 2015 Babcock was awarded therapidly growing business unit.
These measures a contract for the replacement of High underpin the Group Corporate Safety Frequency Monitor Receiver Systems We also continue to develop relationships Strategy, which places the Safety Lens at at selected Department of National with commercial marine operators and its core.
This year, Marine and Technology Defence facilities.
over the past year have successfully has given particular focus to one of the delivered several ship refits and upgrade In Oman, we have signed a Memorandum Safety Lens commitments to invest for projects for commercial customers and the of Understanding with the Oman Drydock safety by developing a model which UK Border Agency at our Rosyth facility.
Company, with the intention of forming a correlates spend and initiative back to the joint venture for the provision of support Sustainability individuals commitments on the Safety services in Duqm, Oman to the Royal Navy, Lens and enables this spending to be Marine and Technology maintains some Royal Navy of Oman and other viewed at either Group, business unit of the UKs most critical assets and international navies.
infrastructure and our first priority is ensuring that the 11,000 people who help Over the past year we have seen In an effort to lower energy consumption us uphold this responsibility work in a safe, sustained growth in our independent and reduce environmental impact at our fair and respectful environment every day.
technology consultancy businesses, and in sites, we have implemented the systematic We insist on the highest levels of safety particular Context IS, which has doubled renovation of existing lighting and heating and security best practice, working in in size since its acquisition in December systems to be more energy efficient and compliance with industry-recognised 2013.
We continue to develop and improved processes around water and certification and regulatory authorities enhance our cyber security capabilities by waste management.
The initial three-year to develop our processes and deliver providing our clients with cyber defence ISO 14001 certification period has been our Home Safe Every Day objective.
capability through our Advanced Security successfully completed at Rosyth and Operations Centre.
We continue to within the Defence Systems Technology develop our analytic solutions capability using new technologies and information Rampion Offshore Windfarm management practices and are targeting Using an integrated approach to engineering new customers for our complex and construction, Babcock is delivering a information asset management offering.
2,500 tonne offshore sub-station topside Despite the challenging oiland gas and jacket for the Rampion Windfarm.
market conditions, our Energy and Marine Starting mid-2015 the programme has businesses have continued to develop moved through design and specification their capabilities and market presence, into manufacturing.
Babcocks skills, with the successful delivery of 73 subsea capabilities, programme management structures for BP Quad 204 Programme and collaboration mean we deliver the highest safety and quality standards, and by winning an engineering and while meeting our customers schedule.
construction contract for the E. ON Renewables Rampion offshore wind Babcock continues to consolidate its substation.
Subsequently, in May 2016, position as a key, credible supplier within we were awarded a contract for the the renewables sector.
The 2015 Contracts construction of the worlds first reactive for Difference allocations give us clear opportunities for growthas we continue compensation station for DONG Energys to be in discussion with major clients in Hornsea Project One offshore wind farm.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 40 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 South Korean Submarine WHLS Babcock is currently undertaking the design and manufacture of the Weapons Handling and Launch System WHLS for the Republic of Koreas highly advanced KSS-III Class submarine, further enhancing SouthKoreas significant naval capability.
Babcocks WHLS is technologically superior and is proven with the UK Royal Navy.
Coupled with its unrivalled submarine integration experience, the WHLS provides the business with a winning platform for new market entries.
This contract, to design and supply the equipment on-board two ofpotentially nine submarines, is entering its third year.
With design work nearing completion, production of the core system technologies has already commenced in the UK, with other sub-systems also being procured and manufactured in collaboration with South Korean industry.
Building a strong local supply chain will ensure Babcock is able to support Daewoo Shipbuilding and Marine Engineering in maintaining its progressive build schedule.
We believe involvement on this major programmewill provide future submarine equipment growth opportunities, whilst alsofurthering Babcocks experience of complex international vessel programmes.
business unitin line with industry best workshops, management training sessions We will continue to work with the practice: both will continue with the and regular dialogue events to support new Single Source Regulations Office programme for a further three years.
the welfare of every individual within SSRO on future profit rates.
We have also invested in anticipate that the level of contracts Another year of sustained growth has changes to our facilities and equipment awarded in 2016 17 which are subject seen us continue to invest in our future to improve the working environment to the regulations will be significant, workforce through the annual recruitment for women in the workplace.
and therefore anticipate a limited impact of graduates and apprentices who will of operating profit of no more than significantly contribute towards meeting The well-being of the communities 1 million in the coming year.
the demands of the business going surrounding our sites is vital to our forward.
In the last year, we have business and its people, and we actively In addition to our core defence welcomed a further 89 graduates and support community groups and business, our expertise in complex and 188 apprentices into various roles worthwhile causes.
In the last financial critical engineering services presents across our sites.
year, Marine and Technology made opportunities in adjacent commercial charitable donations of close to 35,000 marine and energy markets both in the We continue to drive engagement with driven at local level through employee UK and internationally.
We continue to schools, colleges and universities within committees, and more than 163,000 develop our capabilities and capacity in local communities through a divisional through sponsorship funding.
order to exploit these opportunities as programme of Science, Technology, the market conditions evolve.
Engineering and Maths STEM based Outlook outreach activities.
In November, Babcock We believe the outlook for the Marine Our position and relationship with the was recognised for its STEM efforts at the and Technology division is positive, Royal Navy and MOD through the ToBA EEF Future Manufacturing Awards, where it with a strong pipeline of growth continues to provide excellent visibility received the Highly Commended prize in opportunities in both the UK and in of our future naval support programme the Partnerships with Education category.
We continue to identify division expects to continue to make good opportunities to increase the scope of our Babcock is committed to equality in progress duringthe next financial year, complex and critical engineering support the workplace regardless of age, gender, despite thematuring of QEC aircraft carrier services to the MOD whilst maximising the sexual orientation, race or religion.
work which will reduce revenues by around availability of their assets and providing The divisions Respect initiative includes 60million, in line with previous guidance.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 41
