Our strategy Consistent strategy coherent business Our strategic focus has remained consistent for over a decade, when the Company began its transformation to become the UKs leading engineering support services company.
Our objective is to grow from this position both in the UK and overseas, whilst delivering superior and sustainable value for our shareholders.
We seek to achieve this by creating and growing a balanced portfolio of businesses based on our strategy.
Leading market positions Excellent Public bodies health and blue chip and safety customers record Our Strategy Balancing Customer risk and focused reward long-term relationships Integrated engineering and technical expertise Advanced pilot training with UK MFTS Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 6 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 Leading market UK Provider Public bodies and #1 #1 positions engineering of support blue chip customers We expect our support services to Our customers tend to be businesses to be, government departments, services Royal Navy orhave plans to be, public bodies, regulated industries UK maritime World provider one of the top three or blue chip companies that own #1 #1 support of aviation in their market sectors, or utilise large, strategically with the aimof business emergency important assets or infrastructure.
ensuring we achieve We encourage our customers service UK civil economies of scale to partner with us and to build #1 nuclear and create strong long-term relationships.
engineer Cavendish Customer split 31 Nuclear 2 Customer focused long-term Contract duration ranges relationships We place great emphasis on doing TOBA 25 years 1.
Public 79% the right thing for our customers: Magnox 13 years 2.
Private 19% we listen and seek to be flexible LFB25 years 3.
Regulated 2% and responsive to their needs.
MFTS 25 years We work collaboratively, often through long-term partnerships or SASEMAR 26 years Category split alliances, to ensure we understand 4 1 their priorities and our objectives arealigned.
3 Integrated engineering and technical expertise We are able to integrate a broad range of engineering and technical expertise to provide services that are complex, critical and bespoke.
UK Defence42% 2 We manage the interface between all these activities to provide full 2.
UK Civil 36% operational outcomes and help to take risk from our customers.
3. International Civil 18% 4. International Defence 4% Trusted to deliver Complex Balancing risk and reward Skilled expert We mainly operate through long-term, civil integrated output-based contracts: webelieve this creates a commercial Critical framework which fairly balances risk Defence and reward with our customers.
High barriers Safe technical Targetcost incentive fee contracts incentivise us to remove cost with a to entry pain-share gain-share mechanism.
Engineering Strong track record Excellent health and safety record We never compromise on health and safetyand expect all our divisions to 14% 1.92 0.19 delivera sector leading safety performance.
Reduced total Reduced total RIDDOR rate per We believe all our employees and others injuries per injuries rate per 100,000hrs worked working on or visiting our operations should 100,000hrs worked 100,000hrs worked 2015: 0.18 be able to return home safe and well at the 2015: 12% 2015: 2.23 end of theworking day.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 7
