13.6 14.4 8.4 8.9 6.9 International Increasingly international critical services The division remains focused on continuing to develop ouraviation emergency services business, MissionCritical Services MCS, and to grow our position inSouth Africa, where we are a leading supplier of engineering support services.
We will look to grow by continuing to offer differentiated services to customers inour current markets, and by entering new markets, selected on the basis of their fit with our capabilities and goals.
2016 performance highlights Strategy in action Successful start of the Ambulance Victoria emergency medical service contract in Australia Two-year contract extension signed with SASEMAR, the national search and rescue service in Spain 16% Started operations in Africa, Revenue % providing oiland gas crew of Group change services to ENI in Ghana and Mozambique Celebrated 100,000 flight hours at Helidax joint venture, a long-term contract with the French Defence Ministry to provide helicopters for army pilot training Renewedfour emergency services contracts in the UK, won new air ambulance contract for Frances Languedoc region Won a contract for the sole 10% supply of mobile cranes to Order book % Sasol in South Africa of Group South African transmission business awarded three major contracts for around 300km of new line build Operating Revenue growth KPI KPI margin % 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 13.6% -3% Providing critical emergency services in Emilia Romagna Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 50 50 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 South Africa Market overview Strategy South Africa experienced tough trading Mission Critical Services MCS Mission Critical Services conditions in 2015 16 as a consequence In our Emergency Services business, MCS is one of the worlds leading of the economic fallout from declining which delivers vital services to national providers of aviation services for mission commodity volumes.
The ongoing and regional governments in Europe critical operations, helping to protect slowdown in Asian economies had a major and Australia, we have maintained people, places and communities around impact on the mining markets, resulting in leading positions in all of the countries in the world.
We deliver complex, critical equipment and automotive markets falling which we operate.
This market remains and bespoke aerial services to by over 30% during the year, and the attractive and has continued to trade well governments and blue chip companies currency weakening 30% versus Sterling.
throughout the year, as demonstrated by in Europe, Australia and Africa and a number of recent contract wins and have market leading positions in the Power generation and distribution in important rebids and extensions.
geographies we serve, underpinned the region remains a challenge due to by our commitment to safety.
an ageing fleet of fossil fuel fired power We continue to see new emergency stations and project delays on the two services opportunities, including air We are looking to grow by continuing new stations of Medupi and Kusile.
ambulance, search and rescue and tooffer differentiated services to This has provided us with an opportunity firefighting in our existing markets and customers in our current markets, to provide maintenance and breakdown in adjacent geographies.
We also see and by entering new markets, services under our long-term Eskom opportunities to assist in theprovision selected on the basis of their fit with contract.
The need to distribute the of support services to the defence sector ourcapabilities and goals.
We deliver fully new power as it becomes available has in Europe, and have delivered complex integrated rotary and fixed wing services, seen an improvement in the transmission projects to upgrade national government and we believe the depth and breadth line market with a number of new project fleets in Spain, France and the UK.
MCS is ofour activities and experience enables opportunities coming to market.
participating in Unmanned Aerial Vehicle usto adapt to meet our individual UAV technology, developing our own customers precise needs.
Our focus on Our African export markets remain subdued prototype for surveillance and firefighting deepening our close relationships with as most of them have been impacted by coordination tasks.
customers through ourlocal operating headwinds in the commodity sector, and oil companies has provedsuccessful, with price weakness has impacted the timing of In Oil and Gas, the market for outsourcing customers seekingto take us into new the exploitation of offshore gas fields in has suffered from the continuing territories, such as with ENI in Ghana Mozambique.
Despite this, we have made weakness in the oil price which has led to andMozambique.
considerable progress during the year in a reduction of capital expenditure by the creating a platform which should allow industry, particularly in services related As a part of the Group, MCSis able to us to benefit from future expected growth to hydrocarbon exploration activity.
provide a wide range of capabilities, in the region.
Asreported previously, this has resulted allowing us to provide more complex, in exploration-related contracts not being renewed or being delayed which has Most advanced police helicopter resulted in a decrease of activity.
handed over to NPAS However the majority of our services Bond formally handed over the first of to this sector are related to oil and gas seven redesigned and upgraded EC135 production from existing facilities T2 helicopters to the National Police Air whereoperations and therefore the Service at Helitech International.
requirement to fly oil and gas workers The aircraft features a new custom-designed offshore continue.
MCS continues to mission suite with a range of integrated benefit from long-term  including a next generation related contracts in the UK North Sea mission management system, advanced and the Australia.
and integrated communication systems, on-board computing and EO IR sensors, Despite the low oil price environment making it the most advanced police contracting activity has not ceased: helicopterplatform available today.
we have continued to win new contracts, and have increased our geographic The West Yorkshire Police and Crime Commissioner Mark Burns-Williamson, footprint in Africa with a strategic who chairs the NPAS National customer led entry in Ghana and Strategic Board, said: Air support is very Mozambique through two new long-term important to policing: it can help save lives contracts.
We are taking action to reduce andcatch criminals and this helicopter has costs, grow presence and offer solutions some of the best kit available to help which are integrated with the wider support the police in their work.
Group and to continue to leverage international revenue synergies.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 51 International continued Financial review MCS driving world-leading The International divisions revenue innovationwith UAV research declined by 3% compared to the previous and development year, to 790.1 million 2015: 811.4 Xunta fide Galicia has awarded INAER million, reflecting the impact of weaker Spainwith a pioneer contract in Europe to oil and commodity prices on both the create a centre of reference in the research MCS and South African businesses and a and development of Unmanned Aerial movement in exchange rates.
The programme was operating profit declined by 8% to competitively won with contenders such 107.6 million 2015: 116.8 million, as Airbus and Boeing.
The joint investment with the division achieving an overall will amount to a total of 115 million margin of 13.6%.
At constant exchange and its expected to generate 600 new jobs in Galicia.
As an additional benefit to rates, organic revenue and operating the community, the contract will include 18 profit were flat.
local companies in Galicia across different Our South African operations faced a fields that include 14 technology centres challenging macro-economic and three Galician universities.
The aim is to have a complete industrial and environment throughout 2015 16, technological hub.
with low commodity prices and subdued export markets affecting the Equipment Alberto Nez Feijo, President of the and Trucks business, which nevertheless Xunta of Galicia said: With the creation of continued to increase its share of the this industrial hub, Galicia will become one of the worlds leading regions in the research, market.
The increase in revenue of 6% at development and manufacturing of UAVs.
constant exchange rates could not offset a fall in profits of 20% reflecting the margin pressures in the equipment integrated solutions for our customers.
Inaddition, we business offset by the growth in the Our strategy is to extend our position have been able to extend our work done Power business.
within our customers value chains, on high pressure piping on the new Eskom MCS reported revenue for the period of develop strategic relationships with Kusile power station to a second unit and 548.3 million.
Excluding pass-through customers based on partnership, create our objective is to extend this to the costs which are recharged to the leading positions in new markets with remaining four units providing a base load customer with no added margin and existing customers and usetargeted of high pressure piping work to end 2018. at constant exchange rates, organic acquisitionsto develop new capabilities, Outside the power business, our revenue softened by 1% year-on-year.
whilst driving operational and cost equipment business continues to gain efficiencies to deliver improved value.
On the same basis, revenue from market share, which grew substantially emergency services operations grew Babcocks business development teams this year, while containing costs through by 5%, reflecting both contract wins and inSpain, Italy and France have begun to improved efficiencies.
The downturn in the growth within existing contracts, identify new opportunities where we can commodity prices has resulted in an offset in part by lower firefighting in combine the expertise of our local MCS increase of parts and service sales as Spain.
The significant headwinds in the oil management team with Babcocks customers seek to extend equipment life.
and gas business have continued through trackrecord of delivery and broader We were awarded an exclusive dealership the year.
Revenue for MCS Oil and Gas capabilities, such as the award by for the Southern African region by Volvo, services business declined by 13% Alitaliaof a new five-year airport fleet following its purchase of Terex trucks.
At year-on-year with reduced flying management contract at Fiumicino the same time, we are continuing to win hoursand little exploration.
Airport in Rome, the first win for the market share in the value segment with Support Services division in Italy.
the Volvo owned Chinese SDLG brand and MCS profits reflect the revenue change, are now the leading brand in this segment but the actions taken to improve South Africa in the country.
synergies and deliver efficiencies across In South Africa, our power business the business have resulted in the margin continues to focus on being the preferred In the crane rental market, lack of being broadly maintained at 17.3% supplier to the national power company construction work has seen demand fall 2015: 17.8%.
Eskom has a continual struggle to by 40%, with a resultant drop in rates.
We meet demand and this provides have worked hard to increase crane opportunities for our power generation utilisation at these lower rates, leading to business.
During the year we have doubled a 3% increase in utilisation whilst we the volume of engineering and life increased market share by 35%.
We will extension work done at the power stations look to gradually increase rates as and and have continued to improve efficiencies when demand grows.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 52 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 helicopter with improved range, payload Operational review and cabin space, and an upgrade of the Mission Critical Services remaining two helicopters to ensure their Over the last financial year, MCS has continuing compliance with aviation maintained a high contract win rate of safety standards.
over 70% including rebids, winning 66 contracts and extensions with a total In the firefighting market, the Spanish value of around 510 million.
Central Government awarded MCS a new contract to deliver a nationwide aerial Our Emergency Services business firefighting service in Spain.
In Portugal hascontinued to make good progress.
MCS was awarded a three-year contract Asa result, and with the full period effect to operate two Canadair CL215s for the of contracts awarded during the prior Central Government during the fireyear, the Emergency Services business fighting season.
grew 5%, at constant exchange rates in2015 16.
MCS is also growing its support to the defence sector in Europe, delivering Contracts awarded during the period Complex systems at complex projects such as the life include a further two-year extension of Eskom Kusile extension programme developed for the search and rescue contract operated Following the completion of the design, the Spanish Navy.
The programme to for SASEMAR on behalf of the Spanish manufacture andassembly contract for upgrade seven AB212 helicopters with the Central Government.
With a total the replacement of the main steam latest technological and avionic advances pipework at Matimba Power Station, contract value of 60 million, it includes will extend their operating life by at least Babcock was awarded the contract for the operation of 11 helicopters and three the balanced erection offive high pressure 15 years.
In the UK, we formally handed planes, most of them in service 24 hours pipework systems at Kusile Power Station over the first of seven redesigned and aday.
These aircraft carried out more by Mitsubishi Hitachi.
Babcock will perform upgraded H135 T2 helicopters to the than 570 operations and rescued more the complex rigging and geometrical National Police Air Service.
than 290 people during 2015. alignment of the piping for the main Having been unsuccessful in our first steam and hot cold reheat systems that In the UK, Bond Air Services hasrenewed deliver steam between the boiler and defence bid earlier this year, the Pelican four emergency services contracts, turbine, together with feed water and project, we have taken steps to improve several including an increase in scope or auxiliary systems.
We are proud to be our ability to structure tenders designed upgrade of equipment.
In February, providing our trusted expertise for a for national European governments.
wewere awarded a contract by existing large complex programme of work, Recently, MCS was awarded a pioneering customer Wales Air Ambulance Charity which, once completed, will be the contract by Spains Galician government toprovide pilots, engineers and three fourth-largest coal-fired power station to create a centre of reference for the brand-new custom-configured H145 in the world.
research and development of UAVs which helicopters.
Equipped for night flights, will provide surveillance and firefighting theupgrade from their existing fleet of prevention services to the civil sector.
H135s moves the charity a step closer The project was won in a competitive toits goal of providing a 24-hour air tender against large OEMs.
In April 2016 we acquired Heli Aviation, In France, as part of the French Ministry theOil and Gas sectors flying hours in aGerman provider of mission critical ofHealths new process of placing thecoming year.
helicopter services for around 11 million.
regional tenders, we have been able to The business not only provides MCS with MCS has also increased its geographic secure a new long-term HEMS contract for an entry into the domestic German footprint in Africa with a strategic the Languedoc Region where we will be emergency services market but also customer-led entry into Ghana and providing the service with four additional provides non-governmental organisations Mozambique through two new long-term aircraft.
In Australia, the 10-year contract and government agencies services for contracts with a total value of around 80 with Ambulance Victoria for the Victorian relief missions, delivering food, medical million.
The Groups existing presence in Government began to ramp up operations supplies, doctors and rescue teams to South Africa played a key role for our in January, after a successful complex remote locations outside Europe.
successful entry into both countries.
mobilisation which included the delivery of five new AW139 twin engine However, we experienced delays and In Oil and Gas, despite headwinds helicopters.
Our Australian business was cancellations in the North Sea and fromthe lower oil price we have been also awarded a three-year extension by Australia, particularly in services related able to increase our customer portfolio, the Government of South Australia to to exploration.
winninga new North Sea contract and continue operating the State Rescue anew customer in Australia as well as We are currently working to capture the Helicopter Service.
The extension also extensions of existing contracts.
benefits of the systems and expertise of includes the provision of a replacement Thiswilllargely offset the weakness in Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 53 International continued the wider Group through collaboration in impact on finance.
The new system Sustainability a number of areas including training, will be set up to achieve measurable Mission Critical Services information systems, safety management, business benefit through the We take care of our people and the improved asset management capability implementation of common best communities we serve.
Our commitment and access to a much broader pool of practice, business processes and to the safety and the development of our expertise and resource across the shared data across the MCS group.
team of professionals who operate the business.
In Italy, ourteam played a critical and complex missions which save South Africa crucial role in winning a new airport lives and protect the environment has The economic crisis that the country has services contract with Alitalia at Romes resulted in initiatives such as the Talent found itself in has had a material effect Fiumicino Airport, worth around 5 Programme, designed to provide an on operations.
However, in spite of the million per annum, in collaboration with active talent pipeline to support the headwinds, we have made progress in Support Services division colleagues in the growth of the business.
increasing market share in our core UK, and MCS supported the Defence and markets of equipment, trucks, portable 2015 has been a year of significant Security divisions successful bid to generators and rentals.
The 6% increase in development and change for MCS and we provide forward maintenance and aircraft revenue reflects increased market share in have achieved some notable achievements engineering for the Royal Navy at air Equipment, with Power also growing well: in our Safety Strategy such as a continued stations in the south west of England.
however there has been a 20% reduction increase in safety reporting rates, We now have significantly greater abilities in profit driven again by the equipment completed 99% of audits, significant to lease and finance aircraft at lower cost, business margin pressures.
improvement across the operating our pipeline of opportunities remains companies on audit closure rates and During the year we have undertaken stable and robust and we are utilising NCRmanagement tracked at operational preliminary activity in Zambia, Babcocks experience to optimise our bid reviews.
We have: implemented Namibia and Botswana to take management systems.
We are working MissionMode incident management and advantage of anticipated growth together to capture economies of scale notification software: developed an and in Botswana, in particular, and additional savings, particularly InternalEvaluation Program and Safety we have opened a new Babcock within procurement, fleet rationalisation Management System audit checklists based owned dealership in preference to an and engineering.
on IOSA standard: made preparations for independent sub dealer.
In Mozambique, Vision Monitor KPI Mark two: continued The new IT systems will enable extensive we have agreed a joint venture with ENH implementing Q-Pulse safety quality business change across maintenance and Logistics, the state owned enterprise database: and configured of the Air Maestro engineering, including airworthiness responsible for developing the sovereign scheduling and rostering platform.
management, maintenance planning and oil and gas reserves.
We believe these execution, logistics, warehousing and steps will provide a platform for future purchasing, and also has a significant growth in the country.
Sasol maintenance contract After 20 years of providing plant and supportservices to Sasol, Babcock is providing 50 cranes on hire and support services for the biggest plant shutdown to date for the Sasol One site in Sasolburg.
Allproduction will be suspended for the duration of the shutdown while over 27, 000maintenance tasks will be taking placerequiring the equipment.
 ofover 3,300additional people will beensuring the project is a success.
Babcock will be providing a range of technical cranes withcapacities of betweeneight and 500tonnes which will be utilised in all therigging activities.
Babcocks plant services business is the largest powered plant service provider in the country and the only operator with ISO 9001, 14001 and 18001 accreditation.
We are working closely with Sasol to ensure that critical task is completed on time and budget, safely.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 54 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 22 people rescued at sea in Spain A complex mission carried out on behalf of SASEMAR and Xunta Galicia: The Panamanian vessel, which was on its way to Le Havre from Gabon, got into difficulties off the coast of Cabo Ortegal.
The crew arrived to find the 163m-long vessel listing at40 degrees in Force 8 winds and heavy seas.
These factors, as well as the distance from shore, made the rescue extremely difficult.
Numerous rescue services were involved, including the Vivero, Gijn and La Corua SAR bases and the INAER-operated Sasemar aircraft, as well as the National Rescue Coordination Centre, Cross ETEL and the Rescue Coordination Centre in Finisterre.
The rescue was successful: the Helimer 401helicopter winched 16 uninjured crewmembers to safety and took them to La Corua airport.
The remaining six crew were rescued by the Pesca 2 aircraft from Xunta fide Galicia and were taken to Celeiro.
We continue to support a number of Whenever possible, MCS companies customer relationships and on our proven corporate social responsibility opentheir doors to the local expertise and technology focus to create programmes that include: communities, with primary schools and further opportunities for growth in new charity groups given the opportunity to contracts, in existing contracts and in funding 28 underprivileged children get a closer look at the helicopters they new geographies.
However, as previously through private high schools see flying overhead each day and the advised, headwinds in the oil and gas sponsorship of four full-time pilots, engineers, rescuers, doctors and sector are expected to continue for some studentbursaries at nurses carrying out these missions.
time with contract wins offset by reduced South African universities flying hours.
In the UK, MCS was recognised at the support for an orphanage Armed Forces Employers Awards Following the end of the financial year, a specificallyfor children who have ceremony, highlighting the support it tragic accident to an Airbus EC225 lostparents through AIDS gives to its staff who, as well as providing helicopter resulted in the grounding of skills upgrading for science and safe and effective mission-critical services the aircraft type by aviation authorities in mathematics teachers working in at work, also give up their free time to the UK and elsewhere, with the exception underprivileged areas serve their country.
In Spain, the Minister of flights providing life and rescue of Development has requested the medal services.
Whilst it is too early to predict In addition to this we have staff of the Order of Civil Merit for the crew of the effect of this accident on the division, development support including: Helimer 401, one of our search and rescue we make no change to Group guidance.
The team saved the lives of In the South African business, the power from Babcock 11 crew members of the fishing boat generation and transmission market 4 students on the Babcock MBA cohorts Novo Jundia, in an operation during the continues to offer opportunities, and we and a student on the Harvard hours of darkness, in the midst of a storm, hope to extend our support services development programme with eight metre high waves and a wind offering in the power sector.
We continue speed of 60 knots.
specially directed staff training to focus on growing our market share in programmes for skills upgrading and South Africa trucks, construction equipment and leading into the succession We are very proud of our continued rentals, developing the business in planning programme.
health and safety performance during Mozambique and focused expansion the year in the face of many social ofour export market.
Outlook challenges including different cultures We continue to progress the identified In MCS we continue to see significant and languages in our workforce, opportunities to grow Babcocks presence prospects for growth in the Emergency and managing a transient workforce internationally, using our access to the Services business as we progress bids in in our most dangerous environments.
wider Groups expertise and our our pipeline and opportunities in tracking As a result, total injuries are down localteams.
that have yet to come to market.
looking to build on our long-term Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 55
