Managing complex infrastructure and programmesfor MSDF Through-life support with MSDF MSDF is a 2.6 billion contract with theMOD to deliver complex and criticalthrough-life support services at HMNB Clyde and Devonport to 2020.
Itencompasses major infrastructure to support surface ship and submarineprojects, and design management activities.
18 months on, the enhanced KPI measures have consistently been achieved as we have worked with the customer to deliver savings required for contract years one and two.
Importantly MSDF cements Babcocks long-term collaborative relationship with the MOD and Royal Navy and reinforces Babcocks position as the UKs leading naval support provider.
Complex At Babcock, we design, build, operate, maintain infrastructure and manage complex infrastructure and programmes to meet the critical requirements of our customers around the world.
We aim to ensure the availability, reliability and efficiency of complex infrastructure and programmes.
Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 12 Bespoke fleet management in the airports sector One year on from winning a major contract to deliver critical services at So Paulos international airport, a further significant international contract has been won.
Based at Romes Fiumicino Airport, the five-year contract forAlitaliaprovides critical support, management and maintenance forthe airport ground fleet of c 2,000 assets.
Airport fleet management in the UK for Heathrow Managing Dounreays major decommissioning Located in thefar north of Scotland, Dounreayaims to be recognised as the pre-eminent reference site for decommissioning in Europe.
Babcock, through the Cavendish Dounreay partnership, is continuing to make good progress managing the large scale infrastructure decommissioning programme, with key milestones meton or ahead of schedule.
 scope growth hasalso been introduced for the safe transfer of materials to Sellafield, in line with the UK Governments nationalstrategy.
Dounreay, the UKs first complex major decommissioning programme Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 13 Surface fleet through-life support Our class management of the Royal Navys Type 23 frigates and the life extension LIFEX programme of capability and equipmentupgrades are not only critical to ensuring the Type 23 will continue to meet the Royal Navys operational needs but also fide-risk the systems and technology for theforthcoming T26 frigates.
With our long-term strategic focus firmly on supporting our customers needs, Babcock continues to invest in Devonports Frigate Support Centre.
With up to four vessels in simultaneous refit, HMS Northumberland and HMS Kent will commence upkeep later in the year as HMS Argyll and HMS Montrose move into the latter stages in preparation for return to service.
Frigate refit complex at Devonport Critical equipment Babcock supportsthe critical equipment and assets of our and assets customers.
We aim to ensure that this critical equipment is available tomeet our customers needs.
World leader in emergency services With over 50 years experience saving lives, Mission Critical Services MCS has flown around 62,000 emergency medical missions.
Covering eight countries, MCSranks first for delivering emergency medical services across the countries it operates in, more than any other provider.
Helicopter emergency medical services in Australia Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 14 Strategic supplypartner withDefence Support Group Babcocks delivery of end-to-end equipmentsupport services enables the UKs Armed Forces to respond to demanding operational commitments.
Atthe Defence Support Group DSG, wemaintain, repair and overhaul military vehicles and equipment, and assemble and test new vehicles entering service for the British Army.
Our services have expanded toinclude inventory management and equipment storage, with DSG stocking and managing 95,000 parts worth 431 million as well as 210,000 spare lines.
Babcock has a long-standing reputation for providing equipment support to complex through-life platforms.
We safeguard the availability of key assets to ensure our customers meet their operational requirements.
DSG: providingcritical through-life fleetsupport International through-life support In Canada, Babcock is delivering anintegrated approach to provide in-service support for four Royal , including interim, short and deep maintenance docking periods DMP.
HMCS Corner Brook iscurrently the second Victoria Class vessel to undergo a DMP, with HMCS Chicoutimi successfully returning to service.
In Australia, Babcock, inpartnership with UGL, developed a logical, scalable and proven complex project management process and established an effective supply chain, to bring HMAS Stuart back in active service.
This enabled the project to be completed on schedule and to budget.
A new alliance hasalso started to support the entireAustralian fleet of ANZAC Classfrigates.
Department of Defence Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Babcock International Group PLC 15 Technical equipment training for engineers Training future military engineers Performanceat the Royal School of Military Engineering has remainedconsistently high: the contract has seen no KPI failures in the last three years against 147 performance indicators.
The RSME also won two City & Guilds Lionsawards during the year for tutor and centre of the year, and the Happold Brilliant Award for excellence in training.
Technical We train all three ArmedForces, pilots, training engineers, apprentices, drivers, fire fighters, scientists and motor mechanics.
Wegive them the technical skills they need in order to perform in their duties, often in testing circumstances orenvironments.
Award winning apprentice programmes From aspiring engineers across multiple disciplines to future firefighters and leaders, Babcock has had another successful year in its training and apprenticeship business.
Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathsis a core part of everything Babcock does and in March we were delighted to win SEMTA Skills award for Training Partner of the Year.
Our clients lookto us to deliver innovation and excellence in the provision of automotive, engineering, nuclear and rail apprenticeships.
Award winning apprenticeship programme Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 16 Advanced technical pilot training In March 2016, the MOD announcedthe award of a 1.1 billion contract to deliver the fixed wing element of the UK Military Flying Training System UKMFTS to Ascent Flight Training Ltd Ascent.
In partnership withLockheed Martin, Babcock is responsible for delivering the UKMFTS with the MOD.
Theaircrew training will take place at several military sites and comprises the delivery of three aircraft types, together with the provision of instruction, infrastructure and full life support through to 2033.
This contract represents a significant investment in future military flying training outlined in the UK Governments commitment to air power in the SDSR.
Critical pilot training with UK MFTS Long-term efficiency in training the London Fire Brigade As part of our ongoing25-year partnership with London Fire Brigade, Babcock launched its prototype blue light driver simulator.
Mapped with 167 miles of multi terrain routes including urban, inner city and rural scenarios, the simulator provides a fully immersive, true to life experience for blue light drivers.
Efficiencies on course training time will be significant and are estimated to reduce the current programme by 50%.
Training the LFB until 2033 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Babcock International Group PLC 17
