Board Directors, Executive and Company Secretary Executive Peter Rogers CBE Archie Bethel CBE Franco Martinelli Bill Tame Chief Executive Chief Operating Officer Group Finance Director Chief Executive, Appointed: June 2002 as Chief Appointed: Board Director in Appointed: Board Director International division Operating Officer and Chief May2010.
Archie became Chief August 2014 Appointed: Group Finance Director Executive in August 2003.
In January Operating Officer on 1 April 2016 in January 2002, a position he held Skills & experience: Franco served 2016, it was announced that Peter pending his move to Group Chief until August 2014 when he was 12 years with the Group as Group would be retiring as Chief Executive Executive on Peter Rogers retirement appointed Divisional Chief Financial Controller prior to his on 31 August 2016. on 31 August 2016.
Executivefor the Groups appointment as Group Finance  division.
Skills & experience: Until his Skills & experience: Archie was Chief Director.
Before joining Babcock, retirement from its board on 30 April Executive, Marine and Technology Franco was Group Financial Controller Skills & experience: Bill is a former 2015, Peter was Senior Independent division from June 2007 having at Powell Duffryn plc and before that Finance Director of Scapa Group PLC.
Director and latterly Deputy joined the Group in January 2004. he held divisional and group roles at He was a Non-Executive Director of Chairman of Galliford Try plc.
Archie is a Chartered Engineer and Courtaulds, James Capel and BP.
Carclo plc until 31 March 2015 and He is a former Director of Courtaulds a Fellow of the Royal Academy of was appointed a Non-Executive PLC and Acordis BV.
He is also President of Director of Southern Water in served as a President of ADS the Society of Maritime Industries and January 2015.
is a Lay Member of the Court of the University of Strathclyde.
John Davies Roger Hardy John Howie Chief Executive, Support Chief Executive, Defence and Chief Executive, Marine and Services division Security division Technology division Appointed: Board Director Appointed: Executive Committee Appointed: Executive Committee January 2013 November 2015 April 2016 Skills & experience:John joined Skills & experience: Roger joined Skills & experience: Prior to theGroup in 2010 following the Babcock in 2007 following Babcocks succeeding Archie Bethel as acquisition ofVT Group andwas acquisition of Devonport.
Prior to his Chief Executive, Marine and appointed Divisional Chief Executive, move to lead the Defence and Technology division on 1 April 2016, Defence and Security.
Since Security division in place of John John was Managing Director of November 2015, John has been Davies on 1 November 2015, he was Naval Marine with responsibility leading the Support Services Managing Director of Cavendish for the management of Babcocks division.
Heis a lawyer by Nuclear, our civil nuclear business submarine, warship and naval base backgroundand has worked within the Support Services division.
operations, having joined Babcock extensively across the support Prior to that he was Managing in April 2001. services and defence sectors Director of our submarine business including within Bombardier, within the Marine division.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 76 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 A Audit and Risk Committee R Remuneration Committee N Nominations Committee Chairman Chairman Non-executive directors N A A A R R R N N N Anna Stewart Mike Turner CBE Sir David Omand GCB Ian Duncan Independent Non-Executive Chairman Senior Independent Director Independent Non-Executive Appointed: June 2008 as a Appointed: April 2009 andSenior Director Director Non-Executive Directorand Independent Director in Jan 2012 Appointed: November 2012 Appointed: November 2010 November 2008 as Chairman Skills & experience: Sir David is a Skills & experience: Until December Skills & experience: A chartered Skills & experience: Since May 2012 visiting professor in the Department 2015 Anna was Chief Executive of accountant and former Group Mike has also been Chairman of GKN of War Studies, Kings College Laing ORourke, where she was Finance Director of Royal Mail plc, where he was previously Senior London.
He left UKGovernment previously Group Finance and Holdings PLC, Ianis currently a Independent Director.
He is a former service in 2005 having served in Commercial Director.
Since January Non-Executive Director and Chairman Chief Executive of BAE Systems plc various senior roles, including as UK 2015 she has been a Non-Executive of the Audit Committees of WANdisco and a former Chairman of the UK Government Security and Intelligence Director of the Major Projects plc and Bodycote plc.
He has also Defence Industries Council DIC.
Coordinator, Permanent Secretary of Association and is also a UK formerly been Corporate Finance He is a member of the UK the Home Office, Director of GCHQ Government Business Ambassador.
Director at British Nuclear Fuels plc, Governments Apprenticeship the UK Signals Intelligence and She is a Fellow of the Royal Institution CFO and Senior Vice President at Ambassadors Network and is a Information Assurance Agency and of Chartered Surveyors and a Fellow Westinghouse Electric Company LLC Non-Executive Director of Deputy Under-Secretary of State for of the Institute of Civil Engineers.
in Pennsylvania, USA, and a LazardLimited.
Policy in the Ministry of Defence.
Non-Executive Director and Audit Committee Chairat Fiberweb plc and Mouchel Group.
Company secretary A A A R R R N N N Jack Borrett Jeff Randall Myles Lee Prof. Victoire fide Margerie Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Group Company Secretary and Independent Non-Executive Director Director General Counsel Director Appointed: April 2014 Appointed:April 2015 Appointed: 1 April 2016 Appointed:February 2016 Skills & experience: Jack joined Skills & experience: Jeff had a long Skills & experience: Myles was Chief Skills & experience: Victoire is a Babcock in 2004 and since 2010 career as a journalist and broadcaster Executive Officer of CRH plc between Non-Executive Director of Italcementi has been Deputy Group General until he stepped down as a presenter 2009 and 2013, serving before that S. p. A Italy, Eurazeo S. A France and for Sky News in March 2014 and as from 2003 as its Finance Director, Counsel until his appointment as Arkema France and until February editor-at-large of the Daily Telegraph having joined CRH in 1982 and Group General Counsel and 2016, Morgan Advanced Materials Plc at the end of 2013.
He was business serving in a number of roles and Company Secretary on 1 April 2016.
Between 2012 and 2014 she editor of the BBC between 2001 and management positions.
He holds a He is Secretary to the Board and was a Non-Executive Director of 2005, the launch editor of Sunday degree in civil engineering and is a to the Remuneration, Audit and Risk Norsk Hydro ASA Norway and Business and, for six years, was City Fellow of the Institute of Chartered and Nominations Committees.
between 2007 and 2011 was a Editor of the Sunday Times.
He is a Accountants in Ireland.
He is also a Priorto joining Babcock, Jack was a Non-Executive Director of former director of Times Newspapers.
Non-Executive Director of Ingersollsolicitor at law firm Clifford Chance.
During her He is also a Visiting Fellow of Oxford Rand plc which is listed on the New earlier Executive career Victoire held Universitys Said Business School York Stock Exchange.
senior management positions in where he specialises in corporate France, Germany and the USA with reputation, and is an honorary Atochem, Carnaud MetalBox and professor at Nottingham Universitys Pechiney.
Victoire holds a PhD in Business School.
Strategic Management from Universit Panthon-Assas Paris II.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 77
