In the year Key markets Positive outlook clear visibility Key market trends and outlook During the year there have been somepositive steps in selected key markets: Defence markets Key defence markets saw significant change this year.
2% GDP In the UK, the Government committed, in both UK defence spending the SDSR and the CSR, to an increase in defence spendingover the next five years, expanding the budget to 220 billion.
The SDSR also secured the programmes of key strategic defence equipment and assets and pledged to increase personnel in all three Armed Forces.
Internationally, in Canada, the newly-elected government has expressed a strong commitment to support defence procurement and the national ship building strategy to develop and sustain their global reach.
In Australia, the Defence White Paper confirmed the intention to increase defence spending to 2% of GDP.
In New Zealand, we expect the delayed 2015 Defence White Paper to reinforce the capital investment Read more on pages37 &43 and support programme for the Navy.
Nuclear markets In the UK, the civil nuclear market remains resilient, 2.3bn with opportunities for Cavendish Nuclear in both decommissioning and new build services providing Annually addressable revenue scope for growth, albeit the timing of new build activity remains affected by uncertainty on funding routes.
The CSR sets out a commitment to continue vital work cleaning up historic sites: this indicated an acceleration of work at Sellafield, whilst seeking value for money from the NDAs 11 billion funding.
Further UK opportunities may emerge from funding of an ambitious nuclear research and development Read more on page 47 programme to revive the UKs nuclear expertise.
Training markets The UK training market saw the announcement of 3 million the Apprenticeship Levy being introduced in 2017, which will help to deliver new apprenticeships and UK Government commitment support quality training by putting employers at the of additional apprenticeship centre of the system.
We expect to see significant starts in England by 2020 demand in the short to medium term for outsourcing the schemes, and with recent awards for our Nuclear, Rail and Automotive apprentice schemes, we believe Read more on page 47 we are well-positioned to pursue opportunities.
Refit underway on HMS Albion Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 24 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 of our capabilities across a range greater savings.
The MOD continues Strategic Defence of complex and technically difficult to develop the Whole Force approach, and Security Review activitiesin defence where for instance ensuring that it makes best use of industry our customer presently employs more to support the front line, deploying In November, the UK Government than 5,000 civilian personnel in a range forward when required.
published the SDSR, which shifted of industrial related roles.
defence fiscal posture from one of The SDSR UK growth opportunities reduced funding and downsizing to 2% 39.6bn onexisting contracts include military one of investment and growth including flying training and support to military GDP on overall MOD budget a future policy of drawing more heavily equipment through increased training on people and skills from the private defence spending by2020 output and increased equipment sector in line with the enterprise approach over next decade utilisation.
A substantial programme of emerging throughthe UKGovernments investment is planned for new equipment policy of continual defence reform to across defence and we believe the 178bn 19% make the MOD leaner and more efficient.
SDSR willprovide opportunities to Spend on defence MOD budget Customers across defence are looking for drive further technical activities towards equipment and spent on more innovative ways of working with industry which is underpinned by a equipment equipment industry, including more innovative ways government policy of outsourcing where support over support of working in partnership with industry it makes sense to do so.
A number of areas to drive further operational benefits and next decade in 2015 000000 immediately exist for greater utilisation UK SDSR Key outcomes Babcock capability Infrastructure Equipment Technical UK spend on equipment and programmes and assets training equipmentsupport over next decade Sea Successor V-LIFEX Astute T-boats transitioning QEC 2 in-service c 62bn T26programme T23-LIFEX Air F35 Lightning Squadrons 2 squadrons, 1 new Typhoon Squadrons 7 squadrons, 2 new Maritime patrol aircraft x9 Voyager aircraft x14 c 44bn Apache upgrades Wildcat 6 squadrons overall Merlin 6 squadrons overall Land 2 x New Strike Infantry Brigades 1,500 vehicles Warrior capability upgrades Armoured Brigades c 30bn x 2 with upgrades Challenger II LIFEX Staff Increase in Navy, RAF, Army training Increased outsourcing of frontline services Increase in Navy, RAF, Army reserves c 2,000 Staff increase over 5 years Optimised structure Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 25
