7.1 7.7 9.2 8.8 9.6 Support Services Trusted to deliver in complex and critical markets The Support Services division continues to deliver growth, both in the UK and overseas, through combining technical and engineering expertise to deliver value to customers.
Its growth plans are targeted on clearly defined markets and underpinned by investment in core capabilities.
2016 performance highlights Strategy in action Cavendish Fluor Partnership completed consolidation phase of Magnox decommissioning contract for 12 nuclear licensed sites Additional work awarded to the Cavendish Dounreay Partnership 31% Cavendish Boccard Nuclear selected Revenue % as preferred bidder for EDFs new of Group build programme Airports business expanded with new international airport fleet management contracts: five-year contract with Alitalia, Italys largest airline, at Fiumicino Airport in Rome Skillsand Learning won new contracts in UK and Middle East Innovative driving simulator delivered for London Fire Brigade Completion of Bathampton 33% electrification: largest project onGreat Western Mainline for Order book % 40years of Group Media Services expanded capabilities attracts new customers Operating Revenue growth KPI KPI margin % 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 7.1% 15% Technical training for the LFB until 2033 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 46 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 Market overview Growth in our core markets is underpinned BSF joint venture is included in the by a strong order book and a pipeline of operating profit for the year and The Support Services division delivers opportunities.
We support delivery represented 4.7 million of services to both public and private sector through continuing to develop our underlyingprofit in the prior year.
customers across three key areas: civil capability, either organically or through nuclear, asset management and technical Operational review selected acquisition, and by harnessing training.
We believe our markets remain Cavendish Nuclear, a wholly-owned expertise and best practice from across the attractive, with existing and potential Babcock subsidiary, has continued to Group.
We also continue to maximise value customers continuing to seek outsourced strengthen its position as the UKs leading from integrating the additional capabilities solutions to reduce their cost base.
supplier to the civil nuclear industry, and access to customers provided by In the UK, the civil nuclear market remains remaining focused on site operations, recent acquisitions in the fleet and resilient.
We value the addressable market maintenance, decommissioning and equipment management sectors.
per annum at around 2.3 billion, with thenew build programme.
Recent successes outside the opportunities for both decommissioning Following the award of the 13.5-year UK have confirmed our ability to and new build services providing scope Magnox and RSRL decommissioning supportinternational expansion.
for growth, albeit the timing of new build contract in 2014, the Cavendish Fluor We will continue to pursue international activity remains affected by uncertainty Partnership in which Cavendish Nuclear opportunities, targeting those markets on funding routes.
is the lead partner has completed the where we can demonstrate wellWe anticipate that outsourced spend on consolidation submission phase of the established capabilities and a track the management of complex fleet and project, embedding the new contract record of delivery.
We will draw upon the equipment is likely to increase, particularly programme across the 12 licensed sites.
Groups increasing international footprint within the emergency services sector as The contract team has delivered a to provide customers with the benefit of the Governments new cross-service number of successes, including the local teams combined with operational collaboration agenda comes into force.
successful operation of the Wylfa power expertise and scale, leading to more We believe we can address a greater part station, followed by taking the reactor attractive value propositions.
of this market as a result of our increased offline in December 2015, and the early Financial review capability to deliver specialist vehicle completion of the defueling project at conversion services following the The Support Services division continued the Oldbury site.
acquisition of MacNeillie in February 2015. to deliver strong growth in revenue, At Dounreay, the Cavendish Dounreay which increased by 15% to 1,513.0 Demand for our technical training services Partnership continued to make good million 2015: 1,316.4 million, driven remains high, as demonstrated by recent progress, with key milestones such by the first full year of the Cavendish activity in the rail and utilities markets.
as the shipping of breeder elements Fluor partnerships operation of the We currently value the UK technical from storage to Sellafield and the transfer Magnox decommissioning joint venture.
training market at around 1.3 billion, of waste packages into underground Growth in Rail, Education and Critical and anticipate further growth disposal vaults being achieved on, or Services more than offset the relatively opportunities from the new ahead of, schedule.
We believe this will Significant additional scope has trigger large scale employers to review Revenue growth drove operating profit been introduced to the programme, how they acquire and develop their growth, noting however the effect of the following the change in the Governments workforce in the most efficient way, lower margin recognition in the early national strategy for the consolidation of and provide greater funding visibility.
years of the Magnox contract.
This year saw the first million gain on the sale of the Lewisham We see significant international shipments take place ahead of schedule.
opportunities in our core growth markets: most notably in the areas of complex fleet Making progress in Magnox management, and technical training, After c 45 years ofsafe operations, Angleseys where we have built a sizeable pipeline of Wylfa nuclear power station closed down, visible opportunities and routes to market.
marking the conclusion of Magnox reactor generation in the UK and a key milestone in Strategy the 60-yearprogramme.
The divisions strategy is well established and continues to deliver results in line Wylfa is one of 10 Magnox sites successfully managed by the Cavendish Fluor Partnership, with the Groups wider strategic a joint venture between Cavendish Nuclear objectives.
Activity remains focused on and Fluor Corporation.
Wylfa will now our core markets, where we continue to moveinto defueling anddecommissioning develop and leverage long-term customer asan activesite in theprogramme of relationships, and invest in people and decommissioning and clean-up work.
capability to maintain relevance and differentiation in the market place.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 47 Support Services continued A technically complex project, Cavendish Nuclearsyear Dounreay aims to be recognised with EDF as the pre-eminent reference site Cavendish Nuclearis now a year into for decommissioning in Europe.
its Lifetime Enterprise Agreementwith As part of its existing Lifetime Support EDF Energy to provide engineering services Agreement with EDF, Cavendish Nuclear to all eight of EDFs nuclear power stations for the remainder of their operational lives.
successfully supported a major planned Central to the partnerships success has outage at the Dungeness power station been Cavendish Nuclears technical delivering a complex maintenance expertise, ourknowledge and engineering programme and ensuring the station was ingenuity which are all factors enabling EDF brought back to power generation on to extend the operating lives oftheir time and within budget.
Major design and construction projects to aid decommissioning at both Sellafield and Magnox power stations continue to maintenance services.
This would replace with BMW Group UK, to provide training be delivered to agreed programmes and our existing repair and maintenance and for its dealer network, and with Network budget.
This includes winning future vehicle conversion contracts, which have Rail, to deliver its advanced apprenticeship phases for two major projects, securing been extended to April 2017, and would programme.
Babcock was named work for the next three years.
At Atomic include additional scope.
TrainingPartner of the Year at the Weapons Establishment AWE, Cavendish Science, Engineering, Manufacturing Also in Critical Services, our airports Nuclear built on its existing relationship andTechnologies Alliance SEMTA Skills business continues to progress well.
with the customer, signingafive-year Awards 2016, for our work with EDF During the period we successfully contract to decommission a further Energyand Network Rail apprentices.
delivered upgrades to the baggage facility within its site.
systems in Heathrow Airports Terminals 2 Also within Skills & Learning, our In nuclear new build, EDF announced and 3, and completed major baggage e-learning and virtual reality simulation theselection of the Cavendish Boccard system works at Gatwicks North Terminal.
business continues to experience high Nuclear joint venture as the preferred demand for its products.
It secured Significantly, the division has made bidder for a key component to the business from a range of customers, substantial progress in its plans to aid HinkleyPoint C programme, the Balance including British Airways, Siemens and international growth, in cooperation of Nuclear Island mechanical package.
BAESystems, and also supported withthe MCS business.
In March, Funding and legislative issues have projectsacross other Babcock divisions.
wewereawarded a five-year contract by delayed the expected start date for this Alitalia, Italys national air carrier, to Babcock continues to invest in new programme but the business continues manage its fleet of over 2,000 assets at technologies and capabilities to drive toprovide support in readiness for a final Rome Fiumicino Airport.
The support efficiencies in training.
Cavendish Nuclear provided by Babcocks established local developed a state-of-the-art emergency isalso pursuing additional opportunities MCS team, in combination with our track services driving simulator for our 21-year inthe UK new build programme.
record of delivery, played a critical role in London Fire Brigade contract, which will Internationally, Cavendish Nuclear our ability to win the bid.
support the delivery of driver training hascontinued to explore targeted across the brigade.
We have also created In Critical Services Mining and opportunities for overseas work, and in a new centre of excellence to provide Construction business, two of our November 2015 signed an international customers with access to high quality, customers Lafarge and Holcim came collaboration framework agreement innovative training course design.
together in a merger during the summer withHitachi-GE in connection with of 2015.
This led to the integration of a In our Network Engineering business, decommissioning activities in Japan.
number of our existing contracts and also the rail team has continued to perform Elsewhere in the division, the Critical the sale of a number of UK sites to CRH.
well, delivering Network Rails plain line Services business benefitted from the We continue to maintain these UK assets track renewals framework contracts in February 2015 acquisition of a specialist for CRH.
the second year of the customers vehicle converter MacNeillie, which five-year control period.
Working with Our Skills & Learning business has secured a further strengthened our full life-cycle Network Rail, we completed the largest number of new training contracts, both in offering for the emergency services project on the Great Western Mainline the UK and the Middle East.
The business was successfully for over 40 years.
The team replaced also expanded our delivery of apprentice integrated into our wider Resilience and 10.25km of track over a 46-day period training for the British Army, through a new Emergency Services business, increasing as part of the Bathampton Electrification contract with the Royal Armoured Corps our capability.
We continue to develop project, in preparation for the arrival of and the Royal Armoured Veterinary Corps.
our tender to the Metropolitan Police anew fleet of electric trains.
We also won further five-year contracts service for the provision of fleet Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 48 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 ABC Electrification, our joint venture In September, 25 graduates joined existing and new customers.
We believe with Alstom and Costain, continues to the division, taking the total number our deep technical knowledge, strongly make good progress on projects including of graduates on our two-year aligned to customer requirements, the West Coast Power Supply Upgrade, programmeto 65. provides us with a distinctive and the Great Western Route Modernisation compelling offering.
We introduced a new aligned programme and the Edinburgh Glasgow to ensure all graduates have the As previously indicated, the scheduled ImprovementProgramme.
opportunity to network with colleagues reduction in revenue next year in the Also in Network Engineering, across the division and benefit from a Magnox and Dounreay decommissioning we experienced a reduction in revenue richer training experience and a wider contracts of around 100 million is of 30 million in our Power business which choice of career paths.
expected to result in low single digit led to a programme to restructure our revenue growth for the division in Our apprenticeship programme also operations in the first half of the year.
We remain proved popular, with 46 new apprentices However, four major 400kV overhead line confident that the division is well placed joining the division this year, swelling our refurbishment projects were awarded to pursue the substantial opportunities intake to 132.
Opportunities range from by National Grid during the year, three available in the UK and internationally.
Motor Vehicle Technician to Civil and of which began mobilisation in Mechanical Engineering, and this year January2016.
Our Media Services business completed This year, weve also provided financial the integration of WRN Broadcast, support to fund first-aid training for acquired in February 2015, and invested approximately 8,500 school children ina new Master Control Room facility across Devon and Surrey, and our financial toexpand our multi-platform offering.
assistance has delivered life-saving skills This enhanced capability has enabled training to over 1,450 Not in Education, us to attract several new customers.
Employment or Training NEET young We recently signed a three-year contract people in Lewisham.
We also support with new customer, Perform Group, independent educational charity, the to distribute live and on-demand sports Smallpeice Trust, working with over 100 coverage to any device in Japan and 13-14 year olds on the trusts three-day Germany, with further countries expected residential rail engineering course.
Meanwhile the BBC Excellent health and safety remains a core World Service contract and short-wave part of our strategy and this year continued radio contracts continue to perform well.
Over the year The Education business successfully we pursued more collaborative and expanded its footprint, mobilising a consistent ways of working across the five-year 38 million contract with division and the Group, with a strong Worcestershire County Council to deliver emphasis on supporting supervisors and education support services to around 240 line managers to develop and lead by schools in the county from October 2015. example.
At the heart of this is the We also successfully launched an on-line development of standards and pro-active product Better Governor expanding measures of performance.
Our All Injury our presence in the digital market.
Frequency Rate improved by 14% from the previous year.
However, we continue to Sustainability challenge our Over Three Day Lost During the year we made further progress Frequency Rate, with a strong focus on on our people agenda, embedding our incident investigation and lessons learned being babcock guiding principles and to deliver continuous improvement.
introducing a range of Respect initiatives to progress diversity within our business.
Outlook We remain committed to developing We believe that demand for outsourcing our future leaders, and this year a further solutions remains strong in our chosen 15 people joined our divisional talent growth markets of civil nuclear, fleet development programme which offers management and technical training.
development opportunities for over We are confident that our well defined 40leaders.
To date, 45% of participants capabilities and proven track record of have moved into more senior roles since delivery in complex and critical joining the programme.
environments will prove attractive to Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 49
