BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 50 Segmental performance Platforms & Services International 1 Platforms & Services International, with 13,700 employees, Our strategy in action Drive value and growth from our comprises the Groups businesses in Saudi Arabia, Australia defence platforms and services and Oman, together with its 37.5% interest in the pan-European Supporting MBDA joint venture.
industrialisation inSaudiArabia In Saudi Arabia, the business provides In Oman, the business is developing its operational capability support to the position building on a long history of The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia recently countrys air and naval forces through relationships with the Omani armed set out its Vision 2030 ambitious UK Saudi  forcesthrough the provision, support plansto transform its economy and programmes.
The Saudi British Defence andupgradeof defence platforms and further develop thriving national Co-operation Programme and Salam cyber security services.
We are committed to Typhoon project provide for multi-year inOman is executed through our relevant supporting this agenda.
During 2016, there has been further In Australia, the business delivers production, MBDA is a leading global prime contractor capability and knowledge transfer on upgrade and support programmes for ofmissiles and missile systems across the the Typhoon platform, and planning customers in the defence and commercial air, maritime and land domains.
iswell advanced for the transfer of sectors across the air, maritime and land othercapabilities and work into our domains.
Services contracts include the In-Kingdom partner companies.
These provision of sustainment, training solutions partner companies include providers and upgrades.
oftraining, supply chain and IT services, as well as an aircraft equipment and maintenance supplier and a firm specialising in modern electronics manufacturing, system integration, andrepair and maintenance.
Including share of equity accounted investments.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 51 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Operational and strategic highlights Sales by domain % BAE Systems celebrated 50 years in Saudi Arabia Land 11 Typhoon aircraft delivered on the Salam programme in the year Maritime 7% Air Continued provision of support agreed under the Saudi British Defence 13% 80% Co-operation Programme to the Royal Saudi Air Force and Royal Saudi Naval Forces through to 2021, against which we have booked initial orderintake in 2016 BAE Systems Australia selected to provide maintenance, repair, overhaul and upgrade to support a range of F-35 Lightning II system components Awarded a contract for the Risk Mitigation Activity phase of the Land 400 vehicle competition in Australia Contracts totalling A$430m 252m awarded for sustainment and upgrade of Anzac Class frigates under the Warship Asset Management Alliance Sales by line of business % UK Ministry of Defence awarded MBDA a contract for additional MBDA Common Anti-air Modular Missiles Saudi Arabia 19% 6 7% MBDA signed two significant contracts in Qatar for naval air defence andcoastal battery defence systems MBDA secured weapons package orders with India as part ofagreed export contracts for Rafale aircraft Financial performance Australia Financial performance measures Financial performance 2 asdefined by the Group measures defined in IFRS 14% 2016 2015 2016 2015 Sales KPI 3,943m 3,742m Revenue 3,037m 2,957m Underlying EBITA KPI 400m 335m Operating profit 365m 299m Sales analysis: Platforms and services % Return on sales 10.1% 9.0% Return on revenue 12.0% 10.1% Operating business Cash flow from Services KPI cash flow 435m 164m operating activities 473m 193m Platforms 67% 1 Order intake KPI 6,175m 3,046m 33% 1 Order backlog 13.1bn 10.2bn Sales of 3.9bn were 5% up over 2015.
The trading increase comes from the higher levels of support to the Salam Typhoon aircraft now in service and weapon volumes fromMBDA.
Underlying EBITA of 400m 2015 335m has moved the return on sales back above 10% 2015 9.0%.
The 2015 result included charges totalling 53m in respect of the impairment and rationalisation taken in the Australian business.
Operating business cash flow was strong at 435m 2015164m, although acceleratedreceipts from 2017 on Saudi support and the MBDA Qatar programme weremajor factors.
1 Order backlog increased to 13.1bn 2015 10.2bn as initial order intake was booked forthe renewal of the five-year support contract in Saudi Arabia.
P0607 Alternative performance measure definitions BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 52 Segmental performance Platforms & Services International Operational performance Our strategy in action Saudi Arabia Continue to win new On the Salam Typhoon programme, 68 of international orders thecontracted 72 aircraft had been delivered We provide support to the Royal Australian at 31 December.
Typhoon capability expansion Australian Hawk Air Forces RAAF Hawk fleet at its bases isprogressing to schedule.
Working The Typhoon support contracts are operating alongside the RAAF, we ensure that the support contract well, meeting all contractual metrics.
aircraft are available for training when required and have continued to deliver Through the Saudi British Defence Co-operation significant savings.
Since 2013, we have Programme, the business continues to support achieved all contract key performance the operational capabilities of the Royal indicators for deep maintenance of the fleet.
SaudiAir Force and Royal Saudi Naval Forces.
In 2016, we expanded our long-standing The contract for Hawk aircraft signed in relationship with the RAAF to include 2012continues on schedule, with 14 aircraft operational maintenance and secured delivered and accepted at 31 December.
anA$200m 117m contract, extending Manufacturing for the second batch of oursupport to 2020, and ensuring that 22aircraft, awarded in 2015, is progressing Australias combat pilots continue to toschedule.
Under this contract, we will receivethe best training possible.
undertake the final assembly of these aircraft More online in Saudi Arabia.
com Under the Royal Saudi Naval Forces Minehunter mid-life update programme, acceptance of the second ship was completed in the second half of the year.
Work on the Australia In November, BAE Systems was chosen third and final ship is progressing to plan, The consolidation of operating divisions toprovide maintenance, repair, overhaul withacceptance expected in the second announced in 2015, from three to two, was andupgrade services to support a range of halfof 2017. completed during the year.
system components on the F-35 Lightning II aircraft.
Our scope of work involves global Agreement has been reached with the Saudi We have continued to provide in-service sustainment services for life support Arabian government for BAE Systems to support to the Navys two Landing Helicopter components and sustainment services for continue to provide support services to the Docks under a four-year support contract theSouth Pacific region across avionics and Royal Saudi Air Force and Royal Saudi Naval awarded in 2014.
Final acceptance of these digital mission systems andelectrical systems Forces under the Saudi British Defence vessels is scheduled in 2017. components.
This award follows our Co-operation Programme for a further five The fifth Anzac Class frigate to bemodernised selection, in 2015, as the Pacific regional years, against which we have booked initial under the current Anti-Ship Missile Defence primecontractor to undertake airframe order intake in 2016.
Discussions with the programme, HMAS Parramatta, has maintenance, repair, overhaul and upgrade.
UKgovernment and the Saudi Arabian completed final sea trials and has been customer are under way to define thedetails In May, the Royal Australian Air Force accepted into service by the Commonwealth.
celebrated its Hawk aircraft fleet achieving Completion of the upgrade programme is thesignificant milestone of more than Under the planned reorganisation of our expected in 2017.
We support the fleet portfolio of interests in a number of industrial In April, the Australian government signed asthe systems integrator, including logistics, companies in Saudi Arabia, Riyadh Wings anagreement for the sustainment and maintenance, repair, overhaul and upgrade.
Aviation Academy LLC has acquired a 4.1% upgrade of the Anzac Class frigates under the From July, our scope of work was expanded shareholding in a Group subsidiary, Overhaul Warship Asset Management Alliance.
We are toinclude operational maintenance, a and Maintenance Company, and is expected a significant participant and the agreement reflection of this successful long-term to acquire a further interest up to a maximum underpins our engineering and complex partnering arrangement.
The reorganisation supports our project management capabilities.
Wewere strategy to expand the customer base of In 2016, the government announced that awarded contracts totalling A$430m 252m ourIn-Kingdom Industrial Participation wewere one of two tenderers successfully in the year.
programme, promoting training, development down-selected on the Land 400 Phase 2 and employment opportunities in line with In April, the Australian government announced Combat Reconnaissance Vehicle programme.
Vision 2030. that our Type 26 Global Combat Ship had We are engaged in discussions with the been shortlisted as one of three designs for The Saudi Arabian In-Kingdom Industrial Australian government regarding the forward itsSEA 5000 Future Frigate programme and, Participation programme continues to make delivery schedule for the delayed JP 2008 in August, a contract was signed with the progress.
During 2016, there has been further Phase 3F programme for enhanced satellite Commonwealth to further refine the design capability and knowledge transfer on the communications services to the Australian aspart of a competitive evaluation process.
Typhoon platform and planning is well Defence Force.
advanced for the transfer of other capabilities and work into our In-Kingdom partner companies.
All of these activities are aligned with our long-term industrialisation strategy, aswell as the Saudi Arabian governments National Transformation Plan and Vision 2030.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 53 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Oman The UK Ministry of Defence awarded Looking forward The Oman Typhoon and Hawk aircraft MBDAacontract for additional Common programme, being undertaken by Platforms Anti-air Modular Missiles to support its land In the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, &Services UK, is on track for commencement requirements.
following agreement of the budget of aircraft deliveries in 2017.
Separately, we The Meteor Beyond Visual Range Air-to-Air for the next five years of the Saudi continue to fulfil our legacy industrial Missile achieved its most significant milestone British Defence Co-operation participation obligations in Oman through to date during the Farnborough International delivery of an agreed training and knowledge Programme, we expect to sustain Airshow in 2016 when it was officially transfer programme.
ourlong-term presence through declared in operational service on Swedish MBDA AirForce Gripen JAS 39 combat jets.
delivering current programmes, In 2015, the German government announced further industrialisation and Two significant contracts were signed its intention to acquire a ground-based air withQatar, including the supply of Aster developing new business in support defence system based upon the Medium VLMica air defence systems and the Exocet of the Saudi military forces.
We are Extended Air Defence System missile defence MM40 Block 3 anti-ship missile for the system being developed by MBDA in focused on our ongoing commitment Navalsurface fleet, as well as a Missile partnership with Lockheed Martin.
MBDA to support the national objectives of CoastalDefence System.
hasnow submitted its proposal for the local skills and technology, increasing development of this system.
MBDA has secured an aircraft weapons employment and developing an package contract from India and continues In a significant development for the Aster topursue weapons package orders as part indigenous defence industry, and will surface-to-air missile family, France and Italy ofexport contracts for Typhoon and other structure our business and portfolio have jointly launched development of the aircraft platforms.
Aster 30 Block 1 NT New Technologies missile of interests in Saudi Arabia to meet which will provide enhanced capabilities this long-term strategy.
against the ballistic missile threat.
In Australia, the business is now MBDA is responsible for the delivery of structured around long-term themajority of the UKs complex weapons requirements.
During the year, a number sustainment and upgrade activities ofcontracts have been awarded to MBDA, and we are progressing further including a contract tosupply Advanced opportunities with the Australian Short-Range Air-to-Air Missiles ASRAAM for government to provide leading F-35 Lightning II aircraft, a development phase contract for SPEAR 3 a multi-purpose stand-off defence build and support capabilities.
strike weapon for the F-35 Lightning II aircraft, MBDA has a strong order book and a demonstration and manufacture contract thatunderpins future growth built for the supply of the Sea Ceptor air defence weapon system for the Type 26 frigate.
onthe effective partnerships it hasestablished with its domestic customers and recent exportsuccess.
The business will lookto further this domestic and export strategy in the air, maritime and land domains.
