BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 34 Segmental performance Electronic Systems 1 Electronic Systems, with 13,800 employees, comprises the Our strategy in action Continue to grow our electronic USand UKbased electronics activities, including electronic systems business warfare systems, electrooptical sensors, military and Increasing production of commercial digital engine and flight controls, nextgeneration electronic warfare systems military communications systems and data links, persistent In September, we delivered the surveillance capabilities, and hybrid electric drive systems.
250thelectronic warfare suite for theF-35 Lightning II combat aircraft programme, the worlds largest Electronic Combat includes the Electronic Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance defenceprogramme.
The advanced Protection, Electronic Warfare and Electronic addresses the market for actionable technology helps pilots to identify, Attack product lines, and provides a depth intelligence through innovative technical monitor, analyse and respond to ofcapability in integrated electromagnetic solutions for airborne persistent surveillance, potentialthreats.
systems for airborne applications, mission identification systems, signals intelligence, planning and battle management solutions, underwater and surface warfare solutions, Driven by growth in our electronic secure networked communications and and space products.
warfare programmes, the business is navigation systems, radio frequency making an investment of more than Controls & Avionics addresses the military communication and data links.
$100m 81m in our Ramp 2 Rate andcommercial aircraft electronics markets, initiative to improve our efficiency Survivability, Targeting & Sensing exploits including fly-by-wire flight controls, full andcapacity in defence electronics theelectro-optical and infrared spectrum authority digital engine controls, flight deck production over the next decade.
This toprovide leading threat warning and systems, cabin management systems and investment includes the construction  systems, precision mission computers.
ofan Electronic Warfare Integrated guidance and seeker solutions, advanced Power & Propulsion Solutions delivers Manufacturing Centre, modernised targeting solutions, head-up displays and electricpropulsion and power management withadvanced manufacturing state-of-the-art tactical imaging systems.
performance, with innovative products capabilities in robotics and automation.
andsolutions that advance vehicle mobility, efficiency and capability in the transit, military, marine and rail markets.
Including share of equity accounted investments.
Re-presented for the transfer of the GEOINT-ISR Geospatial Intelligence Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance business from Cyber & Intelligence to Electronic Systems.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 35 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Operational and strategic highlights Sales by domain % Delivered the 250th electronic warfare suite for the F-35 Lightning II Land combat aircraft programme Air 17% Initiated our Ramp 2 Rate capital investment strategy to support Maritime 8 1% growthin defence electronics production 2% Awarded a $146m 118m engineering and manufacturing developmentcontract for the USAir Forces Eagle Passive Active WarningSurvivability System Signed a three-year Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity contract forAdvanced Precision Kill Weapon System APKWS Full-Rate Production Lots5to 7, worth up to $600m 486m Awarded a $249m 201m contract modification on the Common Missile Warning System programme Sales by line of business % Awarded a contract on the US Armys Family of Weapon Sights CrewServed programme worth up to $384m 311m Controls & Avionics Electronic Power & Propulsion Combat Solutions Integration of the GEOINT-ISR business transferred from Cyber 3 2% &Intelligence completed 27% Financial performance Financial performance measures Financial performance 2 asdefined by the Group measures defined in IFRS 3 3 2016 2015 2016 2015 Sales KPI 3,282m 2,922m Revenue 3,282m 2,922m Underlying EBITA KPI 494m 437m Operating profit 474m 419m Intelligence, Survivability, Return on sales 15.1% 15.0% Return on revenue 14.4% 14.3% Surveillance Targeting & Sensing & Reconnaissance Operating business Cash flow from KPI 20% cash flow 469m 370m operating activities 568m 445m 21% 1 Order intake KPI 3,322m 2,799m 1 Order backlog 5.2bn 4.4bn Sales analysis: Sales compared with 2015 were almost unchanged at $4.4bn 3.3bn.
The commercial Defence and commercial % areas of the business now amount to 24%, having seen sales growth in the year of Commercial Defence 11%primarily in HybriDrive systems.
On the defence side, sales were slightly down ontiming of production deliveries on the Digital Electronic Warfare System and other 24% 76% electronic warfare programmes.
The return on sales achieved of 15.1% 2015 15.0% was largely from continued strongprogramme execution and risk retirement.
Cash conversion of underlying EBITA for the year was at 97%, excluding pension deficitfunding.
1 Order backlog was sustained at $6.5bn 5.2bn benefiting from awards for F-35Lightning II electronic warfare systems, the F-15 Eagle Passive Active Warning Survivability System programme and APKWS.
P0607 Alternative performance measure definitions BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 36 Segmental performance Electronic Systems Operational performance Survivability, Targeting & Sensing On the Enhanced Night Vision Goggle III Our Advanced Precision Kill Weapon System andFamily of Weapon Sights Individual Electronic Combat APKWS laser-guided rocket is experiencing programme, we completed the first round BAE Systems has sustained its leadership growing demand, with deliveries exceeding ofqualification and reliability testing in position in the US electronic warfare and 8,000 units through 2016.
In addition to September under a five-year, $434m communications and navigation markets.
expanding its use in the US military, the 351m Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Production is ramping up across a system is generating strong international Quantitycontract.
Low-Rate Initial attention, with 16 nations expressing Production hardware deliveries on the F-35 On the US Armys Family of Weapon Sights interest.
In October, the US Navy awarded Lightning II programme continue with Lot 9 Crew Served programme, we were awarded usathree-year Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite and 10 deliveries.
We have received initial aseven-year contract with a potential value Quantity contract for Full-Rate Production funding for Lot 11 with deliveries expected ofup to $384m 311m in September.
The Lots5 to 7 worth up to $600m 486m tocommence in 2018. sight is designed to allow soldiers to acquire thatcould increase production to 10,000 and engage targets at extended range.
The business is under contracts, from unitsperyear.
Boeingand Warner Robins Air Logistics We continue to leverage our technology and We continue to perform well on the Terminal Complex, totalling more than $1.0bn 0.8bn engineering capabilities, and the LiteHUD High-Altitude Area Defence programme, to install the Digital Electronic Warfare System head-up display has been selected by critical delivering over 90 seekers in 2016 following on84 new F-15 aircraft, upgrade 70 existing launch customers for integration on multiple the $80m 65m contract received for Lots 7 F-15 aircraft, and provide spare units and platforms.
modules for an international customer.
The The next-generation Striker II helmet-mounted programme remains on schedule.
On the Common Missile Warning System display has completed the second phase of programme, the business was awarded a In 2015, we were selected by Boeing to flight trials to integrate the systems technology $249m 201m Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite develop and manufacture the next-generation with the Typhoon combat aircraft.
Quantity contract modification to fulfil digital electronic warfare system for the increased demand from our customers, the USAirForces Eagle Passive Active Warning USArmy and allied nations, extending the Survivability System programme to upgrade current five-year contract by two years.
In 2016, we received the engineering and manufacturing development contract, worth $146m 118m, as a follow-on to the technology maturation Our strategy in action and risk reduction phase.
The programme Continue to grow our electronic could be worth more than $1.0bn 0.8bn systems business over its life.
Electronic Systems Advanced Precision In January 2017, BAE Systems was awarded Growing demand KillWeapon System APKWS supports a$67m 54m modification to exercise the fixed and rotary-wing platforms, and is the option on a previously awarded contract for onlyUSgovernment programme of record for APKWS an electronic warfare system for the US Air for 2.75-inch guided rockets.
Offering a Force Special Operations Commands fleet low-cost surgical strike capability, the laserguided ofC-130J aircraft.
The award is currently systemwas successfully used in theatre underprotest with the Government onthe US Air Force F-16 and A-10 aircraft, Accountability Office.
rockets aswell as the US Marine Corps AV-8B Harrier in2016.
We were awarded a Due to the sensitive nature of electronic contractworth up to $600m 486m to combat systems and technology, many of meetthe needs of the US Navy, Marine ourprogrammes are classified.
As a world Corps, Army and Air Force, and a growing leader in electronic warfare, communications number of allied nations.
and navigation solutions, the business continues to experience growth in these increasingly important areas.
com BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 37 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance FADEC Alliance, a joint venture between Looking forward In 2016, Cyber & Intelligences Geospatial FADEC International the Groups joint venture Intelligence Intelligence, Surveillance and with Safran Electronics & Defense and In the US, following the two-year Reconnaissance GEOINT-ISR business GEAviation, is now on contract to provide Bipartisan Budget Act signed in transferred to Electronic Systems and was thefull authority digital engine controls 2015, there are signs of a return to merged with the sectors existing Intelligence, FADEC for: the Leap engine on the Airbus growth in defence budgets, with Surveillance & Reconnaissance business.
A320neo, Boeing 737 MAX and Comac C919: the Passport 20 engine on the thenew administration expected Since winning the Geospatial Data Services Bombardier Global 7000 8000: the GE9x tofurther increase defence and Foundational GEOINT Content Management engine on the Boeing 777X: and a new programme in 2014, we have been awarded security spending.
generation of advanced turboprop engines.
orders valued at $170m 138m and the Electronic Systems is well positioned business is meeting all delivery orders to We completed qualification of an active date.
The programme assists US intelligence control side-stick for the Gulfstream G500 to address current and evolving community customers with the development G600 aircraft, with testing nearing completion priority programmes from its of advanced geospatial intelligence data for the Embraer KC-390.
The product will be strongfranchise positions in collection and processing solutions.
the first civil-certified active control side-stick electronic warfare, electro-optics with application across both commercial and We provide signals intelligence capability military markets.
andIntelligence, Surveillance and forthe US Army and other US Department Reconnaissance.
Electronic Systems ofDefense customers and have received On the F-35 Lightning II programme, the incremental funding for additional production business completed Low-Rate Initial Production has a long-standing programme of and a technical refresh of Tactical Signals Lot 9 deliveries of 57 production shipsets, plus research and development, and its Intelligence Payloads for the US Armys spares, of the vehicle management computer focus remains on maintaining a GrayEagle unmanned aircraft, bringing and active inceptor system equipment.
Both diverse portfolio of defence and thetotal contract value to approximately systems are now in production for Lot 10 and $116m 94m.
we expect to be under contract for Lot 11 commercial products and capabilities in2017.
for US and international customers.
The businessis in Full-Rate Production on the US Navys P-8A Poseidon maritime surveillance Power & Propulsion Solutions The business expects to benefit aircraft programme, providing state-of-the-art In 2016, the business delivered more than fromits franchise positions, processing capabilities.
We delivered 18 mission 1,000 hybrid-electric propulsion systems particularly on the F-35 Lightning II computer and display systems in 2016, and totransit agencies around the world and, received a $60m 49m contract for Full-Rate inNovember, achieved the milestone of and F-15 upgrade programmes, Production Lot 4 in December.
having 7,000 hybrid-electric propulsion andits ability to apply innovative systems in service.
Controls & Avionics technology solutions that meet BAE Systems is a major supplier to Boeing Cities including London, Paris, Seattle and defence customers changing forflight controls, and cabin and flight deck Boston are using our hybrid and electric requirements.
Development of the integrated flight drivesystems to save fuel andprevent aviation market, Electronic Systems control electronics and remote electronic CO emissions.
2 unitsfor Boeings next-generation 777X technology innovations are enabling We continued toincrease our global presence aircraft is on schedule, with the Critical Design the business to renew long-standing with SolarisBus & Coach in Poland offering Reviews for all system components complete our hybrid-electric system on its buses customer positions and to compete and systems integration testing in progress.
On the Boeing 737 MAX aircraft, flight testing of our spoiler controls, flight decksystems andutilities is progressing well, with the first production hardware delivered in November.
The Bombardier C Series aircraft entered service equipped with BAE Systems flight control electronics.
