BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 38 Segmental performance Cyber & Intelligence 1 Cyber & Intelligence, with 11,800 employees, comprises Our strategy in action Accelerate the growth of our cyber, theUSbased Intelligence & Security business and intelligence and security business UKheadquartered Applied Intelligence business, and Strategic alliances to coversthe Groups cyber security, secure government, drivecyber growth andcommercial and financial security activities.
We are accelerating the growth of ourcyber security business through Intelligence & Security delivers a broad Applied Intelligence provides data thecreation of strategic alliances with range of services to the US military and intelligence solutions which enable organisations in adjacent markets.
governments and commercial organisations Ouralliance partners include to defend against national-scale threats, telecommunications providers Global Analysis & Operations provides protect their networks and data against Vodafoneand Telefonica, and CSC innovative, mission-enabling analytic solutions sophisticated attacks and operate successfully inthe IT services industry.
and support to the US government.
Its solutions are delivered as We offer our technology, consultancy Integrated Electronics & Warfare Systems licensed technologies,  and managed security services to our provides systems engineering, integration subscriptions, through outsourced managed partners and their customers.
This and through-life support services for services, and via consulting and systems enables us to monitor their networks for USdefence and coalition partner customers.
attempted data breaches and malware IT Solutions delivers operational secure Commercial Solutions provides cyber to identify and respond to suspicious solutions that enable US national security defence, counter-fraud and financial activity, keeping their networks safe.
customers to perform operations and compliance products to commercial protect their data and networks.
UK Services delivers cyber security, data analytics, and digital transformation consulting and systems integration services to national security, government and large enterprises in the UK.
International Services & Solutions provides cyber intelligence and defence solutions to international government agencies and communications service providers.
Including share of equity accounted investments.
Re-presented for the transfer of the GEOINT-ISR Geospatial Intelligence Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance business from Cyber & Intelligence to Electronic Systems.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 39 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Operational and strategic highlights Sales by business % Intelligence & Security Applied Intelligence Intelligence & Security Established prime positions under a five-year imagery analysis, training 29% 71% and support contract worth an estimated $350m 283m Awarded a five-year contract valued atup to $368m 298m to integrate weapon systems aboard US andUK submarines Awarded task orders totalling more than $240m 194m to provide information technology services to the US government Applied Intelligence Second year of expanded investment in product development, and sales and marketing driving continued growth in commercial cyber security and counter-fraud Sales analysis: Intelligence & Security % Business Defence marketing campaign is generating new leads in the Global Analysis IT Solutions commercial business & Operations 25% 17% Continued shift towards multi-year managed services and subscriptionbased, cloud-delivered products in the commercial sector Government Good execution of cyber defence and intelligence programmes for 100% UKand international government customers Financial performance Financial performance measures Financial performance 2 asdefined by the Group measures defined in IFRS Integrated Electronics 3 3 2016 2015 2016 2015 & Warfare Systems Sales KPI 1,778m 1,564m Revenue 1,778m 1,564m 58% Underlying EBITA KPI 90m 104m Operating profit loss 59m 31 m Return on sales 5.1% 6.6% Return on revenue 3.3% 2.0 % Operating business Sales analysis: Applied Intelligence % KPI cash flow 83m 46m Cash flow from operating activities 106m 70m 1 Order intake KPI 1,885m 1,753m International Services & Solutions 1 Order backlog 2.4bn 2.2bn Commercial Solutions 24% 32% In aggregate, sales were marginally higher at $2.4bn 1.8bn.
The Intelligence & Security business saw a2%increase largely in the area of provision of managed services to the Government intelligence community.
Growth in the Applied Intelligence business was at 11%, security benefiting from increases in the Commercial Solutions and UK Services divisions.
40% The return on sales achieved was 5.1% 2015 6.6%.
Higher levels of costs expensed Commercial inthe Applied Intelligence business, together with delays in securing software licence 60% sales, meant that there was a loss recorded in the business of 19m.
In the year, the totalcost base of the business labour and overheads amounted to more than 480m, allof which was expensed through the income statement.
UK Services There was an operating loss in the prior year due to the impairment of goodwill in 44% theIntelligence & Securitybusiness reflecting lower business growth assumptions.
Cash conversion of underlying EBITA for the year was in excess of 100%, excluding pensiondeficit funding.
1 In aggregate, order backlog reduced to $3.0bn 2.4bn.
Order backlog in the Intelligence & Security business was 5% lower on trading out of certain longer-term contracts.
In the Applied Intelligence business, order backlog increased by 9% over theyear driven mainly by UK government services and commercial awards.
P0607 Alternative performance measure definitions BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 40 Segmental performance Cyber & Intelligence Operational performance Our strategy in action Intelligence & Security Accelerate the growth of our cyber, Global Analysis & Operations intelligence and security business In Full-Motion Video and Intelligence, Under a partnership with Fujitsu of Japan, Surveillance and Reconnaissance analysis, International our cyber security engineers developed wehave more than 500 analysts sustaining anew set of tools to enable and improve mission-critical activities globally.
These Cyber Threat Intelligence CTI sharing cyber defence security-cleared analysts are currently acrossnational and organisational executing on programmes with a combined boundaries.
This is one of the first times value of more than $400m 324m.
partnering actual fused intelligence has been shared Re-compete awards for many of these between international companies.
Our programmes are being awarded under a new unique approach supports the introduction Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity contract.
of machine learning techniques enabling We have established a prime position on theautomation of policy enforcement twoof the three functional areas under this toensure CTI sharing complies with contract, worth an estimated $350m 283m requirements related to sensitive over fiveyears, which could enable usto information.
This innovative project has expand our work in motion-imagery analysis, resulted in a key cyber defence discriminator analytic training, multi-media support and that we can leverage in pursuit of future research.
Award of a third functional area cyber defence opportunities with the under this contract is expected in 2017.
We are currently performing under the first More online year of a five-year contract with an estimated baesystems.
com ceiling value of $75m 61m to provide the USArmy with geospatial intelligence data analysis support services and the business isfulfilling the third year of a five-year We continued to support the US Navys IT Solutions contractworth up to $143m 116m to Spaceand Naval Warfare Systems Center We are executing the first of several task  analysis services Atlantic, to integrate new C4I Command, orders to provide IT services to high-priority tothe US government.
Control, Communications, Computers and USgovernment agencies under a ten-year, Intelligence equipment on approximately single-award Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Integrated Electronics & Warfare Systems 6,000 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected Quantity contract awarded in 2015 with a We have been awarded a five-year, sole-source vehicles over a five-year period, with more potential value of more than $1.0bn 0.8bn, contract worth up to $368m 298m by the than 2,000 vehicles serviced in 2016. under which task orders totalling approximately USNavy to assist with system integration and $240m 194m have beenawarded to date.
provide test engineering services and special We were awarded a two-year, $16m 13m test equipment for weapons systems on board task order by the US Armys Space and Missile Under the Enhanced Solutions for the US Ohio and UK Vanguard Class submarines.
Defense Command Army Strategic Command Information Technology Enterprise e-SITE to continue the development of specialised Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity contract Other US Navy awards in the year include: cyber vulnerability assessment tools to harden for the Defense Intelligence Agency, we were afive-year contract worth up to $86m and protect space assets.
We also secured awarded a five-year, $58m 47m re-compete 70m to provide management, engineering, atwo-year, $13m 11m task order tobuild task order to continue designing, developing, maintenance andIT support services for critical aCyber Warrior Training Capability in support engineering, installing and sustaining mission equipment and combat services used of the Missile Defense Agency.
by Naval Sea Systems Command: a two-year, $73m 59m contract from the Naval Air Under the US Air Forces Intercontinental The US Air Force Research Laboratory Warfare Center Aircraft Division to provide Ballistic Missile Integration Support Contractor awarded the business a five-year contract lifecycle support services for communications programme, we were awarded more than worth up to $49m 40m to develop, deploy and electronics equipment and subsystems: $190m 154m in additional engineering and maintain cross-domain solutions for and a five-year, $52m 42m contract to scope change proposals in 2016, which has safeguarding the sharing of sensitive provide essential maintenance and testing resulted in the total contract lifecycle value information between government networks.
support for various air traffic control and reaching nearly $900m 728m since we landing systems.
began managing the programme in 2013.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 41 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Applied Intelligence UK Services Looking forward The business has continued to invest in The business has maintained its position as commercial cyber security and counter-fraud akey supplier to national security agencies Intelligence & Security product development, and sales and marketing inthe UK, with a number of new framework Following a period of market to drive revenue growth.
A Business Defence agreements and contract wins, including contraction in the US government marketing campaign, launched initially in the follow-on work for existing customer services sector, the Group believes US, is generating new leads in the commercial programmes.
We have continued to build our the outlook is now stable with Demand for cyber security services from large cyber skills and engineering capabilities market conditions remaining enterprises has continued, with a two-year internationally.
During the year, we opened cyber security support contract in the highlycompetitive.
aNerve Centre in Malaysia, a state-of-the-art transport sector and the extension of a team facility that supports our global cyber security, The Intelligence & Security business delivering cyber security advisory services for anti-financial crime and threat intelligence aUK telecommunications operator.
has continued to reduce costs to capabilities.
address government budget The data and digital transformation business Commercial Solutions continues to grow, with new contracts pressures, whilst pursuing growth The business continues to shift towards covering a team delivering aspects of IT opportunities, particularly in critical, moremulti-year managed services and transformational change in HMRevenue subscription-based, cloud-delivered products.
&Customs to the final quarter of 2017 During the year, an enhanced Managed andcollaboration in the Digital Railway Applied Intelligence Security Services offering to enterprise-class programme helping to develop an industry Investment continues in product customers was launched in the US, building architecture and capability development on the success of our existing mid-market development, sales and marketing, framework for the UK rail industry.
We have seen growth in managed and building cyber and engineering wona number of service integration and security services through partnerships with management advisory contracts in central capabilities in the UK and regional communications service providers government departments.
inthe UK and North America.
International Services & Solutions The business continues to sell licensed The business continues to migrate We have seen continued demand in onpremise software products, with awards towards a multi-year managed Asia-Pacific, Europe and the Middle East in the year including a pilot with a major UK forprotection against national threats.
service and subscription-based financial institution for the CyberReveal Apilotadvanced cyber threat analytics model, providing enhanced threat analytics solution, which defends andinvestigation solution on a national largeenterprises against sophisticated predictability of revenues, and telecommunications network in Asia was cyber-attacks.
growing further the order backlog successfully implemented during the year We have continued to extend our position in andthere has been growth in business and pipeline of opportunities from counter-fraud and financial compliance with withtop-tier telecommunications providers commercial and government further sales of multi-year service offerings, inAustralia.
customers in North America, Europe, including a five-year contractto provide a The latest release of the IntelligenceReveal Asia-Pacific and the Middle East.
customised NetReveal counter-fraud analytics all-source analysis solution, which enables solution for HMRevenue & Customs in the customers to view a single, unified intelligence UKand the extension of the managed fraud picture, has supported the implementation detection service for the Insurance Fraud ofa large programme for a strategic law Bureau in the UK to 2020.
The business was enforcement customer.
We have also won appointed by SWIFT, the worlds leading acontract to build a technology provider of secure financial messaging demonstratorin the UK that allows users services, to join its new Customer Security tomove information between security Intelligence team and has announced an domains without compromising Incident Response partnership with Allianz confidentiality, integrity or availability.
