BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 46 Segmental performance Platforms & Services UK 1 Platforms & Services UK, with 30,100 employees, Our strategy in action Continuously improve efficiency comprisestheGroups UK-based air, maritime, land and competitiveness andshared servicesactivities.
UK Typhoon support contract Military Air & Information includes Land UK provides combat vehicle programmes for the production of upgradesand support to the British Army In July, we announced an innovative Typhoon combat and Hawk trainer aircraft, and international customers, and designs, ten-year partnership arrangement, F-35 Lightning II manufacture and support, develops and manufactures a comprehensive expected to be worth at least 2.1bn, support and upgrades for Typhoon, Tornado range of munitions productsservicing its tosupport the Royal Air Forces fleet and Hawk aircraft, and development of main customer, theUK Ministry of Defence, ofTyphoon combat aircraft.
Working next-generation Unmanned Air Systems as well as international customers.
The closely with the Royal Air Force, we anddefence information systems.
business also develops and manufactures aimto substantially reduce current cased-telescoped weapons through its support and maintenance cost.
Under Maritime programmes include the CTAInternational joint venture.
the terms of the arrangement, there construction of two Queen Elizabeth ispotential for a proportion of these Classaircraft carriers, five River Class savings to be reinvested to develop Offshore Patrol Vessels and seven Astute newcapabilities for the aircraft.
Class submarines for the Royal Navy, thedesign and production of the Dreadnought Class submarine and Type26frigate, and in-service support, including the five-year contract secured in2014 for the delivery of services at HMNaval Base, Portsmouth.
Including share of equity accounted investments.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 47 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Operational and strategic highlights Sales by domain % 1.0bn of orders for our workshare on 28 Typhoon aircraft forKuwait Air Land Partnership arrangement for support to the UK Typhoon fleet expected 58% 4% to be worth at least 2.1bn over a ten-year period F-35 Lightning II orders worth 637m, including Lot 10 production and construction of engineering and training facilities in the UK, and the UK selected as European regional avionics and component repair hub 472m extension to the Type 26 frigate demonstration phase contract andUK government commitment to manufacture eight ships 287m contract awarded for two additional Offshore Patrol Vessels, Maritime including support services for the five-ship programme 38% Reactor core successfully loaded on the fourth Astute Class submarine 1.3bn of funding received for Dreadnought Class submarine design, initial manufacture, materials and facilities investment Sales by line of business % Down-selected as one of two contenders for the Challenger 2 Life Military Air & Information Extension Programme Land UK 61% 4% 445m order on the Munitions Acquisition SupplySolution partnering agreement for five years of supply Financial performance Financial performance measures Financial performance 2 asdefined by the Group measures defined in IFRS 2016 2015 2016 2015 Sales KPI 7,806m 7,405m Revenue 7,699m 7,319m Maritime Underlying EBITA KPI 810m 721m Operating profit 780m 756m 35% Return on sales 10.4% 9.7% Return on revenue 10.1% 10.3% Operating business Cash flow from KPI cash flow 199m 220m operating activities 385m 289m Sales analysis: Platforms and services % 1 Order intake KPI 8,024m 4,944m 1 Services Platforms Order backlog 17.8bn 17.8bn 35% 65% The years sales of 7.8bn were 5% higher than 2015.
The increase came from the expected ramp up on F-35 Lightning II deliveries and Saudi trainer aircraft.
Activity and milestone performance on the submarine programmes was ahead of plan.
There was also a higher level of intercompany activity under the Saudi support contracts which is eliminated at the Group level.
Cash performance was better than expected, with an operating business cash inflow of199m 2015 220m.
Consumption of customer advances occurred on the Omani, Saudi and European Typhoon contracts, albeit some early receipts on the Omani contractmitigated that to a limited extent.
1 Order backlog was stable at 17.8bn 2015 17.8bn.
Sales trading on the Typhoon aircraft and aircraft carrier programmes was replaced by the ten-year UK Typhoon support award and Kuwait Typhoon subcontract.
P0607 Alternative performance measure definitions BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 48 Segmental performance Platforms & Services UK Operational performance Support continues to be provided to users Maritime ofHawk trainer aircraft around the world.
On the aircraft carrier programme, good Military Air & Information Along-term support contract for the Royal Air progress has been made on commissioning In the year, 16 Typhoon aircraft were delivered Forces UK fleet of Hawk fast jet trainer aircraft HMS Queen Elizabeths key systems and the from the UK final assembly facility, of which was announced in the year and we continue business is working with the Ministry of 11 were delivered to Saudi Arabia.
Cumulative to deliver against all contractual milestones.
Defence to prepare the support solution aircraft deliveries to the UK, Germany, Italy inadvance of her expected arrival at and Spain total 232 of the contracted 236 In 2016, the Indian Navy and Air Force received HMNavalBase, Portsmouth, in 2017.
Tranche 2 aircraft and 33 of the contracted three and ten Hawk aircraft, respectively, OnHMSPrince of Wales, all of the blocks 88Tranche 3 aircraft.
completing the delivery of all 57 aircraft built arenow assembled, with large volume under licence by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited The Oman Typhoon and Hawk aircraft installation activities under way.
Negotiations continue with HAL for the programme is on track for commencement onthe aircraft carriers are expected to supply of 32 aircraft kit sets which will result ofdeliveries in 2017. complete in 2017 and 2019, respectively.
inaircraft built under licence by HAL for the Orders totalling 1.0bn have been received Indian Air Force and Indian Navy.
In preparation for the manufacturing contract viaEurofighter from our Italian Eurofighter for the Type 26 frigate, a 472m extension In March, we welcomed the announcement partner, Leonardo, for BAE Systems share of tothe demonstration phase contract was by the UK and French governments of a 2bn work onthe 28 Typhoon aircraft for Kuwait secured in March, covering detailed design 1.7bn programme to build operationally covering airframe manufacture, support, activities and enabling us to subcontract for representative unmanned combat air system capability upgrade and Electronically Scanned key equipment with companies throughout demonstrators.
This will secure highly-skilled E-Scan radar integration work.
The engineering design engineering jobs and the first phase is programme continues to progress to enable Typhoons capabilities continue to be anticipated to commence in 2018. commencement of manufacture of the first enhanced withthe ongoing integration The UK technology programme for the air ship in 2017.
The programme currently oftheCaptor E-Scan radar and the Storm employs more than 1,000 staff.
sector continues to progress with a successful Shadow, Meteor and Brimstone 2 missiles set of demonstrations in 2016 and further aspart of European capability delivery Under a heads of terms signed in November, order intake has been received to develop programmes.
Development towards the BAE Systems and the Ministry of Defence critical systems and capabilities for future RoyalAir Force Centurion standard continues, reached agreement in principle on the award unmanned systems and other aircraft.
which will enable transition of capability from of a contract reflecting the governments Tornado to Typhoon.
intention to build eight Type 26 frigates on In Turkey, following a pre-contract study phase theClyde and a further two River Class between BAE Systems and Turkish Aerospace We have continued to support our UK and Offshore Patrol Vessels.
The Offshore Patrol Industries, we have signed a heads of European customers Typhoon and Tornado Vessels were contracted in December for agreement to collaborate on the first design aircraft and their operational commitments.
287m, including support services for the and development phase of an indigenous Aten-year partnership arrangement with five-ship programme.
fifth-generation fighter jet for the Turkish Air theMinistry of Defence to support the UK Force.
When on contract, this will have a value Typhoon fleet, expected to be worth at in excess of 100m.
On the F-35 Lightning II programme, we Our strategy in action completed delivery of 55 aft fuselage Leverage our technology assemblies for the Low-Rate Initial Production and engineering capabilities Lot 9 and 10 contracts.
Additional orders In 2016, we successfully demonstrated werereceived for Lot 10 during the year, Developing unmanned boat technology and a bespoke worth 168m, with full contract award transportable command and control expected in 2017 following agreement of system.
A modified Pacific Class 950 Rigid thefront-end contract between Lockheed unmanned boat Inflatable Boat tookpart in the Royal Navys Martin and the US government.
The proposal Unmanned Warrior naval exercise.
This for Lot11 has been submitted to Lockheed technology system is capable of speeds up to 47 knots Martinin advance of negotiations expected and would allow longer duration operations tocomplete in 2017.
A 118m contract to than manned boats.
Themulti-role vessel build engineering and training facilities at could carry out reconnaissance and remote RAFMarham in Norfolk, UK, has been surveillance operations while keeping sailors secured, with work scheduled to be completed out of harms way.
in 2018 in readiness for the arrival of the UKs first F-35 Lightning II aircraft.
In November, the The technology will enable end-to-end F-35 Joint Programme Office announced that command and control of unmanned vehicles it had chosen the UK as a major repair hub for and, together with the unmanned boat the maintenance, repair, overhaul and upgrade technology, can track, monitor and intercept of F-35 Lightning II avionics and components, threats as they happen.
This supports during the period 2021 to 2025 on a global decision-making and helps to keep Royal basis and from 2025 onwards for the More online Navy personnel safe during deployment.
com BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 49 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Progress has been maintained on the Land UK Looking forward manufacture of the first three Offshore The business provides ongoing support PatrolVessels, FORTH, MEDWAY and TRENT.
 armoured vehicles Platforms & Services UK has The programme supports shipbuilding skills andbridging systems, with orders of 56m anorder backlog of long-term and provides a bridge for the business received in the year.
In the UK, the business committed programmes and an between the aircraft carrier programme has been down-selected as one of two enduring support business.
The andmanufacture of the Type 26 frigate.
contenders to deliver the first stage of the Challenger 2 Life Extension Programme and, Strategic Defence and Security Under the Maritime Support Delivery in the overseas market, the business secured Review announced in November Framework contract, in place until March amulti-year contract for support and 2019, we provide services at HM Naval Base, 2015 provided clarity, continuity maintenance to the Latvian fleet of Combat Portsmouth, and support to half of the Royal andstability for the UK contracted Vehicle Reconnaissance Tracked vehicles Navys surface fleet.
Achievement of target purchased from the UK Ministry of Defence.
business and has been consistently cost remains on track.
implemented through long-term The first 29 of 515 40mm cased-telescopic BAE Systems manages the support, cannons were delivered to the Ministry of contract awards and commitments.
maintenance and upgrade of the Royal Navys Defence by CTA International, a 50% joint fleet of Type 45 destroyers.
In Military Air & Information, sales venture between BAE Systems and Nexter.
Progress continues on the 270m Spearfish areunderpinned by Typhoon and The business continues to provide UK and torpedo upgrade demonstration and F-35 Lightning II aircraft production international customers with a full range of manufacture phases, with the demonstration light and heavy munitions.
We have concluded and in-service support.
There are phase currently forecast to complete in 2019. pricing negotiations on our 15-year Munitions opportunities to secure further The first three of seven Astute Class Acquisition Supply Solution partnering Typhoon export sales building on submarines are in operational service with agreement with the Ministry of Defence, thepurchase of 28 aircraft by Kuwait.
theRoyal Navy, with the reactor core load on worth 445m.
boat four completed in the second half of the In Maritime, sales are underpinned year.
Further funding of 228m for the sixth bythe design and subsequent and seventh boats was received in the year.
manufacture of the Type 26 frigate Negotiations for full pricing of the sixth and seventh boats have commenced.
and long-term contracts on QueenElizabeth Class aircraft The Ministry of Defence, BAE Systems and Rolls-Royce have signed a heads of terms to set carriers, River Class Offshore Patrol up a Dreadnought Build Alliance documenting Vessels, and Astute and Dreadnought the UK government and industrys commitment Class submarines.
The through-life to the delivery of the Dreadnought Class support of existing and new submarine programme, the replacement for the Royal Navys Vanguard Class submarine platforms, together with their fleet, and setting out an organisational and associated command and combat managerial structure and series of commercial systems, provides a sustainable principles necessary to deliver it.
business in technical services and Functional and spatial design continues to mid-life upgrades.
advance on the Dreadnought Class submarine.
During 2016, 1.3bn of funding was received The Land UK business is underpinned for continued design, initial manufacture by the 15-year Munitions Acquisition ofthe first boat, material commitment and Supply Solution partnering facilities investment.
Preparations for the manufacture of Dreadnought include a agreement with the Ministry of majorprogramme of building works at the Defence secured in 2008 and Barrow site, with contracts in place totalling continues to pursue upgrade more than 300m.
The UK governments programmes with a focus on the commitment to the Dreadnought programme was endorsed by Parliament during the year.
