BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 23 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Our technology Technology Protecting our investment in new technologies We have developed some isimportant andwe have a portfolio of Our customers use our advanced defence ofthe worlds most innovative patents and patent applications covering technology toprotect people and national approximately 2,000 inventions internationally.
security, and keep critical information and technologies and continue infrastructure secure.
We are constantly Focus toinvest in research and looking to advance our technology, searching Areas of focus include electronic warfare, for new ways to provide our customers with a development.
platform protection, defence and commercial competitive edge.
This can take many forms: aerospace electronics, intelligent unmanned increased protection, greater precision, systems, augmented reality, cyber security and superior manoeuvrability or speed, enhanced big data analytics.
We also look at emergent awareness of surroundings, superior range new technologies and, in 2015, agreed to and firepower or reduced costs and greater acquire a 20% interest in Reaction Engines efficiency the ability to do more with less.
which is working on a radical new aerospace Investment engine concept with the potential to revolutionise hypersonic flight and the It is vital that we stay ahead of the curve.
Todo this, we embrace disruptive technology and we continue to drive innovation and Partnering investin research and development both on Partnerships are essential if we are to aself-funded basis and in conjunction with unlockthefull potential of new technologies.
Company-funded research We work closely with a range of partners, anddevelopment investment is particularly including governments, other major defence prevalent in areas such as defence and companies, small and medium-sized commercial aerospace electronics, military enterprises, and universities, bringing together aircraft and cyber security, and early-stage the best brains to drive innovation.
research is often further developed with customer funding.
Our research and development programmes aim to improve the capability and performance of our products and services, reduce the cost of production, and provide our customers with efficiency savings and lower through-life costs.
In 2016, we spent 1.4bn 2015 1.3bn on research and development, of which 206m 2015 168m was funded by the Group.
Handheld cognitive electronic 1 warfaretechnology Through a contract with the US Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency DARPA, BAE Systems has developed a new lightweight handheld tactical sensor that soldiers can easily carry and use to better understand radio frequency signals for enhanced situational awareness.
By using cognitive processing algorithms, this technology can quickly detect and identify multiple interfering signals, such as jammers or enemy communication signals, across a wide spectrum and in changing and challenging environments.
During recent field tests, the new technology successfully detected and identified more than ten signal types across awide bandwidth in the presence of interference.
We expect to continue to mature this technology for eventual deployment within our electronic warfare, signals intelligence and tactical communications portfolios.
This material is based upon work supported by the USAir Force and DARPA under contract no.
Any opinions, findings and conclusions orrecommendations expressed in this material are those of BAE Systems and do not necessarily reflect theviews of the US Air Force andDARPA.
