BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 04 Our key products and services BAE Systems has strong, established positions supplying defence equipment, electronics and services, and cyber, intelligence and security solutions for governments.
We also have a growing position in adjacent commercial markets, including avionics and cyber security.
Typhoon manufacture F-35 Lightning II design Unmanned and future air anddevelopment andmanufacture systemcapabilities Manufacture of major Typhoon assemblies Design and manufacture of sub-assemblies, Development of future air system for European partner nations and other including the aft fuselage and empennage, capabilities, including unmanned air export customers.
Aircraft assembly for the in the UK and provision of equipment, systems.
A joint unmanned combat air Royal Air Force, Royal Saudi Air Force and including the electronic warfare suite, system programme with France was Royal Air Force of Oman.
Expansion of the inthe US.
BAE Systems has a significant announced in 2016. capabilities of the aircraft.
workshare on the worlds largest defenceprogramme.
Air support and training Defence avionics equipment Commercial avionics equipment Provision of support to operational Design, manufacture and support of Design, manufacture and support of capability.
We provide maintenance, avionics equipment across a range of avionics equipment across multiple support and training for Typhoon aircraft USand other western military aircraft commercial aircraft platforms, including inservice with the UK and Saudi Arabian programmes, including a leadership engine and flight controls, and cabin and air forces.
Under the Saudi British Defence position in the electronic warfare market.
cockpit systems, together with aftermarket Co-operation Programme, we have supportservices.
BAE Systems is a leading contracts to provide manpower, logistics supplier of engine controls, including for and training, as well as training aircraft, GE engines, and is a major supplier of flight including Hawk, and upgrades to control electronics for many Boeing and Tornadoaircraft in Saudi Arabia.
provide support for Hawk aircraft in servicein 15 countries and have been selected to provide sustainment services forthe F-35 Lightning II aircraft in the Europe and Pacific regions.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 05 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Complex warships Submarines Ship repair and naval support Design and manufacture of two 65,000- Design and manufacture of seven Astute Provision of naval and commercial ship tonne aircraft carriers and five Offshore Class nuclear-powered attack submarines repair and modernisation services in the Patrol Vessels, and design of Type 26 for the Royal Navy.
The first three Astute US, UK and Australia, together with support frigates for the Royal Navy.
The aircraft Class submarines are in operational service to the navies of the US, UK and Australia.
carriers are expected to complete sea trials with the Royal Navy and the remaining four In the US, BAE Systems has facilities located in 2017 and2019, respectively.
The final boat is expected on the east, west and Gulf coasts, as well toenter service towards the middle of the as Hawaii, and has invested in new dry next decade.
Design and manufacture of dock facilities at its San Diego shipyard to four Dreadnought Class nuclear-powered support the US Navys increased focus on submarines to carry the UKs Trident Asia-Pacific operations.
Manufacture of the first Dreadnought Class boat, Dreadnought, commenced in 2016.
Weapon systems and munitions Combat vehicles Cyber security Design and manufacture of naval gun Products and services include: upgrade of Delivery of a broad range of services systems, munitions, torpedoes, radars, US Army tracked vehicles, including Bradley toenable the US military and government naval command andcombat systems, Fighting Vehicles: design and manufacture to recognise, manage and defeat threats.
artillery systems, missile launchers and, of the US Armys M109 self-propelled Support to UK and other government through a37.5% interest in MBDA, howitzer and Armored Multi-Purpose agencies in their intelligence missions.
BAE Systems Vehicle, as well as amphibious vehicles Provision of defence-grade solutions for also manages complex ammunition plant forthe US Marine Corps and international commercial cyber applications worldwide.
operations for the US Army to produce customers: design, manufacture and insensitive munitions and propellant grains.
support of the CV90 combat vehicle forinternational customers: and vehicle upgrade and support to the British Army.
