BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 17 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Our markets Supporting our customers International growth aspirations BAE Systems is the third Our strategy focuses on developing our Following a number of years of defence largestglobal defence corefranchises in defence platforms and spendcontraction, global defence markets services to support customers in our principal arebeginning to stabilise, with a number of company.
markets the US, UK, Kingdom of Saudi nations returning to growth in response to an Arabia and Australia.
These are countries increasingly uncertain security environment.
thatare recognised as having a continued As the changing future character of andsustained commitment to defence and conflictcontinues to shape our customers security, and where we have established requirements, we are responding to their long-term customer relationships.
We play a needs for greater focus on technological key role in these markets and are recognised advancements and greater agility.
Our as being a significant contributor to their international footprint and capabilities provide defence industrial capabilities.
us with the ability to deliver new solutions We have a strong position in the US through andservices across geographical borders and our Special Security Agreement and, as the across domains, as demonstrated in key largest defence contractor in the UK, we have programmes such as F-35 Lightning II a unique position amongst defence players.
Our US and UK capabilities provide us with theability to leverage intellectual property andcapabilities that support our international export growth.
As markets and customer requirements develop, BAE Systems has evolved its strategy recognising the importance of cyber as an area that is rapidly becoming a priority for governments and commercial organisations alike.
Cyber is now recognised as a new domain in its own right alongside the traditional military domains of air, maritime and land.
Our solutions and services recognise that cyber has no borders and requires an international capability to support our government and commercial customers acrossthe globe.
1 Accessible global defence markets BAE Systems global defence market position Top ten global defence markets accessible Top ten global defence for business by the Group $bn contractors revenue $bn 1.
Thales 24 8 Source: 2015 US budget as shown in the Department of Defense Fiscal Year 2017 Source: Defense News Top 100 for 2016 based on 2015 numbers.
Budget Request and, outside the US, IHS Janes Defence Budgets based on 2015 Exchangerateapplied to BAE Systems is $1.41 1. totaldefence budgets and constant 2016 US dollars.
Markets inaccessible for business by BAE Systems are excluded.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 18 Our markets continued BAE Systems has leading US UK positions in its four principal markets and new business prospects in a number of other international markets.
1 Sales by destination BAE Systems remains a BAE Systems is the largest toptendefence supplier defence company in the A E intheUS.
UK, with strong and enduring relationships with the Ministry We provide products and services that span the D air, maritime, land and cyber domains through of Defence.
our Electronic Systems, Intelligence & Security and Platforms & Services US businesses.
We hold key positions in providing equipment and services to the UK armed forces across C Whilst budgetary pressures are expected to air, maritime, land and cyber.
In turn, the UK continue in the US, it remains the single largest government plays a crucial role in supporting defence market in the world by some margin.
our export ambitions, recognising the benefit B Operating under a Continuing Resolution exports can bring to the UK economy.
through the spring of 2017, defence spending The 2015 Strategic Defence and Security A US 36% is expected to stay at levels above the Budget Review set out the UKs strategic ambitions.
B UK 21% Control Act caps through the September The subsequent Spending Review in 2015 C Saudi Arabia 21% closeof the 2017 fiscal year, with potential outlined a 3.1% real-term increase to the D Australia 3% upside ifthe new administration is able to 2 E Other international markets defence budget by 2020 as part of the 19% secure additional Department of Defense commitment to spend 2% of Gross Domestic budget andappropriations legislation to Product on defence.
The government has support President Trumps campaign taken substantial steps in2016 towards promisesto buildup the US military.
theseplans, with the commitment to eight The US-based business has strong, Type 26 frigates, a contract awarded for long-standing market positions and capabilities twoadditional Offshore Patrol Vessels and in electronic warfare systems, advanced parliamentary approval given to maintain avionics, precision-guided munitions, theContinuous-At-Sea Deterrent with a next-generation IT and intelligence analysis, newclass of four submarines, named the combat vehicles, naval guns, and naval ship Dreadnought Class.
Commitment has been made to the UKs In addition to our position on some of the cyber security capabilities, with the launch premier defence programmes in the US, a ofthe National Cyber Security Strategy significant portion of the US-based portfolio 20162021.
This sets out the governments isfocused on Foreign Military Sales and direct plan to make Britain secure and resilient in international sales opportunities to key allied cyberspace, with a 1.9bn investment over nations.
These activities and pursuits include thenext five years.
avionics, engine and flight controls, and cabin systems for the commercial aviation market, electric drive propulsion systems in the international bus transit market and export sales, such as those for defence electronics, combat and amphibious vehicles and, most recently, the M777 lightweight howitzer.
R evenue including the Groups share of revenue ofequityaccounted investments.
Includes 1.0bn 5% of sales generated under the Typhoon workshare agreement with Eurofighter Jagdflugzeug GmbH.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 19 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements International Saudi Arabia Australia Other international markets The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia BAE Systems remains Outside of our principal isthe third largest accessible thelargest defence markets, we have many defence market globally as companyinAustralia, long-standing and wellongoing regional challenges withactivities across air, established relationships.
continue to drive a strong maritime, land and cyber.
We have customers in more than 100 defence agenda.
Our international activities include Continued regional instability in the the majority of the Groups products and Asia-Pacific region isfocusing the Australian Saudi Arabias Vision 2030, launched in services portfolio, from combat aircraft to government on strengthening and modernising April, to diversify revenues away from oil, armoured vehicles and from electronic its armed forces.
Re-commitment to meeting identifies thedefence industry as an area systemsto cyber security.
the defence funding target of 2% by 2020 21 forreform tobuild Saudi Arabias industrial was outlined in the Australian Defence White As growth in international defence spending capability through direct investments and Paper and Integrated Investment Plan during in regions such as Asia and the Middle East strategic partnerships.
The Defence White Paper also outlined grows faster than the more mature markets Through the reorganisation of the Groups the Australian governments continued ofthe US and UK, we have built strong local portfolio of interests in a number of industrial commitment to shipbuilding andsupport relationships working both directly with companies, we continue to support the inAustralia, a key sector for BAE Systems.
governments and partnering with local industry.
SaudiNational Objectives, identified in the We remain well positioned to support We continue tobuild on our relationship with Saudi governments Vision 2030, of local skills government plans through participation in Oman, with Typhoon and Hawk deliveries due and technology development, increasing keyprogrammes across air, maritime, land to begin in 2017 and, in India, we are building employment, and developing an indigenous andcyber domains that currently include on our strong relationship with Hindustan defence industry.
programmes such as Hawk Lead-In Fighter Aeronautics Limited and a more recent We remain the prime contractor for the Saudi sustainment and Anzac frigate support relationship with Mahindra & Mahindra.
British Defence Co-operation Programme andupgrade.
Our footprint is growing in Turkey in the andthe Salam Typhoon programme between tracked and wheeled armoured combat the Saudi and UK governments in support vehicles market through our joint venture with ofdefence platforms and training systems FNSS.
We are also collaborating with Turkish fortheRoyal Saudi Air Force and Royal Saudi Aerospace Industries on the first design and Naval Forces.
These programmes commit us development phase of an indigenous fifthtosupport the Saudi National Objectives generation fighter jet for the Turkish Air Force.
through strong, enduring partnerships providing significant collaboration and We have a strong presence in Sweden through transferof expertise to Saudiindustry and our BAE Systems Hgglunds tracked vehicle theKingdoms nationals.
business and our weapon systems business.
We continue to develop our export business, including sales of Assault Amphibious Vehicles to the Japanese Ministry of Defence and, in Brazil, we are developing our presence as supported by a contract for 32 upgraded M109A5 self-propelled howitzers awarded inSeptember.
Through our shareholding in MBDA, our position in the missiles and missile systems market continues to grow in European and other international markets.
