BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 112 Statutory and other information Company registration Office of Fair Trading undertakings Issued share capital BAE Systems plc is a public company limited As a consequence of the merger between As at 31 December 2016, BAE Systems byshares registered in England and Wales British Aerospace and the former Marconi issuedshare capital of 86,686,002 comprised with the registered number 1470151.
Electronic Systems businesses in 1999, the 3,467,440,044 ordinary shares of 2.5p each Company gave certain undertakings to the and one Special Share of 1.
Directors Secretary of State for Trade and Industry The current directors who served during Treasury shares nowthe Secretary of State for Business, the2016 financial year are listed on pages As at 1 January 2016, the number of shares Energy and Industrial Strategy.
Elizabeth Corley and Charles held in treasury totalled 301,808,103 having 2007, the Company was released from the Woodburn were appointed to the Board on atotal nominal value of 7,545,203 and majority of these undertakings and the 1February 2016 and 9 May 2016, respectively.
representing 8.7% of the Companys called up remainder have been superseded and varied share capital at 1 January 2016.
During 2016, Dividend by a new set of undertakings.
Compliance the Company used 10,358,742 treasury shares An interim dividend of 8.6p per share was with the undertakings is monitored by a having a total nominal value of 258,969 and paid on 30 November 2016.
Further information representing 0.3% of the Companys called up propose a final dividend of 12.7p per ordinary regarding the undertakings and the contact share capital at 31 December 2016 to satisfy share.
Subject to shareholder approval, the details of the compliance officer may be awards under the Free and Matching elements final dividend will be paid on 1 June 2017 to obtained through the Company Secretary of the Share Incentive Plan 6,119,083 shares shareholders on the share register on 21 April atthe Companys registered office or in aggregate, awards under the Free and 2017.
Information on dividend waivers is given throughthe Companys website.
Matching elements of the International Share on page 165.
Profit forecast Incentive Plan 371,132 shares in aggregate, Annual General Meeting AGM In its Annual Report 2015, the Group made awards vested under the Performance Share The Companys AGM will be held on 10 May the following statement, which is regarded Plan 459,083 shares, awards vested under 2017.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting asa profit forecast for the purposes of the the Restricted Share Plan 791,792 shares, and is enclosed with this Annual Report and details Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rule options exercised under the Executive Share the resolutions to be proposed at the meeting.
The treasury shares utilised in respect of the Share Incentive Certain information in the Strategic report In 2016, the Groups underlying earnings per Plan, the International Share Incentive Plan The following items are set out in the Strategic share are expected to be approximately 5% andthe Restricted Share Plan were disposed report on pages 1 to 63: to10% higher than the adjusted underlying of by the Company for nil consideration.
earnings per share of 36.6p in 2015. disclosures in relation to the use of financial The2,617,652 shares disposed of by the instruments: Reported underlying earnings per share of Company in respect of the Executive Share 40.2p excluding the previously announced Option Plan were disposed of by the Company particulars of important events affecting 2.6p per share earnings benefitfrom an for an aggregate consideration of 4,919,365. theGroup which have occurred since overseas tax provision release and an As at 31 December 2016, the number of 31December 2016: additional 1.7p per share earnings benefit shares held in treasury totalled 291,449,361 an indication of likely future developments from a UK tax provision release, and adjusting having a total nominal value of 7,286,234 in the business of the Group: for a 0.7p per share benefit to an assumed and representing 8.4% of the Companys US$1.45 to sterling translation rate.
called up share capital at 31 December 2016. an indication of the activities of the Group inthe field of research and development: Underlying earnings per share was 40.3p The rights to treasury shares are restricted in2016.
inaccordance with the Companies Act and, actions taken to introduce, maintain or inparticular, the voting and dividend rights develop arrangements aimed at employees: Employees attaching to these shares are automatically and The Group is committed to giving full and suspended.
fairconsideration to applications for greenhouse gas emissions.
employment from disabled people who meetthe requirements for roles, and makingavailable training opportunities and appropriate accommodation to disabled people employed by the Group.
Political donations No political donations were made in 2016.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 113 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Rights and obligations of ordinary shares Restrictions on transfer of securities awards of shares made under the Companys On a show of hands at a general meeting The restrictions on the transfer of shares in Long-Term Incentive Plan 2014, Deferred Bonus Plan, Performance Share Plan, every holder of ordinary shares present in theCompany are as follows: Restricted Share Plan, Share Incentive person and entitled to vote shall have one the Special Share may only be issued to, Plan, International Share Incentive Plan, vote, and every proxy entitled to vote shall heldby and transferred to the Special Group All-Employee Free Shares Plan and have one vote unless the proxy is appointed Shareholder or his successor or nominee: International Profit Sharing Scheme are by more than one member in which case the subject to restrictions on the transfer of proxy has one vote for and one vote against the directors shall not register any allotment shares prior to vesting and or release.
ifthe proxy has been instructed by one or or transfer of any shares to a foreign person, more members to vote for the resolution and or foreign persons acting in concert, who The Company is not aware of any by one or more members to vote against the atthe time have more than a 15% voting arrangements between its shareholders resolution: or if the proxy has been instructed interest in the Company, or who would, thatmay result in restrictions on the transfer by one or more shareholders to vote either following such allotment or transfer, have of shares and or voting rights.
foror against a resolution and by one or more such an interest: Significant direct and indirect holders of those shareholders to use his discretion the directors shall not register any person ofsecurities how to vote.
On a poll, every member present asa holder of any shares unless they have As at 31 December 2016 and unchanged as in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall received: i a declaration stating that upon at 22 February 2017, the Company had been have one vote for every ordinary share held.
registration, the share s will not be held by advised of the following significant direct and Subject to the relevant statutory provisions foreign persons or that upon registration indirect interests in the issued ordinary share and the Companys Articles of Association, theshare s will be held by a foreign person capital of the Company: holders of ordinary shares are entitled to a or persons: ii such evidence if any as dividend where declared or paid out of Percentage thedirectors may require of the authority profitsavailable for such purposes.
Subject Name of shareholder notified ofthesignatory of the declaration: and tothe relevant statutory provisions and the iii such evidence or information if any as AXA S. A. and its group of companies 5.00% Companys Articles of Association, on a to the matters referred to in the declaration Barclays PLC 3.98% returnof capital on a winding-up, holders of asthe directors consider appropriate: ordinary shares are entitled, after repayment BlackRock, Inc. 5.00% of the 1Special Share, to participate in such the directors may, in their absolute The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 6.05% areturn.
There are no redemption rights in discretion, refuse to register any transfer relation to the ordinary shares.
ofshares which are not fully paid up Franklin Resources Inc. and affiliates 4.92% butnot so as to prevent dealings in listed Rights and obligations of the Special Share Invesco Limited 9.97% shares from taking place : The Special Share is held on behalf of the Silchester International Investors LLP 3.01% Secretary of State for Business, Energy and the directors may also refuse to register any Industrial Strategy the Special Shareholder.
instrument of transfer of shares unless the Exercise of rights of shares in employee Certain provisions of the Companys Articles instrument of transfer is in respect of only share schemes of Association cannot be amended without one class of share and it is lodged at the The trustees of the employee trusts do not the consent of the Special Shareholder.
These place where the register of members is kept, seek to exercise voting rights on shares held provisions include the requirement that no accompanied by a relevant certificate or inthe employee trusts other than on the foreign person, or foreign persons acting in such other evidence as the directors may direction of the underlying beneficiaries.
concert, can have more than a 15% voting reasonably require to show the right of the Novoting rights are exercised in relation to interest in the Company, the requirement that transferor to make the transfer: shares unallocated to individual beneficiaries.
the majority of the directors are British, and the directors may refuse to register an the requirement that the Chief Executive and Restrictions on voting deadlines allotment or transfer of shares in favour any executive Chairman are British.
The notice of any general meeting shall specify ofmore than four persons jointly: the deadline for exercising voting rights and The holder of the Special Share is entitled to where a shareholder has failed to provide appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in attend a general meeting, but the Special the Company with certain information relation to resolutions to be proposed at the Share carries no right to vote or any other relating to their interest in shares, the general meeting.
The number of proxy votes rights at any such meeting, other than to directors can, in certain circumstances, for, against or withheld in respect of each speak in relation to any business in respect of refuse to register a transfer of such shares: resolution are publicised on the Companys the Special Share.
Subject to the relevant website after the meeting.
statutory provisions and the Companys certain restrictions may from time to time Articles of Association, on a return of capital beimposed by laws and regulations for on a winding-up, the holder of the Special example, insider trading laws : Share shall be entitled to repayment of the restrictions may be imposed pursuant to 1capital paid up on the Special Share in theListing Rules of the Financial Conduct priority to any repayment of capital to any Authority whereby certain of the Groups other members.
employees require the Companys approval The holder of the Special Share has the to deal in shares: and rightto require the Company to redeem the Special Share at par or convert the Special Share into one ordinary share at any time.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 114 Statutory and other information continued Appointment and replacement of directors Powers of the directors To avoid potential conflicts of interest the Subject to certain nationality requirements The directors are responsible for the Board requires the Nominations Committee mentioned below, the Company may by management of the business of the Company tocheck that any individuals it nominates for ordinary resolution appoint any person to and may exercise all powers of the Company appointment to the Board are free of potential conflicts.
In addition, the Boards procedures beadirector.
subject to applicable legislation and and the induction programme for new regulation, and the Articles of Association.
The directors also have the power to make directors emphasise a directors personal appointments to the Board at any time.
At the 2016 AGM, the directors were given responsibility for complying with the duties Anyindividual so appointed will hold office the power to buy back a maximum number relating to conflicts of interest.
The procedure until the next AGM and shall then be eligible of316,716,098 ordinary shares at a minimum adopted by the Board for the authorisation for re-election.
The maximum price was ofconflicts reminds directors of the need to the higher of i an amount equal to 105% of consider their duties as directors and not grant The majority of directors holding office must the average of the middle market quotations an authorisation unless they believe, in good be British.
Otherwise, the directors who are of the Companys ordinary shares as derived faith, that this would be likely to promote the not British shall vacate office in such order from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official success of the Company.
As required by law, thatthose who have been in office for the List for the five business days immediately the potentially conflicted director cannot vote shortest period since their appointment shall preceding the day on which such ordinary on an authorisation resolution or be counted vacate their office first, unless all of the shares are contracted to be purchased, in the quorum.
Any authorisation granted may directors otherwise agree among themselves.
and ii the higher of the price of the last be terminated at any time and the director is Any director who holds the office of either independent trade and the highest current informed of the obligation to inform the Chairman in an executive capacity or Chief independent bid on the London Stock Company without delay should there be any Executive shall also be British.
Exchange as stipulated in Article 5 1 of the material change in the nature of the conflict The Company must have not less than six Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation or, orpotential conflict so authorised.
directors holding office at all times.
If the from3 July 2016, Commission-adopted Directors indemnities number is reduced to below six, then such Regulatory Technical Standards pursuant to The Company has entered into deeds of number of persons shall be appointed as article 5 6 of the Market Abuse Regulation.
indemnity with all its current directors and directors as soon as is reasonably practicable This power will expire at the earlier of the those persons who were directors for any to reinstate the number of directors to six.
conclusion of the 2017 AGM or 30 June 2017. partof 2016 which are qualifying indemnity TheCompany may by ordinary resolution A special resolution will be proposed at the provisions for the purpose of the Companies fromtime to time vary the minimum number 2017 AGM to renew the Companys authority Act 2006. of directors.
to acquire its own shares.
The directors of BAE Systems Pension Funds At each AGM of the Company, any director At the 2016 AGM, the directors were given Trustees Limited, BAE Systems 2000 Pension who was elected or last re-elected at or the power to issue new shares up to a nominal Plan Trustees Limited, BAE Systems Executive beforethe AGM held in the third calendar amount of 26,390,369.
This power will Pension Scheme Trustees Limited and Alvis year before the then current calendar year expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the Pension Scheme Trustees Limited benefit from must retire by rotation and such further 2017 AGM or 30 June 2017.
Accordingly, a indemnities in the governing documentation directors must retire by rotation so that in resolution will be proposed at the 2017 AGM of the BAE Systems Pension Scheme, the totalone-third of the directors retire by to renew the Companys authority to issue BAE Systems 2000 Pension Plan, the rotation each year.
A retiring director is further new shares.
At the 2016 AGM, the BAE Systems Executive Pension Scheme and eligiblefor re-election.
It is the Boards directors were also given the power to issue the Alvis Pension Scheme, respectively, which intention that all directors will stand for new issue shares up to a further nominal are qualifying indemnity provisions for the election or re-election in 2017 in compliance amount of 26,390,369 in connection with purpose of the Companies Act 2006. with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
anoffer by way of a rights issue.
This authority All such indemnity provisions are in force as Amendment of the Companys Articles too will expire on the earlier of the conclusion atthe date of this Directors report.
ofAssociation of the 2017 AGM or 30 June 2017, and a The Companys Articles of Association may resolution will be proposed at the 2017 AGM Change of control significant agreements only be amended by a special resolution at a to renew this additional authority.
The following significant agreements contain general meeting of shareholders.
Where class provisions entitling the counterparties to Conflicts of interest rights are varied, such amendments must be exercise termination, alteration or other similar As permitted under the Companies Act 2006, approved by the members of each class of rights in the event of a change of control of the Companys Articles of Association contain shares separately.
the Company: provisions which enable the Board to authorise In addition, certain provisions of the Articles conflicts or potential conflicts that individual The Group has entered into a 2bn ofAssociation cannot be amended without directors may have.
Revolving Credit Facility dated 12 December the consent of the Special Shareholder.
These 2013 which provides that, in the event of provisions include the requirement that no achange of control of the Company, the foreign person, or foreign persons acting in lenders are entitled to renegotiate terms, concert, can have more than a 15% voting orif no agreement is reached on negotiated interest in the Company, the requirement that terms within a certain period, to call for the the majority of the directors are British, and repayment or cancellation of the facility.
the requirement that the Chief Executive and TheRevolving Credit Facility was undrawn any executive Chairman are British.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 115 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements In November 2012, BAE Systems Marine The Company has entered into a Restated On 30 September 2014, BAE Systems Limited entered into a contract with the and Amended Shareholders Agreement Surface Ships Limited and the MoD entered MoD for the design, construction, testing with European Aeronautic Defence and into an agreement which sets out terms for and commissioning of Boat 4 of the Astute Space Company EADS N. V. EADS and the progressive suspension, amendment and Class programme.
In November 2015, Finmeccanica S. p. A. Finmeccanica relating termination of the ToBA through the entering BAE Systems Marine Limited entered into to MBDA S. A. S. dated 18 December 2001 into of other contracts, such as the Maritime acontract with the MoD for the design, as amended.
In the event that control of Support Delivery Framework MSDF construction, testing and commissioning the Company passes to certain specified agreement see below which triggered the ofBoat 5 of the Astute Class programme.
third-party acquirors, the agreement allows deletion of elements of the ToBA relating to Where the MoD considers that a proposed EADS and Finmeccanica to exercise an surface ship support.
The current scope of change of control of BAE Systems Marine option to terminate certain executive the ToBA has, therefore, been reduced to Limited would be contrary to the defence, management level nomination and voting focus on surface shipbuilding and the MoD national security or national interest of the rights, and certain shareholder information retains its right to terminate the ToBA if UK, then the change of control shall not rights of the Company in relation to the there is a change of control notwithstanding proceed until agreement is established with MBDA joint venture.
Following the exercise the objection of the MoD.
In the event that there is a change of this option, the Company would have The MSDF agreement between BAE Systems of control of BAE Systems Marine Limited, theright to require the other shareholders Surface Ships Limited and the MoD became notwithstanding the objection of the MoD topurchase its interest in MBDA at fair effective on 1 October 2014 and establishes on such grounds, the MoD shall be entitled market value.
a framework until March 2019 for the to terminate the agreements immediately.
The Company and EADS have agreed provision of surface ship support work In December 2011, BAE Systems Marine thatifFinmeccanica acquires a controlling andservices relating to HM Naval Base Limited entered into a contract with the interest in the Company, EADS will increase Portsmouth.
Where the MoD considers MoD for the design of the Dreadnought its shareholding in MBDA to 50% by thata proposed change of control of submarines.
Where the MoD considers that purchasing the appropriate number of BAE Systems Surface Ships Limited would a change of control of BAE Systems Marine shares in MBDA at fair market value.
becontrary to the defence, national security Limited would be contrary to the defence, or national interest of the UK, then the The Company, BAE Systems, Inc. national interest or national security of the change of control shall not proceed until BAE Systems Holdings Limited and UK, then the change of control shall not take agreement with the MoD is established.
BAE Systems Holdings Inc. entered into place until agreement is reached with the Ifthere is a change of control without aSpecial Security Agreement dated MoD on how to proceed.
In the event that noticeor notwithstanding the objection 23October 2015 with the US Department there is a change of control notwithstanding ofthe MoD, the MoD shall be entitled of Defense regarding the management the objection of the MoD on such grounds, toterminate the MSDF.
ofBAE Systems, Inc. in order to comply the MoD shall be entitled to terminate the withthe US governments national security In August 2008, BAE Systems Land contract with immediate effect.
In the event of a change Systems Munitions & Ordnance Limited In September 2016, BAE Systems Marine ofcontrol of the Company, the Agreement now BAE Systems Global Combat Systems Limited entered into a contract with the may be terminated or altered by the US Munitions Limited and the MoD entered MoD for the first phase of manufacture Department of Defense.
into a 15-year partnering agreement for ofBoat 1 of the Dreadnought Class theprovision of ammunition to UK Forces In July 2009, BVT Surface Fleet Limited programme.
The MoD is entitled to the Munitions Acquisition Supply Solution nowBAE Systems Surface Ships Limited terminate the contract in the event of a MASS partnering agreement.
Where and the UK Ministry of Defence MoD change of control of BAE Systems Marine theMoD considers that a proposed change entered into a definitive Terms of Business Limited, provided that the MoD must act of control of BAE Systems Global Combat Agreement ToBA which sets out a 15-year reasonably in exercising this right.
Systems Munitions Limited would be partnering arrangement, including lead roles contrary to the defence, national security In addition, the Companys share plans for the BVT business on defined surface ornational interest of the UK, then the containprovisions as a result of which options shipbuilding and support programmes.
change of control shall not proceed until and awards may vest and become exercisable Where the MoD considers that a proposed agreement with the MoD is established.
on a change of control of the Company in change of control of BAE Systems Surface Inthe event that there is a change of control accordance with the rules of the plans.
Ships Limited would be contrary to the of BAE Systems Global Combat Systems defence, national security or national Munitions Limited, notwithstanding the Auditors interest of the UK, then the change of objection of the MoD on such grounds, KPMG LLP have indicated their willingness control shall not proceed until agreement theMoD may, having followed the dispute tobe re-appointed as the auditors for the with the MoD is established.
In the event resolution process, terminate the MASS Company and a resolution proposing their that there is a change of control of agreement for default.
re-appointment will be put to the 2017 AGM.
BAE Systems Surface Ships Limited As detailed in the Audit Committee report notwithstanding the objection of the MoD onpage 72, an audit re-tender is currently on such grounds, the MoD shall be entitled inprogress in which the current incumbent to terminate the ToBA immediately without isnot competing with the intention of compensation or termination charges.
proposing the appointment of new auditors atthe 2018 AGM.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 116 Statutory and other information continued Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for keeping Responsibility statement of the inrespect of the Annual Report and adequate accounting records that are directorsin respect of the Annual financial statements sufficient to show and explain the parent Reportand financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing companys transactions, and disclose with Each of the directors listed below confirms theAnnual Report, and the Group and parent reasonable accuracy at any time the financial that to the best of their knowledge: company financial statements in accordance position of the parent company and enable the financial statements, prepared in with applicable law and regulations.
them to ensure that its financial statements accordance with the applicable set of comply with the Companies Act 2006.
Company law requires the directors to accounting standards, give a true and Theyhave general responsibility for taking prepareGroup and parent company financial fairview of the assets, liabilities, financial such steps as are reasonably open to statements for each financial year.
Under position and profit or loss of the Company, themtosafeguard the assets of the Group, thatlaw they are required to prepare the and the undertakings included in the andtoprevent and detect fraud and Group financial statements in accordance consolidation taken as a whole: and otherirregularities.
withInternational Financial Reporting the Strategic report and Directors report, Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU and Under applicable law and regulations, the taken together, include a fair review of applicable law, and have elected to prepare directors are also responsible for preparing thedevelopment and performance of the the parent company financial statements in astrategic report, directors report, directors business, and the position of the Company accordance with UK accounting standards remuneration report and corporate and the undertakings included in the andapplicable law UK Generally Accepted governance statement that comply with consolidation taken as a whole, together Accounting Practice, including Financial thatlaw and those regulations.
with a description of the principal risks and Reporting Standard FRS 101, Reduced uncertainties that they face.
The directors are responsible for the Disclosure Framework.
maintenance and integrity of the corporate In addition, each of the directors considers Under company law the directors must not and financial information included on the that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, approve the financial statements unless they Companys website.
Legislation in the UK isfair, balanced and understandable, and are satisfied that they give a true and fair view governing the preparation and dissemination provides the information necessary for of the state of affairs of the Group and parent of financial statements may differ from shareholders to assess the Companys company, and of their profit or loss for that legislation in other jurisdictions.
positionand performance, business model period.
In preparing each of the Group and and strategy.
Statement of disclosure of information parent company financial statements, the toauditors Sir Roger Carr Chairman directors are required to: The directors who held office at the date Ian King Chief Executive select suitable accounting policies and ofapproval of this Directors report confirm thenapply them consistently: that, so far as they are each aware, there is Jerry DeMuro President and Chief make judgements and estimates that norelevant audit information of which the Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. arereasonable and prudent: Companys auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he she for the Group financial statements, Peter Lynas Group Finance Director ought to have taken to make himself herself statewhether they have been prepared Charles Woodburn Chief Operating Officer aware of any relevant audit information and inaccordance with IFRSs as adopted by toestablish that the Companys auditors are Elizabeth Corley Non-executive director theEU: aware of that information.
for the parent company financial Harriet Green Non-executive director statements, state whether applicable UK Chris Grigg Non-executive director On behalf of the Board accounting standards have been followed, Paula Rosput Reynolds Non-executive director subject to any material departures disclosed David Parkes and explained in the parent company Nick Rose Non-executive director Company Secretary financial statements: and 22 February 2017 Ian Tyler Non-executive director prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent On behalf of the Board company will continue in business.
Sir Roger Carr Chairman 22 February 2017
