80 Directors report other disclosures Business and financial review purchase through the market 68,973,961 ordinary shares and The Chairmans introduction on pages 2 and 3, the Group Chief 16,775,968 preference shares at prices set out in those resolutions.
Executives review on pages 4 and 5, the market and strategic This authority expires at the earlier of the conclusion of the Class reviews on pages 8 to 17, the performance review on pages 18 to Meeting of preference shareholders which will follow the 2017 29, the section entitled Building a sustainable business on pages AGM or on 1 July 2017.
33 to 43 and the Chief Financial Officers review on pages 49 to 52, Throughout the year, all the Companys issued share capital was are incorporated by reference into the Directors report.
publicly listed on the London Stock Exchange and it remains so as at the date of this report.
There are no specific restrictions on Corporate governance the size of a shareholding nor on the transfer of shares, which are The Governance section on pages 66 to 99, including the both governed by the Articles of Association and the prevailing law.
Compliance with the Code statement on page 66, forms part of the The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of Directors report.
the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
Results and dividends No person has special rights of control over the Companys share The results for the year are shown in the audited financial capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
statements presented on pages 104 to 184 and are explained more fully in the Chairmans introduction, the performance review and the As at 31 December 2016, the Company had been notified in Chief Financial Officers review.
accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority of the following interests in its ordinary An interim dividend of 0.9p per ordinary share was approved by the share capital.
Board on 16 August 2016 and a final dividend of 1.8p per ordinary share will be recommended at the Annual General Meeting, giving Number Percentage a total dividend per ordinary share of 2.7p for 2016 2015: nil.
of ordinary of ordinary shares held shares held Preference dividends totalling 10.75p per preference share were paid in 2016 2015: 10.75p gross.
Causeway Capital Management LLC 62,408,448 9.05 The Directors continued to offer the dividend reinvestment plan, Prudential plc 42,969,270 6.22 which allows holders of ordinary shares to reinvest their cash dividends in the Companys shares through a specially arranged Schroder Investment Management share dealing service.
Limited 34,711,704 5.03 Norges Bank 34,459,262 4.99 Innovation, research and development Information concerning innovation, research and development Newton Investment Management is set out on pages 33 to 35 and forms part of the Directors Limited 31,347,697 4.54 report disclosures.
Invesco Limited 29,102,945 4.21 Branches Kames Capital Plc 26,433,207 3.83 As the Group is a global business, there are activities operated through branches in certain jurisdictions.
Since 1 January 2017, the Company has received further notifications that Kames Capital Plcs interest has fallen below 3% Share capital and shareholders and has therefore ceased to be notifiable and that Norges Banks Details of the share capital of the Company as at 31 December interest has reduced to 3.87%.
2016, including the rights attaching to each class of share, are set out in Note 29 on page 156.
During the year ended 31 December Auditor 2016, no ordinary or preference shares were repurchased for KPMG LLP has indicated its willingness to continue as auditor cancellation.
23,628 ordinary shares were issued in 2016 following to the Company and a resolution for their re-appointment will be the exercise of options held under the Companys savings-related proposed at the 2017 AGM.
At 31 December 2016, the Directors had authority under shareholders resolutions approved at the AGM and at the Class Meeting of preference shareholders held in May 2016 to Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 81 Articles of Association The Board regards the Companys general meetings as an The Company has not adopted any special rules regarding the opportunity to communicate directly with private investors appointment and replacement of Directors or the amendment and actively encourages participative dialogue with all the of the Articles of Association, other than as provided under UK Companys shareholders.
The chairs of the Board Committees attend the AGM each year along with the other Directors and are available to answer questions Relations with shareholders from shareholders.
The circular setting out the Notice of the The Board attaches great importance to maintaining good 2017 AGM provides a detailed explanation of the business to be relationships with all shareholders and ensures that shareholders transacted and includes contact details which shareholders can use are kept informed of significant Company developments.
to make any comments or ask any questions concerning the AGM.
The Company continued its programme of communication with The website is regarded by the Company as an important institutional investors and sell-side analysts throughout 2016. source of information on the Group, including financial press Presentations of the half-year and annual results were made in releases, shareholder documentation, annual and half-year results accordance with the practice of previous years.
presentations and the terms of reference of the principal Board Through the year, approximately 75 one-on-one and group Committees.
The Companys website continues to be developed to meetings were held at regular intervals with institutional ensure it remains a principal source of information on the Group and shareholders 2015: approximately 102.
Current and prospective its activities.
shareholders, brokers and analysts were also given the opportunity to engage with Balfour Beatty during road shows in London, Political donations Scotland and North America.
At the AGM held in May 2016, shareholders gave authority for the Company and its UK subsidiaries to make donations to political This communication programme will be maintained and expanded organisations up to a maximum aggregate amount of 25,000 in where appropriate, subject to the constraints of regulation and the European Union.
This approval is a precautionary measure in practice.
The 2017 investor relations programme will focus on view of the broad definition of these terms in the Companies Act.
ensuring investors and the analyst community understand the No such expenditure or donations were made during the year and Group, its operations and strategy, and that institutions continue to shareholder authority will be sought again at the 2017 AGM.
be given the opportunity to meet with management.
In the US and Canada, corporate political contributions Care is exercised to ensure that any price sensitive information is totalling 195,290 were made by business units during 2016 released to all shareholders at the same time in accordance with UK 2015: 35,000.
Any political contributions or donations are tightly Listing Authority requirements.
controlled and must be approved in advance in accordance with the Executive Directors report regularly to the Board on meetings or Companys internal procedures and must also adhere strictly to the other contact with shareholders or their representatives.
The nonCompanys policies on probity set out in its Code of Conduct.
executive Directors continue to believe that, through their direct and ready access to, and contact with, the Chairman and the Senior Corporate responsibility Independent Director and through the regular reports to the Board, A full description of the Groups approach to sustainability, including they are kept fully aware of the views of the larger shareholders in information on its community engagement programme, appears on the Company and the investment community generally.
The Board continues to retain the services of independent The Groups published policies on health and safety, the external corporate and investor relations consultants who environment, business conduct and ethics remain in place and are provide advice on the relationship between the Company and its subject to regular reviews.
Greenhouse gas emissions Further information on the Companys investor relations Details of emissions during the year and the actions which the programme can be found at: Group is taking to reduce them are set out on pages 40 and 41 and www.
com investors form part of the Directors report disclosures.
com AR2016 82 Directors report other disclosures continued Employment Events after the reporting date The Balfour Beatty Group operates across a number of geographies On 26 January 2017, the Group reached agreement to sell its and end markets.
However, there are key principles in the design 49% interests in Dutco Balfour Beatty LLC and BK Gulf LLC to and practice of employment policy that are applicable across the its joint venture partner.
The sale subsequently completed on Group.
These are to: 1 March 2017. provide a safe, open, inclusive and challenging environment that Change of control provisions attracts and retains the best people The Groups bank facility agreements contain provisions that, on enable all employees to perform at their best and realise 30 days notice being given to the Group, the lender may exercise their full potential, assisted by appropriate training and its discretion to require prepayment of the loans on a change of career development control of the Company and cancel all commitments under the communicate the strategy of the Group, the objectives of agreement concerned.
each respective business and the role and objectives of each A number of significant joint venture and contract bond agreements employee within that business include provisions which become exercisable by a counterparty actively consult with all employees and engage in a participating on a change of control of the Company.
These include the right environment that fosters the exchange of best practice of a counterparty to request additional security and to terminate and collaboration an agreement.
provide market competitive pay and benefits that reward both The Groups US private placement arrangements require the individual and collective performance Company, promptly upon becoming aware that a change of control ensure that all job applicants receive fair treatment, regardless of of the Company has occurred and in any event within 10 business age, origin, gender, disability, sexual orientation, marital status, days, to give written notice of such fact to all holders of the notes religion or belief and make an offer to prepay the entire unpaid principal amount of the notes, together with accrued interest.
ensure that all employees similarly receive fair treatment throughout their career The Groups convertible bond arrangements provide that the holder provide a working environment of respect and free of bonds can require the Company to redeem its bonds following from harassment.
a change of control of the Company at their principal amount, together with accrued interest.
The Company is required to notify Information concerning employee diversity is set out on page 38 the bond holder within 14 days of a change of control.
and forms part of the Directors report disclosures.
Some other commercial agreements, entered into in the normal Balfour Beatty strives to provide employment, training and course of business, include change of control provisions.
development opportunities for disabled people wherever possible and is committed to supporting employees who become disabled The Groups share and incentive plans include usual provisions during employment and helping disabled employees make the best relating to change of control, as do the terms of the Companys use of their skills and potential, consistent with all other employees.
cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares.
The Company also operates an all employee Share Incentive There are no agreements providing for compensation for the Plan SIP which enables UK-based employees to acquire the Directors or employees on a change of control.
Companys ordinary shares on a potentially tax-favourable basis, in order to encourage employee share ownership and provide Financial instruments additional alignment between the interests of employees and The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies and shareholders.
Participants in the SIP are the beneficial owners of its exposure to the following risks foreign exchange, interest rate, shares but not the registered owners, and the voting rights to such price and credit are detailed in Note 38 on pages 167 to 171. shares are exercised by the trustee of the SIP at the discretion of the participants.
Information concerning the performance of the Group and the Companys share price is provided to all employees via the Companys website.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 83 Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view applicable law and regulations.
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that taken as a whole law, the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting and performance of the business and the position of the Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation applicable law and have elected to prepare the Company financial taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and and uncertainties that they face.
In light of the work undertaken by the Audit and Risk Committee Under company law, the Directors must not approve the financial reported in greater detail on pages 75 to 77 and the internal statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair verification and approval process which has been followed this year, view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of their the Directors are able to state that the Annual Report and Accounts, profit or loss for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and the Directors are required to: provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently Statements of Directors as to disclosure of information make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent toauditors for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been Each of the Directors at the date of approval of this report prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU confirms that: for the Company financial statements, state whether applicable so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject information of which the Companys auditors are unaware to any material departures disclosed and explained in its the Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have financial statements taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the auditors are aware of that information.
Company will continue in business.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys By order of the Board transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure David Mercer that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
General Counsel and Company Secretary They have general responsibility for taking such steps as reasonably 15 March 2017 open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Registered Office: 5 Churchill Place, Canary Wharf Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also London E14 5HU responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Registered in England Number 395826 Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
