30 Directors valuation of the Investments portfolio We continued to make substantial investment into the portfolio Portfolio valuation December 2016 Overview Value by sector The Directors valuation was broadly maintained at 1,220 million 2016 2015 2016 2015 Sector No.
projects m m 2015: 1,244 million despite material Roads 13 13 366 412 disposals in the period, as the number of projects in the portfolio decreased from Healthcare 4 4 140 137 73 to 69.
Two of these projects, Houston Schools 7 76 Baptist University in Texas and West Student accommodation 4 5 63 69 Florida University, were won in previous OFTOs 3 3 46 40 years and have now been included in the Waste & biomass 4 4 57 40 project count at December 2015.
Other 5 4 35 28 UK total 33 40 707 802 The Group continued to make substantial investments, with 65 million invested in US military housing 21 21 438 355 new and existing projects.
This reflected Healthcare & other PPP 3 2 9 5 continued success in targeted sectors with Student accommodation 6 6 38 26 four new projects included in the Directors Residential housing 6 4 28 18 valuation for the first time.
North America total 36 33 513 404 The business continued its strategy of BBIP fund 38 1 realising value through recycling equity Total 69 73 1,220 1,244 from mature, operationally proven assets, whilst preserving interests in strategic Portfolio valuation December 2016 projects that offer opportunities to the Value by phase wider Group.
16 investments were sold 2016 2015 2016 2015 or part sold during the year, including the Stage No.
projects m m Groups interest in the fund managed by Operations 49 46 1,059 952 Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Partners Construction 15 20 134 218 BBIP.
In total these sales generated Preferred bidder developer 5 7 27 36 189 million in proceeds.
All sales BBIP 38 were transacted either at, or above, the 1 Total 69 73 1,220 1,244 Directors valuation.
Cash yield from distributions amounted to 64 million Portfolio valuation December 2016 2015: 82 million.
The portfolio again Value by income type generated cash flow to the Group net 2016 2015 2016 2015 of investment.
projects m m The methodology used for the Directors Availability 25 30 572 652 valuation is unchanged, producing a Demand operationally proven 2 years 32 31 498 428 valuation that more closely reflects market Demand early stage less than 2 years 12 12 150 126 value and which therefore changes with BBIP fund 38 movements in the market.
Cash flows 1 Total 69 73 1,220 1,244 for each project are forecast based on historical and present performance, future risks and macroeconomic forecasts and which factor in current market assumptions.
These cash flows are then discounted using different discount rates based on the risk and maturity of individual projects and reflecting secondary market transaction experience.
As in previous years, the Directors valuation may differ significantly from the accounting book value of investments shown in the financial statements, which are produced in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards rather than using a discounted cash flow approach.
1 Two of these projects were won in previous years and have now been included in the project count at December 2015.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 31 Discount rates applied to the UK portfolio positive correlation between the value of UK portfolio range between 7% and 14% depending the UK portfolio and changes in inflation.
In 2016 57 million of equity investment on project risk and maturity.
The implied was made in projects across the portfolio: Following on from the OECD BEPS weighted average discount rate for the UK in the student accommodation project at projects recommendations on the tax portfolio is 8.3% 2015: 8.3%.
The impact Aberystwyth University: the Ayrshire & deductibility of interest expense in 2015, Arran community hospital: the regeneration of selling mature assets has been offset HM Treasury and HM Revenue and development at Eastwick & Sweetwater: by a number of investments moving from Customs issued their consultation on policy and waste projects at Gloucester and construction to operations phase.
A 1% design and implementation in May 2016 Welland.
One new project, a property change in discount rate would change the and published detailed draft legislation in development at New Cross in Manchester, value of the UK portfolio by approximately early 2017.
The draft legislation preserves has been added to the UK portfolio.
the concept of the public infrastructure exemption put forward by the OECD and Demand for high-quality infrastructure Consistent with other infrastructure also includes other helpful measures to investments in the secondary market funds, Balfour Beattys experience is that protect such projects.
The proposals and remained strong and the Group took there is limited correlation between the their application are complex and remain advantage of this through further sales of discount rates used to value PPP and subject to further review, but the initial mature assets.
Investor appetite for yield in similar infrastructure investments and assessment is that the impact on the the ongoing, low interest rate environment long-term interest rates.
In the event that interest rates increased in response to Directors valuation will not be material.
continues unabated and pricing in the rising inflation, the impact of any increase Balfour Beatty will remain engaged with secondary market is therefore expected to in discount rates would be mitigated by the the UK Government to clarify and evaluate remain strong for the foreseeable future.
the impact of the draft legislation.
Interests in 16 assets were sold in the period, seven of which were partial sales, generating total proceeds of 189 million.
The business sold its entire 50% interest Valuation The portfolio value at a range of discount rates in the Wollongong project in Australia, a UK portfolio 30% interest in the M1 A1 project where the Group retains a 20% interest, a 40% 1,400 interest in the Humber Gateway OFTO where the Group retains a 20% interest, its entire interest in the BSF portfolio 1,200 comprised of seven schools projects and an 80% interest in five street lighting projects where the Group retains a 20% 1,000 945 interest.
The Groups interest in Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Partners BBIP, 840 which was included in the Directors 800 755 valuation but not as a line item in the 793 project total, was sold during the year.
707 All disposals were either at, or above, the 600 634 Directors valuation.
Operational performance movements 400 resulted in a 27 million reduction in value.
The most significant components of this were lower inflation, lower forecast 200 deposit interest rates, and an increase 2% 1.5% 1% 0.5% DV Case -0.5% -1% -1.5% -2% in the assumed tax burden for potential Discount rate purchasers.
The operational movement December 2016 December 2015 reflects lower inflation in 2016 followed by a step-up in 2017 before reaching a 3% long-term assumption in 2018.
The change to interest rates incorporates a lowering of the long-term rate to 2% as a consequence of the Bank of Englands 0.25% reduction in base rates in the second half of 2016.
In line with government announcements in the year the corporation tax rate has been further reduced from a long-term rate of 18% to 17% from April 2020. balfourbeatty.
com AR2016 Directors valuation m 32 Directors valuation of the Investments portfolio We continued to make substantial investment into the portfolio continued North American portfolio Valuation The portfolio value at a range of discount rates In 2016, the business won three projects, North American portfolio two investments in residential housing developments at Mobile in Alabama and 800 Atlanta in Georgia and a PPP data centre in Borden, Canada.
In addition, a second 700 phase of the project at University of Texas, Dallas has been included in the Directors 593 valuation.
600 Operational performance movements 513 resulted in an 88 million increase in the 500 value of the portfolio, of which 85 million 450 was due to the fall in the value of sterling.
468 400 Discount rates applied to the North 404 American portfolio range between 7.5% 353 and 10%.
The implied weighted average 300 discount rate is 8.2% 2015: 8.2% and a 1% change in the discount would change 200 the value of the North American portfolio by approximately 72 million.
100 2% 1.5% 1% 0.5% DV Case -0.5% -1% -1.5% -2% Discount rate December 2016 December 2015 Movement in value 2015-2016 m Operational performance Equity Distributions Sales Unwind of New project Gain on gains inc. FX 2015 invested received proceeds discount wins sales movements 2016 UK 840 57 40 189 59 7 27 707 North America 404 8 24 31 6 88 513 Total 1,244 65 64 189 90 6 7 61 1,220 Portfolio investment, sales and distributions since 2007 m 200 1,500 150 1,000 100 500 50 0 0 50 500 100 1,000 150 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Distributions Investment Sales Directors valuation Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors valuation m Directors valuation m Investment, sales and distributions m Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 33 Building a sustainable business Creative solutions driven by innovation The Group is improving the capture, Innovation, research and A value-led business that storage, accessibility and distribution development of information, at bid stage, throughout operates safely and ethically.
project delivery and into the asset Balfour Beatty acts responsibly Innovation plays an important role in lifecycle.
Expert knowledge of information creating additional value for Balfour sharing and database configuration is to protect and enhance the Beattys customers and ultimately the a differentiator, as evidenced by the physical and social environment Group.
Innovation is driven by Balfour adoption of Balfour Beatty information Beatty people, working in collaboration management systems on the wider A14 in which it operates.
with customers, joint ventures and the Cambridge to Huntingdon programme.
supply chain, and internally across the The vision and drive to introduce various business.
The examples below illustrate mobile information sharing applications how the Group has used creative solutions and contract administration software adds on its projects and services, to deliver value to the business.
savings and benefits to customers.
Collaboration has been improved by harnessing technology.
Initiated and coMy Contribution ideas from ordinated by the US business, colleagues ourpeople across the globe collaborated together As a specific stream of the Build to during a 24-hour Virtual Reality VR Last programme the Group-wide My storm a rapid collaborative sharing Contribution initiative was launched in session.
A dozen work teams across H2 2015 and is now embedded in the multiple time zones and continents business.
My Contribution encourages including the Groups businesses in Asia, staff to share ideas and solutions.
Europe and North America advanced Integration of the EZiCat cable avoidance their understanding of VR capabilities and tool was initiated through My Contribution shared their experiences with each other.
Improved safety The storm started early morning in Hong and savings of 250,000 resulted in Kong, engaged India, then transferred to our Area 10 contract being awarded teammates in the UK at mid-day and ended the Chartered Institution of Highways in the US late in the day.
In a 24-hour cycle & Transportation NW 2016 Safety it made Balfour Beattys large company Project of the Year and it is now used by feel small the perfect storm.
People capability Digital Balfour Beatty Balfour Beatty has led the delivery of The Group is integrating and combining over 2 million of Innovate UK research digital technologies to create a Digital grants, delivering cutting edge technology Balfour Beatty which results in better that builds a competitive advantage and project outcomes throughout the potential step change in productivity in project lifecycle.
Balfour Beatty worked in partnership with University Applications have been developed both College London spin-off start-up, 3D in-house and with small and mediumRepo, to develop an open-source platform sized enterprises SMEs which work in for managing and optimising design other sectors: during tenders.
Innovate UK feedback A mobile application that allows safety was: Balfour Beatty delivered an observations to be made on site using exemplary project a leading example any mobile device.
This also allows the of how large organisations collaborate recording and disseminating of best with small enterprises to deliver cutting practice and areas of improvement.
It is accessible on all mobile platforms The Group is in the final phase of delivering and is being adopted across the an Innovate UK project that uses machine whole business.
learning to provide insight on the root Current roll-out of an application that causes of waste in construction and captures all utility service mapping from provides a technical solution to reducing all the different providers at the touch of waste proactively in the design phase.
com AR2016 34 Building a sustainable business Creative solutions driven by innovation continued Visualisations Creating a Balfour Beatty 4D Manual for construction.
The Balfour Beatty UK Build to Last Expert individual winner in 2016 led the production of a 3D model at an early stage of the Aberdeen Airport Terminal Transformation Phase 1 project which resulted in the award of the 10 million Phase 1 contract, and negotiations are in progress for Phase 2.
The Balfour Beatty India design team has grown to a 55-strong technical team of experts.
Specific specialisations include the production of detailed 4D visualisations for many different areas of the business worldwide to maintain programmes, delivery and customer satisfaction and engage the whole team.
Innovation Silver Jubilee Balfour Beatty harnesses innovation that Bridge, Halton, delivers value and efficiencies, improves UK safety, develops engineering capability and Balfour Beatty has developed increases the pace of delivery.
The Group its own in-house is involved with a large number of industry specialist scanning bodies sharing knowledge and learning teams that use the latest software to within the industry.
capture existing Direct involvement with industry groups historic structures for future such as i3P Infrastructure Industry maintenance Innovation Platform and Crossrails works.
Innovate18 provide a platform for Balfour Beatty to influence the industry and share knowledge with peers.
In Hong Kong, Gammon became the Regular online forums across the Groups Value engineering first company to bring Exoskeleton business allow developments to be shared.
We have developed a value engineering technology to the Hong Kong construction management system five which outlines market.
Improving operative endurance Modular construction is being taken from how we will meet the savings mandated and reducing the likelihood of injuries, one sector to another.
Using the knowledge by the UK Government for centrally this technology is helping to address the gained from delivering mechanical and procured projects.
challenges of an ageing workforce and electrical installations in the buildings redefine the limits of operative capability.
sector, BalfourBeatty has developed, On the Norwich Northern Distributor patented and fabricated modular subsurface Road, we achieved nearly a 20% saving On Highway projects laser scanning, roadside infrastructure pods in-house, through our five process.
The business ran mobile ground penetrating radar, and and is now trialling them to speed up five workshops jointly with the client and 4D visualisations have been used.
In the installation of technology on the UK SMART designers, and generated over 100 ideas Highways Services sector the Group has motorways programme.
which were scored against the criteria of developed the use of drones for bridge viability, cost saving and schedule creating inspections and is focusing on ways to use Using 4D visualisations, a Balfour Beatty a shortlist of more than 20 ideas that them for ecological inspections.
Manual has been created for construction: were implemented.
a full 4D visualisation of critical and repeat Balfour Beatty has developed its own inactivities which has enhanced peer reviews house laser scanning teams and capabilities of critical activities and enabled simple and to service the whole of the UK business.
clear communication across all stakeholders.
These teams deliver true as-is models of existing infrastructure to inform the design, In Power Transmission and Distribution and then create the true as-built to inform a new skycradle system has been the asset management on completion of developed to support cables on overhead a project, integrating laser scanning with powerlines when they are being replaced.
This eliminates working at height and is a first in the industry.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 35 2016 Hong Kong Awards for Industries Kevin OBrien Executive Director, Gammon receives the Innovation and Creativity Grand Award.
Collaboration with universities Awards Gammon has been awarded the Balfour Beatty continues its collaboration Balfour Beatty undertakes a wide variety of Innovation and Creativity Grand Award with world-leading research works and is recognised by many diverse at the 2016 Hong Kong Awards for establishments, including Bristol University industry awards for the breadth of the work Industries.
The award attributes to the systems engineering, Liverpool John it undertakes.
effective strategy of Build to Order Full Moores University condition monitoring, Modular Mechanical Electrical Plant Ground Engineering was awarded Sheffield University smart buildings, MEP Construction.
Important features Project of the Year at the UK Ground University College London UCL: future of this strategy solution include off-site Engineering Awards 2016.
The award leaders in infrastructure, radar and 3D standardisation of MEP module design, was for the unique works to stabilise Repo, Manchester University overhead weldless assembly and the extensive a landslide in Lyme Regis, ensuring line structures and composite crossarms, specialisation possibilities offered by the work did not impact on the areas and Loughborough University accounting the build to order model.
The concept UNESCO World Heritage Site status for whole-life carbon emissions from is effective in increasing productivity, and ecological requirements of Natural highways maintenance contracts, improving the work environment, raising England.
The 13.5 million works included Cambridge University e-luminate general safety levels and addressing the construction of a 400m wave wall and merging art, music and light, and Queens the labour shortage that is facing the walkway built below the landslide areas, University Belfast resource efficiency construction industry.
and the stabilisation of the major slope through BIM.
toensure the protection of 480 homes.
Gammon has already used and will use this Partnerships have also been established solution in many other high-profile projects, Highway Services won the Best Public with UCL via an Honorary Research including the China Mobile Network Sector Digital Project at the V3 Digital Associate post awarded to a member of Centre, the Global Switch Data Centre and Technology Leaders Awards 2016. the Digital Transformation team which the Murray Building.
Working with Southampton City Council, supports the research of digital impact on Balfour Beatty used live data to analyse business models in delivering social and traffic flows to alleviate congestion, economic infrastructure.
A member of specifically around major events such that team was invited to join the Chartered as Southampton Football Club matches.
Institute of Buildings Innovation and Balfour Beattys joint submission Shaping Research Panel which sets the innovation Southampton through Digital Excellence and research agenda and funding focus for was the culmination of five years of industry and academia.
investment and continuous improvement Balfour Beatty provides guest lecturers in digital technologies, in partnership with on BIM and Construction Economics to Southampton City Council, to drive greater UCL, University of Middlesex, Abertay customer satisfaction and more efficient University and Ulster University for their operational delivery.
The judges praised BIM management courses.
the project as: an excellent example of exactly how councils should be looking at using technology, visualisations and data to improve the services they offer to their citizens and a model that other councils should look at when considering implementing similar strategies.
com AR2016 36 Building a sustainable business Focused on a safe and ethical place of work Balfour Beattys industry-leading Health and safety The Groups Lost Time Incident Rate LTIR commitment to treating health like safety focuses on eliminating occupational Safe is one of the four Build to Last disease and ill health.
In the UK, Balfour goals and all operations must ensure the Beatty is a founder and active member health and safety of everyone who comes of the Health in Construction Leadership into contact with the Groups activities.
In 2016 the HCLG Zero Harm is Balfour Beattys vision which brought industry leaders, clients and means, no injury or ill health caused by contractors, together in a ground-breaking work activities.
All operations are charged summit Committing Construction to a with constantly improving performance, Healthier Future.
sharing learning and best practice.
The business continued to win awards for The Zero Harm objective is supported its health and safety performance.
In the 2013 2014 2015 2016 by risk-based prioritised action plans.
UK, the Sellafield Silo Maintenance Facility These are formed around 12 key areas: team won RoSPAs Order of Distinction communicating the vision: leadership: and clients award for safety.
Balfour Beatty Accident Frequency Rate AFR learning and sharing: co-ordinated won several national awards too such governance: supply chain engagement: as the National Joint Utilities Group to health and safety by design: improving support visually impaired members of the management systems and processes: community navigate around utility street training and competence: behavioural works.
In the US, the Group received safety: innovation, recognition and reward: the national AGC Safety Award for its performance indicators: and local initiatives.
outstanding safety record in Highways.
Group initiatives, linked to the Zero Harm Employee survey results across the calendar are proactive and evidence-based.
Group rated consistently highly on health These include quarterly campaigns and and safety questions, a strong indicator Group-wide stand downs on key topics.
In 2016 these included work at height, 2013 2014 2015 2016 Sadly, despite these positive interfaces between people and plant and improvements, five workers lost their lives treating health like safety.
across the Group in 2016, one in the UK, Major injury rate Many parts of Balfour Beattys business one in the US and three in the Gammon achieved millions of hours incident joint venture in Hong Kong Singapore.
free, demonstrating that Zero Harm is Three of the workers were subcontractors, achievable.
Group-wide leading and two were direct employees.
lagging key performance indicators Each fatal accident is subject to a thorough trended positively, with particularly strong investigation and a detailed review by the performance in the UK.
The Groups Lost Group Chief Executive and further review Time Injury Rate LTIR improved from 0.32 by the Safety and Sustainability Committee to 0.31, 0.24 to 0.22 excluding the Groups to ensure lessons are promulgated international joint ventures.
across the business and wider industry.
Lessons from the UK fatality involving Central to sustainable delivery of plant have resulted in industry-wide Zero Harm is Balfour Beattys Making 2013 2014 2015 2016 improvements in the understanding and Safety Personal MSP programme, application of the hierarchy of risk controls.
based around four simple golden rules.
In 2015 the focus was engagement In 2017 the Group will continue its through workforce observations, which relentless focus on health and safety achieved a dramatic increase and this within the business and working with the trend has continued in 2016.
Group piloted and launched the MSP 1 foundation programme for everyone on making safe choices and an MSP 4 leadership programme.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2016 0.04 0.13 0.23 0.05 0.15 0.27 0.04 0.13 0.32 0.03 0.12 0.31 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 37 Building a sustainable business Developing the best talent Members pledge to work towards having Upskilling the UKs infrastructure People and leadership a minimum of 5% of their employees in workforce earn and learn positions apprentices, The Balfour Beatty Academy continues In 2015 the Group set out its people sponsored students and graduate trainees to provide a range of management, strategy based on inspiring people to within five years of joining.
leadership and professional-level technical excel as part of the Groups transformation development programmes as a focus Balfour Beatty has been a member of The programme Build to Last.
This delivered for the Groups UK activities and aims to 5% Club since December 2013, and was significant successful results and ensure co-ordinated and cost-effective the first in the infrastructure industry to join.
continued to be the foundation of the 2016 development in line with its Build to people plan.
As part of the Build to Last Group Chief Executive Leo Quinn has Last goals.
transformation, Balfour Beatty continues to personally donated 40,000, equivalent During 2016: investment continued into key improve and enhance systems, policies and to 5% of his salary, to secure the ongoing training initiatives: over 230 places were procedures.
This has included simplifying work of The 5% Club and committed to occupied on one of the Groups commercial the number of core UK policies from 200 underwrite up to 100,000 of costs while management modules: 70 senior win down to 50 and reducing the number of wider fundraising gets underway.
business staff attended the high-value payrolls by 60%, as well as other system The proportion of the UK workforce in earn selling programme and an additional changes such as creating an onboarding and learn positions has increased from 35 were trained on a new programme portal to enhance the joining experience for 3.1% in 2014, to 4.3% in 2016. of business acquisition methodology new employees.
that the Academy is collaborating on In 2016, the Group recruited 110 graduates During 2016 Balfour Beatty has invested with colleagues from the US business: and 114 apprentices across the UK, and in training and development of employees, another 100 people started their APM current plans are seeing the business move through the Balfour Beatty Academy, and project management qualification journey: towards the 5% target.
developed new strategic and business- 240 people attended negotiation skills specific programmes.
The Groups UK businesses are also training and over 290 people attended supporting nearly 200 people studying parta programme to develop their people These training and development time at local colleges and universities.
To complement Balfour programmes operate within the context Beattys portfolio, additional offerings of a Group-wide talent review process, Balfour Beatty continues to lead a in the project management suite were which ensures consistent methodology consortium on behalf of the sector developed, as were programmes to and visibility of talent, so that succession to support government reforms on enhance leadership, diversity and inclusion, planning, leadership training and apprenticeships for the construction and client-focused work-winning, which development interventions are applied industry, gaining approval of 14 new were piloted in 2016 ready for 2017 launch.
in the most effective way possible by Apprenticeships Standards for craft and leveraging the Groups scale.
technical professional job roles and aiming Balfour Beatty works in partnership for delivery to start in September 2017. with The Princes Trust, which trains The first Group-wide employee unemployed young people through its Get engagement survey was completed in into Construction programme.
Over the last 2015 and followed up with a number five years, 400 young people completed of actions following the survey results.
this programme, learning while working on A second Group-wide survey was held in Balfour Beatty sites.
About 70% of these 2016 using Best Companies again in order people gained employment with the Group to provide consistency in measurement and directly or with its supply chain.
Employee engagement remains a key focus, to support and enhance business performance and Balfour Beatty has been Emerging talent awarded Ones to Watch status under the Best Companies Index.
4.6 5 4.3 Emerging talent The 5% Club works with UK employers 4 3.1 and key influencers to inspire, educate and 3 retain a growing number of apprentices, sponsored students and graduates 2 through earn and learn placements.
The goal of The 5% Club is to increase 1 the employment and career prospects of todays youth and equip the UK with the 0 skilled workforce it needs to safeguard 2014 2015 2016 Britains economy.
% of graduates, apprentices and students in UK workforce balfourbeatty.
com AR2016 Female Male 38 Building a sustainable business Developing the best talent continued of their work, which offers confidential To enhance the Groups diversity and Diversity and inclusion support to LGBT employees and their inclusion offering, strategic partnerships Leo Quinn, Group Chief Executive, is allies.
Balfour Beatty was one of the first are in place with WISE, the Leonard the Board-level sponsor for diversity and infrastructure companies to set up an Cheshire Disability Society, Business in the inclusion.
In 2016, the Board established LGBT professional network and is proud Community and Stonewall.
Balfour Beatty a steering committee to govern the strategic activities across the UK and to to be represented in the 2016 Financial is also a signatory to the Armed Forces track progress against a new three-year Times Top 50 Future LGBT Leaders Corporate Covenant and progressed to blueprint.
This blueprint serves to outline list.
The network, which has doubled Silver Award winners in 2016. the key deliverables and metrics necessary its membership in two years, has over The Group remains committed to investing to attract diverse talent and create a 100 members spanning the UK and the in industry-leading people throughout more inclusive working environment.
US, ranging from senior sponsorship to a period of considerable change.
Each strategic business unit produces a frontline construction workers.
It is this commitment and the continued plan to align with the overarching strategy engagement of employees that will provide Given that the proportion of female to ensure that diversity and inclusion the foundations for Balfour Beattys employees has reduced in recent activities are embedded to meet local recovery and future growth.
years with the disposals of Balfour employee and customer needs.
Beatty WorkPlace in 2013 and Parsons In 2016, four new Affinity Networks were Brinckerhoff in 2014, a strategic priority launched to enable employee groups for the Group is to increase the number of to network, share information and gain females across the business, particularly support.
The aim of these networks is in middle and senior management roles.
to improve individual and organisational The Women in Business network has understanding of the different aspects recently developed a new three-day career of diversity and inclusion, in addition to development programme specifically supporting the Groups strategy to be designed to support women in accelerating a great place to work.
In 2016, Balfour their careers which will be rolled out Beattys longstanding LGBT network across the organisation in 2017, following secured the Civil Engineering Contractors a successful pilot.
A new Returners Association CECA award for Inspiring Programme, which provides career Change in the Workplace in recognition placements to women who have been on a career break of two years or more, was also launched in 2016.
Through this programme, women will gain invaluable support and mentoring to support their Group gender balance pursuit of permanent employment.
Balfour Beatty has diversified its supply chain, spending more than 40% of total spend with SMEs over each of the last four years.
The percentage spend with Social Enterprises has doubled, and since 2014, a year-on-year increase in percentage spend with female-owned businesses has been delivered 0.11% in 2014, 2% in 2015 and 3.37% in 2016.
In recognition of delivering a diverse culture across its supply chain, Balfour Beatty was awarded Minority Supplier Development UKs Inclusive Procurement award for 2016.
Female employees across the workforce At 31 December 2016 Male Female Total % Male % Female Board 6 1 7 86 14 1 Senior management 94 25 119 79 21 Directors of subsidiaries 248 32 280 89 11 Group 18,103 3,726 21,829 83 17 2014 2015 2016 1 Members of Group Head Office and divisional senior leadership teams.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17% 83% 16% 17% 17% Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 39 Building a sustainable business Driving integrity across the business Business Integrity Speak Up Helpline cases Speak Up Helpline cases Number excluding HR grievances Number Balfour Beatty has a well-developed Business Integrity programme which was originally launched in 2009.
The programme adopts a behavioursbased approach to ensure that the Groups culture enables people to make the right choices and empowers them to speak up where others have not.
In 2016, the whole programme and its effectiveness were evaluated and a number of initiatives updated and re-launched: 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 the Code of Conduct has been updatedand launched as a website Cases per 1,000 employees Cases per 1,000 employees www.
Balfour Beatty Number global benchmark Number As a result, the Code is now available on phones, tablets and laptops so everyone can access and understand what is expected of them a new online assessment has been created to evaluate a persons understanding of the Code of Conduct and what is expected of them, which will inform the training they receive.
Previously a standard training programme was mandatory and effectiveness measured through completion rates 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 training for on-site operatives was relaunched and forms part of the Site Mobilisation Hub so that sites start with manner.
Investigating cases and taking of Conduct and the numbers feeling the right Business Integrity resources appropriate action are key to reinforcing empowered to challenge.
However, and support the behaviours expected of everyone and there is still a significant amount of work supporting those who raise concerns.
to do to ensure the programme is fully several manual processes are being embedded throughout the Group in a automated to make better use of Speak up consistent manner.
This will ensure that Balfour Beatty encourages its staff and processes are followed in a consistent wider community to report any concerns Modern slavery manner and decisions taken will be about unethical conduct.
Trends and, where Modern slavery is a brutal form of documented and available in a uniform appropriate, details of cases raised are organised crime in which people are way.
Examples include the annual reported to the Audit and Risk Committee treated as commodities and exploited for compliance declaration and the due and each business unit.
Whilst action is criminal gain.
The International Labour diligence process undertaken when taken in respect of the immediate issues Organisation estimates that 21 million working with new clients or partners.
raised, this data also informs the longer men, women and children are working in Technology also enables the better term strategic direction of the programme.
conditions of modern slavery, including collection of data which can be shared to trafficked persons.
The vast majority of improve behaviour and mitigate risk.
There has been an increase in the total these people are in the supply chains of All of the improvements made to the number of reported cases in 2016 legitimate industries.
Balfour Beatty is programme are designed to make it compared with 2015, which reflects the committed to working within the business more accessible and compliance with benefits of reinvigorating the programme.
and its supply chain to ensure a proactive it easy to understand and implement.
There has also been an increase in the approach is taken to tackling hidden labour The embedding of the programme through number of cases per 1,000 employees.
exploitation and eliminating these practices.
the usual channels of training, workshops Further details of the Companys approach and constant communication also Areas of focus in 2017 to modern slavery and its Modern Slavery continued during the year.
The implementation of the changes to Act transparency statement for 2016 can the Business Integrity programme will In addition to improvements in the be accessed here: continue in 2017 with a particular focus programme, the Business Integrity function on technology.
com services also increased the team to ensure all inchanges made in 2016 are borne out in modern-slavery scope cases are investigated in a timely the increased awareness of the Code balfourbeatty.
com AR2016 5.3 276 7.6 270 7.1 165 11.2 245 12 208 13 204 13 142 14 224 40 Building a sustainable business Using Our Blueprint to drive sustainability performance Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions GHG reporting and assurance Environmental performance The Group has seen a decrease in carbon Balfour Beattys GHG emissions are emissions intensity in 2016 compared to reported in accordance with the UK The Groups sustainability strategy, Our 2015 from 35.2 tonnes of CO 2 equivalent Governments GHG reporting requirements Blueprint, sets out how Balfour Beatty will CO2e m revenue to 30.1 tonnes of covering all six Kyoto gases.
deliver long-term economic, social and CO2e m revenue.
Since establishing The Group uses the operational control environmental outcomes for its employees, the baseline in 2010, tonnes of CO2e m approach under the GHG Protocol customers, society and shareholders.
revenue have dropped by 27% from 41.5 Corporate Accounting and Reporting It seeks to further embed sustainability tonnes of CO2e m revenue to 30.1 tonnes Standard as at 31 December 2016 to report throughout Balfour Beattys operations by of CO2e m revenue.
emissions from its operations around the providing a robust framework.
For details The Groups total CO e figure for Scope 1 world.
However, Balfour Beatty has chosen 2 on Our Blueprint and the Groups wider and 2 emissions, has dropped by 53,841 not to report against the market-based sustainability performance, please visit: tonnes of CO e 15% from 357,983 tonnes approach.
Even though Balfour Beatty does 2 www.
com sustainability of CO e to 304,142 tonnes of CO e over procure significant amounts of renewable 2 2  the same period.
electricity, the average DEFRA conversion factors have been used for carbon Optimising environmental performance Over the last year the energy management reporting purposes in order not to detract forms a key component of Our Blueprint unit has made significant progress in from reducing energy intensive operations.
and is essential for driving efficiencies and reducing energy and fuel consumption and winning work.
Balfour Beatty has been associated Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
Balfour Beattys energy consumption in taking steps to reduce its carbon emissions MWh is shown on page 41 to allow readers Balfour Beattys 2020 goal is to achieve and mitigate against the business risks of to make more informed comparisons of its a 50% reduction per million revenue of climate change.
its Scope 1 and 2 emissions against a The Group has continued to automate 2010 baseline.
Although Balfour Beattys Scope 1 and 2 the collection of sustainability data by CO e emissions dropped by 2% 6,726 2 Achievement of this target will mean investing in software and developing tonnes over the period from 2015 to 2016, reduced operating costs and therefore in-house solutions.
This has improved the number of MWh of energy dropped improved value to customers and the completeness and accuracy of by approximately 1% 10,736 MWh shareholders.
Additionally, a number of environmental performance data such as for energy.
customers have expressed an intention to its Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
prequalify contractors on the basis of their This difference can be explained by the carbon performance in the future.
fact that different fuels have different Standards carbon conversion factors, with some fuels Sustainability is an integral part of Gammon Construction, the Groups attracting greater carbon conversion factors modern infrastructure projects: public joint venture in Hong Kong Singapore, than others.
Furthermore, the MWh table sector customers require conformance accounts for approximately 37% of does not include fugitive emissions.
to standards such as BREEAM, LEED, the Groups Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
BEAM, ESTIDAMA, Green Mark, and In 2014, it became the first construction The Energy Use table illustrates that there CEEQUAL and these are important to company in Hong Kong to be awarded has been a greater switch towards biofuel planning authorities.
Meeting these the CarbonCare Label that covers all of blends for petrol and diesel accompanied standards has resulted in a 2.2 billion its operations in Hong Kong except joint by a reduction in both mineral petrol revenue on green infrastructure projects venture projects.
This is in addition to the and diesel.
The Groups certifications in this ISO 14064-1 international standard for Balfour Beattys Scope 1 and 2 CO e 2 area and its technical knowledge improve quantifying and reporting greenhouse gas emissions include emissions from assets the whole life performance of customers GHG emissions it holds.
Its Scope 1 and 2 that are otherwise not referred to across built assets.
GHG emissions are independently verified the rest of the financial statements such as by SGS.
energy provided by landlords or clients that www.
com showcase Balfour Beatty does not pay for.
Scope 2 emissions result from the purchase of electricity, heat, steam and cooling for own use.
The full description of our definitions can be found in our reporting guidance found at www.
com enablon Included with KPMGs limited assurance scope.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 41 The Group has determined and reported The level of assurance provided for CDP the emissions it is responsible for within a limited assurance engagement is The Group is committed to addressing this boundary and does not believe there substantially lower than a reasonable climate risk and reducing the lifetime are any material omissions.
The Group uses assurance engagement.
In order to reach emissions of the assets it builds, as the UK Governments carbon conversion their opinion, KPMG performed a range of evidenced by its performance in the factors that were updated in 2016 to procedures over the GHG data including: global evaluation standard, the Climate calculate its emissions into equivalent Disclosure Project CDP, where a B rating interviewing management responsible tonnes of carbon dioxide CO 2e and the was achieved in 2016, compared to the for the data IEAs September 2016 set of international Construction and Engineering average agreeing a selection of the data to the conversion factors for electricity Scope rating of C. corresponding source documentation at 2 except for the UK where the UK The annual rating is based on CDPs business unit level Governments conversion factors were evaluation of the Companys strategy, goals used as they are more up to date.
performing analytical procedures over and actual emissions reductions, as well as the aggregated data at Balfour Beatty The Group has removed the Scope 1 and transparency and verification of reported Group level.
2 data for Sakti, Dutco Balfour Beatty and data.
It assesses the completeness and A summary of the work they performed is BK Gulf from the original 2010 baseline and quality of Balfour Beattys measurement included within their assurance opinion.
and management of carbon footprint, climate change strategy, risk management Non-financial performance information, KPMG were engaged to undertake processes and outcomes.
The scores GHG quantification in particular, is subject an independent limited assurance purpose is to provide a summary of the to more inherent limitations than financial engagement, reporting to Balfour Beatty extent to which companies have answered information.
It is important to read the plc, using the assurance standards ISAE these questions in a structured format.
GHG data in the context of the full limited 3000 and ISAE 3410 over the GHG data Balfour Beattys B rating indicates that assurance statement and the reporting that have been highlighted in this report its team has provided comprehensive criteria as set out in the Balfour Beatty with the symbol.
Their full statement is information in a transparent and reporting guidelines available at: available at: open manner.
com AR2016 42 Building a sustainable business Engaging local communities Community investment through over 1,300 young people to gain new Community engagement charitable fundraising skills, qualifications and stable work.
The Balfour Beatty Building Better Futures Since 2010, the Trust has contributed In many markets the ability to demonstrate Charitable Trust was formed in 2009 to over 420,000 to Coram.
This has the social value of the Groups operations help the most disadvantaged young people funded three of Corams vital services for in economic terms is vital.
To benefit local in society.
With Balfour areas, the Group uses local suppliers, Beattys support Coram has helped Through a mix of employee fundraising and employees and materials wherever 26 children to find their forever family financial support provided by the Company, possible, and invests in future talent through Coram Adoption: provided the Trust currently supports three charities: through apprenticeship schemes and work art and music therapy to 144 children Barnardos, Coram and The Princes Trust.
helping them to overcome trauma: and In 2016, employees raised over Involved Balfour Beattys community enabled 40,138 vulnerable schoolchildren 66,000 through the Building Better investment programme in the UK was to experience Corams interactive health Futures fundraising activity programme.
established in 2015 and focuses on three education programme.
An additional 18,000 was raised by key areas where the Group can add value In 2016, 48 Balfour Beatty employees took employees for charities separately.
to its customers and the local community: to the saddle and raised over 203,000 The Company matched this funding with for charitable causes, of which 86,000 local employment and skills an additional contribution and donated a including matched funding from the supporting local businesses total of 100,000 to the Trust.
Company was directed to the Balfour community engagement through To help tackle youth unemployment and Beatty Charitable Trust.
The Deloitte Ride charitable fundraising, volunteering the skills gap in the construction sector, Across Britain route covered an impressive and mentoring.
many of Balfour Beattys programmes have 969 miles, beginning in Lands End and Wherever the Group operates it seeks been focused on improving employment finishing in John OGroats.
to integrate within the neighbourhood, opportunities and employability Balfour Beatty completed its support supporting the local community, of individuals.
for the London Youth Games in 2016, its businesses and its workforce.
Since 2006, the Trust has helped facilitating another record year of Involved gives Balfour Beatty the transform the lives of nearly 4,000 young participation for young people in London, opportunity to work within a framework people by working together with The with 139,786 taking part.
Balfour Beatty whereby the results of its interventions Princes Trust.
staff again played a key role among 4,173 are captured and the benefit to society Since 2013 the Trust has contributed volunteers and supported the successful shared with its customers and other 136,000 to support Barnardos work delivery of the Games.
with unemployed young people: helping Beatty started sponsoring the Games in 2006, participant numbers have increased fivefold.
This has brought multiple benefits, including engaging employees in volunteering, helping customer relationships and supporting communities in and around London where Balfour Beatty operates.
The US construction business contributed over US$450,000 to charitable causes in 2016.
Some of the organisations receiving donations are: Make-A-Wish Foundation Sharefest Habitat for Humanity Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation Carpenters Shelter Kay Yow Cancer Fund United Way Urban Ministry Center.
Deloitte Ride Across Britain Balfour Beatty employees took to the saddle and raised over 203,000 for charitable causes.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 43 Staff also participated in the Hong Kong In California, Balfour Beatty team mates Federation of Trade Unions Occupational co-hosted the fourth annual Golf Classic Safety and Health walkathon for injured that raised more than US$110,000 for workers, and the Central Rat Race in aid of the Sharefest 2016 Workday.
The annual mental health charity, Mindset, as well as Sharefest event mobilises thousands of volunteers throughout Los Angeles County the annual three-day Gammon Walkathon to complete tangible work projects that 2016 to raise funds for people with change the quality of life for its residents.
In 2016, Gammon was Since its inception in 2013, Balfour recognised by the Hong Kong Council of Beattys Golf Classic outing has raised Social Services as a Caring Company for more than US$360,000 to support annual over 10 years.
Taxation For Make-A-Wish Foundations Walk for Wishes event in Georgia, the Balfour Beatty team in Atlanta raised The Groups tax strategy, approved by over US$65,000 for children in Georgia the Board, is to sustainably minimise who have been afflicted with lifetax cost whilst complying with the law.
In doing so, it ensures it acts in accordance with Balfour Beattys ethics, values and In Texas, Balfour Beatty continued with compliance programme.
its High School Mentoring Program that started in 2009.
The programme Balfour Beatty has clear tax policies, enhances the educational and professional procedures and controls in place which development experience of high school are overseen by the Chief Financial Officer students in the Dallas Fort Worth area and monitored and reviewed by internal by raising the awareness of professional tax specialists.
opportunities within the construction The Group manages tax affairs in a industry.
Through one-on-one mentoring proactive manner that seeks to maximise relationships, Balfour Beatty facilitates shareholder value.
However, it does not sustainable academic enrichment, enter into artificial arrangements that lack encourages leadership, and provides commercial purpose in order to secure a exposure to the construction industry.
If a position is uncertain Since inception, the programme has hosted the Group may obtain third-party advice numerous High School interns, awarded in order to gain clarity or support for a several scholarships for students pursuing particular stance or approach.
The aim is careers in construction management and to ensure full compliance with all statutory sponsored college interns.
Offers are obligations and as a consequence attempt extended to interns with successful to minimise risk wherever possible.
This approach is supported by an open, In 2016, staff from Gammon Construction honest and positive working relationship took part in a total of 116 community with the tax authorities.
Should any dispute events in Hong Kong, mainland China and arise with regard to the interpretation Singapore and raised over HK$1.9 million and application of tax law, the Group through sponsorships and charitable is committed to addressing the matter donations.
Many of the community promptly and resolving it in an open and focused events promoted health and constructive manner.
wellbeing including Gammon being the title sponsor of the China Coast Marathon and The Group makes a major contribution to participating in Swim for a Million, both in the tax revenues of governments in the aid of the Community Chest of Hong Kong.
numerous territories in which it operates.
For example, the Groups tax contribution extends significantly beyond corporation tax and the collection of substantial amounts of income tax and includes the payment of significant employer social security contributions.
