Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 75 Accountability The Audit and Risk Committee plays a key role in overseeing the Groups financial reporting and risk management processes.
We are committed to ensuring that the Groups financial reporting is accurate, high-quality and clear, to allow shareholders to properly understand the Groups performance andfinancial position.
Stephen Billingham Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Summary of activities in 2016 Audit and Risk Committee In 2016, the Committees work programme focused on a number of significant issues and other accounting judgements where Main responsibilities the Committee believed the highest level of judgement was The terms of reference for the Committee are based on the required and with the highest potential impact on the Groups Guidance on Audit Committees issued by the Financial Reporting financial statements.
Further information is set out on page 76.
The main responsibilities of the Audit and Risk Committee The Committees standing agenda items comprised reports on: are summarised below: accounting, financial and regulatory issues review the integrity of the financial statements of the Group review of non-audit work carried out by the external auditors, and any formal announcements relating to the Groups and their fees financial performance risk management activities and compliance review the Groups internal controls established to identify, implementation of and progress against the Group Internal assess, manage and monitor risks, and receive reports from Audit Plan.
management on the effectiveness of the systems it has established and the conclusions of any testing carried out by the The Committee is able to question management at both Group and internal audit function and external auditor business unit levels to gain further insight into the issues addressed in these reports.
monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit function, including its work programme Fair, balanced and understandable make recommendations to the Board in relation to the Following the introduction of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic appointment of the external auditor and approve the Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013, the Board has remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor been mindful of the continuing need to provide a balanced and assess the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of comprehensive analysis of the Companys development and the external auditor and develop and implement policy on the performance during the year and the position at the year end, engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services including the use of alternative performance measures.
The Audit review the integrity of the statement in the Annual Report on and Risk Committee has assisted in achieving this objective by being fair, balanced and understandable, as required under the reviewing proposals for the internal procedures to be applied in Companies Act 2006 preparing the Annual Report.
review the procedures for the Groups helplines and other Viability statement mechanisms used by employees to raise concerns confidentially Following the revision to the UK Corporate Governance Code including any whistleblowing facilities and their effectiveness.
published in September 2014, the Audit and Risk Committee has Dr Stephen Billingham, formerly group finance director CFO of assisted in reviewing the viability of the Group over the longer term British Energy Group plc and of WS Atkins plc, has been identified as part of its assessment of the Groups risks.
by the Board as having recent and relevant financial experience.
See page 65 for further details Partners from the external auditor, the Group Risk and Audit Director, the Group Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer regularly attend meetings.
The Committee also invites divisional leaders and specialists relevant to the Committees agenda.
com AR2016 76 Accountability continued Significant issues and other accounting judgements Revenue and margin Given the nature of the Groups operations, these elements are central to how it values its work.
recognition Having reviewed detailed reports and met with management, the Committee considered contract and commercial issues with exposure to both revenue and margin recognition risks.
As a key area of audit focus, the Committee also received a detailed written report from the external auditor setting out the results of its work in relation to key contract judgements.
Carrying value of The judgement largely relates to the assumptions underlying the value in use of the cash-generating units, goodwill and other primarily the achievement of the three-year strategic plan and the macroeconomic assumptions such as intangibles discount rates underpinning the valuation process.
The Committee received reports from management outlining the impairment model and the assumptions used: in addition, the external auditor provided detailed written reports in this area.
Going concern and In order to satisfy itself that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operation for the viabilitystatement foreseeable future and that there are no material uncertainties that could lead to significant doubt as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, the Committee considered the Groups viability statement, cash position both existing and projected, bank facilities and covenants including bonding lines and the borrowing powers allowed under the Companys Articles of Association.
The Committee subsequently recommended to the Board the adoption of the going concern statement and the viability statement for inclusion in the Annual Report.
More details on going concern and the viability statement are contained on pages 52 and 65.
Non-underlying items The key judgement is whether items relate to underlying trading or not and whether they have been presented in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
The Committee conducted a review of each of the non-underlying items, receiving written reports from management and the external auditor as to their quantum and nature.
Provisions The Committee reviewed the significant judgements relating to provisions, including litigation and other risks.
The Committee received detailed reports, including relevant legal advice.
Retirement benefits The key judgement relates to the assumptions underlying the valuation of the retirement benefit obligations.
The Committee received reports from management outlining the assumptions used, including input from the Groups actuaries, in particular in relation to discount rates, inflation and mortality which were evaluated against external benchmarks and, in relation to which, the external auditor also provided reports.
Deferred tax assets The Committee reviewed the Groups considerations on future profitability to evaluate the judgement that it is probable the deferred tax assets are recoverable.
Directors valuation of The Committee assessed the methodology used to value the assets in terms of the discount rates the Investments portfolio applied.
It also critically appraised the output of the Directors valuation exercise.
Areas of focus in 2017 Internal auditor effectiveness In 2017, the Committee will continue to address the topics on its The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit standing agenda as well as continuing to undertake reviews of the function on an ongoing basis.
This is achieved, in part, by reviewing risk management and assurance practices across the Group on a and discussing the reports presented to it at each meeting, setting rolling programme.
The Committee will also continue to receive out the functions work and findings, but also through a formal any necessary training in order to broaden and refresh the skills and annual assessment.
An independent periodic review of the internal knowledge of its members.
The Committee will also focus on the audit function, as well as a thorough self-assessment scorecard Groups progress on the implementation of IFRS 15 Revenue from drawn up in accordance with best practice guidelines, also helps Contracts with Customers and the impact of this new standard to contribute to the Committees evaluation.
Risk management and internal control The risk management and internal control framework now comprises a number of approval and review gates that cover the business lifecycle from initial project pursuit through to delivery and completion.
These processes are underpinned by common minimum standards in project and commercial management and are under constant review to ensure their effectiveness and compliance.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 77 External auditor independence and effectiveness Annual assessment of the audit process The Committee carries out a formal review each year to assess the In addition to receiving written reports from the auditors both independence and effectiveness of the external auditor, KPMG.
internal and external and management, the Committee also The Committee has satisfied itself as to KPMGs independence.
conducted separate private meetings with the external auditors In reaching its conclusion, the Committee took into consideration and with management.
These provide the opportunity for open the following matters: dialogue and feedback on the audit process, the responsiveness of management and the effectiveness of individual internal and Non-audit work external audit teams.
The objective set out in the Companys policy is to ensure that the A detailed assessment of the external audit process and external auditor is not placed in a position where its independence the effectiveness of the external auditor, together with any is, or might be seen to be, compromised.
Under no circumstances identified improvement recommendations, is prepared each will any assignment be given to the external auditor, when the year.
Each strategic business unit within the Group is required result is that: to evaluate the performance of the assigned external audit team it audits its own work and to compare that performance against the previous year.
This assessment has taken into account the issues which have it makes management decisions on behalf of the Group been raised during 2016. it acts as advocate for the Group The external auditors annual transparency report for the year ended a mutuality of interest is created.
This was prepared in accordance with The Companys policy identifies the various types of non-audit the provisions of the Statutory Auditors Transparency Instrument services and determines the analysis to be undertaken, and level 2008 made by the Professional Oversight Board of the Financial of authority required, before the external auditor can be considered Reporting Council.
For any non-audit services which are not excluded under the policy, the policy provides for approval External auditor rotation by the Chief Financial Officer of expenditure below 250,000, As reported last year, KPMG were selected as the Companys and approval by the chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee auditor for the year ending 31 December 2016, following a of expenditure above 250,000.
A report is also submitted to the competitive tender process, and were duly appointed at the AGM Committee of any non-audit services carried out by the external on 19 May 2016.
The external auditors are required to rotate the auditor, irrespective of value.
The aggregated spend on non-audit lead partner every five years.
Such changes are carefully planned services with the external auditor will not exceed 60% of the Group to ensure business continuity without undue risk or inefficiency.
audit fee, unless exceptional circumstances exist, with a three-year KPMGs lead partner will complete his first year in May 2017. rolling average not exceeding 70% of the Group audit fee.
The EU Audit Directive on audit tendering took effect from June During 2016, there were fees of 0.5 million 2015: 0.7 million 2016 and its key aspects include: paid to the external auditor for non-audit services.
2016 non-audit audit firms will have a maximum tenure of 10 years, although the services primarily related to the half-year review.
Audit fees for 2016 UK Government proposes to allow an extension of i up to an were 2m.
Further details of the 2016 amounts are included in Note additional 10 years where a public tender is carried out after 10 6.2 of the accounts.
years: or ii by an additional 14 years where more than one audit There is no inconsistency between the Financial Reporting firm is appointed to carry out the audit Councils ethical standards and the Companys policy.
audit firms are to be prohibited from providing certain non-audit The Committee considers that the Company receives particular services and where non-audit services are provided they will be benefits, including those relating to cost, quality and consistency, subject to a fees cap from the advice provided by its external auditor, given its wide and a restriction in any contract limiting a companys choice of auditor detailed knowledge of the Group and its international operations.
There can also be savings in management time and accelerated The Group has therefore adopted a policy that no external auditor delivery of work in situations where rapid turnaround is required.
appointed after June 2016 can remain in post for longer than 20 45% by value of non-audit related work provided by international years and there will be a tendering process every 10 years, and accounting firms in 2016 was carried out by firms other that KPMG, as the currently appointed external auditor, may remain than KPMG.
so until the completion of the 2025 annual audit.
However, the Committee will continue to consider annually the need to tender the audit for audit quality or independence reasons.
There are no contractual obligations in place that restrict the Companys choice of statutory auditor.
The disclosures provided above constitute the Companys statement of compliance with the requirements of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014. balfourbeatty.
com AR2016 78 Accountability continued The role of the Committee is to monitor the The role of the Committee is to drive structure and composition of the Board, greater focus on the safety culture within including responsibility for recommending the business through the Zero Harm Board appointments, and to consider the programme and to review the sustainability strategy, processes and plans for senior performance of the Group.
executive recruitment, the Groups succession Maureen Kempston Darkes Chairman of the Safety and Sustainability Committee planning and talent management.
Philip Aiken Chairman of the Nomination Committee Safety and Sustainability Committee Summary of activities in 2016 Nomination Committee In addition to the standard agenda items designed to provide the Committee with objective reporting of absolute and relative Summary of activities in 2016 performance against agreed KPIs, during the year the Committee has During 2016 and into 2017, the Committees programme of work overseen the establishment of leading Group-wide safety indicators included the commencement of recruitment processes for the and the update of the Groups sustainability strategy, Our Blueprint.
appointment of three new non-executive Directors.
com media 195840 All appointments to the Board are based on merit, against objective .
pdf criteria, having due regard for diversity, including gender.
The Committee has also overseen the merger of the UK Health In seeking suitable candidates for the positions, Heidrick and and Safety function with the UK Environment and Sustainability Struggles US and Ridgeway, external executive search agencies, function.
This has facilitated the development of a more effective and were separately engaged.
The Committee identified the collaborative way of working throughout the Groups UK operations.
This has been supported by additional training of health, safety, environment and sustainability practitioners as part of an ongoing Key determinants in the selection of the Directors are a background development programme to build expertise and flexibility.
in organisations that share key dynamics with Balfour Beatty, including contracting, customer service, major capital projects, The new UK Health, Safety, Environment and Sustainability function infrastructure and B2B services.
also performs a Group-wide data collection and reporting role for Balfour Beattys international operations.
The search agencies appointed were reminded to approach a diverse talent pool of candidates, and neither has other connections The Committee considered certain significant health and safety with Balfour Beatty.
related incidents, including fatalities, discussing in detail the themes around supervision, communications and safety by design.
It also Areas of focus in 2017 reviewed the Groups sustainability performance.
In January 2017, the Committee received a comprehensive The Committee also engaged with key customers to identify presentation on the succession and development plans for the opportunities for greater collaboration and joint working.
Groups senior leadership team and discussed succession plans for the Board.
The implications of the business strategy for senior Areas of focus in 2017 executive recruitment and the impact on the Groups succession In 2017, the Committee will continue to focus on the key areas of planning are also areas which the Committee will consider during health and safety by design, supervision and treating health like safety the year.
It will continue to monitor the appropriateness of the as well as measuring performance against Our Blueprint and the Zero composition of the Board.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 79 Leo Quinn Group Chief Executive Group Tender and Investment Committee Summary of role The Committee has been chaired by the Group Chief Executive, orin his absence by the Chief Financial Officer, or in his absence by any one of four senior business unit leaders.
Those business unit leaders are not permitted to chair any meeting which reviews proposals from those areas of the business for which he she has executive responsibility.
The main purpose of the Committee is to review all major proposed tenders with projected values above specified levels, with a specific focus on risk.
The Committee also has authority to approve capital expenditure applications and any proposed acquisitions or disposals up to certain specified limits determined by the Board.
For example, currently the Committees terms of reference require contracts for construction or services in the UK of a value exceeding 100 million to be submitted for review, whilst other limits vary according to geography and nature of the contract.
Any member may convene a meeting of the Committee to discuss any of the tender reviews in more detail.
In addition to those members of the Committee most relevant for the consideration of each proposed tender, meetings are attended by key members of the bid team concerned and their strategic business unit leaders.
Minutes of all meetings are made available to all Directors.
Finance and General PurposesCommittee Summary of role The Committee is chaired by the Group Chief Executive or, in his absence, by the Chief Financial Officer.
Its principal purpose is to approve various routine banking and treasury matters and matters relating to share capital.
A summary of the business conducted at the meetings is provided to all Directors.
