Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 71 Effectiveness Directors independence approving annual budgets and financial reporting, including the At its meeting in January 2017, the Board considered the annual and half-year results and interim management statements independence of the non-executive Directors against the criteria approving interim, and recommending final, dividends specified in the Code and determined that each of them continues approving major acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure to be independent.
ensuring the necessary financial and human resources A non-exhaustive list of the key strengths of the Directors is set out are in place to achieve objectives and review in the table below.
Details of their service agreements, emoluments management performance and share incentives are shown in the Remuneration report starting setting the Companys values and ethical standards on page 84. approving policies and systems for risk management Following the performance evaluations of each of the non-executive and assurance.
Directors, it is confirmed that the performance of each continues to The Board reviewed its list of reserved matters, most recently, at its be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
The full list and the terms of reference of the Board Committees are available on the Companys website: Responsibility and delegation The Board is responsible for the success of the Company and has a www.
com investors formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision which includes The day-to-day management of the business is delegated to the matters summarised below: executive Directors and the Groups senior management.
determining the Groups strategic direction Directors significant strengths Operating Financial Risk Ethics, performance Mergers management Experience of Health management values Strategic and and Business and Sectorinternational and and HR Stakeholder and Director development delivery acquisitions integration planning specific markets safety assurance management engagement culture Philip Aiken Stephen Billingham Stuart Doughty Iain Ferguson Philip Harrison Maureen Kempston Darkes Leo Quinn Board and Committee meetings attendance Details of the number of meetings and attendance at the Board meetings and meetings of the Audit and Risk, Safety and Sustainability, Nomination and Remuneration Committees during the year are set out in the table below.
Safety and Board Audit and Risk Nomination Sustainability Remuneration Director 8 4 3 3 5 Philip Aiken 8 3 3 5 Stephen Billingham 8 4 Stuart Doughty 8 4 3 3 Iain Ferguson 8 4 3 3 5 Philip Harrison 8 Maureen Kempston Darkes 8 3 5 Leo Quinn 8 3 3 Graham Roberts 1 0 1 1 The number shown in brackets is the total number of meetings the Director could attend during the year including as a result of changes to Committee memberships.
Non-attendance at meetings was due to illness.
In each case, where the Directors have not been able to attend a Board or Committee meeting, they have reviewed the papers circulated for that meeting and provided their comments directly to the Chairman, or the Committee chair, as appropriate.
com AR2016 72 Effectiveness continued Further information about the work of each of the Boards Board evaluation Committees may be found on pages 75 to 79 and pages 84 to 99.
Introduction In keeping with the Code, the Board undertakes external Board development evaluations, typically every three years, with internal evaluations Induction in the intervening two years.
The most recent external evaluation Directors undertake a thorough induction programme and receive was carried out in early 2016, in respect of 2015, by Lintstock, an a range of information about the Company when they join the external facilitator.
For 2016, the evaluation has been conducted Board, including access to a portal on which all Board papers are using internal resources and considered the performance of stored, Balfour Beattys Code of Conduct and processes for dealing the Board and its Committees, aswell as the Chairman and in Balfour Beatty shares.
In addition, they take part in a series of individual Directors.
one-to-one meetings with other members of the Board, senior executives in the businesses and the Companys external advisers, 2016 evaluation which include briefings on the Companys business strategy, All Board members were requested to complete a questionnaire, financial procedures, business development, legal and other the responses to which were reviewed and summarised by the key issues.
Company Secretary and the Chairman.
The emerging key themes were discussed with each Director individually, and presented to The Directors induction programme also provides the foundation the Board for discussion in November 2016. for continuing professional development.
This takes place throughout the year by way of a series of internal and external The survey was tailored to the specific circumstances of Balfour updates, including visits to operating companies to meet local Beatty and covered the composition, expertise and dynamics of management and visits to Balfour Beatty projects, both in the UK the Board, the Boards management of time, the support afforded and overseas.
to the Board, the Boards oversight of strategy, risk and human resources, and priorities for change.
The responses to the survey Professional development were unattributed.
In discussion with the Directors and Company Secretary, each year the Chairman determines whether there are any specific training Key conclusions from the evaluation needs identified by the Directors, which can be addressed either Overall ratings across most of the areas on which views were by the topic being included at a future Board meeting or on a onecanvassed, showed an improvement year on year.
Directors are also enrolled in the Deloitte Academy, executive Directors continue to enhance their understanding of a seminar-led programme for directors of UK listed companies, the business, including by making regular visits to project sites which provides regular updates throughout the year on the principal throughout the UK and overseas and are individually and collectively governance and other matters of which directors of a listed involved in project reviews.
An additional item has been added to company should be fully aware.
the Board agenda to provide the non-executive Directors with an opportunity to give timely, verbal reports on their site visits and project reviews.
The Board also committed to undertake at least one visit to the US each year, combining a series of presentations by the US leadership team with site visits.
Code of Conduct National Museum of the Marine Corps For a copy see www.
com Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 73 Risk management and internal control Roles and responsibilities Risk management The Board is responsible for the implementation and oversight of Effective risk management underpins the delivery of the Groups Balfour Beattys system of risk management and internal control.
objectives and is an essential element of meeting the requirements It sets the Groups appetite for and attitude to risk in pursuit of of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
By identifying and its strategic objectives and therefore the level of risk that can be managing risk, the business is better able to protect its reputation, taken by Group, strategic business unit and individual business ensure long-term viability and generate sustainable shareholder unit management without specific Board approval.
Balfour Beatty identifies key risks at an early stage and procedures and delegated authority levels set by the Board provide applies mitigations within a strong internal control environment the means by which risks are reviewed and escalated to the to eliminate them or mitigate their impact and likelihood to an appropriate level within the Group, up to and including the Board, acceptable level.
For more information, refer to pages 53 to 65. for consideration and approval.
The Board has applied principle C2 of the UK Corporate The roles and responsibilities of the Board, its Committees, Governance Code by embedding continuous risk management strategic business unit and individual business unit management processes throughout the Group at all levels which form an integral are set out below.
part of day-to-day business activity.
Board Responsible for the Groups Issues and reviews the Group risk systems of risk management and management policy internal control Annually reviews effectiveness of Determines Group appetite for Group risk management and internal and attitude to risk in pursuit of its control systems strategic objectives.
Reviews the Groups risk landscape, principal risks and risk responses.
Audit and Risk Committee Regularly reviews the effectiveness Receives regular reports on internal of Group internal controls, including and external audit and other systems to identify, assess, manage assurance activities and monitor risks Annually assesses Group risk Agrees the Group Internal Audit Plan.
management and internal control systems Reviews effectiveness of the Groups helpline and other channels for raising concerns about Code of Conduct breaches.
Group Tender and Investment Committee Reviews and approves tenders Critically appraises significant tender and investments, triggered by proposals and investment divestment certain financial thresholds or other opportunities, with a specific focus risk factors.
Safety and Sustainability Committee Reviews Group management of Receives regular reports on non-financial risks such as health and implementation of Group policies and safety, and sustainability.
Group management Strategic leadership Strategic plan and annual budget process Responsible for reviewing and Produces and tracks Group risk register implementing the Group risk Reviews risk management and management policy assurance activities and processes Ensures appropriate actions are taken Monthly quarterly finance and to manage strategic risks and other performance reviews.
Strategic business unit management Responsible for risk management Reviews key risks and mitigation plans and internal control systems within Reviews and challenges business units its business internal control environment Ensures that business units Reviews results of internal control testing responsibilities are discharged.
Escalates key risks to Group management and the Board.
4. Business unit management Maintains an effective system of risk Maintains and regularly reviews project, functional and strategic risk registers management and internal control within its business unit and projects.
Reviews mitigation plans Plans, executes and reports on internal control testing.
com AR2016 74 Effectiveness continued Risk management process monthly financial reporting against budgets and the review of Balfour Beattys risk management policy requires that all results and forecasts by executive Directors and management, business units ensure that effective controls are established and including particular areas of business or project risk.
This is used implemented for the management of risk.
to update managements understanding of the environment in which the Group operates and the methods used to mitigate and Identified risk events, their causes and possible consequences control the risks identified are recorded in risk registers, together with assessments of their specific policies set out in the Group Finance Manual covering likelihood and potential business impact.
The controls in place to the financial management of the Group, including arrangements manage each risk event are assessed for effectiveness and, if with the Groups bankers and bond providers, controls on required, additional actions are developed to bring exposure within foreign exchange dealings and management of currency and the Groups risk appetite.
Each risk is allocated to a specific risk interest rate exposures, application of accounting policies and owner who is given the responsibility to manage the risk and its financial controls controls within an agreed timeframe.
Group-wide risk management standards which are embedded For new projects, an assessment of risk forms a key part of the throughout the Group work winning Gates 14 within the Gated Lifecycle process gateway reviews requiring risk, uncertainty and control page 53 and risks are continuously assessed as projects evolve assessment at all stages of project development and at all levels and progress.
of the business from business unit level to Board Committee if Additionally the Board sets and regularly reviews delegated value, or perceived exposure, exceeds certain thresholds authority levels which act as triggers for matters requiring senior reviews and tests by the internal audit function of critical business management or Board approval.
In relation to work winning, this financial processes and controls and specific reviews in areas of means that projects above a certain value, or those that import perceived high business risk particular uncertainties such as a move into new markets, require reviews and authorises proposed investment, divestment approval by the Group Tender and Investment Committee.
and capital expenditure through the Boards Committees and Reporting structures ensure that risks are monitored continually, the Board mitigation plans are reviewed and significant exposures are regular reporting, monitoring and review of the effectiveness escalated from project level through the appropriate business unit of health, safety, environment and sustainability processes.
review stages and, as appropriate, to Group senior management.
These processes are subject to independent audit and Further improvements to the risk management framework have certification to internationally recognised standards as appropriate been made throughout 2016 including significant strengthening legal compliance risks which are addressed through specific to the process of assessing, managing and reporting risk.
policies and training on such matters as ethics, competition and This progress is detailed on pages 53 to 55.
Increased rigour within data protection laws risk management will continue in 2017 with renewed focus on promotion of a culture of compliance with ethics and integrity risk impact quantification and escalation.
These enhancements responsibilities to help manage legal and reputational risks across alongside the ongoing co-ordination between project, contract the Group.
An ethics helpline has been established to encourage and business level risk analysis continue to drive risk awareness staff to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible breaches of and culture.
Internal control These systems are extended, as soon as possible and as The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups risk appropriate, to all businesses joining the Group.
management systems and internal control, and regularly reviews The Group also has an independent internal audit function that their effectiveness.
executes a risk-based programme of audit throughout the entire The Groups systems and controls are designed to ensure that Group.
All audit reports are shared with relevant business leaders in the Groups exposure to significant risk is managed appropriately.
addition to being scrutinised by the Audit and Risk Committee see The Board recognises that any system of internal control is pages 75 to 77. designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to It is the expectation and requirement of the Board that business achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable leaders ensure that this comprehensive internal control and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or environment including internal audit is embedded within their loss.
In addition, not all the material joint ventures in which the business units.
Group is involved are treated, for these purposes, as part of the The Board continued to assess the effectiveness of the risk Group.
Where they are not, systems of internal control and risk management processes and internal controls during 2016 and to management are applied as agreed between the partners to the the date of this report.
Such assessment is based on reports made joint venture.
to the Board, the Audit and Risk Committee and the Safety and Central to the Groups systems of internal control are its processes Sustainability Committee, including: and framework for risk management.
These align with Guidance the results of the internal audit functions reviews of internal on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and financial controls Business Reporting and were in place throughout 2016 and up to a Group-wide certification that effective internal controls had the date of signing this report.
been maintained or, where any significant non-compliance or Guidance and policies have been issued and are continuously breakdown had occurred with or without loss, that appropriate monitored to provide an interlinked and comprehensive internal remedial action has been or is being taken control environment.
Such topics include but are not limited to: a paper prepared by management on the nature, extent a clear system of delegated authorities from the Board to and mitigation of significant risks and on the systems of management with certain matters reserved by the Board internal controls.
the annual review of the strategy and plans of each business Principal risks and of the Group as a whole in order to identify the risks to The principal risks that could adversely impact on the Groups the Groups achievement of its overall objectives and, where profitability and ability to achieve its strategic objectives are set appropriate, any relevant mitigating actions outon pages 56 to 65.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2016
