12 Our priorities Build to Last A transformation programme Lean returningBalfour Beatty tostrength Deliver value to our customers by improving operational efficiency and When we deliver buildings and eliminating waste right infrastructure, we expect them to survive through the supply chain.
For Balfour Beatty to remain at the forefront of our industry we need to continuously improve efficiency, lead innovation and always operate safely.
These are the drivers of value for Why is it important?
We want to make sure that our customers get the best value for their Improved efficiency means smarter money: we need to be relentless in working, elimination of waste and creating driving out unnecessary costs and a Lean supply chain to deliver better value work with our customers to ensure for our customers.
This allows us to invest their money is spent in the best way in developing our expertise.
Providing customers with finest Experts allows us to extend what better value for their money drives our we are capable of building and drives competitiveness and provides Balfour improvements in everything we do: this Beatty with the capital to invest means our customers can Trust us to back into developing our expertise.
deliver on all that we promise, including Lean is measured against our financial safety.
returns: cash flow performance and We Build to Last.
Read more on p14-15 Our KPIs 173m 2015: 163m Net cash excluding non-recourse borrowings 67m 2015: 106 m Underlying profit loss from operations Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 13 Expert Trusted Safe Ensure we have the Be the construction partner We must ensure the health best engineering, of choice for our customers and safety of everyone design and project and supply chain by who comes into contact management capabilities.
We deliver world-class buildings Customers must have confidence Health and safety is at the heart of and infrastructure for our customers in our ability to deliver and to do everything we do we must protect by constantly driving innovation.
A robust our employees, our supply chain Our strongest differentiator is our risk framework ensures that partners, our customers and the engineering and project management challenges are mitigated and projects public.
Construction is an inherently capabilities.
Having the best are delivered in the right way.
dangerous business and without the talent supported by the strongest Satisfied customers provide us with highest standards of safety we dont supply chain creates avirtuous the opportunities and projects for the have a licence to operate.
A safe and circle that ensures we win the future.
Trusted is measured against healthy workplace is also happier, best and most exciting projects to customer satisfaction.
more motivated and more efficient.
Expert is measured against Safe is measured against our Read more on p16-17 employee satisfaction.
Read more on p15-16 Read more on p17 Our KPI Our KPI Our KPI 58% 91% 0.22 2015: 60% 2015: 82% 2015: 0.24 Average employee Average customer Lost Time Injury Rate, satisfaction satisfaction rating excluding international JVs balfourbeatty.
com AR2016 14 Our priorities Build to Last continued Balfour Beatty launched its Lean Build to Last transformation Deliver value to customers by improving in a similar model to that deployed in the operational efficiency and eliminating UK during 2015 and leadership across programme in early 2015 waste right through the supply chain.
the business has been upgraded: as a framework to drive The Group metric is cash flow and The IT service which had previously continuous improvement for underlying profit from operations in been delivered through a sub-optimal Phase One, delivering 200 million of outsourcing agreement was successfully all stakeholders against four brought back in-house.
This continues to cash in and 100 million of cost out in deliver a more responsive and efficient the first 24 months.
goals Lean, Expert, Trusted IT operation with annualised savings of Group net cash at 31 December 2016 was and Safe as measured approximately 5 million: 173 million, a 10 million improvement on 2015.
The Site Mobilisation Hub was by cash flow and profits introduced for all UK contract start-ups Overall in Phase One the Group exceeded from operations, employee in the summer.
By centralising and the 200 million cash in target: cash flow in standardising this process, resources can engagement, customer 2016 was 439 million better than in 2014, be efficiently redeployed from one job excluding the proceeds from the sale of satisfaction and Zero Harm.
This reduces wastage, cost Parsons Brinckerhoff.
This is the result of and delays caused by sites not being the continuing focus on tight management operationally ready.
At the same time, of cash and working capital, improvements project managers are freed up to focus to financial systems and controls, on their project rather than site set-up.
employee training and aligning incentives to The Hub has engaged with 445 projects, Phase One consisted of 24 months selfdeliver better performance.
of which 45 mobilisations have now help.
Rapid action was taken to remove A new Group financial consolidation been delivered, all on time and to budget management layers, upgrade leadership system has been introduced and the or better, achieving significant savings: and strengthen governance within a process to transfer data from the ERP simplified Group structure.
In Phase Two Framework agreements have been system to the consolidation system has 2017-2018 Balfour Beatty will return to developed with a shortlist of preferred been automated, building on the progress industry-standard margins and in Phase design consultants with the express made in 2015.
Improved weekly cash flow Three deliver a Group with market-leading aims of strengthening business performance reconciliations are leading to strengths and performance.
relationships and providing greater significant improvement in the business consistency in the way that design During Phase One, Balfour Beatty made ability to forecast cash flow, enabling more services are provided, reducing cost and significant progress on its four goals: effective management of draw-down of delivering greater value to customers: the Companys debt facility.
The US strategic procurement group Further progress was made on the established over 40 national agreements 60 million of annualised cost savings with suppliers selected on their ability to achieved in 2015.
By the end of 2016, deliver superior products and services to 123 million of annualised savings all major US geographies, as well as offer compared to 2014 had been achieved, highly competitive pricing: and exceeding the 100 million target.
Further progress has been made in The business continues to exploit rationalising the property portfolio, opportunities to make further savings bringing business units together in through standardisation and leaning shared offices, thus aiding collaboration, out processes.
reducing floor space requirements by Savings have been driven by simplifying 35% and providing more productive the business, including creating unified working environments.
Over the back office operations, eliminating waste, first two years of Build to Last, UK standardising working practices and property costs have been cut by moving the culture of the organisation to approximately 25%.
encourage and reward efficient practices.
During 2016: The US construction and infrastructure businesses have been brought together under a single leader with back office functions IT, legal, finance etc.
unified to provide high-quality, efficient support Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 15 Lean Expert The Group has made considerable Ensure that Balfour Beatty is attracting, A new strategic approach to bidding progress in simplifying its portfolio with retaining and motivating employees and winning key business has been the disposal of non-strategic businesses, in to enable it to offer customers the introduced to co-ordinate major order to focus on its core markets: best engineering, design, project opportunities which straddle business management and delivery capabilities.
units, in order to ensure that Balfour Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Partners, an Beatty has a unified and compelling The Group metric is average independently managed infrastructure offer.
Business Acquisition Method employee satisfaction.
fund business focusing on secondary training has been rolled out to 200 opportunities, was disposed of to Wafra Quality of leadership is the number one employees across the UK and US Investment Advisory Group, Inc: factor in driving a world-class organisation.
businesses, introducing a common During 2016, the Group built on its Balfour Beatty Investments sole project and systematic approach to winning progress in 2015 by further upgrading the in Australia was sold and Balfour Beatty business.
The new training programme quality of senior management, particularly staff and pipeline transferred to Infrared: boosts estimating skills and improves through promotion.
Balfour Resource Group, a healthcare the quality of proposals, reducing the risk facilities planning consultancy that In addition to the unification of the US of underbidding.
became part of Balfour Beatty through businesses described in the previous A similar focus on the commercial the Centex acquisition, was sold section: in the UK, Engineering Services expertise within the business has to management: and Engineering Construction were enabled better sharing of best practice brought together under the banner of The sale of Balfour Beattys share of its and a forum for senior commercial Balfour Beatty Kilpatrick and a unified Indonesian joint venture, Balfour Beatty professionals to identify training and leadership: and a new leadership team was Sakti, to its joint venture partner: development opportunities.
As a result put in place in the UK Power business.
an extensive programme of training has In early 2017, Balfour Beattys entire commenced to give the Commercial The model of centralised support functions share of its Middle Eastern joint team the skills to work more productively HR, IT, finance etc as first rolled out ventures, Dutco Balfour Beatty and with customers on more collaborative in the UK continues to provide higher BK Gulf, were sold to its joint venture forms of contract.
service levels to the business compared partner: and to the previous devolved model, whilst During 2016, Balfour Beatty made Following completion of the sole continuing to outperform with respect to significant progress towards becoming rail maintenance contract in Chile, re-engineering process and reducing cost.
the decision was taken to wind up Development of staff capabilities such as that business.
During the year, further work has been the training of six new drone pilots, a digital completed to build communities of surveying team with full laser scanning practice for key skills across the business.
service, a high-end visualisation team and These communities allow the sharing of a significant increase in BIM support have best practice across the Group and provide all led to an increase in quality, a leaner opportunities for career development to the approach and a safer working environment.
As a result of Balfour Beattys investment A Group-level Project Management in BIM, in 2016 it became one of the first Academy has been developed, aligned companies to receive the British Standards to international standards through Institutes BIM Kitemark, an accolade only an accredited training programme, three other companies have achieved.
to provide a common approach to The Group also achieved another first professional development and practice.
during the year by winning the V3 Digital This initiative provides clarity on the Technology Leaders Award for best competence level required for each Public Sector Project in partnership with project manager PM role and provides Southampton Council.
an Assignment Database to match 2016 also saw global collaboration in the PM competence to contract risk and fields of Virtual Reality and construction complexity, greatly enhancing the robotics, utilising skills from the UK, US probability of a successful outcome and Hong Kong.
Both technologies are for customers.
vital to the future of Balfour Beatty as an Building on the success of the Project industry leader.
Management Competency Assessment carried out across all levels of Balfour Beattys project management employees, work is underway to extend the assessment process into several key Alliances.
com AR2016 16 Our priorities Build to Last continued Expert continued Trusted Training and retaining staff remain critical My Contribution is the mechanism which Be the construction partner of choice for to the long-term success of Balfour directly engages all staff in Build to Last by customers and supply chain by delivering Beatty and is therefore a central tenet enabling employees to suggest and drive on promises.
A new redeployment changes in the business to help deliver The Group metric is customer tool was introduced during the year on Build to Lasts Lean, Expert, Trusted satisfaction.
to identify appropriate opportunities and Safe goals.
In 2016, 3,114 ideas for Customer satisfaction is achieved by doing for staff when their current project business benefits were logged by Balfour what we say we will do.
Balfour Beatty concludes, keeping skilled workers in the Beatty employees, of which 417 were continued to win landmark contracts in all business and reducing redundancy and progressed as projects and delivered with its selected markets with the order book up recruitment costs.
financial savings of 19 million and over 15% 4% at CER at 12.7 billion.
Two leadership development programmes During 2015, the 8-Gated Lifecycle was have been launched, with 50 delegates For the second year a company-wide introduced across Balfour Beatty.
One works with the leadership employee engagement survey was the framework has been further refined teams to actively improve and measure carried out.
This is the first time that with the addition of a make or buy the culture and climate they create in their all the necessary questions have been decision step to promote greater use of business.
The second identifies highasked which allows for Balfour Beattys internal capabilities.
Internal reviews of the potential employees to join a 12-month performance to be benchmarked against bidding Gates 1-4 across all UK and US programme to develop their management other businesses by Best Companies.
business units demonstrate compliance skills and capabilities and their transition to Balfour Beattys employee engagement with all new processes.
As a result of the leadership roles.
score was 626.4, which is regarded early qualification Gates 1-2 there has by Best Companies as demonstrating Skills shortages within construction been a sharp reduction in the value of work good levels of employee engagement.
have been a challenge for several years.
The UK win rate for 2016 Response rate for the survey at 67% was The UKs decision to leave the European was almost double that of 2015. up on the 2015 survey 61%.
The Group Union with the potential for reduction employee satisfaction score for 2016 was To further enhance the control and rigour in free movement of people is likely to 58% 2015: 60%.
of the Gated Lifecycle, a secure webexacerbate the situation at a time when based platform effectively digitises the demand for skilled workers will increase governance and document control through given the pipeline of projects due to start in all stages and gates of acquiring contracts the coming years.
This Digital Balfour Beatty believes that employers are Briefcase was released at the end of best placed to determine and train their 2016 and is now installed across UK required future capabilities and therefore business units with over 500 key users must take the lead by making a longand approvers trained and utilising the term commitment to invest in the next functionality successfully.
Within the industry there continues to be For this reason, Balfour Beatty belongs a strong dependence on joint ventures to and is sponsoring The 5% Club, an to execute major projects.
A key area of employer-led organisation whose members focus going forward will be to ensure the commit to striving to achieve 5% of their Group can exercise the same degree of UK workforce in earn and learn positions governance and control in these instances within five years of joining.
as it is gaining through its Build to Last transformation on sole projects.
During 2016 Balfour Beatty recruited 114 apprentices and 110 graduate trainees.
The rationalisation, upgrade and The percentage of the workforce in earn standardisation of the ERP systems and learn positions at year end stood continues.
The use of data analytics at 4.3%, a slight reduction on the 2015 and automated risk scoring is now number as a result of an unusually high fully embedded in both UK Regional level of recruitment to these positions in Construction and Balfour Beatty Kilpatrick the previous two years, where participants where the majority of legacy losses have have now been appointed into mainstream previously been recorded.
Balfour Beattys aspiration remains to successful pilot in 2016 this is now being reach 5% or above.
rolled out across buildings and civils in the People US in conjunction with a simplification of Balfour Beattys strategic priority is to their associated legacy system architecture.
invest to attract, retain and develop This now provides management with the best employee and subcontractor consistent and timely information in talent.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 17 Trusted Safe regards to project performance Project Ensure the health and safety of everyone Each week senior management report on a Page based on an increasingly who comes into contact with Balfour and consider any accident or near misses broadening balanced scorecard of metrics.
that have occurred and a weekly report, Looking forwards, with further planned available to all employees, shares safety The Group metric is Zero Harm.
improvements and development, it is best practice as well as reporting on Many of the activities carried out by Balfour expected that integrating multiple key significant incidents and learning which can Beatty can be, by their nature, potentially operational data sources in 2017 will be drawn from Balfour Beatty or elsewhere dangerous.
It is therefore essential that maximise the ability to influence project in the industry.
the health, both physical and mental, and performance at the earliest possible stage.
In May 2016, a Balfour Beatty company safety of employees, and those who come was sentenced in connection with its A major review of the Business into contact with Balfour Beatty, including conviction and guilty plea to breaches of Management System BMS was subcontractors and the general public, are Section 3 of the Health & Safety at Work undertaken in 2016 to create a single always Balfour Beattys first priority.
Act 1974 and related health and safety refreshed and improved system across Health and Safety takes a risk-based regulations.
The HSE prosecution was all UK businesses.
The BMS provides approach to identify and prioritise action in relation to a fatality on the Heysham guidance and rules about how Balfour plans, focused on communicating the Power Station project in Lancashire on Beatty delivers tasks.
The new system Zero Harm vision, leadership, learning and 14 April 2010.
Balfour Beatty received a includes offline access and simplified sharing, clear co-ordinated governance, fine of 2.6 million.
The fine was judged access to information.
The BMS will supply chain engagement, health and on the basis of the new sentencing continue to be improved throughout safety by design including offsite modular guidelines published by the Department of the year and will define how the Group assembly, simplifying and improving Justice and demonstrates the increasingly manages and delivers activities.
management systems and processes, heavy financial consequences for failures During the year 2,107 customer satisfaction training and competence, behavioural to meet the necessary safety and reviews were carried out, primarily in the safety, innovation, recognition and reward, environmental standards.
The Group customer satisfaction clear performance indicators and locally Safety is monitored through a combination average was 91% 2015: 82%.
Group initiatives of leading and lagging performance the UK were generally significantly higher are proactive and evidence-based and indicators.
The Group Lost Time Incident than those in the US.
include quarterly campaigns and GroupRate excluding international joint ventures wide stand downs.
In 2016 fatal risk fell to 0.22 2015: 0.24, however, very groups were reviewed with leadership at regrettably there were a number of serious managing director level and initiatives taken incidents which resulted in a total of five to increase skills and awareness, improve fatalities, one in each of the UK and US and performance and promote employee and three in the Far East.
Chamberlain Halls of Residence, Birmingham, UK This 42 million contract for the University of Birmingham delivered the new Chamberlain Halls halls of residence.
Works involved the demolition of the Eden Tower and the construction of a new 20-storey tower, together with three linear finger buildings situated along Church Road in Edgbaston.
Modular systems, ground engineering and BIM modelling were all provided by in-house Balfour Beatty teams.
