Our key performance indicators and positive outcomes for our stakeholders are integral to our long-term strategic success.
In 2016, the Balanced Scorecard was used by the organisation as part of its performance management framework, to assess our performance Summary against nine specific metrics that were designed to allow progress against our strategy to be measured.
These metrics were aligned to five In 2013, we introduced a Balanced Scorecard to categories: Company, Customer and Client, Colleague, Citizenship and allow delivery of our strategy to be measured Conduct.
In revising our approach to performance measurement going forward, we have kept elements of the Balanced Scorecard consistent, over a five-year time horizon.
As we are now such as the objective of delivering positive outcomes for all our approaching the end of this period, we believe stakeholders and many of the metrics, but broadened the scope of the evaluation to produce a more detailed and informed reflection of how we that a revised approach to measuring financial are delivering against our strategic objectives.
and non-financial performance, aligned to the Overall in 2016, the majority of these Balanced Scorecard metrics strategic update announced on 1 March 2016, remained broadly stable, with the exception of our CET1 ratio and the is more appropriate.
percentage of women in senior leadership, both of which improved.
Below you will find a summary of our performance in 2016 against the We comment in this section on our each of the Balanced Scorecard categories.
performance against the Balanced Scorecard in Company: our financial metrics were revised withn the Balanced Scorecard at the beginning of 2016 when we announced our intention to 2016, and introduce the revised performance simplify our financial targets for Barclays PLC Group to focus on three measurement framework that we will use going key metrics.
We aligned our focus to Return on Tangible Equity, from Return on Equity, taking on board the feedback from our stakeholders forward to assess progress against our strategy.
and aligning ourselves to how many of our peers report their returns.
We are also committed to the continued management of our cost base, as a proportion of income, and incorporated Cost: Income ratio as a new metric.
Finally, we continue to focus on our CET1 ratio, by driving the capital strength and resilience of Barclays and ensuring a safer bank for all of our stakeholders.
Further detail on how we performed against our financial metrics under our revised performance measurement framework can be found on page 19.
Delivery of 2016 Barclays PLC Group performance against our Balanced Scorecard Primary metrics 2014 Actual 2015 Actual 2016 2018 Target a b Company Return on Tangible Equity Excluding notable items 5.9% 5.8% 4.4% N A Including notable items 0.3% 0.7% 3.6% c b Cost: Income ratio Excluding notable items 70% 69% 72% N A Including notable items 81% 81% 74% Common Equity Tier 1 ratio 10.3% 11.4% 12.4% N A Customer Net Promoter Score NPS 4th 4th 4th 1st and Client Client Franchise Rank CFR 5th 5th 5th Top three Colleague Sustained engagement of colleagues score 72% 75% 75% 87-91% % of women in senior leadership 22% 23% 24% 26% Citizenship Citizenship Plan 11 11 10 11 8 10 Plan targets initiatives on track or ahead of plan Conduct Conduct Reputation 5.3 10 5.4 10 5.4 10 6.5 10 YouGov survey Note: a New Company targets were introduced on 1 March 2016.
The Adjusted Return on Equity metric was replaced with Return on Tangible Equity and the Cost: Income ratio was introduced b Notable items comprise provisions for UK customer redress of 1bn 2015:2.8bn, a 615m 2015: nil gain on disposal of Barclays share of Visa Europe Limited, and an own credit loss of 35m 2015: gain of 430m c Cost: Income ratio for the Balanced Scorecard expressed as total operating expenses of the Group, including Africa, divided by the total income of these businesses both excluding notable items 16 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Corporate governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Customer and Client: despite improvements to our NPS across most Citizenship: previously, performance was measured against 11 metrics consumer businesses, our ranking of 4th relative to our peer group embedded in the 2015 Citizenship Plan, which has now been completed.
remained the same, as improvements continued across the industry.
We In June 2016, Barclays launched the Shared Growth Ambition and we focused on making further enhancements to customer journeys and have developed new metrics as part of the evolution of our performance strengthening the level of engagement we have with customers, while measurement framework.
2016 is a transition year in moving to our new continuing to offer innovative products and services that meet their approach, with distinct performance frameworks for Barclays Group needs.
We were pleased that our Client Franchise Rank remained flat on excluding Africa and Barclays Africa.
2015, demonstrating the strength of our banking and markets franchises For Barclays Group excluding Africa, performance was assessed in our home markets of the UK and US, despite the execution of our against six initiatives: three reflecting the new Shared Growth Ambition strategic realignment announced on 1 March 2016.
Further detail on focus areas of access to financing, access to financial and digital how we delivered positive outcomes for Customers and Clients under empowerment and access to employment: and three initiatives that our revised performance measurement framework can be found on are consistent with the previous Citizenship Plan, namely Barclays Way page 20. training, carbon emissions reduction and payment of our suppliers on time.
We exceeded our objectives on all six of these initiatives in 2016 We remain resolutely focused on creating see page 23 for more detail.
an environment in which our colleagues feel Barclays Africa has a Citizenship strategy that is closely aligned, but focused on four regionally specific objectives.
In 2016, Barclays Africa enabled to fulfil their potential.
delivered strong performance on investment in education and SME financing, both of which were on track for 2016.
However, performance Colleague: we saw an improvement in the gender diversity of our on two initiatives in Africa was off-track due to external challenges leadership, with initiatives to promote diversity proving successful.
Our which impacted the delivery of planned employability and financial colleague engagement remained constant despite some significant inclusion interventions, and resulted in an overall Group score of 8 10 organisational change.
We remain resolutely focused on creating an for Citizenship on the Balanced Scorecard.
environment in which our colleagues feel enabled to fulfil their potential.
Further detail on how we delivered positive outcomes for Colleagues Conduct: our Conduct Reputation measure was flat on 2015, at 5.4 10, under our revised performance measurement framework can be found as stakeholder audience perceptions weakened slightly across the on page 22. components of the Conduct measure, with the exception of Has high quality products and services.
While below our expectations, overall performance on the Conduct reputation measure remains stronger than two of the three prior years and reflects our ongoing commitment to promoting a positive conduct and values-based culture.
In 2016, the Group continued to incur significant costs in relation to litigation and conduct matters and resolution of these matters remains a necessary and important part of delivering the Groups strategy, together with an ongoing commitment to improve oversight of culture and conduct.
As we transition to our revised performance measurement framework see page 18 for more detail, how we behave through our conduct and culture underpins our objective of achieving positive outcomes for all our stakeholders and is embedded across the organisation.
Supporting the UK economy a Barclays added 8.5bn in economic benefit to the UK through our employment, supply chain and purchasing power, which creates a positive ripple throughout the economy.
This is a bigger benefit than the entire UK Note pharma, IT or aviation industry.
a From April 2015 to March 2016. home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 17 Our key performance indicators and positive outcomes for our stakeholders are integral to our long-term strategic success.
Financial performance metrics Revised performance measurement framework The financial metrics are aligned to Barclays PLC Group Financial Evolving our approach to measuring progress towards our strategic Targets: Group Return on Tangible Equity RoTE to converge with Core goals and delivering positive outcomes for all our stakeholders.
RoTE: Cost: Income ratio below 60%: and CET1 ratio 150-200bps above the minimum regulatory level, and will be reported quarterly as part of In line with our objective of delivering a simplified bank, focused on our financial results.
Achieving these three targets within a reasonable delivering long-term sustainable value for all our stakeholders through timeframe is consistent with our aim of generating long-term the strategic actions announced on 1 March 2016, we are now evolving sustainable returns for the shareholders of Barclays PLC Group.
our approach to performance measurement to reflect better the way in which management monitors the performance of the Group.
The Strategic non-financial performance measures framework incorporates a balance of key financial performance metrics, Non-financial measures remain an important element of how we while broadening our approach to strategic non-financial measures, and evaluate our strategic performance, in achieving our ambition of represents an evolution from the Balanced Scorecard that has been used delivering a sustainable business for all our stakeholders.
We focus on since 2013. the impact we make on our customers and clients, colleagues, and the Our revised approach retains a similar focus on achieving positive benefit we bring to society via our new citizenship strategy our Shared outcomes for our key stakeholders.
However, rather than focusing on a Growth Ambition.
These measures are underpinned by how we behave few narrowly defined targets to measure our performance, the revised towards all our stakeholders, through our conduct and our culture.
approach allows for a more holistic assessment, and provides a better To assess our performance, we draw on a broad range of information reflection of our progress towards the strategic goals of the organisation.
sources that are aligned to our management reporting framework, including internal management reports and external measures, ensuring The revised approach will support the a balanced view.
As our management reporting framework develops, the sources may also evolve, but we will retain a consistent approach, with sustained delivery of our strategy over the quantitative and qualitative evaluation to provide context to the medium to long-term and will influence performance assessment.
Our strategic success is intrinsically linked to the positive impact we have on all our stakeholders and society as a whole.
Revised Barclays PLC Group Performance Measurement Framework Financial performance metrics to be delivered within a reasonable timeframe Group RoTE to converge Group Cost: Income CET1 ratio 150-200bps with Core RoTE ratio below 60% above minimum regulatory level Strategic non-financial performance measures delivering positive outcomes for our stakeholders Customer and Client Colleague Citizenship Building trust with our Promoting and maintaining: Making decisions and doing customers and clients, such that business that provides our A diverse and inclusive workforce they are happy to recommend us clients, customers, shareholders, in which employees of all to others colleagues and the communities backgrounds are treated equally which we serve with access to a Successfully innovating and and have the opportunity to be prosperous future, through our developing products and services successful and achieve their Shared Growth Ambition that meet their needs potential Proactively managing the Offering suitable products and Engaged and enabled colleagues environmental and societal services in an accessible way, A positive conduct and impacts of our business ensuring excellent customer and values-based environment client experience Underpinned by how we behave towards all our stakeholders through our conduct and culture Strategic report Corporate governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information How we are doing Financial performance metrics Key outcomes we will look to achieve include: 3.6% Achieving Barclays PLC Group financial targets within a reasonable timeframe, consistent with our aim of generating long-term sustainable Group Return on Tangible Equity returns for the shareholders 2015: 0.7% How we measure success Current financial targets that we aim to achieve within a reasonable timeframe: 8.4% Group Return on Tangible Equity RoTE to converge with Core RoTE Cost: Income ratio below 60% Core Return on Tangible Equity CET1 ratio 150-200bps above the minimum regulatory level.
2015: 4.8% How and why we are renewing our approach RoTE measures our ability to generate acceptable returns for On 1 March 2016, we set out three financial targets to allow shareholders.
It is calculated as profit after tax attributable to ordinary shareholders to track our progress towards our strategic objectives.
Our shareholders, divided by average shareholders equity for the year, revised approach aligns our financial performance metrics to the excluding non-controlling interests and other equity instruments Barclays PLC Group targets, which are reported quarterly in line with our adjusted for the deduction of intangible assets and goodwill.
Group RoTE increased to 3.6% 2015: 0.7% predominately reflecting the significantly lower impact of notable items in 2016, as profit before tax increased 182% to 3,230m.
Notable items totalled a net loss before tax of 420m 2015: 3,330m comprising provisions for UK customer redress of 1,000m 2015: 2,772m, a 615m 2015: nil gain on disposal of Barclays share of Visa Europe Limited and an own credit loss of 35m 2015: gain of 430m.
Excluding notable items, Group RoTE was 4.4% 2015: 5.8%.
Core RoTE increased to 8.4% 2015: 4.8%, or 9.4% 2015: 11.2% excluding notable items, on an average tangible equity base that was 4.2bn higher at 41.0bn.
While we expect Group and Core RoTE to converge over time, Group RoTE in 2016 was significantly impacted by the loss before tax of 2,786m 2015: 2,603m incurred by Non-Core as its run-down was accelerated.
76% Cost: Income ratio 2015: 84% Cost: Income ratio measures operating expenses as a percentage of total income, and is used to gauge the efficiency and productivity of our business.
Group Cost: Income ratio reduced to 76% 2015: 84% primarily as a result of lower litigation and conduct charges, as total operating expenses declined 12% to 16,338m.
Group Cost: Income ratio, excluding notable items, was 73% 2015: 70%, with the increase primarily driven by negative income in Non-Core reflecting the acceleration of the run-down.
Core Cost: Income ratio, excluding notable items, was 61% 2015: 62%, as Core income increased by 7% to 22,035m, while total operating expenses increased by 6% to 13,507m.
We are on track to achieve our Group target of below 60% over time.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 19 Our key performance indicators and positive outcomes for our stakeholders are integral to our long-term strategic success.
Strategic non-financial performance measures: Customer and Client 12.4% Key outcomes we will look to achieve include: Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 ratio Building trust with our customers and clients, such that they are 2015: 11.4% happy to recommend us to others The CET1 ratio is a measure of the capital strength and resilience of Successfully innovating and developing products and services that Barclays.
The Groups capital management objective is to maximise meet their needs shareholder value by prudently managing the level and mix of its capital Offering suitable products and services in an accessible way, ensuring to: ensure the Group and all of its subsidiaries are appropriately excellent customer and client experience capitalised relative to their minimum regulatory and stressed capital requirements: support the Groups risk appetite, growth and strategic options, while seeking to maintain a robust credit proposition for the How we measure success Group and its subsidiaries.
Progress towards these outcomes is informed by a number of sources including internal dashboards, regular management reporting materials The ratio expresses Barclays capital as a percentage of risk weighted and external measures, ensuring a balanced review of performance.
assets RWAs, as defined by the PRA, in the context of Capital Evaluation includes, but is not limited to: Requirements Directive IV CRDIV - an EU Directive prescribing capital adequacy and liquidity requirements, and is part of the regulatory 1 Net Promoter Scores NPS framework governing how banks and depository institutions are Client rankings and market shares supervised.
Complaints performance The Groups CRD IV fully loaded CET1 ratio increased to 12.4% 2015: Lending volumes provided to customers and clients 11.4% due to an increase in CET1 capital to 45.2bn 2015: 40.7bn, driven largely by profits generated during the year.
This was partially How and why we are renewing our approach offset by an increase in RWAs to 366bn 2015: 358bn, driven by USD, These measures build on the previous Balanced Scorecard metrics for EUR and ZAR currency appreciation against GBP.
Customer and Client, defined as Relationship NPS and Client Franchise We have increased our expected end-state management buffer from a Rank.
Our revised approach allows for a broader consideration of how 100-150bps range to 150-200bps above the minimum regulatory level, well we are serving our customers and clients, including our complaints providing 400-450bps buffer to the Bank of England stress test systemic performance and the volume of lending we have provided to support reference point.
On this basis we currently expect our end-state CET1 consumers and businesses, as well as examples of innovation.
ratio to be in a range of 12.3-12.8% and we remain confident in our capital trajectory.
For full details of our financial performance, please refer to the financial statements from page 267.
Supporting SMEs We lent to a UK SME a every four minutes.
Note a From April 2015 to March 2016 20 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Corporate governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information How we are doing Lending volumes In 2016, we focused on delivering excellent customer and client Barclays is an important provider of financial services to UK businesses experience, by offering innovative products and services to meet their we provided around 70bn of loans, up 6%, and just over 3.6bn to needs in an appropriate and accessible way, while also promoting fair, SMEs, demonstrating our commitment to supporting growth in the UK.
Although our NPS increased across many We also extended or renewed mortgage facilities worth nearly 19bn, up of our businesses, customer expectations also continued to increase, 8% year on year, to nearly 90,000 UK households.
Building on the meaning continual improvements to our customer journeys across our success of our digital consumer loan offering to existing customers, we businesses are necessary.
And while the repositioning of our CIB involved recently became the first UK bank to offer instant business lending via a challenging strategic choices to reduce our activities in certain products mobile app.
And we processed one third of all payments made in the UK, and geographies, our client rankings and market shares demonstrate the through customer spending and our merchant acquiring network.
strength of our proposition in our home markets of the UK and US.
Complaints reduction remains a priority and we have more work to do, In 2016 we focused on delivering excellent 2 as can be seen from our position in the FCA complaint tables in the UK.
This is a key focus area for management as part of our ongoing customer and client experience, by offering commitment to improve our oversight of conduct.
innovative products and services to meet their 1 needs in an appropriate and accessible way.
Net Promoter Scores Relationship NPS RNPS across Barclays UK in 2016 reached a high of 13, an increase of 6 points compared to 2015, with more customers Making customers and clients lives easier advocating our brands across key product categories, notably UK current We are making our customers and clients lives much easier through accounts and UK credit cards.
The continuous improvements we made pioneering innovation.
For example, Barclays will be the first UK bank to to customer journeys through automation, digitisation and omnioffer a contactless mobile withdrawal service of up to 100 with the tap channel capabilities were reflected in an average increase of five of a smartphone.
We also launched our new online direct investing Transactional NPS TNPS points, with particularly strong scores in service Smart Investor and are the first high street bank to provide fully Barclays Mobile Banking and Pingit.
Our Barclaycard International integrated banking and investments via online banking.
Barclaycard also business also continued to have strong RNPS, driven by a clear focus on continued to lead in innovation, being the first of our competitors to advocacy and improvements in our products and digital experience.
launch a proprietary contactless Android capability through its app.
Despite minor improvements to our NPS in business banking, we are We also offered initiatives to help high-growth businesses flourish for intently focused on improving customer experience in 2017 to meet and example, our Barclays Eagle labs provided innovation hubs for pioneering exceed industry benchmarks.
We are placing particular focus on our businesses in bank branches around the UK see case study on page 28.
TNPS for business banking telephony and complaints, which are below Our UK credit cards Specialist Support team won the Vulnerable expectations.
Customer Support Initiative Award at the 2016 Collections and Customer Service Awards: testament to the significant work we have done to Client rankings and market shares provide the best possible experience to customers in difficult situations.
In Barclays International, within the Corporate and Investment Bank, we ranked in 2016: 5th by fee share, up from 6th in 2015, across our UK and Our customers and clients are at the heart of our purpose and US home markets in M&A, equity and debt capital markets and strategy.
For further information on our customer propositions syndicated loan transactions Dealogic and 4th based on 2016 Global provided via our two core divisions, Barclays UK and Barclays Fixed Income market share Greenwich Associates.
Among our largest International, please refer to pages 26 to 35.
UK corporate clients, 90% considered the service they receive from Barclays to be good, very good or excellent, broadly stable with 2015 3 Charterhouse.
Complaints Underlying complaint volumes in Barclays UK reduced by 11% as a result of our ongoing focus on improving customer journeys.
However, with PPI complaints increasing by 16%, total Barclays UK complaint volumes were up 1% year on year in 2016.
Barclays International complaints increased 8%, mostly in our consumer business, driven by 6% growth in US credit card average open accounts, although complaints per account still remain close to an all-time low.
Notes 1 NPS is a ranking widely used in banking and other industries that facilitates comprehensive benchmarking and identifies best practice.
Relationship NPS is measured at a business level, whereas Transactional NPS is measured for key customer journeys.
2 FCA reporting methodology changes were implemented for the second half of 2016, with reporting to commence from the end of February 2017.
3 Charterhouse Research Business Banking survey, 804 interviews with businesses in the UK turning over 25m-1bn in 2016.
Data is weighted to be representative of the UK business market.
Percentage rating for overall service of bank named as main bank.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 21 Our key performance indicators and positive outcomes for our stakeholders are integral to our long-term strategic success.
How we are doing Strategic non-financial performance In 2016, we received positive external recognition for our work towards measures: Colleague promoting a diverse workforce, with initiatives ongoing across each of our diversity pillars.
At the same time, engagement of our colleagues remained stable overall, with opportunities identified to enable our Key outcomes we will look to achieve include: colleagues to deliver excellent performance.
We also made solid progress Promoting and maintaining: in embedding a positive conduct and values-based environment which A diverse and inclusive workforce in which employees of all will continue to evolve into 2017 and beyond.
backgrounds are treated equally and have the opportunity to be For further information on our People, please see page 95. successful and achieve their potential Engaged and enabled colleagues a Diversity of our workforce and inclusion of our colleagues A positive conduct and values-based environment In 2016 we remained committed to increasing the diversity of our workforce, with increased female representation at all levels remaining a key focus on our Board this remained at 31% 2020 target of 33%.
How we measure success Across our senior leadership, female representation was 24% 2018 Progress towards these outcomes is informed by a number of sources Women in Leadership goal of 26%.
Following the recommendations including internal dashboards, regular management reporting and from the Hampton Alexander Review, from 2017, we will publish the external measures, ensuring a balanced review of performance.
combined number of women on the Group Executive Committee and Evaluation includes, but is not limited to: their direct reports, which was 25% at the end of 2016 2020 target of 33%.
In addition, in 2016 we increased female graduate hires to 39% Diversity and Inclusion statistics from 31% in 2014.
Employee sustainable engagement survey scores Although this is evidence of good progress, we continue to strengthen Conduct and culture measures our gender pipeline and enable women to fulfil their career aspirations, through activity such as: the 2016 Barclays Global Women in Leadership How and why we are renewing our approach summit, promoting Dynamic Working, our Encore!
Returnship These measures build on the previous Balanced Scorecard Colleague Programme, our HeForShe campaign and the Barclays Womens metrics, the sustainable engagement of colleagues and proportion of Initiatives Network.
Our revised approach allows for broader consideration of the extensive initiatives at Barclays that promote a The other pillars of our global Diversity and Inclusion strategy are: diverse and inclusive environment where colleagues are engaged and Disability: Barclays Able to Enable Apprenticeship Programme enabled, while maintaining a positive conduct and values-based culture.
launched in 2016 along with the Business Disability Forum awarding Barclays a score of 98%, the highest company rating in the history of Although this is evidence of good progress, the index we continue to strengthen our gender pipeline LGBT: Our Spectrum Allies programme includes over 7,000 colleagues supporting our LGBT agenda and enable women to fulfil their career Multicultural: 30% of our apprentices identify as Black, Asian and aspirations.
Minority Ethnic, 19% points above the national apprenticeship average Multigenerational: Barclays Armed Forces Transitioning, Employment and Resettlement AFTER programme with nearly 400 ex-military hires since 2010.
External recognition from organisations such as Stonewall, The Times Top 50 Places to Work for Women, 100% on the Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index and a Working Mother Medias Top Employer for Women, confirms the progress we have made.
In 2017, we will focus on our multicultural agenda through the launch of our Embracing Us Campaign and partnerships with organisations including the Wall Street Project and Race for Opportunity.
Note a Under Companies Act 2006, we are also required to report on the gender breakdown of our employees and senior managers a narrower scope than our Women In Senior Leadership definition.
Of our global workforce of 119,300 60,100 male, 59,200 female, 756 were senior managers 531 male, 225 female, which include Officers of the Group, Supporting our employees certain direct reports of the Chief Executive, heads of major business units, certain senior We provide 2m hours of training Managing Directors, and directors on the boards of undertakings of the Group, but to our employees.
exclude individuals who sit as directors on the Board of the Company.
22 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Corporate governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Engaged and enabled colleagues Strategic non-financial performance Engaged employees are critically important as they are more likely to measures: Citizenship remain at and recommend Barclays, and deliver beyond the day to day requirements of their role.
By promoting internal mobility and career development, we hope to not only attract talented individuals, but retain Key outcomes we will look to achieve include: them.
In 2016 we launched our Apply Within internal mobility campaign, Making decisions and doing business that provides our clients, increasing our rate of internal hiring to 48%, from 37% at the end of 2015 customers, shareholders, colleagues and the communities which excluding Africa.
we serve with access to a prosperous future, through our Shared Growth Ambition This year our annual Your View employee opinion survey became a quarterly pulse survey excluding Africa allowing for more real-time Proactively managing the environmental and societal impacts of feedback on how it feels to work at Barclays.
At the end of 2016, our business sustainable engagement of our colleagues remained stable at 75%.
Areas of particular strength from the survey included: colleagues feeling proud of the contribution Barclays makes to the community and society 88% How we measure success favourable, up 3% points on 2015 and employees feeling respected Progress towards these outcomes is informed by an assessment against our regardless of their job 83% favourable, up 4% points on 2015.
These are supplemented by internal dashboards and external measures.
Evaluation includes, but is not limited to: Areas of opportunity include removing the obstacles people face in doing their jobs well and ensuring people have the necessary tools and Delivery against our Shared Growth Ambition resources to achieve excellent performance both 52% favourable.
To Colleague engagement in Citizenship activities address this we continue to look at ways to improve the simplicity and External benchmarks and surveys efficiency of our systems, tools and resources to drive a culture of excellence.
How and why we are renewing our approach Since 2012, we have measured progress against initiatives in our A positive conduct and values-based culture four-year Citizenship plan.
In June 2016, we launched our new plan, the Fostering the right culture at Barclays is critical to our success and we Shared Growth Ambition.
continue to build a positive conduct and values-based culture through initiatives aimed at strengthening the profession of banking.
The Lets talk about how performance management campaign, launched this Our long-term aim is to create and year, supports the behaviours that underpin our values and reinforces grow a collection of products, services the importance that we place on measuring and rewarding both what our employees deliver and how they deliver.
and partnerships that improve the lives of people in the communities which we serve, During 2016, we developed a culture measurement framework, anchored in our values, to manage and measure progress in embedding while providing the commercial return a positive conduct and values-based culture.
The initial results our shareholders deserve.
demonstrate that we have been particularly successful in continuing to embed Stewardship and Integrity through focus on innovation and We are moving away from setting narrow targets for our Shared Growth citizenship and by creating an environment where colleagues feel Ambition, as we focus more on impact and use a broader range of increasingly safe to speak up 81% favourable, up 6% points on 2015 : quantitative and qualitative indicators to assess performance.
We will and are unafraid to report unethical behaviour first reported outcome continue to have targets for carbon emissions reduction and training on 86% favourable.
In addition, Service and Respect remain strong with the Barclays Way.
We aim to enhance the impact of our Shared Growth 83% of colleagues agreeing with the proposition that Barclays is truly Ambition over time and may expand our assessment to include focused on achieving good customer and client outcomes and 89% of additional measures in future years.
colleagues agreeing that Leaders at Barclays support diversity in the workplace.
Excellence remains our biggest opportunity for improvement with 36% of colleagues agreeing that Barclays has been successful in eliminating obstacles to efficiency.
LifeSkills Since 2013, 3.6m young people have participated in the programme, gaining real-world experiences for a better future.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 23 Our key performance indicators and positive outcomes for our stakeholders are integral to our long-term strategic success.
How we are doing Engaging our colleagues We exceeded our own objectives on all six initiatives in the first year of Our people are Barclays greatest ambassadors, contributing time, skills our Shared Growth Ambition.
Performance was ahead of plan against and expertise to create a positive and sustainable societal impact.
In our internal milestones for three initiatives around access to financing, 2016 more than 43,000 colleagues participated in a range of causes, access to digital and financial empowerment and access to contributing over 212,000 hours, donating a total of almost 25m, employment.
We also exceeded our 2016 targets for Barclays Way including Barclays matched funding.
training, carbon emissions reduction and payment of suppliers on time.
Access to financing: We continued to deliver innovative financing We reduced carbon emissions by 15.8% solutions for areas including renewable energy, water and low carbon against the 2015 baseline, making good technologies: social infrastructure: development institutions: and small progress against our new target of 30% business financing.
Barclays delivered 21.1bn in financing for selected social and environmental segments across our business lines.
This reduction by 2018. included a range of green bond transactions for corporate, supranational and municipal clients as well as lending facilities for renewable energy Benchmarking our performance projects.
For further information, please see our Environmental, Social, In 2016, we improved our performance and maintained membership of Governance ESG Supplement 2016 available at home.
barclays both the Dow Jones Sustainability Index series, where our score annualreport increased by 2 percentage points to 84%, and the FTSE4Good Index series, with an absolute score of 3.9 5, up from 3.6 in 2015.
Access to financial and digital empowerment: Inclusive financial systems are key to achieving economic and societal progress, but there Further detail on policies, including Barclays Group Statement can be several barriers to access.
We believe digital offerings can help on Modern Slavery, can be found on our website at break down these barriers.
We helped empower around 249,000 people home.
barclays citizenship in 2016 through initiatives such as Barclaycard Initial for those with a We also provide disclosures on key initiatives aligned to the Global limited credit history: our Digital Eagles network, who are specially Reporting Initiative guidelines, in the Environmental, Social, Governance trained Barclays employees working to provide free technology support ESG Supplement 2016 available at home.
barclays annualreport to customers and non-customers: and the continued development of learning platforms such as Financial Wings and Digital Wings.
Access to employment: In the 21st century new jobs are increasingly coming from fast-growing small businesses and entrepreneurs, which require support to scale up.
Barclays is committed to working on both the supply and demand side enhancing supply by helping people gain access to skills, and facilitating demand by supporting entrepreneurs to drive job creation.
We helped upskill over 1.7 million people in 2016, driven by a range of regional partnerships and our LifeSkills programme.
We also launched Unreasonable Impact in partnership with Unreasonable Group, focused on scaling ventures that solve environmental and societal problems.
The first cohorts in the UK started in September and in the US in November 2016, with Asia launching in 2017. Business conduct and environmental impact The Barclays Way outlines the Purpose and Values which govern our way of working across our business globally.
It constitutes a reference point covering all aspects of colleagues working relationships.
99.6% of our colleagues completed annual training on The Barclays Way in 2016 Target: above 97%.
We reduced carbon emissions by 15.8% against the 2015 baseline, making good progress against our new target of 30% reduction by 2018.
We also achieved 88% on-time payment by value to our suppliers Target: 85%.
24 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Corporate governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information A review of our operational performance home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 25
