Performance review Barclays International Market and environment in which the division operates In 2016, heightened political uncertainty in both of our home markets, caused significant volatility in capital markets and material movements in currency markets, particularly in Sterling.
In spite of this, the environment in which we are operating in is more stable than it has been for a number of years.
The implications of a number of post-crisis regulations on the business models of banks, in particular investment banks, have become clearer through 2016 as a number of key regulations have either taken effect or been clarified.
As part of complying with Section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Act, Barclays and other large foreign banking organisations operating in the US were required to establish a US Intermediate Holding Company IHC by 1 July 2016.
The IHC is an umbrella holding company for the Banks US subsidiaries, and is subject to Federal Reserve prudential standards to ensure safety and soundness, particularly around capital, liquidity and risk management.
Barclays IHC became operational on 1 July 2016 and its key subsidiaries include Barclays Capital Inc.
US broker-dealer that operates key investment banking businesses and Barclays Bank Summary Delaware that operates Barclaycard US.
The implementation of our strategy, which is in-line with the UK Barclays International is a diversified ring-fencing regulations, has resulted in the creation of Barclays transatlantic, wholesale and consumer bank International as a sister division to Barclays UK under the Barclays PLC Group umbrella.
Barclays Bank PLC, the future non-ring fenced banking which will be housed within Barclays Bank entity, will continue to house the Barclays International division.
PLC, the future non-ring-fenced bank.
We Supported by the newly created Group Service Company, Barclays seek to compete in markets where we have International is reliant on the support of internal operations and technology to maximise efficiency for customers and clients and meet the the competitive advantage and scale to requirements of our regulators.
In a dynamic environment we need to be provide best-in-class service to our clients setting trends, by using forward-looking technology and adapting quickly and proactively to the evolving regulatory and market conditions.
We seek to maintain and For example, in the payments space, technological evolution, regulation further our position as a leading provider of and consumer behaviour is driving disruption, which is likely to financial services to corporates, institutions transform the way in which consumers and businesses transact.
Barclays International encompasses the following businesses: Corporate & Investment Bank CIB Consumer, Cards & Payments CC&P These businesses combine to form a diversified, yet highly complementary portfolio of businesses that has proved to be resilient in a year of significant uncertainty and change.
We consciously focus our efforts and resources on products, sectors and geographies where we have a meaningful competitive advantage.
Our dual home markets, in the UK and US, anchor our business in the Tim Throsby joined Barclays in January 2017 two most important global financial centres and two of the most as President of Barclays International and resilient western economies.
Chief Executive Officer of the Corporate and Investment Bank.
He sits on the Group Barclays International brings together a portfolio of businesses serving Executive Committee and reports to the Group CEO, Jes Staley.
Tim has had an extensive consumers, SMEs, corporates and institutional investors.
On the career in banking and private equity and has consumer side, Barclaycard International provides consumers with credit most recently worked for JP Morgan, becoming cards and lending.
In Private Bank & Overseas Services, we provide the Global Head of Equities in 2012. banking, investment and wealth management services across the client continuum, globally.
For SMEs and corporates, we enable payment acceptance, commercial card payments and point-of-sale finance.
Through our CIB, we also serve corporates by providing advice on raising new equity or debt capital, and support our institutional investors by enabling them to trade stocks and bonds.
Our business model in Barclays International, especially CIB, is dependent upon client relationships and the services that we provide to these clients.
Armed with these financial tools, we help our clients execute their business strategies and grow their businesses.
This may result in capital raised to build a new production centre and in turn, create employment as well as product creation for pension funds to invest in.
32 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Corporate governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Risks to the operating model We became the first organisation in the world to use a BlockchainGlobal volatility and macroeconomic uncertainty in some markets remains enabled trade transaction to transfer original shipping documentation.
While the UKs vote to leave the EU does not change our overall The initiative helped the client complete a process that usually takes 10 strategic objectives, we realise that it will add complexity in the shorter days in just 4 hours, mostly due to allowing for paperless exchange of term to our operations in the EU.
documents, full transparency through the supply chain and mitigation of financial crime risks.
For further information refer to the case study on The volume and reach of regulatory change continues to require page 7. significant attention and presents a number of challenges in the medium term.
However, we have demonstrated our ability to react early to Transparency and the intelligent use of data has been a key focus.
We regulatory changes, and the impact they have on our operating continued to roll out the SPECS platform across Barclays.
SPECS provides environment, often turning challenges into competitive advantages.
buy-side traders with an online portal to view, verify and request changes to client order handling settings.
It meets requirements for greater control, Data and technology drive benefits for our customers and clients.
The transparency, trade analytics and a consolidated view of order settings.
importance of complying adequately with data protection laws and protecting this information from increasingly sophisticated criminals Our payments expertise and dedication to our customers and clients has remains at the forefront of our operations.
enabled us to retain and grow relationships with partners and clients such as American Airlines, in US Cards, and TfL, through our payment The frequency and reach of cyber-attacks has markedly increased, and acceptance proposition, as well as launching new partnerships such as financial institutions, such as Barclays, are obvious targets for malicious with JetBlue Airways.
In addition, we expanded our lending offering with cyber-activity.
We are very focused on ensuring our cyber-defences stay new personal loans launched in the US and Germany and a new ahead of the increasingly sophisticated threats that we face.
partnership with Apple on the iPhone upgrade programme in the UK.
In addition, preparing the business for structural reform continues.
We have made encouraging progress in fraud and cyber-protection in Barclays International is now operating as a separate segment within the 2016, and will continue to focus on this critical area.
For instance, in the Group, but a number of execution milestones remain before we achieve Corporate Bank we have introduced cutting-edge malware and remote the Groups target state structure.
We are very conscious of ensuring attack detection solutions and introduced a new PIN Pad reader and that our clients and customers face the minimum possible disruption Barclays Biometrics reader in the UK, to tackle PIN capture fraud.
The services we offer to our customers and clients have been recognised We continue to strengthen our resilience to conduct risk and are working by industry awards: International Financing Review IFR magazine to put legacy conduct issues behind us.
named Barclays its house of the year for North America high-yield bonds, Americas loans and Sterling bonds in its 2016 review of the year.
Business highlights Our research platform ranked third for Developed Markets Research Barclays International RoTE was 8.0% 2015: 9.5%, excluding notable across Equities and Fixed Income in the Institutional Investor 2016 items, as profit before tax decreased 3% to 3,747m driven by increased survey, reflecting alignment with our transatlantic strategy.
In addition, credit impairment charges and increased operating expense.
This was we won Best Investment Bank Western Europe in the 2016 Euromoney partially offset by strong income growth, including the benefit from the Awards for Excellence.
appreciation of the US Dollar and the Euro against GBP.
Barclays has taken a leadership role in Blockchain technology in the banking sector, together with enhancements in data analytics, cyber-security and innovative identification and verification techniques.
This has enabled us to utilise innovation to deliver improved client service.
Tim Throsby President, Barclays International and Chief Executive Officer, Corporate and Investment Bank Barclays International operational model Customers Products Value Contribution and Clients and services creation to Group Corporates Financial advice To our customers & clients 15bn Income Primary capital raising and we create value by facilitating Financial institutions 4.2bn Profit before tax capital markets execution the transmission of money Institutional investors 9.8% RoTE Risk and liquidity from providers to users of Governments 63% Cost:Income ratio management capital Lending Consumers 213bn Risk Weighted To society we provide Sales and trading Assets financing, including to select High, and Ultra-High International credit cards Net Worth Individuals social and environmental Consumer payments segments Family Offices Banking To Barclays as a diversified Investments transatlantic, wholesale and Wealth management consumer bank home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 33
