Strategic report Corporate governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Viability statement While the financial statements and accounts have been prepared on relation to regulatory change, the firm has a fully resourced project a going concern basis, the UK Corporate Governance Code requires team, dedicated to understanding and implementing changes required the Directors to make a statement in the Annual Report regarding by Structural Reform.
the viability of the Group, including explaining how they assessed the Particular risks to viability identified by the Board are detailed below.
prospects of the Group, the period of time for which they have made These have been chosen on the basis of their ability to impact viability the assessment and why they consider that period to be appropriate.
over the timeframe of the assessment.
In some instances, however, In light of the analysis set out below, the Board has assessed the the risks exist beyond this timeframe: Groups viability and confirms that the Directors have a reasonable legacy conduct matters and the potential risk of fines and other expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and sanctions: meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next three years.
This the cost and scale of regulatory change in the financial services timeframe is used in managements Working Capital and Viability industry, including the implementation of structural reform, which Report WCR dated 16 February 2017.
The availability of the WCR could impact ratings, alter the behaviour of depositors and affect the gives management and the Board sufficient visibility and confidence ability of the firm to maintain appropriate capital and liquidity ratios: on the future operating environment for this time period.
The three and year timeframe has also been chosen because: evolving operational risks notably cyber security, technology and it is within the period covered by the Groups future projections of resilience and potential impact on operations and or payment systems.
profitability, cash flows, capital requirements and capital resources: The Board has also considered the Groups viability under specific it is also within the period over which regulatory and internal stress internal and regulatory stress scenarios.
testing is carried out and in the current environment it is necessary for the Board to ensure confidence in the Group is maintained over The latest internal stress test conducted in Q4 2016 which was the shorter term: and concluded on 16 February 2017 considered the potential impacts of: as a consequence of the unparalleled level of regulatory change in a severe global recession: the financial services industry, a three year timeframe is appropriate.
decelerating growth in China and emerging markets: The Directors are satisfied that this period is sufficient to enable a UK housing market weakness: and reasonable assessment of viability to be made.
a significant and sustained fall in commodity prices.
In making their assessment the Board has: Litigation matters and remediation redress are assessed as part of the carried out a regular and robust assessment of the Groups risk stress testing process.
Capital risk appetite and LRA were set at a level profile and material existing and emerging risks.
Notable among which would enable the Group to withstand the stress scenario, based these are risks which senior management believe could cause the on expected financial performance.
Management also identified Groups future performance i. e. results of operations or financial actions, including cost reductions and withdrawal from lines of condition to differ materially from current expectations, including business, available to restore the Group to its desired capital flightpath the ability to meet dividend expectations, maintain minimum levels under a range of operating environments.
of regulatory capital and meet solvency targets including capital, The Group-wide stress testing framework also includes reverse stress leverage and total loss absorbing capacity including TLAC MREL testing techniques which aim to identify and analyse the over the period of the assessment: circumstances under which the Groups business model would no reviewed how those risks are managed and controlled see below and longer be viable, leading to a significant change in business strategy also further detail provided on pages 146 to 162 : and to identify appropriate mitigating actions.
Examples include considered the WCR which provides an assessment of forecast extreme macroeconomic downturn severely adverse scenarios, or CET1, leverage ratio, Tier 1 and total capital ratios, as well as the specific idiosyncratic events, covering both operational risk e. g. cyber build-up of MREL up to 2022: attack and capital liquidity events.
reviewed the Groups liquidity and funding profile, particularly These internal stress tests informed the conclusions of the WCR.
Based Barclays internal liquidity risk appetite LRA and regulatory liquidity on current forecasts, incorporating key known regulatory changes to coverage ratios: be enacted and having considered possible stress scenarios, the considered the Groups viability under specific internal and regulatory current liquidity and capital position of the Group continues to support stress scenarios further details below : the Boards assessment of the Groups viability.
considered the stability of the major markets in which it operates, The Board also reviewed external regulatory stress test results which are the risks posed by the simplification of the business model and designed to assess the resilience of banks to adverse economic regulatory changes: developments and ensure that we have robust forward looking planning reviewed the statutory accounts and the in-depth disclosure of the processes for the risks associated with our business profile.
Barclays was financial performance of the Group: not required to submit revised capital plans as a result of these tests.
considered the Groups medium term plan MTP : and The Boards assessment of the Groups viability over the next three reviewed the legal, competition and regulatory matters set out in years is subject to material existing and emerging risks highlighted on Note 29 to the financial statements on pages 330 to 338. pages 137 to 144.
Future events, such as the crystallisation of any of these risks may require the Board to review dividend policy.
Conduct, capital and operational risks are controlled and managed in line with the Enterprise Risk Management Framework and the relevant Principal Risk Frameworks.
Executive management set a Risk Appetite for the Group, which is then approved by the Board.
The second line set limits, within which the first line are required to operate.
Management and the Board then oversee the associated Risk Profile.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 41
