Performance review Barclays UK Wealth Overview Wealth, Entrepreneurs & In our Wealth business, our bankers provide overall advice to our clients and co-ordinate access to specialists within Wealth and the wider Barclays UK division.
Clients benefit from our expertise in personal Business Banking banking, credit cards, business banking and digital innovation.
A sharp focus on our fundamental business drivers in Wealth, Summary throughout 2016, has resulted in strong underlying asset growth, generating both sustainable income growth and an improvement in our Barclays wealth offering delivers a truly Cost: Income ratio.
holistic wealth management service that We have continued to enhance our Wealth client experience in 2016, includes domestic private banking, wealth most notably with the launch of the Barclays Mobile Banking for Wealth app, which introduced innovative features, such as historical planning, trust and fiduciary services, performance analysis, benchmark comparison functionality and asset investment management and brokerage.
We have reduced our risk by refocusing our Wealth business on our core Business Banking supports over one million markets in the UK.
The overall wealth market remains stable and we clients, across the UK, run and grow their anticipate that it will remain competitive.
We feel the business is relatively insulated from the effects of FinTech on traditional financial business, from start-ups to mid-sized services, as our clients have a preference for personal service and human businesses.
Our model is relationship-based interaction.
Business Banking Overview We provide coverage for clients across the UK at every stage of their We aim to allow clients to access the products business cycle in every industry, delivering distribution models which match clients needs and sophistication.
We serve our clients through a they need, in the way they want online, relationship-based and digitally-driven model, combining an on-themobile or by working with a Relationship ground and direct relationship model with unique digital solutions.
A number of innovations were launched in 2016, including instant lending Manager.
We put our clients at the heart of online, and on mobile, plus on-demand cash pick-up.
We are the only UK our business, delivering the service they need, bank to offer these services.
In 2016, we launched new tools for our Business Banking colleagues bringing relevant, up-to-date industry information together in one place, enhancing our service to clients through deeper insights and understanding.
The Industry Knowledge Hub, for example, brings together 150 client-shareable industry snapshots, external industry news, industry marketing and thought leadership into one easily-accessible place for colleagues.
We are looking to continue enhancements to the platform in 2017, including the ability for colleagues to personalise their industry reports and bookmark their most used reports.
We ensure a strong focus on conduct and customer outcomes through creating a secure and controlled environment and have mobilised comprehensive and experienced teams to monitor, anticipate and resolve issues.
30 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Corporate governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Voice Security Voice Security is a new and innovative way for our customers across Barclays UK to identify themselves via telephone banking as they no longer need to remember passwords, passcodes or transactional information.
The service launched in August 2016 and is so far available to over 750,000 Personal customers.
Customer feedback has been extremely positive: its so easy and more natural, its great for me because I can never remember my banking passcode, that was so quick.
For further information, see barclays.
co. uk voice-security The launch of our market-leading Direct regionally focused Relationship managers for small businesses provides a firm platform for growth and, in 2016, we transitioned 830,000 clients into the new model.
We will use the Direct team to help businesses grow, through our personal contact at key moments.
An area of focus for us in 2016 has been a programme of education on cyber-fraud, for both clients and colleagues.
We have provided all colleagues with training to equip them to discuss the main cyber-threats with their clients.
We have also provided clients with in-depth sessions via face-to-face events and webinars.
Many of these have been run in partnership with local Chambers of Commerce, councils and various business partners, allowing us to support our clients alongside their supply chains and communities.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 31
