Governance: Directors report How we comply UK Corporate Governance Code the Code Leadership As Barclays is listed on the London Stock Exchange we apply the main The Role of the Board principles of the Code and comply with the Codes provisions.
A revised The Board of Directors is responsible for promoting the highest Code came into effect in 2016, applying to financial years beginning on standards of corporate governance in Barclays.
We act in a way that we or after 17 June 2016 and will apply to Barclays from 1 January 2017. consider promotes the success of Barclays for the benefit of Copies of the 2014 and 2016 Codes can be found at www.
shareholders as a whole, and are accountable to the shareholders for Corporate Governance in Barclays contains a full description of our creating and delivering sustainable value.
It is our responsibility as the corporate governance practices and is available online at home.
barclays Board to ensure that management not only delivers on short-term corporategovernance.
For the year ended 31 December 2016, and at the objectives, but promotes the long-term growth of Barclays.
The existing date of this report, we complied with the 2014 Code except as disclosed corporate governance framework embeds the right culture, values and below: behaviours throughout the Group and supports our role in determining Provision E. 2.3 of the Code requires that the Chairman should arrange strategic objectives and policies.
for all Directors to attend the AGM.
While such arrangements were made, Steve Thieke was unable to attend the 2016 AGM owing to In addition to setting strategy and overseeing its implementation, we are other commitments in the US, where he is based.
The Chairman and also responsible for ensuring that management maintains an effective all Board Committee Chairmen were available at the AGM to answer system of internal control.
An effective system of internal control should questions.
provide assurance of effective and efficient operations, internal financial controls and compliance with law and regulation.
In meeting this The changes made in the 2016 Code were concerned with the relevance responsibility we consider what is appropriate for the Groups business of the experience of the audit committee and with audit re-tendering, and reputation, the materiality of financial and other risks and the both of which are covered in this report.
relevant costs and benefits of implementing controls.
Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules The Board is the decision-making body for matters that, owing to their By virtue of the information included in this Governance section of the strategic, financial or reputational implications or consequences, are Annual Report we comply with the corporate governance statement considered significant to the Group.
A formal schedule of powers requirements of the FCAs Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
reserved to the Board ensures that our control of these key decisions is Certain additional information that is required to be disclosed pursuant maintained.
A summary of the matters reserved to the Board can be to DTR7.2.
6 may be found on pages 91 to 94. found at home.
It includes the approval of appointments to the Board, Barclays strategy, financial statements, New York Stock Exchange NYSE capital expenditure and any major acquisitions, mergers or disposals.
Barclays is permitted by NYSE rules to follow UK corporate governance practices instead of those applied in the US.
However, any significant Board Governance framework variations must be explained in Barclays 20-F filing, which can be The main Board Committees are the Board Audit Committee, the Board accessed from the Securities and Exchange Commissions EDGAR Nominations Committee, the Board Remuneration Committee, the Board database or via our website, home.
Reputation Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
Under the authority of our Articles of Association, each Board Committee has had specific responsibilities delegated to it by the Board.
Further information on the role and activities of each of the Board Committees can be found in this report and in their individual terms of reference, which have been approved by the Board and are available at home.
In addition, the Regulatory Investigations Committee was formed in 2012 and focuses on providing Board-level oversight of regulatory investigations.
In 2016 the Committee met five times.
John McFarlane is the Committee Chairman and the other Committee members are Mike Ashley, Sir Gerry Grimstone, Diane fide Saint Victor and Jes Staley.
84 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Board Governance framework Barclays Board The Board is responsible for creating and sustaining shareholder value, through setting and overseeing the implementation of Barclays strategy Board Audit Board Risk Board Reputation Board Nominations Board Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Reviews accounting Monitors and Considers Barclays Reviews the composition Sets principles and policies and financial recommends financial and conduct and reputational of the Board.
Recommends the remuneration for Barclays.
Monitors the internal Monitors the financial and Reviews and approves appointment of new Considers and approves control environment.
remuneration for Executive Considers the adequacy Reviews limits for types strategy.
Considers succession Directors and senior and scope of the internal of financial and Oversees Barclays plans for the Chairman executives.
approach to customer and Group Chief Executive.
Governs employee share and regulatory matters.
Oversees the annual Board schemes.
See page 58 See page 68 See page 73 See page 77 See page 99 for further for further for further for further for further information.
Roles on the Board Executive and non-executive Directors share the same duties and are subject to the same constraints but, in line with the principles of the Code, a clear division of responsibilities has been established.
It is the responsibility of the Chairman to lead and manage the work of the Board, while responsibility for the day-to-day management of Barclays has been delegated to the Group Chief Executive.
The Group Chief Executive is supported in this role by the Group Executive Committee.
Further information on membership of the Group Executive Committee can be found on page 53.
As a Board we have set out our expectations of each Director in Barclays Charter of Expectations.
This includes role profiles and the behaviours and competencies required for each role on the Board, namely the Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent Director, nonexecutive Directors, executive Directors and Committee Chairmen.
The Board Nominations Committee reviews the Charter of Expectations annually to ensure it remains relevant and up-to-date.
barclays corporategovernance to ensure that there is complete transparency of the standards we set for ourselves.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 85 Governance: Directors report How we comply Attendance As members of the Board of Directors we are expected to attend each Board meeting and in 2016 we attended both scheduled and additional Board meetings, as disclosed in the table below.
The Chairman met privately with the non-executive Directors ahead of each scheduled Board meeting, and if, owing to exceptional circumstances, a Director was not able to attend a Board meeting they ensured that their views were made known to the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
Scheduled Additional meetings Scheduled meetings Additional eligible to meetings % eligible to meetings % Board attendance Independent attend attended attendance attend attended attendance Group Chairman John McFarlane On appointment 8 8 100 2 2 100 Executive Directors Tushar Morzaria Executive Director 8 8 100 2 2 100 Jes Staley Executive Director 8 8 100 2 2 100 Non-executive Directors Mike Ashley Independent 8 8 100 2 1 50 Tim Breedon Independent 8 8 100 2 2 100 Mary Francis Independent 2 2 100 0 0 n a Crawford Gillies Independent 8 8 100 2 2 100 Sir Gerry Grimstone Senior Independent Director 8 8 100 2 2 100 Reuben Jeffery III Independent 8 7 88 2 1 50 Dambisa Moyo Independent 8 8 100 2 2 100 Diane fide Saint Victor Independent 8 7 88 2 2 100 Diane Schueneman Independent 8 8 100 2 2 100 Steve Thieke Independent 8 8 100 2 2 100 Former Directors Wendy Lucas-Bull Non-independent 1 1 100 1 1 100 Frits van Paasschen Independent 3 3 100 1 1 100 Secretary Claire Davies 1 1 100 0 0 n a Former Secretary Lawrence Dickinson 7 7 100 2 2 100 Unable to attend one scheduled meeting owing to prior commitments.
Board Committee cross-membership Board Audit Board Nominations Board Remunerations Board Reputation Committee Committee Committee Committee Board Risk 3 3 1 1 Committee Board Reputation 1 2 2 Committee Board Remuneration 2 2 Committee Board Nominations 3 Committee 86 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Induction Effectiveness On appointment to the Board all Directors receive a comprehensive Composition of the Board induction which is tailored to the new Directors individual requirements.
In line with the requirements of the Code a majority of the Board are The induction schedule is designed to quickly provide the new Director independent non-executive Directors.
The Board currently comprises a with an understanding of how the Group works and the key issues that Chairman, who was independent on appointment, two executive it faces.
The Company Secretary consults the Chairman when designing Directors and ten non-executive Directors.
We consider the an induction schedule, giving consideration to the particular needs of independence of our non-executive Directors annually, using the the new Director.
When a Director is joining a Board Committee the independence criteria set out in the Code and by reviewing performance schedule includes an induction to the operation of that committee.
against behaviours that we have identified as essential in order to be On completion of the induction programme the Director should have considered independent.
The independence criteria can be found in sufficient knowledge and understanding of the nature of the business, Corporate Governance in Barclays at home.
barclays and the opportunities and challenges facing Barclays, to enable them to corporategovernance.
effectively contribute to strategic discussions and oversight of the Group.
The Board Nominations Committee considers Board succession planning In 2016, Sir Gerry Grimstone and Mary Francis both received induction and regularly reviews the composition of the Board and the Board programmes on joining the Board.
In line with normal practice, they met Committees to ensure that there is an appropriate balance and diversity with the Company Secretary, the current non-executive Directors and of skills, experience, independence and knowledge.
The size of the Board members of the Group Executive Committee and the Senior Leadership is not fixed and may be revised from time to time to reflect the changing Group.
In addition, Sir Gerry Grimstone met with Sir Michael Rake, the needs of the business and the Board Nominations Committee will outgoing Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director, and former consider the balance of skills and experience of current Directors when Chairman of the Board Reputation Committee.
Each year we carry out an effectiveness review in order to evaluate our Training and development performance as a Board, as well as the performance of each of the Board In order to continue to contribute effectively to Board and Board Committees and individual Directors.
This annual review assesses Committee meetings we are regularly provided with the opportunity to whether each of us continues to discharge our respective duties and take part in ongoing training and development.
As part of our annual responsibilities effectively and is considered when deciding whether performance review with the Chairman we discuss any particular individual Directors will offer themselves for election or re-election at the development needs that can be met through either formal training or AGM.
More information on the 2016 Board effectiveness review can be meeting with a particular senior executive.
The Company Secretary organises a formal training schedule for the Our biographies containing our relevant skills and experience, Board year, covering both Board and Board Committee training requirements, Committee membership and other principal appointments can be found to ensure that our insight into the Groups business and awareness of on pages 51 and 52.
Details of changes to the Board in 2016 and year to the external environment in which we operate continues after our formal date are disclosed on page 91. induction schedules have been completed.
The service contracts for the executive Directors and the letters of During 2016, we attended briefings on the following subjects: appointment for the Chairman and non-executive Directors are available capital and liquidity including regulatory targets and constraints for inspection at our registered office.
the Federal Reserves CCAR exercise Time commitment Group Resilience It is expected that in order to discharge our responsibilities effectively we cyber-risk will each allocate sufficient time to our role on the Board.
We are a presentation from Compliance and Regulatory Relations on the expected to attend, and to be well prepared for, all Board and Board regulatory expectations of Directors and the PRAs threshold Committee meetings, as well as making time to understand the conditions business, meet with executives and regulators, and complete ongoing a briefing from Finance and Risk on the impact of IFRS9 training.
As stated in our Charter of Expectations, time commitment is agreed with each non-executive Director on an individual basis.
an accounting update presented by KPMG Disclosed below is the average expected time commitment for the role an update on the implementation of the Senior Managers Regime of non-executive Director and the other non-executive positions on the strategic planning and crisis management plans ahead of the EU Board.
For these additional positions there is an expectation that, in Referendum order to effectively fulfil extra responsibilities, additional time internal briefings on Structural Reform.
These briefing sessions were supplemented by written material, such as Role Expected time commitment a briefing note on the implementation of the Market Abuse Regulation in Chairman 80% of a full time position the UK.
Deputy Chairman At least 0.5 days a week Senior Independent Director As required to fulfil the role In addition, site visits were arranged to Barclays UK and Cards US Non-executive Director 30 days a year membership of one Board operations, as well as the regular business visits and engagements that Committee included, increasing to 40 days a year we may undertake.
This included the attendance of our Board Audit if a member of two Board Committees Committee Chairman and Board Risk Committee Chairman at US IHC Committee Chairmen At least 60 days a year including non-executive Director time commitment board committee meetings at Barclays offices in New York.
The Chairman must commit to expend whatever time is necessary to Conflicts of interest fulfil his duties and, while this is expected to be equivalent to 80% of a In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Articles of full time position, his Chairmanship of the Group and leadership of the Association the Board has the authority to authorise conflicts of interest.
Board has priority over other business commitments.
In exceptional Directors are required to declare any potential or actual conflicts of circumstances we are all expected to commit significantly more time to interest that could interfere with their ability to act in the best interests our work on the Board.
The Company Secretary maintains a conflicts register, which is a record of actual and potential conflicts, together with any Board authorisation of the conflict.
The authorisations are for an indefinite period but are reviewed annually by the Board Nominations Committee.
The Board retains the power to vary or terminate the authorisation at any time.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 87 Governance: Directors report How we comply Information provided to the Board Risk management and internal control framework The Role Profile for the Chairman, as set out in our Charter of The ERMF is the Groups Internal Control Framework.
It is refreshed Expectations, confirms his responsibility for ensuring that members of annually and has been substantially revised during 2016.
The BAC receives quarterly reports relating to the effectiveness of the Control the Board receive accurate, timely and high-quality information.
In particular, we require information about Barclays performance to enable Environment covering all risks and controls including financial, operational and compliance risk.
us to take sound decisions, monitor effectively and provide advice to promote the success of the Company.
Working in collaboration with the The BAC formally reviews the system of internal control and risk Chairman, the Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring good management annually.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2016 governance and consults Directors to ensure that good information and to date, the Group has operated a system of internal control that flows exist and that the Board receives the information it requires in provides reasonable assurance of effective operations covering all order to be effective.
controls, including financial and operational controls and compliance Throughout the year both the executive Directors and senior executives with laws and regulations.
Processes are in place for identifying, keep the Board informed of key developments in the business through evaluating and managing the principal risks facing the Group in regular reports and updates.
These are in addition to the presentations accordance with the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control that the Board and Board Committees receive as part of their formal and Related Financial and Business Reporting published by the Financial meetings.
Directors are able to seek independent and professional Reporting Council.
advice at Barclays expense, if required, to enable Directors to fulfil their The review of the effectiveness of the system of risk management and obligations as members of the Board.
internal control is achieved through a four-step approach which is centred on reviewing the effectiveness of the Barclays Guide and its Accountability component parts: Risk management and internal control 1.
Governance Risk & Control meetings of the Business and Functional The Directors are responsible for ensuring that management maintains Executive Committees monitor, review and challenge the effective an effective system of risk management and internal control and for operation of key risk management and control processes, including assessing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to identify, the results of audits and reviews undertaken by BIA which include evaluate and manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve assessments of the Control Environment and Management Control business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute Approach and examinations and assessments undertaken by our assurance against material misstatement or loss.
primary regulators, on an ongoing basis as part of the system of risk management and internal control.
The remediation of issues identified Barclays is committed to operating within a strong system of internal within the Control Environment is regularly monitored by control that enables business to be transacted and risk taken without management and the BAC.
exposing itself to unacceptable potential losses or reputational damage.
Barclays has an overarching framework that sets out the Groups 2.
Testing of the Governance Risk and Control meetings held within the approach to internal governance, The Barclays Guide, which establishes Executive Committees provides assurance that the committees are the mechanisms and processes by which the Board directs the effectively overseeing the Control Environment and associated risk organisation, through setting the tone and expectations from the top, management and internal control processes.
delegating its authority and assessing compliance.
The owners of the key governance processes which comprise The A key component of The Barclays Guide is the Enterprise Risk Barclays Guide undertake a review to confirm that processes have Management Framework ERMF.
The purpose of the ERMF is to been implemented.
identify and set minimum requirements in respect of the main risks to 4.
The annual review of the system of risk management and internal control achieving the Groups strategic objectives and to provide reasonable brings together the results of the activities completed in steps 1 to 3 to assurance that internal controls are effective.
The key elements of the ensure that each of the key processes has been effectively reviewed.
Groups system of internal control, which is aligned to the recommendations of The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Regular reports are made to the Board covering risks of Group level Treadway Commission, Internal Control Integrated Framework 2013 significance.
The Board Risk Committee and the Board Reputation COSO, are set out in the risk control frameworks relating to each of the Committee examine reports covering the Principal Risks Credit Risk, Groups Principal and Key Risks.
As well as incorporating our internal Market risk, Capital Risk, Liquidity Risk, Operational Risk and Conduct requirements, these reflect material Group-wide legal and regulatory Risk as well as reports on risk measurement methodologies and risk requirements relating to internal control and assurance.
Further details of risk management procedures and potential risk factors are given in the Risk review and risk management sections Effectiveness of internal controls on pages 136 to 162.
Key controls are assessed on a regular basis for both design and operating effectiveness.
Issues arising out of business risk and control Controls over financial reporting assessments and other internal and external sources are examined to A framework of disclosure controls and procedures is in place to support identify pervasive themes.
Where appropriate, control issues are the approval of the Groups financial statements.
The Legal and reported to the Board Audit Committee BAC.
In addition, regular Technical Review Committee is responsible for examining the Groups reports are made to the BAC by management, BIA and the Finance, financial reports and disclosures to ensure that they have been subject Compliance and Legal functions covering, in particular, financial controls, to adequate verification and comply with applicable standards and compliance and other operational controls.
The Committee reports its conclusions to the Disclosure Committee.
The Disclosure Committee examines the content and accuracy of the disclosures and reports its conclusions to the Board Audit Committee which debates its conclusions and provides further challenge.
Finally, the Board scrutinises and approves results announcements and the Annual Report, and ensures that appropriate disclosures have been made.
This governance process ensures that both management and the Board are given sufficient opportunity to debate and challenge the Groups financial statements and other significant disclosures before they are made public.
88 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Managements report on internal control over financial reporting Stakeholder engagement Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate Investor engagement internal control over financial reporting.
Internal control over financial The Board is committed to promoting effective channels of reporting is a process designed under the supervision of the principal communication with our shareholders and upholding good corporate executive and principal financial officers to provide reasonable assurance governance as a means of building stronger and more engaged regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of relationships with them.
Our comprehensive Investor Relations financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with engagement with the market helps us to understand investor views International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the about Barclays, which are communicated regularly to the Board.
Our European Union and issued by the International Accounting Standards shareholder communication guidelines, which underpin all investor Board IASB.
Internal control over financial reporting includes policies engagement, are available on our website at home.
barclays and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that, in investorrelations.
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets: provide reasonable assurances that transactions Institutional investors are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements In 2016, our Investor Relations engagement with institutional investors in accordance with IFRS and that receipts and expenditures are being took place throughout the year, both following our quarterly results as made only in accordance with authorisations of management and the well as outside of the reporting cycle.
This allowed the opportunity for respective Directors: and provide reasonable assurance regarding existing and potential new investors to engage with Barclays regularly, prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use or promoting dialogue on longer-term strategic developments as well as on disposition of assets that could have a material effect on the financial the recent financial performance of the Group.
The Directors, in conjunction with the senior executive team and Internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent Investor Relations, participated in varied forms of engagement, including limitations and may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, investor meetings, seminars and conferences across many geographic projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are locations, reflecting the diverse nature of our equity and debt subject to the risk that internal controls may become inadequate institutional ownership.
Divisional management also presented because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with extensively to investors, promoting greater awareness and the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
understanding of our operational businesses.
Management has assessed internal control over financial reporting as of During 2016, discussions with investors were focused on the continued 31 December 2016.
In making its assessment, management has utilised execution of our strategy, following the appointment of Jes Staley as the criteria set forth by the 2013 COSO framework.
Management Group Chief Executive, and the strategic update announced on 1 March concluded that, based on its assessment, the internal control over 2016. financial reporting was effective as of 31 December 2016.
Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued a report on Investor meetings focused on corporate governance also took place the Groups internal control over financial reporting, which is set out on throughout the year, with the Chairman, Senior Independent Director, page 276. other Board representatives and the Company Secretary.
The system of internal financial and operational controls is also subject We held conference calls webcasts for our quarterly results briefings to regulatory oversight in the UK and overseas.
Further information on and an in-person presentation for our 2015 full year results in March supervision by the financial services regulators is provided under 2016, all hosted by the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Supervision and Regulation in the Risk review section on pages 229 to Director.
In addition, the Group Finance Director held a quarterly 236. breakfast briefing for sellside analysts, with a transcript of the discussions uploaded to our website.
For fixed income investors we held Changes in internal control over financial reporting conference calls at our full year and half year results, hosted by our There have been no changes in the Groups internal control over financial Group Finance Director and Group Treasurer.
reporting that occurred during the period covered by this report which The Investor Relations section of our website is an important have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect the communication channel that enables the effective distribution of Groups internal control over financial reporting.
information to the market in a clear and consistent manner.
Executive management presentations, speeches and, where possible, webcast Remuneration replays are uploaded to our website on a timely basis.
In 2016, we also created an improved About Barclays factsheet, allowing investors the The Board has delegated responsibility for the consideration and opportunity to understand Barclays strategy and key financial metrics at approval of the remuneration arrangements of the Chairman, executive a glance.
We also continued to provide short videos summarising the Directors, other senior executives and certain Group employees to the key messages in our results from our Group Chief Executive and Group Board Remuneration Committee.
The Board as a whole, with the Finance Director.
non-executive Directors abstaining, considers annually the fees paid to non-executive Directors.
Information on the activities of the Board Remuneration Committee in 2016 can be found on pages 99 to 133 of the Directors remuneration report, which forms part of the corporate governance statement.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 89 Governance: Directors report How we comply Private shareholders Engagement timeline During 2016, we continued to communicate with our private shareholders through our shareholder mailings.
Shareholders can also Reporting events Stakeholder engagement choose to sign up to Shareview so that they receive information about Barclays and their shareholding directly by email.
On a practical level, Corporate Governance over 60,000 shareholders did not cash their Shares Not Taken Up engagement ahead of 2016 AGM Q1 SNTU cheque following the Rights Issue in September 2013.
In 2016, we continued the tracing process to reunite these shareholders with their SNTU monies and any unclaimed dividends.
By the end of 2016, we had returned over 1.65m to our shareholders in addition to the 2.2m 2015 full year results returned in 2015.
We also launched a Special Share Dealing Service in 2015 full year results presentation and fixed income announcement November 2016 aimed at shareholders with relatively small conference call webcast shareholdings for whom it might otherwise be uneconomical to deal.
One option open to shareholders was to donate their sale proceeds to Analyst briefing on ShareGift.
As a result of this initiative, more than 100,000 was donated.
2015 results Our AGM The Board and the senior executive team continue to consider our AGM as a key date in the diary.
The AGM provides us with our main opportunity to engage with shareholders, particularly our private shareholders, on the key issues facing the Group and any questions they may have.
A number of Directors, including the Chairman, were available for informal discussion either before or after the meeting.
All resolutions Q2 proposed at the 2016 AGM, which were considered on a poll, were passed with votes for ranging from 86% to 99.9% of the total votes cast.
The 2017 AGM will be held on Wednesday 10 May 2017 at the Royal Q1 2016 results Q1 2016 results conference Festival Hall in London.
The Notice of AGM can be found in a separate announcement call webcast document, which is sent out at least 20 working days before the AGM and also made available at home.
Voting on the Analyst briefing on resolutions will again be by poll and the results will be announced via Q1 2016 results the Regulatory News Service and made available on our website on the same day.
We encourage any shareholders who are unable to attend on the day to vote in advance of the meeting via home.
barclays 2016 AGM investorrelations vote or through Shareview www.
Corporate Governance Q3 engagement ahead of 2017 AGM 2016 half year results and 2016 half year results fixed income conference announcement call webcast Analyst briefing on 2016 half year results Q4 Q3 2016 results Q3 2016 results conference announcement call webcast Analyst briefing on Q3 2016 results 90 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
