Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance: Directors report Who we are Board of Directors Relevant skills and experience Board of Directors Mike has deep knowledge of auditing and associated regulatory issues, having worked at KPMG for over 20 Barclays understands the importance of having a Board containing the years, where he was a partner.
Mike was the lead right balance of skills, experience and diversity and the composition of engagement partner on the audits of large financial the Board is regularly reviewed by the Board Nominations Committee.
services groups including HSBC, Standard Chartered The skills and experience of the current Directors and the value they and the Bank of England.
While at KPMG, Mike was bring to the Barclays Board is described below.
Head of Quality and Risk Management for KPMG Europe LLP, responsible for the management of Full biographies can be accessed online via professional risks and quality control.
barclays investorrelations role of KPMG UKs Ethics Partner.
Mike Ashley Non-executive Other current appointments ICAEW Ethics Standards Committee: International Appointed: Ethics Standards Board for Accountants: Chairman, 18 September 2013 Government Internal Audit Agency: Charity Relevant skills and experience Commission John is a senior figure in global banking and financial Committees services circles and is in his 42nd year in the sector, Aud, Nom, Ris, Rep including 22 years as a main board director, 10 years as a CEO and six years as a chairman.
John is Chairman of Relevant skills and experience Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC.
He is also a Tim joined Barclays after a distinguished career with non-executive director of Westfield Corporation and Legal & General, where, among other roles, he was Old Oak Holdings Limited.
He is chairman of TheCityUK the group chief executive until June 2012.
Tims and a member of the Financial Services Trade and experience as a CEO enables him to provide Investment Board and the European Financial Round challenge, advice and support to the Executive on Table.
John was formerly chairman of Aviva plc, where John McFarlane performance and decision-making.
he oversaw a transformation of the company and for a Chairman brief period he was also chairman of FirstGroup plc.
He Tim brings to the Board extensive financial services was also a non-executive director of The Royal Bank of experience, knowledge of risk management and UK Appointed: Scotland plc, joining at the time of the UK government and EU regulation, as well as an understanding of the 1 January 2015 Tim Breedon rescue.
Prior to that for 10 years he was chief executive key issues for investors.
officer of Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Non-executive Other current appointments Ltd, Group Executive Director of Standard Chartered Marie Curie Cancer Care: Chairman, Apax Global Appointed: plc and head of Citibank in the UK.
Alpha Limited: Chairman, The Northview Group 1 November 2012 Other current appointments Committees None Aud, Nom, Rem, Ris Committees Nom Relevant skills and experience Mary has extensive board-level experience across a Relevant skills and experience range of industries.
She is a non-executive director of Jes joined Barclays as Group Chief Executive on 1 Swiss Re Group and Ensco plc and was formerly December 2015.
He has nearly four decades of Senior Independent Director of Centrica and a extensive experience in banking and financial services.
non-executive director of the Bank of England, Aviva He worked for more than 30 years at JP Morgan, and Alliance & Leicester.
She held senior executive initially training as a commercial banker, later positions in the UK Treasury and Prime Ministers advancing to the leadership of major businesses Office and in the City as Director General of the involving equities, private banking and asset Association of British Insurers.
She brings to Barclays management and ultimately heading the companys strong understanding of the interaction between Mary Francis CBE Global Investment Bank.
Most recently, Jes served as public and private sectors and skills in strategic Non-executive Managing Partner at BlueMountain Capital.
These decision-making and all aspects of board governance.
Jes Staley roles have provided him with a vast experience in Group Chief Executive Appointed: Other current appointments leadership and he brings a wealth of investment 1 October 2016 Advisory Panel of The Institute of Business Ethics banking knowledge to Barclays Board.
Appointed: Committees 1 December 2015 Other current appointments Rem, Rep None Committees Relevant skills and experience None Crawford has extensive business and management experience, gained with Bain & Company and Relevant skills and experience Standard Life plc.
These roles have provided him with Sir Gerry brings to the Board a wealth of investment experience in strategic decision-making and banking, financial services and commercial experience knowledge of company strategy across various gained through his senior roles at Schroders and his sectors and geographical locations.
Sir Gerry has global business Crawford has also held board and committee experience across the UK, Asia, the Middle East and chairman positions during his career, notably as the US.
Sir Gerry has significant experience as a chairman of the remuneration committees of non-executive director and chairman.
He is currently Crawford Gillies Standard Life plc and MITIE Group PLC.
the chairman of Standard Life plc, independent Non-executive non-executive board member of Deloitte LLP and the Other current appointments lead non-executive at the Ministry of Defence.
SSE plc: Control Risks International: The Edrington Sir Gerry Grimstone Appointed: Group Limited Deputy Chairman and Other current appointments 1 May 2014 Financial Services Trade and Investment Board Senior Independent Committees Aud, Nom, Rem Director Committees Nom, Rep Appointed: 1 January 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 51 Governance: Directors report Who we are Board of Directors Relevant skills and experience Relevant skills and experience Reuben has extensive financial services experience, Diane joined Barclays after an extensive career at particularly within investment banking and wealth Merrill Lynch, holding a variety of senior roles, management, through his role as CEO and president including responsibility for banking, brokerage of Rockefeller & Co. Inc. and Rockefeller Financial services and technology provided to the companys Services Inc. and his former senior roles with retail and middle market clients, and latterly for IT, Goldman Sachs, including as the managing partner of operations and client services worldwide.
She brings a the Paris office.
His various government roles in the wealth of experience in managing global, crossUS, including as chairman of the Commodity Futures discipline business operations, client services and Trading Commission, provides Barclays Board with technology in the financial services industry.
Diane is insight into the US political and regulatory a member of the board of Barclays US LLC, Barclays Reuben Jeffery III Diane Schueneman environment.
Non-executive Non-executive Other current appointments Other current appointments Appointed: Appointed: Advisory Board of Towerbrook Capital Partners LP: None 16 July 2009 25 June 2015 Rothschild Capital Management Limited: Financial Committees Services Volunteer Corps: The Asia Foundation Aud, Ris Committees Relevant skills and experience Nom, Ris Steve has significant experience in financial services, Relevant skills and experience in both investment banking with JP Morgan, where Tushar joined Barclays in 2013 having spent the among other roles he served as the chairman of the previous four years in senior management roles with risk management committee, and in regulation, JP Morgan Chase, most recently as the CFO of its through roles with the Federal Reserve Bank of New Corporate & Investment Bank.
Throughout his time York and the Financial Services Authority.
He also has with JP Morgan he gained strategic financial significant board experience, having served in both management and regulatory relations experience.
executive and non-executive director roles in his Since joining the Barclays Board he has been a driving career.
Steve is chairman of the board of Barclays US influence on the Groups cost reduction programme LLC.
Steve Thieke and managing the Groups capital plan, particularly in Non-executive Other current appointments response to Structural Reform.
Tushar Morzaria None Appointed: Group Finance Other current appointments Committees 7 January 2014 Member of the 100 Group main committee Director Ris Committees Appointed: None 15 October 2013 Company Secretary Relevant skills and experience Dambisa is an international economist and Relevant skills and experience commentator on the global economy, having Claire is a solicitor and a Fellow of the Institute of completed a PhD in economics.
Dambisa has a Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
She has background in financial services and a wide substantial experience in legal, compliance and knowledge and understanding of African economic, company secretarial roles gained in-house and in political and social issues, in addition to her professional services.
She was appointed Barclays experience as a director of companies with complex, Group Company Secretary with effect from 1 global operations.
She served as a non-executive December 2016, a role she has previously held at director of SABMiller Plc from 2009-2016.
Legal & General plc and Lloyds Banking Group plc.
Dambisa Moyo More recently, she was Society Secretary at the Other current appointments Co-operative Group.
She is a non-executive member Non-executive Chevron Corporation: Barrick Gold Corporation: Claire Davies of the audit and risk committee of the Department for Seagate Technology plc Appointed: Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy.
Appointed: Committees 1 May 2010 1 December 2016 Rem, Rep Relevant skills and experience Diane holds the role of general counsel and company secretary of ABB Limited, a listed pioneering technology leader in electrification products, robotics and motion, industrial automation and power grids.
Dianes legal background, combined with her knowledge of regulatory and compliance requirements bring a unique perspective to discussions of the Board and its committees.
Other current appointments Diane fide Saint Victor American Chamber of Commerce in France Non-executive Committees Rep Appointed: 1 March 2013 Note The composition of the Board is shown as at 22 February 2017.
Committee membership key Aud Board Audit Committee Nom Board Nominations Committee Rem Board Remuneration Committee Rep Board Reputation Committee Ris Board Risk Committee Committee Chairman 52 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Who we are Group Executive Committee Board diversity Group Executive Committee The Board has a balanced and diverse range of skills and experience.
Biographies for Jes Staley, Group Chief Executive, and Tushar Morzaria, Group Finance Director, who are members of the All Board appointments are made on merit, in the context of the diversity of skills, experience, background and gender required to be effective.
Group Executive Committee, which is chaired by Jes Staley, can be found on pages 51 and 52.
Balance of non-executive Directors: executive Directors 1 Chairman 1 1 2 2 Executive Directors 2 3 Non-executive Directors 10 3 Gender balance Male: Female 9:4 Paul Compton Bob Hoyt Tristram Roberts Group Chief Group General Group Human Length of tenure Operating Officer Counsel Resources Director Chairman and non-executive Directors 0-3 years 6 3-6 years 3 6-9 years 2 Mike Roemer Amer Sajed Tim Throsby Group Head of CEO, Barclaycard President, Barclays Geographical mix Compliance International International and Chairman and non-executive Directors Chief Executive UK Officer, Corporate and 6 Investment Bank US 3 Continental Europe 1 Other 1 Ashok Vaswani C. S. Venkatakrishnan Industry background experience a CEO, Barclays UK Chief Risk Officer Chairman and non-executive Directors Financial Services 10 91% Group Executive Committee meetings are also attended on a regular Political regulatory contacts 11 100% basis by the Chief Internal Auditor, Sally Clark, and by an ex-officio Current recent Chair CEO 3 27% member, drawn from senior management.
The current ex-officio Accountancy financial 1 9% member is Kathryn McLeland, Head of Investor Relations.
International US 3 27% International Europe 1 9% International Rest of the World 3 27% Operations and Technology 1 9% Note a Individual Directors may fall into one or more categories home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 53
