Performance review Barclays International As part of our Banking division, we aim to help clients large and small, Corporate & Investment Bank improve performance and enable businesses to grow.
We review individual business needs to offer bespoke solutions suited to particular business objectives.
For example, through our asset finance operations, Barclays Summary can be an enabler in the transition to greener operations through financing more efficient manufacturing sites and green supply chains.
We The CIB offers wholesale banking products and support lending to high growth businesses who typically have difficulty accessing bank finance, as well as through larger infrastructure project services to corporate and institutional investor finance, where we have supported the financing of over 500 Mega Watts clients.
The business is anchored around our of clean energy in the UK and Ireland in 2016, equivalent to powering two home markets two of the largest capital c. 220,000 homes per annum.
We have adapted early to Further information can be found in the case study below, and in the ESG supplement available at home.
com annualreport regulatory and markets changes, positioning the business to retain our position as a leading Performance Our Banking business had a strong performeance in 2016 gaining share, European CIB.
particularly in our home markets of the UK and US where we ranked 5th by fee share for all clients in M&A, equity and debt capital markets and syndicated loan transactions in 2016 Dealogic.
This momentum helps The creation of Barclays International has helped us to better align our us retain and hire talented individuals and further develop our businesses so that we now present a single integrated view of Barclays relationships with our corporate client base.
Landmark transactions that to our corporate and institutional clients through our CIB and deliver we have closed in 2016 include: synergies to the business.
The CIB offers clients a full service capability through its two divisions: financial advisor to Teva Pharmaceutical in its acquisition of Allergans generic drug business Banking offers long-term strategic advice on mergers and acquisitions, joint bookrunner on the two largest US leveraged loan financings of corporate finance and strategic risk management solutions, equity 2016 for Dell and Avago and credit origination capabilities, coupled with lending and transaction banking products active joint bookrunner and global coordinator in the second-largest corporate investment grade bond offering ever, ABInBevs M&A IG Markets provides execution, prime brokerage and risk management Bond financing.
services across the full range of asset classes, including equity and fixed income and currency products.
Markets income increased compared to 2015 with strong performances in the underlying businesses.
Credit income benefitted from a strong We have extensively simplified our CIB over the past three years, making performance in fixed income flow credit and emerging markets challenging strategic choices to reduce our activities in certain products businesses, which benefitted from increased market volatility and client and geographies, to better position the business for the regulatory and demand.
Macro income benefitted from an increase in activity post the market conditions that we now face.
In spite of the heightened political UKs vote to leave the EU and US elections.
These performances were uncertainty that we have seen through 2016, the environment that we partially offset by a decrease in Equities, reflecting the simplification of are operating in is more stable than it has been for a number of years, the EMEA business and lower client activity in Asia.
and we are beginning to see the positive implications of making early strategic decisions on our CIB business model.
We aim to retain our position as a leading European CIB, competing with the US-domiciled banks in our chosen products and markets.
Financing innovation As part of our High Growth & Entrepreneurs Proposition, we have partnered with The European Investment Fund EIF through the InnovFin SME Guarantee scheme to support firms who typically have difficulty accessing bank finance.
The scheme is financially backed by the EIF, enabled by the European Commissions Horizon 2020 programme, which covers 50% of loan losses that supports Barclays when lending to these early stage businesses.
Pod Point is an electric vehicle charging developer.
Its founder and chief executive, Erik Fairbairn, started the business in 2009 with his own savings, and then secured backing from the angel investor Peter Hiscocks, before he turned to crowdfunding in 2014 raising 1.5m, and a further 2m in 2015.
In 2016 Barclays provided Pod Point with funding in the form of a 1m EIF-backed loan, to help the business fulfil its mission of having a top-up charge point anywhere people park for an hour or more.
The company now has over 25,000 customers and provides public charging stations at over 1.500 locations nationwide.
To find out more, see barclayscorporate.
com insight-andresearch lending 34 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
