Strategic report Corporate governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Consumer, Cards & Payments Travis Perkins PLC Travis Perkins PLC, a leading company in the builders merchant and home improvement markets, was looking for a unified customer Summary payments platform across its different brands.
It wanted to work with a partner that would reduce the complexity of managing and Consumer, Cards & Payments is the maintaining a highly secure, diverse payments environment, while consolidated reporting structure for allowing the flexibility to innovate and explore new customer interactions.
Barclaycard International and the Private Barclaycard Business Solutions was able to provide a true omniBank and Overseas Services.
channel payments platform that offers single point management across multiple brands and channels, from online pay pages to Barclaycard International provides branded in-store points of sale.
The implementation has already seen Travis and co-branded consumer credit cards and Perkins PLC benefit from increased card payment security and protection of its brand, as well as cutting transaction response times lending to our customers and business by up to 94%.
solutions to our clients, globally.
For further information, see www.
com cp Private Bank & Overseas Services provides case-studies banking, investment and wealth management services to over 163,000 clients, globally.
Private Bank The Private Bank strategy going forward is to deliver personalised banking, Barclaycard US investment and wealth management solutions to high net worth and ultra Our core co-brand and branded credit card business in the US has high net worth individuals, providing full access to complex and innovative continued to grow strongly: we remain the ninth-largest issuer by products and services across Barclays platforms.
Clients are supported by balances, growing 14% over the last year.
We have strengthened our a dedicated Private Banker and team of investment and wealth specialists.
relationship with existing partners, for example signing a major deal with In addition, the Private Bank facilitates access to Barclays Corporate and American Airlines, and have launched a new partnership programme Investment Bank full suite of products and services.
The Private Bank is with JetBlue Airways.
Our Barclaycard brand continues to get stronger in now even more focused on our core competencies and poised to grow, the US: with our Barclaycard Arrival Plus World Elite MasterCard winning demonstrated by strong underlying asset and income growth in 2016. the Best Travel Credit Card for Frequent Fliers by MONEY Magazine.
Our successful online retail deposits business has reached US$11bn, Overseas Services supporting our overall funding strategy in the US.
In November we With a full suite of banking, credit, investment and wealth management launched a personal loans offering, further diversifying our product mix.
operations principally in the Isle of Man, Jersey and Guernsey, our Overseas Services business supports client types that stretch across the Barclaycard Business Solutions client continuum, personal to corporate.
Overseas Services is the Barclaycard provides payment acceptance, commercial payments and gateway to the wider Barclays Group, providing offshore capabilities and point-of-sale finance solutions to all client segments in the UK.
The business delivered solid results in 2016, with strong leading provider in all areas, including being the second-largest payment liability growth, coupled with continued focus on cost management, acceptance provider in Europe by volume.
resulting in a strong Cost:Income ratio and returns in 2016.
Among our achievements this year, we have launched market-leading Supporting our communities business card propositions, developed full omni-channel capabilities Building on our commitment to make a positive difference to the including strong data security features, and partnered with Apple to help communities in which we live and work, we delivered a number of launch their Apple iPhone Upgrade.
successful initiatives across Barclaycard International in 2016.
In the UK, Our large corporate portfolio continued to grow, with a number of major we have launched a major new partnership with The Princes Trust, new client wins and retentions, including TfL, Greggs and Centrica.
helping young people build their skills and confidence, and have won The Princes Trust Service to Young People Award for corporate volunteering.
In Barclaycard Germany and EnterCard the US and Germany we have been supporting start-ups through our This year, Barclaycard Germany celebrated its 25th anniversary and now programmes with West End Neighbourhood House and our Social Impact serves over 1.1 million customers.
With a share of 34%, Barclaycard Lab incubator respectively, and helping individuals develop essential Germany is the leading issuer for revolving credit cards in Germany by coding skills through our Apps Camp programme and partnerships with outstanding balances.
In the instalment loans market, Barclaycard Tech Impact and Delaware State University.
Germany has a strong challenger position with a growth rate of 15% and 1% share.
Innovative products and features such as the fully digital Express-Kredit or the Equal Payment Plan, as well as continued customer focus, drive exceptional customer satisfaction rankings, with the business leading the market for credit cards and in the top two for loans, respectively.
We also provide cards and lending in Norway, Sweden and Denmark via our EnterCard joint venture.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 35
