Governance: Directors report What we did in 2016 Chairmans introduction Dear Fellow Shareholders Welcome to my 2016 corporate governance report.
When I think about corporate governance, I inevitably focus on how strong and effective governance acts to provide the necessary checks and balances at the very top of companies, thus supporting better decision-making and accountability.
In turn, this benefits companies and the UK economy more generally, by instilling public confidence and respect for the corporate sector and making the UK an attractive place to do business, something that has grown in importance post the EU Referendum.
As a bank, gaining this confidence and respect is paramount.
Our business is founded on and operates on trust the trust of our customers and clients, our employees and the wider public.
Strong and effective corporate governance has a vital role in ensuring that we earn and keep that trust.
What is the role of the Board?
I firmly believe that the role of the Board is to focus on long-term, sustainable value creation.
At the heart of our strategy, which we Strong and effective governance announced in March 2016, is building on our strength as a transatlantic benefits companies and the UK economy consumer, corporate and investment bank, with global reach.
To this end, the Board has provided critical oversight of executive management more generally, by instilling public confidence in developing and delivering this strategy, creating a smaller, simplified and respect for the corporate sector, making bank capable of producing high quality returns for our shareholders on a sustainable basis.
the UK an attractive place to do business.
What were the Boards key areas of focus in 2016?
During 2016, the Board focused its activity to support management in delivery of the agreed strategy.
A summary of key items considered by the Board can be found on pages 56 to 57.
The main areas of Board activity have been on ensuring that we have strong foundations in place by focusing on the performance of our Core businesses, and on completing the restructuring of Barclays by accelerating the run-down of the Non-Core businesses.
We also took the difficult, but important, decision to sell-down our holding in Barclays Africa.
Progress in these areas is enabling us to build the Barclays of the future.
As part of ensuring we are well-positioned, and to meet regulatory requirements, we have aligned our business more closely with our legal entity structure and geographic locations.
You can read more about the Boards role in preparing Barclays for Structural Reform in the case study on page 57.
We also had to deal with the impacts of the UKs vote to leave the EU and held a special meeting in the days following the EU Referendum result to assess the position for Barclays.
You can read more about how we prepared for the EU Referendum in the case study on page 72.
How effective is the Board?
Effective delivery of long-term, sustainable value for shareholders requires an effective Board.
It is an important part of my role as Chairman to satisfy myself that the Board both collectively and its individual members operates effectively.
Each year, we conduct a self-assessment of our performance, with the aid of an independent facilitator, and you can read a report on the outcomes of the 2016 self-assessment on pages 81 to 83.
We also describe the actions we took during 2016 in response to any matters identified for improvement during the 2015 self-assessment.
I hope this provides a flavour of how seriously the Board regards this important exercise.
The working relationship between the Board and executive management is, of course, critical to the effectiveness of the Board and I am pleased to report that we enjoy a healthy, constructive relationship, with an appropriate level of creative tension that helps drive productive discussions in the boardroom.
54 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information How did the Board change in 2016?
How does the Board take account of Barclays wider stakeholders?
Ive referred a number of times to the Boards role in creating and To be effective, the Board needs the right people and, in particular, it needs to have the right balance and diversity of skills, experience and delivering shareholder value in a long-term, sustainable way.
This can only be achieved by being acutely alive to the impact that our business perspectives.
It is important that the composition of the Board brings to bear a broad range of social perspectives and talent on decision-making decisions might have on our customers, clients, employees and others and by fully understanding and appreciating the wider societal and that the Board is able to connect with the demographics of Barclays customers and clients and employees.
We have a healthy non-executive obligations that we have.
These issues are important for the Board and the Board Reputation Committee fulfils a vital role on behalf of the Board presence on the Board, which was strengthened further during 2016 with the appointments of Sir Gerry Grimstone as Deputy Chairman and by monitoring key indicators across the areas of conduct, culture, citizenship and customer complaints.
This includes, for example, Senior Independent Director and Mary Francis as a non-executive Director.
Both are highly-experienced non-executive Directors and add to assessing not only the volumes of customer complaints that we receive, but also the way in which they are handled.
It covers assessing the the depth of experience and talent on the Board.
During 2016, Wendy Lucas-Bull and Frits van Paasschen, both non-executive Directors, left results from regular employee opinion surveys and the actions being taken to address any common issues or themes that arise across the the Board and I thank them on behalf of the Board for their service.
It also includes oversight of the delivery of our citizenship In early 2016, we set ourselves a new Board diversity target, which is to strategy, the Shared Growth Ambition, where our long-term aim is to have 33% women on the Board by 2020.
We currently have 31% women create and grow a collection of products, services and partnerships that on the Board and are pleased with the progress we are making towards improve the lives of people in the communities that we serve.
Of course, diversity is not just about gender and although we activity can and does support the Boards over-arching objective of have not set any other Board diversity targets, such as ethnicity, when it delivering sustainable returns for our shareholders.
discusses and assesses Board composition and prospective candidates the Board Nominations Committee considers a number of factors before You can read more about the Shared Growth Ambition at making its recommendations.
Ultimately, maintaining the overall home.
barclays citizenship effectiveness of the Board is paramount and we maintain the position that all appointments to the Board are made on merit.
More information Looking ahead on the Board appointments process can be found on page 80.
I expect 2017 to be a pivotal year for Barclays in the delivery of its strategy: a year when we will complete our restructuring and establish How does the Board ensure that high standards of business conduct ourselves as a bank that is recognised for financial strength, financial are maintained?
transparency, operational stability, underpinned by a values-driven There can be no argument that to be successful and to create longculture.
We are incredibly focused and working hard as your Board to term, sustainable value, we must maintain consumer and market trust engender respect and trust for our Company and the profession of and confidence.
We need to act with transparency and integrity in every banking, in order to support our customers and clients, to contribute to interaction we have with all of our stakeholders and this behaviour is the UKs reputation as a place to do business and to deliver long-term integral to the way in which we operate.
This is why as a Board we have value to shareholders.
continued to wholeheartedly support Barclays shared purpose and common values.
The Barclays Way, which is endorsed by me, as Chairman, outlines the purpose and values that govern our way of working across our businesses globally.
Of course, the challenge we have, in a large organisation such as Barclays, is to ensure that all employees do the right thing day in, day out.
To address this challenge, all employees continue to be required to undertake training on The Barclays Way annually, with the Board Reputation Committee tracking completion rates.
Additionally, the Board Reputation Committee hears directly from the senior management in each business on how they are John McFarlane addressing any conduct and cultural matters specific to that business, Chairman thus holding senior management to account for the values and 22 February 2017 behaviours in their business.
You can read more about the work of the Board Reputation Committee on pages 73 to 76. home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 55 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2016 During 2016, the Board focused on a number of specific areas, Board allocation of time % outlined in the table below, in line with Barclays three strategic goals 2016 2015 and five principal risks: 1 Strategy formulation and 55 56 4 1 Strategic goals implementation monitoring F Have strong foundations in place 2 Finance incl.
capital and liquidity 17 11 3 Governance and Risk incl.
regulatory issues 26 29 A Accelerate the completion of restructuring 4 Other incl.
compensation 2 4 B Build the Barclays of the future 3 Principal risks C Credit 2 M Market F Funding O Operational C Conduct Strategic Goal Principal Risks Strategy formulation and monitoring Debated the potential impact of the EU Referendum and the contingency plans being developed.
Following the F A B C M F O C result of the Referendum, discussed and assessed the implications for the UK, the banking sector and for Barclays, including a presentation from a third party on the political aspects and their potential implications Regularly debated and monitored the progress of Barclays preparations for Structural Reform see the case F A B C M F O C study on page 57 for further details Reflected on the position of Barclays Africa in the Barclays Group and its impact on Barclays capital position, A F B F O C deciding to sell-down Barclays holding to a position where Barclays Africa accounting and regulatory fideconsolidation could be achieved Assessed the progress of strategy execution in each of Barclays UK, Barclays Internationals investment bank and F A B C M F O C corporate business and the Cards business, via presentations from the heads of each business Monitored the progress of the run-down of Barclays Non-Core via regular presentations from the heads of the A C M F O C Non-Core business Discussed regular updates from the Group Chief Executive on the progress being made against the Groups execution F A B C M F O C priorities and received insights on stakeholder issues including those arising from customers and clients, employees, regulators and governments and cultural matters, including results from employee opinion surveys Debated and provided input to management on the formulation of overall Group strategy, including A B C M F O C F the impact of structural change and the creation of new subsidiary legal entities in the Group the progress of the sell-down of Barclays Africa, including potential options, costs of separation, potential conduct risks and customer impacts the impact of the EU Referendum result, taking into account an assessment of possible political scenarios and the potential impacts on each of Barclays businesses in terms of capital, operations, economics, regulation, clients and customers a strategic approach to costs optimisation constraints and risks to strategy execution, covering economic assumptions: expected regulatory requirements on capital and solvency ratios at Group and subsidiary legal entity level: anticipated changes to accounting rules: investor expectations: and potential impacts for clients and customers potential growth opportunities, covering an assessment of the competitive landscape for Barclays UK, Barclays International and the Cards business: key trends and risks for each business in terms of economics, regulation, customers, employees and technology: near-term focus areas and potential transformational opportunities Finance, including capital and liquidity Debated and approved the Groups Medium Term Plan for 2016-2018 and short-term plan for 2016, with a focus A F B C M F on producing increased returns in future Regularly assessed financial performance of the Group and its main businesses via reports from the Group F A B C M F Finance Director Reviewed and approved Barclays financial results prior to publication, including approving final and interim F A B C M F dividends Discussed market and investor reaction to Barclays strategic and financial results announcements, with insights A F B C M F provided by the Head of Investor Relations Provided input, guidance and advice to senior management on the high-level shape of Barclays 2017-2019 F A B C M F Medium Term Plan and subsequently approved the final plan 56 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic Goal Principal Risks Governance and risk, including regulatory issues Debated and approved 2016 risk appetite for the Barclays Group F A B C M F O C Regularly assessed Barclays overall risk profile and emerging risk themes, hearing directly from the Chief Risk F A B C M F O C Officer and the Chairman of the Board Risk Committee A Evaluated Barclays operational and technology capability, including specific updates on cyber-risk capability and F B O the strategy for infrastructure services.
Approved Barclays Internationals investment banks IT and Data Global Strategy Approved the Groups 2016 Recovery Plan and US Resolution Plan F A B C M F O C Held specific meetings with representatives of Barclays UK and US regulators to hear first-hand about regulatory F A B C M F O C expectations and their specific views on Barclays A Evaluated the status of Barclays risk and control environment and the plans in place to enhance the risk and F B C M F O C control framework and approved a revised Enterprise Risk Management Framework ERMF A B O C Considered regular updates from the Group General Counsel on the legal risks facing Barclays F A Heard regularly from the chairmen of the Boards principal Board Committees on the matters discussed at Board F B C M F O C Committee meetings F A B C M F O C Received updates from the chairman of Barclays US IHC on matters discussed at its board meetings A B C Heard directly from representatives of the Banking Standards Board on its assessment of the culture in Barclays F and the banking sector as a whole Other, including compensation F A B O C Reviewed Barclays Talent Management strategy and the process for succession planning for key executive positions, hearing directly from the Group HR Director and the Chairman of the Board Nominations Committee Received and debated a presentation from the independent facilitator of the 2016 Board effectiveness review on F A B O C the outcomes and potential areas of focus for improvement The above analysis reflects the ERMF that was in place during 2016.
Governance in Action Preparing for Structural Reform Law and regulation in the UK, and associated regulatory rules, require debating the potential implications of Structural Reform on Barclays Barclays to separate its retail banking operations into a separate, pension scheme, both in terms of the potential impact on Barclays independent legal entity known as ring-fencing.
Barclays has an and on pension scheme members internal Structural Reform Programme in place to implement these conducting an assessment of the overall conduct risk considerations required changes in the UK.
A new UK banking entity is being associated with Structural Reform, focusing on the potential impacts established as the ring-fenced bank Barclays UK and will serve retail for clients and customers and small business customers, as well as UK wealth and credit card evaluating the work being conducted to address sort-code customers.
Barclays International will continue to serve corporate, migration, covering technology planning and implementation and institutional and investment banking clients and will also serve customer impact considerations.
international wealth and credit card customers.
A Group Service Company will be established to support the revised operating entity Separately, during 2016, Barclays US businesses were organised under structure.
an Intermediate Holding Company IHC in order to meet US legal requirements.
The IHC became operational from 1 July 2016.
The Board These structural changes will have a material impact on the way in was regularly updated on progress of implementation, any risks and which Barclays operates in future.
Consequently, the progress of the challenges and how they were being managed.
Structural Reform Programme featured heavily on the Boards agenda during 2016, given the scale of change required and the potential Board Committees have supported the Board in overseeing the material risks associated with transitioning to the new structure and implementation of Structural Reform on matters that fall directly within with the new structure itself.
The Board evaluated progress of the their remit.
For example, the Board Nominations Committee Structural Reform Programme at seven of the eight Board meetings determined the proposed composition of the boards of the new held during 2016, including specifically evaluating the impact of operating entities and is in the process of identifying and evaluating structural change as part of the annual Group strategy Board meeting.
proposed candidates for appointment to those boards.
It also Specific matters addressed by the Board included: discussed and endorsed a set of Governance Guiding Principles, which will govern the relationship between the parent company and its new Structural Reform design and implementation plans, including operating entities.
The Board Risk Committee spends time at each evaluating any identified risks and challenges: considering regulatory meeting assessing the prospective capital and liquidity impacts of feedback on the plans and the status of actions arising from Structural Reform, while the Board Audit Committee has evaluated the regulatory engagement: and agreeing the internal accountability potential accounting implications.
More information can be found in the framework individual Board Committee reports on the pages that follow.
assessing the progress being made with establishing the new legal entity for Barclays UK, including any necessary regulatory licencing requirements and preparations for the ring-fence transfer scheme monitoring the creation of the Group Service Company, including assessing its design, its board governance structure, its control and oversight framework and the execution milestones to be achieved home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 57 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2016 Board Audit Committee report Dear Fellow Shareholders My report to you last year highlighted the significant degree of change that Barclays was facing, driven by its own strategic aims and by the demands of Structural Reform.
Change has continued apace and it has been critical for the Committee to focus on ensuring the commitment to strengthening the control environment is maintained throughout this transformational period.
Barclays has during 2016 put in place a significantly changed senior management team and my Committee colleagues and I are greatly encouraged by the renewed focus and vigour with which the control environment is being addressed and the sense of personal accountability that we are seeing.
A significant development in the fourth quarter of 2016 was the creation of a chief controls office and the appointment of a Chief Controls Officer, which will drive forward the delivery of an enhanced programme designed to strengthen the control environment and remediate any known issues.
Although the new controls office structure is in its infancy, I welcome the more strategic approach that is now being taken to embed accountability for a strong control environment into the first line of Change has continued apace and it has been management.
Such is the importance of this programme to Barclays critical to focus on ensuring that the that, for its initial phase, progress on the framework will be reported directly to the full Board.
In assessing control issues for disclosure in the commitment to strengthening the control Annual Report, the Committee has continued to apply similar definitions environment is maintained throughout this to those used for assessing internal financial controls for the purposes of Sarbanes-Oxley.
The conclusion we have reached is that there are no transformational period.
control issues that are considered to be a material weakness, which merit specific disclosure.
Further details may be found in the Risk management and internal control section on page 88.
Our busy agenda in 2016 continued to include our responsibilities for overseeing the performance and effectiveness of internal and external audit, the main independent assurance mechanisms that serve to protect shareholders interests.
The Committee also continued to exercise its responsibilities for ensuring the integrity of Barclays published financial information by debating and challenging the judgements made by management and the assumptions and estimates on which they are based.
The exercise of appropriate judgement in preparing the financial statements is critical in ensuring that Barclays reports to its shareholders in a fair, balanced and transparent way.
The report that follows sets out details of the material matters considered by the Committee since my last report.
A significant change that the Committee has been overseeing is the transition to KPMG as Barclays statutory auditor, following the audit tender concluded in 2015.
I met regularly with the PwC lead audit partner and his KPMG successor during 2016.
KPMG has been shadowing the current auditor, PwC, during the 2016 year-end audit and the Committee is already seeing some value from the new perspective provided by KPMG on accounting estimates and policies.
You can read more about auditor transition in the case study on page 67.
The introduction in March 2016 of the UKs Senior Managers Regime allocated to me specific prescribed responsibilities for safeguarding the independence of, and overseeing the performance of, the internal audit function, including the performance of the Chief Internal Auditor, in line with regulatory requirements.
In practice, little has changed in the way in which I fulfil my responsibilities: I continue to hold regular meetings with the Chief Internal Auditor and members of her senior management team to ensure I am aware of current work programmes and any emerging issues and I also agree the Chief Internal Auditors objectives and the outcomes of her performance assessment.
During 2016, the PRA undertook a review of Barclays Internal Audit BIA and made a number of recommendations to increase its effectiveness and the Committees monitoring thereof.
An action plan has been developed to address these recommendations.
The Committee also held a networking event with BIA during 2016, enabling Committee members to meet less formally with senior members of the BIA team.
58 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information An additional responsibility I have assumed under the Senior Managers Board Audit Committee allocation of time % Regime is that of Whistleblowers Champion, a position required by the 2016 2015 FCA to be held at Board level.
As champion, I have specific responsibility 1 Control issues 23 18 for the integrity, independence and effectiveness of the Barclays policies 6 1 2 Business control environment 19 16 and procedures on whistleblowing, including the procedures for 3 Financial results 36 27 protecting employees who raise concerns from detrimental treatment.
4 Internal audit matters 11 7 5 During 2016, I recorded a video message to all employees Group-wide, 5 External audit matters 6 26 2 including, in 2015, external audit tender 4 highlighting my role as Whistleblowers Champion and raising awareness 6 Other including governance and 4 6 of the policies and procedures we have in place.
compliance 3 I continued to work closely with my fellow Board Committee chairmen during 2016, particularly with the Board Risk Committee chairman on the question of operational risk issues, which each Committee has a role in overseeing.
I attended meetings of the IHC audit committee to gain a Committee composition and meetings first-hand insight into the issues being addressed by that committee and The Committee is composed solely of independent non-executive have invited its chairman to attend a Committee meeting in early 2017 Directors, with membership designed to provide the breadth of financial by way of reciprocating.
I met frequently with other members of senior expertise and commercial acumen its needs to fulfil its responsibilities.
management, including the Group Finance Director, and continued my Its members as a whole have experience of the banking and financial engagement with Barclays regulators both in the UK and US.
services sector in addition to general management and commercial experience.
Diane Schueneman was appointed to the Committee with Committee performance effect from 18 February 2016, bringing valuable insights into operational The Committees performance during 2016 was assessed as part of the and technology risk and controls.
Diane fide Saint Victor retired from the independently facilitated annual Board effectiveness review.
The Committee at the end of May 2016.
Mike Ashley is the designated conclusion of my Board colleagues was that the Committee is regarded financial expert on the Committee for the purposes of the US Sarbanesas thorough and the Board takes assurance from the quality of the Oxley Act.
Although each member of the Committee has financial and Committees work.
The main area identified for improvement was to or financial services experience, the Board has identified that the ensure that the Committee continues to strike an appropriate balance Committee could be strengthened by the appointment of an additional between covering issues in appropriate detail and taking a strategic member with direct accounting and auditing experience.
Consideration approach to its oversight and supervision of management.
The review is being given to further appointments to the Committee in this regard, also commented on the need to strengthen the depth of financial and however, given the impact of Structural Reform, the search for suitable accounting expertise on the Committee via new appointments, which is candidates is being addressed in the context of overall Board a matter that was already under consideration during 2016, and the composition requirements.
You can find more details of the experience need to ensure that the way in which the Committee works with the of Committee members in their biographies on pages 51 and 52.
Board Reputation and Board Risk Committees continues to capture all significant issues effectively while minimising any overlap.
I will be The Committee met 12 times in 2016 and the chart above shows how it allocated its time.
Meetings are generally arranged well in advance and seeking to address each of these areas over the coming year.
You can read more about the outcomes of the Board effectiveness review on are usually scheduled in line with Barclays financial reporting timetable.
Two of the meetings were arranged specifically to provide the pages 81 to 83.
Committee opportunity to consider particular issues relevant to the financial statements, such as the viability statement and the proposed Looking ahead The Committee is looking forward to working with both the new Chief deadline for PPI claims.
Committee meetings were attended by management, including the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Controls Officer and with the new auditor, KPMG, during 2017.
In addition to overseeing managements progress on enhancing the control Director, Chief Internal Auditor, Chief Risk Officer, Chief Operating Officer, General Counsel and Head of Compliance, as well as representatives environment, the Committee will be focusing on some significant accounting issues, including the Groups preparedness for the implementation of from the businesses and other functions.
In future, the Chief Controls Officer will attend meetings on a regular basis.
The lead audit partner of IFRS9 and the accounting implications of Structural Reform.
We will also be closely monitoring the implementation of the action plan to address the external auditor attended all Committee meetings and the Committee held a number of private sessions with each of the Chief the recommendations arising from the PRAs review of BIA.
Internal Auditor or the lead auditor partner, which were not attended by management.
From 1 July 2016, the lead audit partner of KPMG also attended meetings as part of the statutory auditor transition process.
Representatives from the PRA also attended a meeting during 2016.
Member Meetings attended eligible to attend Mike Ashley 12 12 Tim Breedon 12 12 Mike Ashley Crawford Gillies 11 12 Chairman, Board Audit Committee Diane fide Saint Victor to 31 May 2016 8 8 22 February 2017 Diane Schueneman from 18 February 2016 9 9 Did not attend one meeting convened at short notice owing to a prior commitment Committee role and responsibilities The Committee is responsible for: assessing the integrity of the Groups financial reporting and satisfying itself that any significant financial judgements made by management are sound evaluating the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, including internal financial controls scrutinising the activities and performance of the internal and external auditors, including monitoring their independence and objectivity.
The Committees terms of reference are available at home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 59 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2016 Board Audit Committee report The Committees work for each.
The Committee also considered the accounting implications of The significant matters addressed by the Committee during 2016 and in Structural Reform and the establishment of the ring-fenced bank.
These evaluating Barclays 2016 annual report and financial statements, are will continue to be areas of focus in 2017. described on the following pages.
Financial reporting regulators and Barclays Financial statement reporting issues During the third quarter of 2016, Barclays received a comment letter The Committees main responsibility in relation to Barclays financial from the Corporate Reporting Review Team CRRT of the Financial reporting is to review with both management and the external auditor Reporting Council FRC in relation to its thematic review of tax the appropriateness of Barclays financial statements, including quarterly disclosures.
The comment letter covered the disclosure of uncertain tax results announcements and half-year and annual financial statements provisions in Barclays 2015 annual report and financial statements.
The and supporting analyst presentations, with its primary focus being on: CRRT requested and was provided with additional information in respect of Barclays disclosure of uncertain tax positions, including an advance the quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices copy of Barclays enhanced policy for such disclosure see page 294, any correspondence from financial reporting regulators in relation to and subsequently confirmed in writing that it had closed its enquiries.
Barclays financial reporting The Committee from time to time considers comment letters from the material areas where significant judgements have been made, along SEC in relation to its reviews of Barclays Annual Report and other with any significant assumptions or estimates, or where significant publicly filed financial statements.
Such comment letters and Barclays issues have been discussed with or challenged by the external auditor responses are made publicly available by the SEC on its website, an assessment of whether the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, www.
gov, once it has closed each such review.
The Committee balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary sought to ensure that Barclays took due account of the SECs views in its for shareholders to assess Barclays position and performance, external reporting.
Significant judgements and issues Accounting policies and practices The significant judgements and issues and actions taken by the The Committee discussed reports from management in relation to the Committee in relation to the 2016 annual report and financial identification of critical accounting judgements and key sources of statements are outlined below.
The significant judgements and issues estimation uncertainty, significant accounting policies and the proposed are broadly comparable in nature to prior years.
Each of these matters disclosure of these in the 2016 Annual Report.
Following discussions was discussed with the external auditor during the year and, where with both management and the external auditor, the Committee appropriate, have been addressed as areas of audit focus in the Auditors approved the critical accounting judgements, significant accounting Report on pages 269 to 275. policies and disclosures, which are set out in note 1, Significant accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements.
There The CRRTs review was based on Barclays annual report and financial statements and were no significant changes in accounting policy during the period.
did not benefit from detailed knowledge of Barclays business or the transactions entered into.
The closure of the CRRTs enquiries provides no assurance that Barclays During 2016, the Committee was regularly updated on Barclays annual report and accounts are correct in all material respects, as the FRCs role is not to preparations for the implementation of IFRS9 Financial Instruments, verify information but to ensure compliance with reporting requirements.
The FRC which is effective from 1 January 2018, including the key technical accepts no liability for reliance on its closure letter from Barclays or any third party, including but not limited to investors and shareholders.
decisions and interpretations required and Barclays proposed approach Area of focus Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Conduct provisions Barclays makes certain Regularly analysed the judgements and The Committee and management see Note 27 to the assumptions and estimates, estimates made with regard to Barclays continue to monitor closely any financial statements.
analysis of which underpins provisioning for PPI claims, taking into changes in customer or claims provisions made for the costs of account forecasts and assumptions made management companies behaviour in customer redress, such as for for PPI complaints and actual claims light of the Plevin case and the Payment Protection Insurance experience for Barclays and the industry proposed FCA timebar.
of 2016, having assessed actual claims experience and the potential impact of Debated the potential impact on the the proposed timebar and the Plevin future range of provisions arising from case, the Committee agreed to the FCAs proposed timebar on claims and recognise additional provisions of the expected deadline of June 2019, 1,000m in 2016, bringing Barclays discussing the levels of uncertainty in the total cumulative provisions against the projections.
cost of PPI redress and associated Discussed the potential range of processing costs to 8.4bn, of which outcomes that might arise from the 2.0bn is remaining.
Plevin case the 2014 UK Supreme Court ruling in Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Ltd and whether any increase in provisions was required.
Evaluated proposed additional provisions for PPI and whether the analysis performed by management was consistent with prior periods and reflected known trend data and whether Barclays approach was consistent with that taken by industry peers.
Assessed provisions for alternative PPI card protection and payment break plan insurance and the claims experience compared to the range of reasonable high and low end scenarios that had been determined.
60 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Area of focus Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Legal, competition Barclays is engaged in various Evaluated advice on the status of current The Committee discussed provisions and regulatory legal, competition and regulatory legal, competition and regulatory matters.
Having reviewed the provisions matters.
The extent of the impact information available to determine what Assessed managements judgements and see Notes 27-29 on Barclays of these matters was both probable and could be reliably estimates of the levels of provisions to be to the financial cannot always be predicted, but estimated, the Committee agreed that taken and the adequacy of those statements.
matters can give rise to no additional provision should be made provisions, based on available information provisioning for contingent and at the full year for ongoing and evidence.
other liabilities depending on the investigations and litigation.
Considered the adequacy of disclosure, relevant facts and circumstances.
recognising that any decision to set Further information may be found on The level of provisioning is subject pages 330 to 338. provisions involves significant judgement.
to management judgement on the basis of legal advice and is therefore an area of focus for the Committee.
Valuations Barclays exercises judgement in Evaluated reports from Barclays The Committee confirmed its see Notes 14-18 the valuation and disclosure of Valuations Committee, with particular agreement to the restructuring and to the financial financial instruments, derivative focus on the restructuring of the ESHLA fide-recognition of the ESHLA portfolio statements.
assets and certain portfolios, portfolio and its subsequent fideand concluded that it was a fideparticularly where quoted market recognition: a valuation disparity with a recognition event.
It noted the lack of prices are not available, including third party in respect of a specific progress made in resolving the the Groups Education, Social long-dated derivative portfolio: and an third-party valuation disparity, which Housing and Local Authority assessment of the impact of negative has been outstanding for some time, ESHLA portfolio.
interest rates on the valuation of and satisfied itself on the basis of the derivatives.
information available to it that Barclays valuation methodology remains Considered proposals from the Valuations appropriate.
It approved a revision to Committee to revise the valuations the model used for valuing the approach for the remaining ESHLA remaining ESHLA portfolio portfolio and to revise the approach to recommended by the Valuations the marking of Own Credit.
Impairment Where appropriate, Barclays Assessed impairment experience against The Committee challenged the timing see Note 7 to the models potential impairment forecast and whether impairment of the oil and gas impairment taken in financial statements.
performance, allowing for certain provisions were appropriate.
the half-year results, although assumptions and sensitivities, to confirmed that the provision was Evaluated the appropriateness and timing agree allowances for credit adequate.
It welcomed the proposal to of the impairment taken in connection impairment, including agreeing create a new Group Impairment with Barclays exposures to the oil and the timing of the recognition of Committee and enhance the role of the gas sectors, including the impact of single any impairment and estimating Group Finance function in assessing name losses in the oil and commodities the size, particularly where impairment provisioning.
post-model adjustment of 250m for Debated the adjustment in impairment impairment in the UK and US Cards taken in the Cards business for informal businesses during the third quarter of forbearance arrangements and the 2016 and obtained clarification on the potential impact of changes in emergence impairment policy for the Cards modelling.
At the full year, having Considered a report from the Group debated the report from the Group Impairment Committee on the adequacy Impairment Committee it confirmed the of loan impairment allowances as at adequacy of the full year impairment 31 December 2016, including assessing charge of 2.4bn.
internal and external trends, methodologies and key management judgements.
Tax Barclays is subject to taxation in a Evaluated the appropriateness of tax risk The Committee confirmed the tax risk see Note 10 to the number of jurisdictions globally provisions to cover existing tax risk.
provisions for the full year and the financial statements.
and makes judgements with treatment of deferred tax assets.
Debated the forecasts and assumptions regard to provisioning for tax at supporting the recognition and valuation risk and on the recognition and of deferred tax assets.
measurement of deferred tax assets.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 61 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2016 Board Audit Committee report Area of focus Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Long-term viability The Directors are required to Evaluated at year end a report from Taking into account the assessment by see page 41 for make a statement in the Annual management setting out the view of the Board Risk Committee of stress further information.
Report as to the long-term Barclays long-term viability.
This report testing results and risk appetite, the viability of Barclays.
The was based on Barclays Medium Term Plan Committee agreed to recommend the Committee provides advice to the MTP and covered forecasts for capital, viability statement to the Board for Board on the form and content of liquidity and leverage, including forecast approval.
the statement, including the performance against regulatory targets, underlying assumptions.
outcomes of the stress test of the MTP and forecast capital and liquidity performance against stress hurdle rates, funding and liquidity forecasts and an assessment of global risk themes and the Groups risk profile.
Considered the viability statement in conjunction with Barclays risk statements and strategy business model disclosures.
Addressed specific feedback from investors and other stakeholders on viability statements in general.
Fair, balanced and Barclays is required to ensure that Assessed, via discussion with and Having evaluated all of the available understandable its external reporting is fair, challenge of management, including the information and the assurances reporting balanced and understandable.
Group Chief Executive and Group Finance provided by management, the including country-byThe Committee undertakes an Director, whether disclosures in Barclays Committee concluded that the country reporting and assessment on behalf of the published financial statements were fair, processes underlying the preparation of Pillar 3 reporting.
Board in order to provide the balanced and understandable.
Barclays published financial Board with assurance that it can statements, including the 2016 annual Evaluated reports from Barclays make the statement required by report and financial statements, were Disclosure Committee on its assessment the Code.
appropriate in ensuring that those of the content, accuracy and tone of the statements were fair, balanced and disclosures.
Established via reports from management In assessing Barclays financial results that there were no indications of fraud relating to financial reporting matters.
statements over the course of 2016, the Committee specifically addressed and Evaluated the outputs of Barclays internal provided input to management on the control assessments and Sarbanes-Oxley disclosure and presentation of: s404 internal control process.
Barclays restated financial results, Assessed disclosure controls and including the allocations to Barclays procedures.
UK and Barclays International and the Confirmed that management had separation of the Cards business reported on and evidenced the basis on the sell-down of Barclays holding in which representations to the external Barclays Africa and its classification auditors were made.
as held for sale guidance provided to the market on the costs of Structural Reform the Group Finance Directors presentations to analysts alternative performance measures in view of new guidance from the European Securities & Markets Association core performance and headcount operational risk capital and guidance on capital levels the level of segmental reporting.
The Committee recommended to the Board that the 2016 annual report and financial statements are fair, balanced and understandable.
62 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Other significant matters Apart from financial reporting matters the Committee has responsibility for oversight of the effectiveness of Barclays internal controls, the performance and effectiveness of BIA and the performance, objectivity and independence of the external auditor.
The most significant matters considered during 2016 are described below: Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Internal control The effectiveness of the overall Evaluated and tracked the status of the The Committee requested Read more about the control environment, including most material control issues identified by enhancements to reporting to make Barclays internal the status of any material control management via regular reports from the clear where operational risk was outside control and risk issues and the progress of specific Head of Operational Risk and latterly from appetite and the actions being taken.
The Committee welcomed the processes on pages improvements made to the lessonsEvaluated the status of specific material 88 and 89. learned process and proposed that the control issues and associated remediation new Group Controls Committee should plans, including in particular those play a role in setting standards for relating to Security of Secret and lessons-learned exercises and deciding Confidential Data: Infrastructure Access when they should be conducted.
The Management: Group Resilience: IT Committee endorsed the work being Security: Data Governance: Model Risk taken forward, under the leadership of Management: and Unsupported the Chief Controls Officer, to address Infrastructure and Applications, all of any feedback from regulators on which remained open at the end of 2016.
Barclays control environment, noting Discussed lessons learned from specific that the Board would directly oversee control incidents and how these could be the progress being made to address applied to Barclays business globally, via specific regulatory feedback.
The an enhanced lessons-learned process.
Committee also challenged Debated any regulatory reports or other management to ensure that the RCSA feedback received from regulators on process was sufficiently robust in light Barclays overall control environment.
of some specific control issues that had Assessed the status of the enhancements emerged after certain RCSAs had been completed.
being made to Barclays risk and control self-assessment RCSA process to support disclosures in Barclays annual report.
The effectiveness of the Assessed individual reports from Barclays The Committee welcomed the decision management control approach UK, Barclays International, the Cards by Barclaycard to redirect strategic and control environment in each business, Barclays Non-Core operations, investment towards enhancing its individual business, including the Barclays Internationals US investment control environment and to restrict status of any material control banking operations and Barclays Africa, growth in new business while certain issues and the progress of specific including questioning directly the heads control issues, such as fraud levels in remediation plans.
of those businesses on their the US, were addressed.
To make clear management control approach culture the levels of personal accountability and control environment, including any expected, the Committee asked for the specific control issues, resilience issues, control objectives for each member of the status and progress of any the Group Executive Committee for remediation plans or workstreams and 2016 to be made more specific, with an plans to enhance the control emphasis on prioritising control issues.
Tracked plans for implementing revised control governance structures in each business to align with changes in Barclays organisational structure.
Provided feedback on the 2016 control objectives for each member of the Group Executive Committee.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 63 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2016 Board Audit Committee report Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken The effectiveness of the control Scrutinised on a regular basis the COO The Committee emphasised the need environment in the Chief control environment, taking the for clear ownership and accountability Operating Office COO and the opportunity to directly challenge and between the business and COO for status and remediation of any question functional leaders, including the technology control issues, which has material control issues.
Chief Operating Officer on the progress of been addressed via the implementation remediation plans.
of the new organisational management structure.
In view of the volume of Debated the clarity of accountability and technology and change remediation standards of consistency needed, given required, the Committee tasked the decentralisation of the business.
Chief Operating Officer with enhancing Addressed the issue of resilience and the processes for self-identification and associated risk appetite, discussing in logging of risk and control issues.
The particular the impact of change on Committee also asked the new Chief resilience initiatives.
Information Officer to conduct a deep Discussed the impact of the proposed dive into Technology control issues, the sell-down of Barclays holding in Barclays outputs of which were evaluated by the Africa, including any ongoing support Committee in the fourth quarter of requirements on COO-related material 2016.
The Committee welcomed the control issues.
improved clarity of the plans to enhance the COO control environment and will receive further regular updates throughout 2017.
The adequacy of the Groups Evaluated the results of benchmarking The Committee concluded that arrangements to allow employees exercise to compare Barclays processes Barclays processes were appropriate to raise concerns in confidence and case volumes to 40 peer companies.
It noted that the without fear of retaliation and the successful internal campaign had Tracked the progress of the internal outcomes of any substantiated generated an increase in the number of campaign to raise awareness among cases.
whistleblowing reports, all of which employees on raising concerns.
Volumes of cases Monitored the trends in reported and remain proportionate to Barclays size substantiated whistleblowing cases, and footprint.
The Committee asked including any information on any management to provide additional instances of retaliation.
detail in its future reports where any whistleblowing investigation was outstanding for more than six months.
In future, as Barclays Whistleblowing Champion, the Chairman of the Committee will make an annual report to the Board on whistleblowing matters.
64 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Internal audit The performance of BIA and Scrutinised and agreed internal audit The Committee approved an increase in delivery of the internal audit plan, plans and deliverables for 2016, including headcount to ensure appropriate audit including scope of work agreeing the areas of focus, such as coverage of technology and change and performed, the level of resources technology, data, change, execution risk, agreed an interim audit risk appetite and the methodology and and the resources required.
level pending recruitment, subject to coverage of the internal audit the delivery of mitigating actions Monitored delivery of the agreed audit plan.
assigned to the Chief Operating Officer.
plans, including assessing internal audit The Committee emphasised to resources and attrition levels and any management that it was not content impacts on the plan.
with the number of unsatisfactory Debated audit risk appetite and issue audits and considered setting a target validation.
It also asked BIA to Tracked the levels of unsatisfactory disclose in its reports the reasons for audits, including discussing the time any delay in issuing audit reports, along taken to issue audit reports and the with details of any audit work that was reasons for any delays.
In view of the additional expectations placed on BIA, Discussed BIAs assessment of the management control approach and the Committee requested details of internal audit vacancies, business areas control environment in Barclays UK, Barclays International and the COO.
and skills sets and encouraged the Chief Internal Auditor to consider Debated with BIA the possibility of internal transfers and other creative auditing culture.
solutions to fill resourcing gaps.
It Evaluated the outcomes from BIAs annual agreed with BIA the action plan to self-assessment.
address the recommendations arising Debated feedback received from the PRA from the PRA review of BIAs on the performance of BIA and discussed performance.
The Committee the increased regulatory expectations of confirmed that it was satisfied with the BIA and the impact on internal audit plans outcomes of the self-assessment of BIA and resources.
performance, which evidenced that the function generally conforms to the standards set by the Institute of Internal Auditors.
It further confirmed that it felt able to reply on the work of BIA in discharging its own responsibilities.
External audit The work and performance of Met with key members of the PwC audit The Committee approved the audit plan PwC, including the maintenance team to discuss the 2016 audit plan and and the main areas of focus.
of audit quality during the period agree areas of focus.
Read more about the Committees of transition to a new auditor.
Assessed regular reports from PwC on role in assessing the performance, the progress of the 2016 audit and any effectiveness and independence of material issues identified, including the external auditor and the quality of debating with PwC whether any changes the external audit on pages 66 to 67. to the audit plan were needed following the UKs vote to leave the EU.
Discussed PwCs report on certain control areas and the control environment, including a specific report on controls over access to payment systems requested by the Committee.
Discussed the draft audit opinion ahead of 2016 year end.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 65 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2016 Board Audit Committee report The Committee also covered the following matters: PwCs performance, independence and objectivity during 2016 were formally assessed at the beginning of 2017 by way of a questionnaire tracked the progress of specific work being done to enhance Barclays completed by key stakeholders across the Group.
The questionnaire was financial crime controls and the deployment of a revised financial designed to evaluate PwCs audit process and addressed matters crime operating model.
The Committee also assessed the Group including the quality of planning and communication, technical Money Laundering Officers annual report and was briefed on any knowledge, the level of scrutiny and challenge applied and PwCs issues arising from the publication of the information known as the understanding of the business.
The Committee was particularly Panama Papers interested in assessing whether audit quality was being maintained assessed the status of the programme in place to ensure Barclays throughout the period of transition to a new auditor and that the compliance with client assets regulatory requirements, including appropriate degree of challenge and scepticism was being maintained.
approving the annual client assets audit report and discussing the The results of the evaluation confirmed that both PwC and the audit potential impact of Structural Reform on client assets process were effective.
In view of the external audit tender conducted in evaluated the outcomes of the assessment of the Committees 2015 and the decision to appoint KPMG as Barclays external auditor performance and any areas of Committee performance that needed with effect from the 2017 financial year, PwC will resign as the Groups to be enhanced statutory auditor at the conclusion of the 2016 audit and the Board will reviewed and updated its terms of reference, recommending them to resolve to appoint KPMG to fill the vacancy.
A resolution to appoint KPMG as auditor will be proposed at Barclays 2017 AGM.
PwC will be the Board for approval.
available at the 2017 AGM to answer any questions.
External auditor PwC, and its predecessor firms, has been Barclays external auditor since Non-audit services In order to safeguard the auditors independence and objectivity, 1896.
An external audit tender was conducted in 2015, with a view to rotating the external audit firm for the 2017 audit onwards.
PwC was not Barclays has in place a policy setting out the circumstances in which the auditor may be engaged to provide services other than those covered by asked to tender.
The tender process completed in summer 2015 and the Board announced in July 2015 that it had appointed KPMG as Barclays the Group audit.
The Group Policy on the Provision of Services by the Group Statutory Auditor the Policy applies to all Barclays subsidiaries statutory auditor with effect from the 2017 financial year.
Henry Daubeney of PwC has been Barclays senior statutory auditor with effect from the and other material entities over which Barclays has significant influence.
The core principle of the Policy is that non-audit services other than audit for the 2015 financial year.
He will be succeeded by an audit partner from KPMG with effect from the audit for the 2017 financial year.
those legally required to be carried out by the Groups auditor should only be performed by the auditor in certain, controlled circumstances.
Assessing external auditor effectiveness, auditor objectivity and The Policy sets out those types of services that are strictly prohibited and those that are allowable in principle.
Any service types that do not independence and non-audit services The Committee is responsible for assessing the effectiveness, objectivity fall within either list are considered by the Committee Chairman on a case by case basis, supported by a risk assessment provided by and independence of the Groups auditor, PwC.
This responsibility was discharged throughout the year at formal Committee meetings, during management.
Since October 2015, the Committee has also required all new engagements of KPMG for non-audit services to be considered in private meetings with PwC and via discussions with key executive stakeholders.
In addition to the matters noted above, during 2016 the light of the Policy and has maintained oversight of such services on the same basis as for PwC.
In particular, KPMG was not permitted to provide Committee: any non-audit service that might have continued beyond mid-2016 if it approved the terms of the audit engagement letter and associated had potential to cause independence issues.
fees, on behalf of the Board During 2016, the Policy was revised to reflect the FRCs draft Ethical discussed and agreed revisions to the Group Policy on the Provision of Standard for Auditors published in September 2015, which implemented Services by the Group Statutory Auditor and regularly analysed the EUs revised Statutory Audit Directive.
The new Ethical Standard is reports from management on the non-audit services provided to effective from financial years commencing on or after 17 June 2016, Barclays.
Read more about non-audit services below meaning that Barclays must comply with effect from 1 January 2017. evaluated and approved revisions to the Group Policy on Employment However, the Committee decided to early adopt the requirements of the of Employees or Workers from the Statutory Auditor and ensured new Ethical Standard from 1 July 2016, to align with the point at which compliance with the policy by regularly assessing reports from KPMG started its required period of independence.
In order to comply management detailing any appointments made with the new Ethical Standard, significant amendments were made to assessed the draft report to the PRA prepared by PwC regarding its the list of services that are strictly prohibited by the Policy.
A number of detailed audit work on specific topics services being undertaken by PwC or KPMG were required to be exited was briefed by PwC on critical accounting estimates, where significant following adoption of the new Policy, with any exceptions being judgement is needed approved by the Chairman and notified to the Committee.
assessed any potential threats to its independence self-identified and Under the Policy, the Committee has pre-approved all allowable services reported by PwC up to 100,000, or 25,000 for tax advisory services, however, all reviewed the report on PwC issued by the FRCs Audit Quality Review proposed work, regardless of the fees, must be sponsored by a senior team.
executive and recorded on a centralised online system, with a detailed explanation of the clear commercial benefit arising from engaging the auditor over other potential service providers.
The audit firm engagement partner must also confirm that the engagement has been approved in accordance with the auditors own internal ethical standards and does not pose any threat to the auditors independence or objectivity.
All requests to engage the auditor are assessed by independent management before work can commence.
Requests for allowable service types in respect of which the fees are expected to meet or exceed the above thresholds must be approved by the Chairman of the Committee before work is permitted to begin.
Services where the fees are expected to be 250,000 or higher must be approved by the Committee as a whole.
All expenses and disbursements must be included in the fees calculation.
The thresholds were not amended when the Policy was revised in 2016.
66 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information During 2016, all engagements where expected fees met or exceeded the Governance in Action above thresholds were evaluated by either the Committee Chairman or the Committee as a whole who, before confirming any approval, assured Statutory auditor transition themselves that there was justifiable reason for engaging the auditor A significant activity for the Committee during 2016 has been and that its independence and objectivity would not be threatened.
No overseeing the transition of Barclays statutory auditor from PwC to requests to use PwC were declined in 2016 2015: two, with one KPMG.
Following the audit tender that concluded in mid-2015, KPMG request to use KPMG declined 2015: n a.
On a quarterly basis, the will become Barclays statutory auditor with effect from the 2017 Committee scrutinised details of individually approved and pre-approved financial year onwards.
The Committee has undertaken activity to services undertaken by PwC and KPMG in order to satisfy itself that they manage the transition period to facilitate a smooth handover of posed no risk to independence, either in isolation or on an aggregated responsibilities.
For the purposes of the Policy, the Committee has determined that any pre-approved service of a value of under 50,000 is to be regarded The Committee has overseen the steps required to enable KPMG to as clearly trivial in terms of its impact on Barclays financial statements achieve independence by 1 July 2016.
This included: and has required the Group Financial Controller to specifically review and assigning a dedicated transition team to support operational confirm to the Committee that any pre-approved service with a value of activities, including progressing a global master services 50,000-100,000 or up to 25,000 for tax advisory services may be agreement and local jurisdictional agreements regarded as clearly trivial.
The Committee undertook a review of agreeing with KPMG the overall plan to achieve independence and pre-approved services at its meeting in December 2016 and satisfied assessing regular reports from KPMG on the progress being made itself that such pre-approved services were clearly trivial in the context of their impact on the financial statements.
monitoring the orderly termination of non-audit services being provided by KPMG to Barclays that would be prohibited when The fees paid to PwC for the year ended 31 December 2016 amounted KPMG becomes statutory auditor to 49m 2015: 43m, of which 8m 2015: 9m was payable in requiring KPMG to comply from 1 June 2016 with the provisions of respect of non-audit services.
Non-audit services represented 20.6% of the statutory audit fee 2015: 24.2%.
A breakdown of the fees paid to the Groups policies relating to the statutory auditor, specifically, The Group Policy on the Provision of Services by the Group the auditor for statutory audit and non-audit work can be found in Note 42 on page 362.
Of the 8m of non-audit services provided by PwC Statutory Auditor and the Group Policy on Employment of Employees or Workers from the Statutory Auditor, and requiring during 2016, the significant categories of engagement, i. e. services where the fees amounted to more than 500,000, included: management to report to the Committee on any services or appointments undertaken in line with these policies audit-related services: additional work to facilitate the transition to accepting a formal independence letter from KPMG.
This included KPMG as Barclays statutory auditor a list of ongoing non-audit services that are deemed permissible transaction support: services provided in connection with the and which have been approved in accordance with Barclays policy sell-down of Barclays holding in Barclays Africa, including acting as and confirmation of KPMGs compliance with applicable ethics and the reporting accountant on the circular issued to Barclays independence rules.
shareholders and providing comfort on associated documentation Once independence was achieved, the Committee oversaw the quality assurance: services performed on behalf of Barclays Africa over handover plan and the transition to business as usual.
This included: work conducted by Barclays in connection with the separation arrangements from Barclays.
inviting the lead audit partner of KPMG to attend Committee meetings as part of the process of shadowing PwCs 2016 audit The fees paid to KPMG for non-audit work during 2016 were 17.3m arranging for the lead audit partner of KPMG to attend meetings of 2015: 38m.
Significant categories of engagement approved in 2016 the Board Reputation Committee and Board Risk Committee included: receiving a briefing from KPMG on accounting developments, Audit-related services: services provided in connection with minimum covering: Impairment and the impact of IFRS9 Financial regulatory requirements for audits of benchmark interest rate Instruments : Valuations: Negative interest rates: Structural submissions.
Reform: IFRS15 Revenue from contracts with customers and IFRS16 Leases The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and discussing with KPMG accounting policy interpretations following Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 KPMGs review of Barclays accounting policies As described in this report, Barclays is in compliance with the assessing regular reports from KPMG on the progress being made requirements of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies with key activities, including building the Barclays audit team and Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes gaining an understanding of Barclays key processes, systems and and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014, which relates to the controls frequency and governance of tenders for the appointment of the reviewing the report on KPMG issued by the FRCs Audit Quality external auditor and the setting of a policy on the provision of non-audit Review team services.
scheduling a planning meeting between the Committee and KPMG for the second quarter of 2017 to discuss the audit strategy and provide input.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 67 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2016 Board Risk Committee report line of defence for managing risk in their businesses, with the chief executives of each business attending Committee meetings to present directly to the Committee, with the support of their chief risk officers, on the risk profile of their business and how risk is being managed.
My own responsibilities as Chairman of the Committee were reemphasised during 2016, with the introduction in March 2016 of the UKs Senior Managers Regime.
Under this regulatory regime, I have specific prescribed responsibilities for safeguarding the independence of and overseeing the performance of the risk function, including the performance of the Chief Risk Officer, in line with regulatory requirements.
In addition to my regular meetings with the Chief Risk Officer and members of his senior management, I have led the Committee in encouraging the risk function to develop a way of assessing risk management capability, which we have also agreed will be subject to a periodic, external review.
The risk function has also been encouraged to develop a way of measuring risk culture across the Group.
The Committees focus during 2016 has During 2016, I continued to liaise closely with the Chairman of the Board been driven by a number of key challenges, Audit Committee, particularly with regard to operational risk issues, where there is some degree of overlap between the remit of the two including emerging economic and political committees.
I also attended a meeting of the risk committee of Barclays risks, notably those associated with the EU US IHC to gain a first-hand insight into the risk issues being addressed by management in that entity.
I continued my practice of meeting Referendum and the subsequent vote by the regularly with other members of senior management and continued to UK to leave the EU.
engage with Barclays regulators in the UK and US.
Committee performance The Committees performance during 2016 was assessed as part of the Dear Fellow Shareholders independently facilitated annual Board effectiveness review.
I am pleased The Committees focus during 2016 has been driven by a number of key to report that the conclusion of my Board colleagues was that the challenges.
First, Barclays has been implementing its new strategy and Committee is regarded as thorough and effective and that the Board has executing its Structural Reform Programme, which has some particular a high degree of confidence in the diligence and coverage of the implications in terms of capital and liquidity management across Committee.
The main area identified for improvement was to ensure Barclays legal entities.
Second, there was continued focus on any that the co-operation and collaboration between the Committee and the emerging risks arising in our key markets in the UK, US and South Africa Board Audit and Board Reputation Committees continues to capture all as a consequence of any macroeconomic deterioration or disruption in significant risk issues effectively.
I will be working even more closely with financial market conditions.
Finally, there were the challenges presented my fellow Board Committee chairmen on this over the coming year.
You by emerging economic and political risks, notably those associated with can read more about the outcomes of the Board effectiveness review on the EU Referendum and the subsequent vote by the UK to leave the EU.
Considerations for risk appetite for 2016 and the Medium Term Plan Looking ahead MTP included credit cycle conditions: the impact of ongoing low 2017 will be a key year for Barclays in delivering its strategy, as it commodity prices: a potential slowdown in China: and the likelihood of completes its restructuring and makes significant steps in implementing interest rate rises.
Consequently, the recommendation of the risk function, the new legal entity structure required under Structural Reform.
I expect which was endorsed by the Committee, was that a conservative approach the Committee to focus on strategic risk, with an emphasis on to growth should be maintained, with a focus on core products and promoting even greater linkages between strategy formulation and risk markets.
We expected continued volatility in external conditions and management, and ensuring that there is appropriate global oversight of aimed to ensure that the Group was conservatively positioned.
Headwinds risk across the new Group structure.
developed during 2016 with the potential to have a significant first-order impact on Barclays businesses, including heightened economic risk in the UK post the EU Referendum: increased geo-political risk following the US presidential election: and the IAS19 position of Barclays pension scheme, which is vulnerable to market volatility.
Other emerging risks with the potential to impact Barclays include interest rate and credit spread movements: UK property price stress: potential transmission impacts of any slowdown in China: and ongoing volatility in oil prices, which remain low.
All of these potential risks continue to be actively managed and the risk profile and actions taken are subject to regular oversight by the Committee.
In these circumstances, we were pleased with the capital and Tim Breedon leverage performance for 2016, although impairment performance was Chairman, Board Risk Committee adverse to plan, primarily as a result of one-off effects reflecting 22 February 2017 managements review of impairment modelling in the UK and US Cards businesses.
In early 2016, Barclays appointed a new Chief Risk Officer, C. S. Venkatakrishnan, an appointment that was recommended to the Board by the Committee.
The Committee oversaw the transition, specifically requesting information from the outgoing Chief Risk Officer on the transition plans and handover arrangements and seeking assurance from the new Chief Risk Officer that he had been provided with all of the information needed to enable him to fulfil his responsibilities.
The Committee has welcomed the opportunity to work closely with the new Chief Risk Officer during 2016.
We have also seen greater emphasis emerge over 2016 on the responsibilities of the first 68 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Member Meetings attended eligible to attend Board Risk Committee allocation of time % Tim Breedon 8 8 2016 2015 Mike Ashley 8 8 1 Risk profile risk appetite including 52 43 Reuben Jeffery 7 8 1 capital and liquidity management Diane Schueneman 8 8 4 2 Key risk issues 26 31 Steve Thieke 8 8 3 3 Internal control risk policies 8 11 4 Other including remuneration and 14 15 Did not attend one meeting owing to a prior commitment governance issues Committee role and responsibilities The Committees main responsibilities include: 2 recommending to the Board the total level of financial and operational risk the Group is prepared to take risk appetite to achieve the creation of long-term shareholder value Committee composition and meetings monitoring financial and operational risk appetite, including setting The Committee is comprised solely of independent non-executive limits for individual types of risk, e. g. credit, market and funding risk Directors.
Details of the skills and experience of the Committee members can be found in their biographies on pages 51 to 52. monitoring the Groups financial and operational risk profile ensuring that financial and operational risk is taken into account The Committee met eight times in 2016, with one of the meetings held during the due diligence phase of any strategic transaction at Barclays New York offices.
A meeting was held specifically to consider the risk considerations arising from the outcome of the EU Referendum providing input from a financial and operational risk perspective into result, further details of which can be found on page 72.
The chart the deliberations of the Board Remuneration Committee.
above shows how the Committee allocated its time during 2016.
The Committees terms of reference are available at Committee meetings were attended by management, including the home.
barclays corporategovernance Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Chief Internal Auditor, Chief Risk Officer, Barclays Treasurer and General Counsel, as well as representatives from the businesses and other representatives from the risk function.
Representatives from the current external auditor, PwC and, from 1 July 2016, representatives from the incoming external auditor, KPMG, also attended meetings.
The Committees work The significant matters addressed by the Committee during 2016 are described below: Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Risk appetite and The risk context to MTP, the Assessed the risk context for the 2016 The Committee recommended the stress testing, i. e. the financial parameters and MTP, including general economic and proposed risk appetite for 2016 to the level of risk the Group constraints and mandate and financial conditions and how these had Board for approval, although asked chooses to take in scale limits for specific business been reflected in planning assumptions.
management to develop a contingency pursuit of its business risk exposures: the Groups plan with identified triggers and actions Debated the assumptions, parameters objectives, including internal stress testing exercises, that could be implemented if the stress and results of the internal stress test of testing whether the including scenario selection and occurred.
It also emphasised to the risk appetite of the 2016 MTP.
Groups financial financial constraints, stress management that mandate and scale Discussed and agreed mandate and position and risk testing themes and the results limits should be set at appropriate scale limits for market and credit risk.
profile provide and implications of stress tests, levels, reflecting the desire to focus on Approved the parameters for the sufficient resilience to including those run by the Bank conservative growth in core products European Banking Authority stress test.
withstand the impact of England BoE.
The Committee approved of severe economic Approved the parameters for BoE stress credit and market risk limits and stress.
requested that additional limits were test scenario expansion.
set for market risk in order to enhance Evaluated the BoE stress test results, monitoring and control.
It also asked including updates on stress testing management to review limits and governance and methodology and guidelines and develop a revised assessing potential contingency plan framework for single name risk actions.
management, which it subsequently Debated regulatory and market reaction considered and approved.
The to the BoE stress test results.
Committee approved the stress test Considered and approved internal stress results for submission to the BoE.
After test themes and the financial constraints evaluating feedback from the BoE on and scenarios for stress testing risk the stress test, the Committee appetite for the 2017 MTP.
encouraged management to engage with the BoE on specific points where Regularly monitored the progress of the additional clarity on regulatory US IHC in preparing for the expectations was desirable.
Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review CCAR stress test.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 69 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2016 Board Risk Committee report Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Capital and funding, The trajectory to achieving Debated on a regular basis, capital The Committee supported the forecast i. e. having sufficient required regulatory and internal performance against plan, tracking the capital and funding trajectory and the capital and financial targets and capital and leverage capital trajectory, any challenges and actions identified by management to resources to meet the ratios, including the potential opportunities and regulatory policy manage the Groups capital position, Groups regulatory impact of Structural Reform and developments.
including the actions taken to requirements and its legal entity requirements.
restructure asset swaps and the ESHLA Assessed on a regular basis liquidity obligations as they fall portfolio.
The Committee approved the performance against both internal and due, to maintain its proposed capital and liquidity processes regulatory requirements.
credit rating, to for Barclays UK for submission to the Regularly monitored capital and funding support growth and regulator.
requirements on a legal entity basis, strategic options.
including evaluating proposed capital and liquidity processes for Barclays UK.
Debated with management proposed actions to be taken to restructure the Groups asset swaps and ESHLA portfolio in order to reduce the impact of market volatility on capital.
Political and The potential impact on the Closely monitored the potential impact of The Committee identified interest rate economic risk, i. e. Groups risk profile of political the UKs EU Referendum on the Groups risk as a potential area of emerging risk the impact on the developments, such as the UKs risk profile and risk management see and asked management for an Groups risk profile of EU Referendum and the US the case study on page 72 for further assessment of Barclays sensitivity to political and economic Presidential election, political and details.
changes in interest rates and inflation, developments and economic risk in South Africa, and which was presented to the Committee Requested an assessment of the macroeconomic weakening macroeconomic in the fourth quarter.
The Committee potential impact of negative interest rates conditions.
conditions, such as disruption and suggested that the Board was briefed in the UK on Barclays and on UK banks volatility in financial markets.
on this subject and a briefing session is generally, evaluating the potential impact planned for 2017. on risk appetite, on customers and on Barclays models.
The Committee satisfied itself that the Continued to assess the economic and actions taken to position Barclays political situation in South Africa and the business in South Africa were potential impact on the Groups risk appropriate in the context of the profile, including assessing the potential identified economic and political risk.
It risk of a sovereign credit rating continues to keep the potential impact downgrade and the action taken by of a Chinese slowdown under active management to position the business review and will be updated by appropriately.
management in early 2017 with an assessment of the risk horizon.
Given Continued to assess Chinese economic the political and economic uncertainty metrics and the potential for the global in Italy that re-emerged in late 2016, the impact of any economic slowdown in Committee asked management to China.
renew its focus on reducing any Discussed the impact of market volatility redenomination risk arising from on Barclays pension scheme.
Monitored Barclays exposures to certain European banks in view of potential specific stresses for individual banks and general economic and political conditions in the Eurozone.
Specific sector risk, The Groups exposures to the oil Continued to regularly assess the Groups The Committee satisfied itself that the i. e. the Groups risk and commodities sectors in light actions taken by management were exposures to the oil sector, including how profile in sectors of the ongoing price weakness the portfolio was performing and appropriate.
Given ongoing volatility in showing signs of and volatility in these sectors this sector it will continue to monitor whether this was in line with stress, such as the oil during 2016. expectations given the actions that had the portfolio for any further signs of sector.
been taken to manage or restructure stress that may require additional Barclays exposures.
70 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Credit risk, i. e. the Conditions in the UK housing Continued to assess conditions in the UK The Committee continued to encourage potential for financial market, particularly in London and property market for any signs of stress.
management to carry on with its loss if customers fail the South East and the Groups conservative approach to UK mortgage Evaluated how management was to fulfil their risk appetite for and management lending, particularly in view of signs of tracking and responding to rising levels contractual of sectors such as the buy-to-let slowdown the market post the EU of consumer indebtedness.
sector, given changes in taxation: Referendum.
It also encouraged Scrutinised the performance of the Cards levels of UK consumer management to continue its close business, including reviewing indebtedness, particularly in the monitoring of overall levels of consumer performance against risk appetite, context of the risk of rising indebtedness.
The Committee evaluating the drivers of impairment in interest rates: and the challenged the credit performance of the UK and US businesses and assessing performance of the Cards certain business segments in the US actions being taken to ensure that the business, particularly the US Cards business and encouraged performance of certain business Cards business, including levels of management to complete the actions segments remained within agreed risk impairment.
that had been identified to improve appetite.
It also emphasised to management the need to strengthen the linkages between business strategy and risk appetite.
Operational risk, i. e. The Groups operational risk Tracked operational risk key indicators via The Committee focused its attention on costs arising from capital requirements and any regular reports from the Head of the financial and capital impacts of human factors, material changes to the Groups Operational Risk.
operational risk, with specific attention inadequate processes operational risk profile and on key risks that were outside appetite.
Evaluated the potential impact of and systems or performance of specific It encouraged management to regulatory developments on operational external events.
operational risks against agreed implement greater links between the risk capital requirements.
control environment in each business Debated specific areas of operational risk, and the operational risk capital including fraud: transaction operations: allocated to that business.
It also technology: payments: and cyber-risk, emphasised to management that there evaluating the extent of any losses, the should be greater co-ordination overall threat landscape, risk trends and between the key risks highlighted to the the controls in place, in order to assess Committee and the operational risk the potential impact on operational risk control issues escalated to the Board capital requirements.
Audit Committee, which is being addressed via the new chief controls office.
Risk framework and The frameworks, policies and Evaluated model risk and plans in place The Committee will continue to track governance talent and tools in place to to enhance Barclays models and the delivery of plans to enhance support effective risk modelling capabilities.
modelling and will focus on this during management and oversight.
2017 as part of its oversight of the Tracked the progress of significant risk model risk principal risk.
The Committee management projects, including the encouraged management to continue plans in place to achieve compliance with to improve risk data quality, including BCBS239 risk data aggregation embedding accountability for risk data principles.
quality with the business chief risk Debated any risk management matters officers.
The Committee will continue to raised by Barclays regulators and the track managements response to any actions being taken by management to risk management matters raised by the respond.
Discussed and endorsed the revised The Committee was satisfied that the Enterprise Risk Management Framework handover to the new Chief Risk Officer ERMF from the perspective of financial was appropriate.
The Committee and operational risk.
welcomed the development of a risk Oversaw the transition and handover to management capability scorecard and a new Chief Risk Officer.
asked for risk management capability to Encouraged management to find ways of be evaluated by an external third party assessing risk capability and risk on a periodic basis, with a view to management culture.
It also welcomed the proposal to measure risk culture and asked for this to be fed into the Board Reputation Committees overall assessment of Barclays culture.
Remuneration The scope of any risk adjustments Debated the Risk functions view of 2016 The Committee asked for capital and to be taken into account by the performance, making a recommendation liquidity on a stressed basis to be taken Board Remuneration Committee to the Board Remuneration Committee into account when finalising the risk when making remuneration on the financial and operational risk input to remuneration decisions.
decisions for 2016. factors to be taken into account in remuneration decisions for 2016. home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 71 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2016 Board Risk Committee report In addition, the Committee also covered the following matters in 2016: assessed Barclays exposures to the leveraged finance market and general conditions in that market was briefed by PwC on any risk matters associated with the 2015 year-end audit, specifically impairment: the valuation of the ESHLA portfolio: and a valuation disparity with a third party evaluated the outcomes of the assessment of the Committees performance and any areas of Committee performance that needed to be enhanced reviewed and updated its terms of reference, recommending them to the Board for approval.
Governance in Action contingency planning for the UKs EU Referendum A significant external risk event in 2016 was the UKs Referendum on its continued membership of the EU.
The Board Risk Committee actively tracked this emerging risk throughout 2016, both before and after the vote.
Pre-EU Referendum activity by the Committee included: Post-EU Referendum activity by the Committee included: debating the UKs potential exit from the EU, including evaluating an convening a special meeting to discuss and evaluate the assessment of the potential impacts on Barclays of a leave vote and effectiveness of Barclays preparations, concluding that the plans discussing the key messages for policymakers and prudential developed had been executed satisfactorily authorities on the risks assessing the performance of the actions taken to manage the evaluating Barclays potential exposures if there were to be a vote to impact of volatility on market and funding risk leave the EU, including assessing the steps taken by management to evaluating a revised stressed outlook, based on revised economic mitigate any risk such as reducing any currency mismatches in assumptions, and its impact on Barclays risk profile, deliberating the order to position Barclays defensively to manage the impact of any effect of the revised outlook on forecast impairment and on capital volatility on market and funding risk and funding, market risk and credit risk assessing the likelihood of any operational risk issues that might considering Barclays exposures to European banks in anticipation of arise if there was a period of market volatility following a leave vote potential market disruption in the Eurozone and the actions that had conducting an overall review of the appropriateness of Barclays been taken to limit such exposures preparations for any market dislocation discussing with management the actions that had been taken to reporting to the Board on the Committees deliberations.
reduce risk appetite and limits on exposures to residential property development, high loan-to-value mortgages and buy to-let lending In addition to the activities undertaken by the Committee, Board and other actions that had been implemented to manage risk in members, including certain non-executive Directors, participated in a higher risk retail segments and corporate portfolios Group crisis management planning exercise based on the UK voting to encouraging management to consider the strategic implications of leave the EU.
The exercise focused on Barclays response and the leave vote communications planning in the event of a vote to leave: articulating some of the high level impact scenarios following a vote to leave: and emphasising to management the need to fully and openly engage determining the decisions and ensuing direction required from on matters of mutual concern with the UK government and Barclays Crisis Leadership Team.
regulators given the new political and economic environment continuing to track the potential impact of the leave vote and the actions being taken by management to deal with any emerging signs of stress in Barclays portfolios reporting to the Board on the Committees deliberations.
The full Board also met in the aftermath of the vote result to be briefed on how Barclays had performed during the period of volatility immediately following the result, including discussing Barclays capital and liquidity position: market conditions: communications with employees and with customers and clients: contact with regulators and the UK government: the outlook for the UK economy: share price performance and potential strategic impacts.
Read more about Barclays risk management on pages 145 to 162 and in our Pillar 3 report, which is available online at barclays.
com annualreport 72 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance: Directors report What we did in 2016 Board Reputation Committee report This is my first report as Chairman of the Board Reputation Committee and I wish to record my thanks to Sir Michael Rake, who I succeeded as Chairman on 1 January 2016, and to Wendy Lucas-Bull and Frits van Paasschen, who both stepped down from the Committee on their retirement from the Barclays Board during 2016.
Mike Ashley and Mary Francis subsequently joined the Committee to ensure we have the right balance of skills and experience and appropriate cross-membership with other Board Committees.
The report on pages 74 to 76 sets out details of the material matters considered by the Committee during 2016.
Committee performance The Committees performance during 2016 was assessed as part of the independently facilitated annual Board effectiveness review.
I can report that my fellow Board members considered that the Committee has made progress in defining its role and is performing well.
The main area identified for improvement was around ensuring that Board members Achieving and sustaining a culture where all have greater awareness of the Committees mandate and core agenda.
You can read more about the outcomes of the Board effectiveness of our people demonstrate consistent review on pages 81 to 83. behaviours and conduct underpinned by the Looking ahead Barclays values is key to delivering high Cultural transformation remains firmly on the Committees agenda and performance for all our stakeholders and, we will continue to track key indicators and measure the progress being made.
This will be increasingly important as Barclays implements its therefore, to our long-term success.
Structural Reform Programme and begins to establish separate legal entities within the Group.
My key objective in 2016 was to put the Committee at the centre of Barclays drive to be a leader in conduct, culture and reputation - matters at which we have not always excelled in Dear Fellow Shareholders the past.
There is still lots to do, but I believe that the leadership and One of the key areas of focus for the Committee during 2016 was processes that we have now put in place give us a great foundation on encouraging management to develop a way of better understanding and which to build.
measuring intangible areas such as behaviour and culture.
Barclays has a strong and resonant purpose, Helping people achieve their ambitions in the right way, and a well understood set of values, Respect, Integrity, Service, Excellence and Stewardship.
This culture is firmly endorsed from the top: achieving and sustaining a culture where all of our people demonstrate consistent behaviours and conduct, underpinned by Barclays values, is key to delivering high performance for all our Sir Gerry Grimstone stakeholders and, therefore, to our long-term success.
Chairman, Board Reputation Committee 22 February 2017 Our challenge has been how to co-ordinate the efforts to build culture across the Group and obtain assurance that progress is being made.
Significant focus was given during 2016 to developing consistent measurement and reporting of culture and you can read about the Committees role in this important initiative in the case study on page 76.
A similar approach has been taken to developing a set of indicators to allow us to measure progress across the Committees other areas of responsibility: conduct, complaints and citizenship.
During 2016, the Committee continued to track the exposure of Barclays, and the financial sector in general, to reputational risks.
It also placed a renewed focus on the initiatives under way to build and manage Barclays reputation with its key stakeholders.
We also continued to exercise oversight of the Barclays Compliance function, including approving its annual business plan, budget and resources.
Under the UKs Senior Manager Regime, which was introduced in March 2016, I have specific responsibilities with regard to safeguarding the independence and integrity of Barclays Compliance function and for overseeing its performance, including that of the Head of Compliance.
To this end, I regularly meet with the Head of Compliance to receive briefings on the work of Compliance and provide support when necessary.
I also meet regularly with other members of senior management, including those in the Corporate Relations, Citizenship and Reputation Risk teams.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 73 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2016 Board Reputation Committee report Member Meetings attended eligible to attend Board Reputation Committee allocation of time % Sir Gerry Grimstone from 1 January 2016 5 5 2016 2015 Mike Ashley from 1 May 2016 4 4 1 Citizenship 8 6 Mary Francis from 1 November 2016 2 2 1 5 2 Reputational issues 27 13 2 Wendy Lucas-Bull to 1 March 2016 0 0 3 Culture, conduct and compliance 57 57 Dambisa Moyo 5 5 4 Operational risk 0 19 Diane fide Saint Victor 5 5 5 Other 8 6 Frits van Paasschen to 28 April 2016 1 1 There were no Committee meetings held prior to 1 March 2016, when Wendy 3 Lucas-Bull left the Committee Committee role and responsibilities Oversight of operational risk now falls within the remit of the Board Risk Committee The principal purpose of the Committee is to: support the Board in promoting its collective vision of Barclays Committee composition and meetings purpose, values, culture and behaviours The Committee comprises independent non-executive Directors.
During ensure, on behalf of the Board, the efficiency of the processes for 2016 there were a number of changes to the membership of the identification and management of conduct and reputational risk Committee, which are set out in the table opposite.
oversee Barclays conduct in relation to its corporate and societal The Committee met five times during 2016 with one of the meetings held obligations, including setting the guidance, direction and policies for at Barclays New York offices.
The chart above shows how it allocated its Barclays approach to customer and regulatory matters and Barclays time.
Committee meetings were attended by representatives from Citizenship Strategy, including the management of Barclays management, including the Group Chief Executive, Chief Internal Auditor, economic, social and environmental contribution.
Chief Risk Officer, General Counsel, Group Corporate Relations Director and Heads of Compliance, Conduct Risk and Operational Risk, as well as The Committees terms of reference are available at home.
barclays corporategovernance representatives from the businesses and other functions.
Representatives from the FCA also attended a meeting during 2016.
The Committees work The significant matters addressed by the Committee during 2016 are described below: Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Conduct risk The risk of detriment to Discussed updates from management on The Committee requested further customers, clients, market conduct risk and requested the development of focus on product propositions and integrity, competition or Barclays a dashboard report of conduct indicators to be suitability and updates on product from the inappropriate supply of presented to each meeting.
In 2017, it financial services, including will receive a quarterly report on new Monitored on a regular basis performance instances of wilful or negligent products.
It provided input on the against agreed conduct risk indicators.
development of the dashboard, Debated the indicators that had been developed including requesting that it to measure material conduct risks and issues, incorporates reports from BIA and including providing feedback on indicators for draws on external data points where policy breaches.
The Committee reiterated Discussed with BIA its view of the management to management the importance of of conduct risk across the Group, with particular ensuring that the focus on conduct is emphasis on maintaining focus on conduct risk maintained in those businesses or through periods of change.
jurisdictions that Barclays is exiting or where it is reducing its presence.
The Provided input, via the Committee Chairman, to Committee encouraged management the scope of BIAs review of the conduct risk to bring contingent workers into the programme.
scope of The Barclays Way training Discussed directly with the senior management and arrangements are being made of Barclays International and Barclays UK their for all Committee members to view of conduct and cultural issues in those complete the training themselves.
businesses and the status of any initiatives in place to strengthen conduct and culture.
Confirmed with management that reviews had been undertaken to learn lessons from issues that had arisen at other banks and financial institutions, e. g. sales-based incentive schemes.
Tracked the levels of attestation by colleagues globally to The Barclays Way, the Groups code of conduct.
The scope of any conduct risk Considered the proposed adjustments to be The Committee endorsed the adjustments to be taken into made to the incentive pool from a conduct risk methodology used and the resulting account by the Board Remuneration perspective.
Committee when making remuneration decisions for 2016.
74 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Cultural change The progress being made on Debated reports on the progress being made Read more about the development embedding of cultural change.
to effect cultural change across Barclays of the culture measurement globally, discussing the measures being taken framework in the case study on to define the desired culture and how it would page 76. be measured.
Requested that a single report of cultural indicators was developed for reporting to each meeting and monitored on a regular basis performance against the agreed indicators.
Discussed the status of the actions arising from the Banking Standards Boards BSB 2015 assessment of Barclays, the progress of the 2016 assessment and the resulting 2016 assessment report, asking management for greater co-ordination between the BSBs work and internal employee surveys.
Complaints Ensuring fair outcomes for Requested the development of a dashboard The Committee encouraged customers by monitoring volumes report of complaints indicators to be presented management to develop a way of of complaints received and the to each meeting.
defining and reporting on complaints standard and quality of in the Barclays Internationals Monitored on a regular basis performance complaints handling processes.
investment bank and a standard on against agreed complaints indicators.
complaint handling in that business Discussed the way in which complaints are will be issued in the first quarter of handled and the focus on resolving complaints 2017.
The Committee requested that at first point of contact.
additional information on the top Debated imminent industry-wide changes in root causes of complaints was the way in which reportable complaints are included in future reports.
recorded and the potential for reputation risk.
Citizenship The status of Barclays Citizenship Debated the targets to be set for the Shared The Committee provided feedback Plan 2016-2018, the Shared Growth initiatives.
on how the Shared Growth Ambition Growth Ambition.
was articulated and requested Agreed with the proposal to focus activity additional information on the focus around the themes of access to employment, areas and metrics and how progress to financial and digital empowerment and to would be measured and reported.
feedback was incorporated into the Assessed status updates on the progress of plan, which was launched in June 2016. the Shared Growth Ambition.
Read more about Barclays Requested the development of a dashboard approach to citizenship on pages report of citizenship indicators to be presented 23 to 24. to each meeting and monitored on a regular basis performance against agreed indicators.
Considered and recommended to the Board for approval Barclays statement under the UKs Modern Slavery Act, which can be found on Barclays website.
Reputation risk Ensuring that Barclays anticipates, Monitored current reputation risk issues, The Committee provided feedback identifies and manages including Barclays involvement in sensitive on the form and content of the reputational issues that may sectors such as defence or energy and fossil reputation risk reports and how impact it or the industry now or in fuels.
Barclays-specific and systemic risks the future.
It approved Assessed emerging reputational issues, such changes to Barclays Sanctions Policy as climate change and the relaxation of certain with regard to sanctions with Iran.
The Committee requested a regular Evaluated the measures being taken to report setting out a rolling 12-month proactively build and manage Barclays view of Barclays communications reputation with stakeholders.
It also requested and Assessed external opinion survey results, the received an update on Barclays crisis trends in indicators and factors influencing the management plans.
It requested and survey results, including the potential impact received further information on of the EU Referendum and government Barclays business in low tax leadership changes in the UK and US.
It asked for and receives Discussed the reputational risks associated regular reports from the Tax Management Oversight Committee with tax and how this was being managed across the Group, including the effectiveness on the transactions it has reviewed.
of Barclays Tax Principles and Code of Conduct.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 75 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2016 Board Reputation Committee report The Committee also covered the following matters: received a report on managements annual review of the effectiveness of compliance with the Volcker Rule restrictions on proprietary discussed the progress of plans to develop the Barclays brand trading and certain fund investments by banks operating in the US endorsed the 2017 priorities for Barclays Corporate Relations team assessed and discussed a report on the Committees performance assessed the revised ERMF from a conduct and reputation risk during 2015 perspective and recommended it to the Board for approval approved revisions to its terms of reference and recommended them approved the 2016 Compliance business plan and tracked progress, to the Board for approval.
including updates on resourcing and attrition levels Read more about Barclays risk management on pages 145 to 162 and in our Pillar 3 report, which is available online at barclays.
com annualreport Governance in Action measuring cultural progress A primary area of focus for the Committee in 2016 was providing For each desired cultural outcome, a set of internal qualitative and challenge and support to management in its delivery of cultural change.
quantitative indicators was identified, along with external perception The Group Executive Committee confirmed conduct, culture and values indicators.
The indicators proposed were drawn from existing as one of its execution priorities for 2016, with the aim of monitoring indicators used in the Group, such as the results from Your View the cultural change and bringing together different cultural indicators to employee opinion survey, external opinion survey results, BIA reports, form a coherent and consolidated view of culture across Barclays.
performance reviews and indicators relating to risk management and compliance.
Assessing these indicators will ensure that ongoing efforts Senior representatives from Compliance, Risk, HR and BIA presented to are focused on priority issues and challenges that may impede cultural the Committee in early 2016 on the progress of implementing cultural transformation.
change and proposals for developing a set of key indicators, along with clear governance structures and accountability for monitoring and In debating and endorsing the proposed cultural outcomes and sustaining cultural progress.
The Committee debated and endorsed indicators, the Committee provided feedback to management.
It the following objectives: discussed in particular: identify the desired culture end-state and how to measure progress how to embed the desired culture across middle-management and towards achieving it whether a targeted action plan was needed for this population develop a cultural measurement tool that provides simple and how structuring incentives in the right way, based on personal consistent reporting relevant to all stakeholders accountability, could help drive the right culture and behaviours use the insights obtained to drive actions and further embed and whether a more holistic approach was needed to performance sustain the desired values-based culture.
reviews, with even more focus on rewarding how things were done, rather than what was achieved Ten cultural outcomes were identified, firmly linked to Barclays values: that indicators based around the how assessments from Value Cultural outcomes performance reviews might be incorporated as a measure of success Respect Inclusion Collaboration that existing indicators on audit issues and regulatory actions could be incorporated as a measure of success.
Integrity Speaking up Personal accountability Feedback from the Committee was subsequently incorporated into the Service Customer client centricity Balanced short and measurement tool.
The Committee also requested the development of long-term needs a culture dashboard, setting out quarterly performance against the agreed indicators.
The first such report was made in September 2016, Excellence Simplicity and efficiency High performance with a further report in December 2016, allowing the Committee to debate the results and trends and the areas identified for potential Stewardship Continuous improvement Strong reputation deep dive reviews or targeted action.
During 2017, the Committee will continue to assess the quarterly indicators, the potential themes emerging and any specific challenges identified at a business and functional level.
76 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance: Directors report What we did in 2016 Board Nominations Committee report When considering Board and Board Committee composition and succession plans, diversity remains at the front of our minds.
We continued to receive regular updates on diversity and inclusion during 2016 and were pleased to hear that the number of women in senior leadership positions had increased for the third successive year.
As a Board we met our target of 25% female representation by 2015 and are progressing towards the target we set ourselves last year of 33% female representation by 2020.
Diversity is not just about gender, however, and we are always mindful of diversity in all of its forms, even where we have not set specific targets.
Certain responsibilities for me as Chairman of the Committee have been prescribed by the Senior Managers Regime that was introduced in the UK in March 2016.
Under that regime, I am responsible for ensuring that the Committee remains independent and that it performs effectively, fulfilling the responsibilities expected of it by our regulators in terms of overseeing decisions around the structure, size, composition, diversity and performance of the Board.
The report that follows describes how It is a key part of our role to be satisfied these responsibilities have been fulfilled.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank my fellow Committee members for their continued that there are proper processes in place for support during 2016. executive succession.
Committee performance The performance of the Committee was assessed as part of the annual Board effectiveness review and I am pleased to report that is was assessed to be performing effectively.
An area identified for improvement was around ensuring that there are more regular reports to the Board on the status of recruitment of new non-executive Directors, which I will address.
The report on the Board effectiveness review contains more information and can be found on pages 81 to 83.
Dear Fellow Shareholders Following his appointment as Group Chief Executive at the end of 2015, Looking ahead Jes Staley has been building his Group Executive Committee.
Board level In 2017 we will continue to support the implementation of the new consideration is required for appointments to the Group Executive Group structure, ensuring that we have the right people in place to take Committee and throughout 2016 the Board Nominations Committee Barclays forward.
As appropriate, we will continue to make continued to embed its oversight of Group Executive Committee recommendations to the Board to ensure that we remain at the forefront succession planning.
The Committee was updated on Barclays talent of best practice corporate governance standards.
and succession strategy and presented with role profiles and outputs from reviews of internal successors to Group Executive Committee roles.
It is a key part of our role to be satisfied that there are proper processes in place for executive succession and at our regular meetings we discussed how potential successors are being provided with wider, relevant experience as part of their development.
Another ongoing area of focus for the Committee in 2016 was the composition of our subsidiary boards in light of the legal, regulatory and governance requirements of Structural Reform.
A great deal of John McFarlane consideration has been given to ensuring the independence of the board and board committees of Barclays strategically significant subsidiaries, Chairman, Board Nominations Committee 22 February 2017 while allowing for collaboration between those boards and the Barclays Board.
We have deliberated at length on the structure of the subsidiary boards and how they will report into and interact with our Group Board, which must continue to have appropriate oversight to ensure the effective operation of the Group and the protection of shareholder interests.
During 2016, we finalised and recommended to the Board a set of Governance Guiding Principles, which document the high level expectations of the relationship that will exist between Barclays and its strategically significant subsidiaries.
The Committee regularly considered the balance of skills, experience and diversity needed on the Board during 2016.
We refreshed the Board skills matrix to reflect the future strategy of the Group, identifying the attributes required to further strengthen and enhance the Boards effectiveness.
We conducted searches for new non-executive Directors, approving the appointment of Mary Francis as non-executive Director: Mary brings both financial services experience and significant nonexecutive directorship experience to the Board.
We also considered subsidiary board composition at each of our Committee meetings, with a particular focus on populating the strategically significant subsidiary boards as we continue to embed Structural Reform.
It is fair to say that attracting candidates with the skills, experience and qualities we need remains a considerable task: serving on a bank board is not an undertaking that anyone considers lightly and our success in securing the right candidates has been necessarily limited by the challenges they perceive.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 77 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2016 Board Nominations Committee report Member Meetings attended eligible to attend Board Nominations Committee allocation of time % John McFarlane 7 7 2016 2015 Mike Ashley 7 7 1 Corporate governance matters 20 17 Tim Breedon 4 7 5 1 2 Board and Committee composition 36 24 4 Crawford Gillies 7 7 3 Succession planning and talent 31 47 Sir Gerry Grimstone 6 7 4 Board effectiveness 8 6 2 Reuben Jeffery 6 7 5 Other 5 6 Did not attend certain meetings arranged and held at short notice owing to prior commitments 3 Note The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive excuse themselves from meetings when the Committee focuses on the matter of succession to their roles.
Committee role and responsibilities Committee composition and meetings The principal purpose of the Committee is to: The Committee is composed solely of independent non-executive Directors.
John McFarlane, as Chairman of the Board, is also Chairman of support and advise the Board in ensuring that the composition of the the Committee.
Mike Ashley, Tim Breedon, Crawford Gillies, and Sir Gerry Board and its Committees is appropriate and enables them to function Grimstone, being the Chairmen of each of the other Board Committees, effectively and Reuben Jeffery, are also members of the Committee.
Details of the examine the skills, experience and diversity on the Board and plan skills and experience of the Committee members can be found in their succession for key Board appointments, planning ahead to deal with biographies on pages 51 and 52. upcoming retirements and to fill any expected skills gaps During 2016 there were seven meetings of the Committee, including one provide Board level oversight of the Groups talent management joint meeting with the Board Remuneration Committee.
Three of these programme and diversity and inclusion initiatives meetings were held at short notice to deal with specific matters.
agree the annual Board effectiveness review process and monitor the Attendance by members at Committee meetings is shown opposite and progress of any actions arising.
the chart above shows how the Committee allocated its time.
Committee meetings were attended by the Group Chief Executive, with You can find the Committees terms of reference at the Group HR Director, the Head of Talent, and the Global Head of home.
barclays corporategovernance Diversity and Inclusion attending as appropriate.
The Committees work The significant matters addressed by the Committee during 2016 are described below: Area of focus Matter considered Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Board and Board The membership of the Board and Debated a forward-looking plan of the The Committee approved the revised Committee the current and future expected skills and experience needed on skills matrix and agreed to conduct a composition composition of the Board and its the Board in the context of future search for new non-executive Directors Committees.
in line with the requirements identified.
It recommended the appointment of Evaluated the revised Board skills matrix Mary Francis to the Board as nonand, in consideration of known and executive Director and she expected changes to the Board, subsequently joined the Board with conducted a search for non-executive effect from 1 October 2016.
Committee concluded that additional Reviewed the membership of Board accounting and auditing experience Committees.
was needed in order to provide further Considered and provided input to Board options for succession to the Board Committee Chairman succession plans.
Audit Committee chairmanship over time and a search for potential candidates continues.
Please refer to page 80 for more details of the Boards approach to the recruitment of new Directors.
78 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Area of focus Matter considered Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Executive succession Group Executive Committee Discussed updates from the Group HR The Committee requested a planning and talent composition and succession Director on Group Executive Committee presentation of key outputs from the management following the appointment of the succession plans, including assessing Group Executive Committee offsite new Group Chief Executive in emergency cover and the existing talent meeting on talent.
It also asked to 2015. pipeline.
receive reports of the executive assessments carried out by an external Considered external assessments and Oversight of Group Chief facilitator.
The Committee agreed the benchmarking of internal talent.
Executive succession and approval requirements for key positions, appointments to key positions.
Debated approval requirements for and subsequently approved the appointments to the Group Executive appointment of Tim Throsby as Committee and other key positions across President of Barclays International in the Group.
Governance The board and board committee Finalised Governance Guiding Principles The Committee endorsed and implications of composition of strategically for the Group post-Structural Reform, recommended the Governance Guiding Structural Reform significant subsidiaries, including which set out ultimate decision-making Principles to the Board for approval.
It and strategically board size, structure and powers, while respecting the rights and agreed the structure of the strategically significant subsidiary proposed interactions.
responsibilities of the boards of the significant subsidiary boards and board composition strategically significant subsidiaries.
commenced a search for non-executive The governance principles for the directors, including for the position of Debated the required structure and relationship between Barclays and chairman of Barclays UK, and agreed composition of the strategically its strategically significant the process for the appointment of the significant subsidiary boards and board subsidiaries.
The committees in light of regulatory Committee approved the appointment requirements and feedback.
of Directors to the US IHC board, Scrutinised the proposed board skills including agreeing the fees to be paid matrix for Barclays UK.
It also approved appointments Considered candidates for the positions to the Barclays Africa board.
of chairman of Barclays UK and Barclays International.
Considered appointments to the board of, and the associated fees for, the US IHC board.
Considered appointments to the Barclays Africa board.
Board effectiveness The progress made against the Discussed and agreed the proposed The Committee recommended the actions identified in the 2015 actions to be taken in response to the proposed action plan and 2016 Board Board effectiveness review.
objectives to the Board for approval.
The Committee agreed and Reassessed the status of the actions The 2016 effectiveness review of recommended the process for the 2016 throughout the year and tracked the the Board and its Committees.
effectiveness review, which proceeded progress of the action plan.
Confirmed the process to be followed for the 2016 review.
Governance Changes to the Boards corporate Reviewed updates to Corporate Approved and recommended to the governance framework following Governance in Barclays and the Charter Board for approval the updated the implementation of the Senior of Expectations following the corporate governance documents and Managers Regime in March 2016. implementation of the Senior Managers role profiles for key positions on the Regime in order to integrate the Board.
requirements into the existing corporate governance framework, applying particular focus to the updated individual role profiles.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 79 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2016 Board Nominations Committee report In addition the Committee covered the following matters: In 2016, Barclays announced the appointment of Mary Francis as non-executive Director and she joined the Board with effect from received a presentation from the PRA on its annual review of Barclays 1 October 2016.
As previously reported, Mary has extensive board level proposals for the 2016 Corporate Governance Report experience across a range of industries.
Wendy Lucas-Bull stood down review of the Committees effectiveness and its terms of reference.
from the Board in March 2016 following the announcement of Barclays intention to reduce its shareholding in Barclays Africa Group Limited, and Appointment and re-election of Directors Frits van Paasschen did not stand for re-election at the 2016 AGM.
Board and Board Committee composition is a standing item for The Directors in office at the end of 2016 were subject to an consideration at each Committee meeting.
This includes the consideration of potential new non-executive Director appointments, effectiveness review, as described on page 81.
Based on the results of the review the Board accepted the view of the Committee that each both in respect of planned succession for known retirements and as a result of the ongoing review of the skills and experience needed on the Director proposed for re-election continues to be effective and that they each demonstrated the level of commitment required in connection with Board in order for it to continue to operate effectively.
their role on the Board and the needs of the business.
Diane fide Saint The Committee frequently considers a skills matrix for the Board, which Victor and Steve Thieke have each signalled their intention to retire from identifies the core competencies, skills, diversity and experience required the Board at the 2017 AGM.
for the Board to deliver its strategic aims and govern the Group effectively.
Each attribute identified in the skills matrix has a target Diversity statement weighting attached to it and these are regularly updated over time to The Board has had regard to two important publications that were reflect the needs of the Group.
The Committee reviews the skills matrix issued in 2016: the Hampton-Alexander Review recommendations to when considering a new appointment to the Board, as well as reviewing improve gender balance in FTSE leadership teams and the Parker Review the current and expected Board and Board Committee composition.
This recommendations on the ethnic diversity of UK boards.
The Committee helps to determine a timeline for proposed appointments to the Board.
reported last year that the Board had exceeded its target of 25% female When recruiting a new non-executive Director the specific skills that are Directors by the end of 2015 and had set a new target of 33% gender Board representation by 2020.
This target has been formally reflected in needed are identified, for example, an individual with international experience, or recent history serving on a particular board committee.
the Board Diversity Policy, which can be found online at home.
Below Board level the Group met its 2016 target of The Charter of Expectations contains the key competencies and skills expected of non-executive Directors, and these, in addition to other 24% female senior leaders.
The Committee is mindful that the Group Executive Committee does not currently include any women, but is details such as expected time commitment, will be included in an individual specification.
The Committee as a whole then considers satisfied with the level of diversity across that Committee and with the percentage of women amongst the direct reports of Group Executive curriculum vitae and references for potential candidates.
Any candidates who are shortlisted will be interviewed by members of the Committee Committee members 25% at the end of 2016.
To broaden the scope of the perspectives and contributions made to Group Executive Committee and, if applicable, key shareholders and Barclays regulators may be asked to provide feedback on the proposed appointment.
The Board is meetings an initiative was implemented by the Group Chief Executive during 2016 to create one ex-officio position on the Committee, with updated on the progress of the recruitment and interview process, and any feedback from the interviews is provided to the Board alongside a each appointee serving for a four-month rotation.
The first appointee was Kathryn McLeland, Head of Investor Relations.
With regard to ethnic recommendation for appointment.
diversity, the Board considers that Barclays is currently well-positioned in Executive search firms Egon Zehnder, JCA Group and MWM Consulting terms of representation at Board level and also at Group Executive were instructed to assist with the search for non-executive Directors Committee level when taking into account the Parker Review definition during 2016.
None of these firms has any other connection to Barclays, being individuals of Black, East Asian, Latin American, Middle Eastern or other than to provide recruitment services.
Open advertising for Board South Asian ethno-cultural backgrounds.
positions was not used in 2016, as the Committee believes that targeted During 2016, the Committee received regular updates from the Global recruitment is the optimal way of recruiting for Board positions.
All of the Head of Diversity and Inclusion covering the full spectrum of Barclays firms used for non-executive Director recruitment have signed up to the diversity and inclusion agenda.
For 2017, the Committee has requested voluntary code of conduct for executive search firms, which include additional information regarding social inclusion.
measures designed to improve gender diversity on boards.
The Committee recognises the importance of ensuring that there is diversity of gender, ethnicity, geography and business experience on the Board, while continuing to recommend all appointments based on merit in the context of the skills and experience required.
The Barclays Board female diversity target is noted in the Board skills matrix, which identifies the core competencies and skills needed for an effective Board.
When executive search firms are engaged to assist with the recruitment of a new Director diversity is identified as a key factor.
In addition, the external Board evaluation considered diversity when assessing the effectiveness of the Board.
More details on Barclays diversity and inclusion strategy can be found on page 96 80 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Review of Board and Board Committee effectiveness Each year the Board conducts an externally facilitated self-assessment of the effectiveness of the Board, the Board Committees and the individual Directors.
Independent Board Evaluation facilitated the effectiveness review for 2015 and was engaged to conduct the 2016 review, which built on the findings of the 2015 review, including assessing the progress of the actions that had been identified.
Independent Board Evaluation is an independent external consultancy with no other connection to Barclays.
In order to ensure that high quality feedback was received, Ffion Hague, the consultant, based the review on face-to-face interviews with the Directors.
The Directors received an agenda prior to their interview, which focused on areas for improvement identified in the 2015 effectiveness review as well as any new issues that had emerged since that review was conducted.
In addition to the interviews, Ffion Hague attended Board and Board Committee meetings as an observer, met with members of the Group Executive Committee, the Company Secretary and other members of senior management, along with seeking feedback from external stakeholders.
In December 2016, Independent Board Evaluation presented a report to the Board on the findings of the effectiveness review.
In addition, the Chairman was provided with a report and feedback on the performance of each of the Directors, and the Senior Independent Director received a report on the Chairman.
Board Committee chairmen received individual reports on the performance of the Board Committees.
Following consideration of the findings of the 2016 effectiveness review the Directors remain satisfied that the Board and each of the Board Committees are operating effectively.
Progress relative to 2015 was good and the Board remains committed to making further progress to ensure that it is considered to be at the top of the range of effectiveness for a FTSE100 company.
Following the conclusion of the review the Board Nominations Committee, with support from the Company Secretary, prepared a detailed action planning document.
An overview of actions that were identified to help the Board to maintain and improve its effectiveness have been disclosed on the following pages 82 and 83, as well as an update on the actions taken following the 2015 effectiveness review.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 81 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2016 Board Nominations Committee report Review of Board and Board Committee Effectiveness Board priorities Leveraging Board experience Greater awareness Improvements to the Board Director induction Dealing more strategically in support of executives of Board Committee work appointment process with global regulation 2015 findings 2015 findings 2015 findings 2015 findings 2015 findings 2015 findings To ensure that the Board agenda is To continue to ensure that all non-executive To continue to raise awareness across all To continue to assess the skills and To enhance the Board training and To continue to provide opportunities for optimised, including time for blue-sky Directors have the opportunity to contribute Board members of the significant issues experience needed on the Board and to induction programme, with particular focus Board members to provide early input to discussion of major risks.
considered by Board Committees and to ensure that Board composition is balanced on the training needs of Board members thinking on major issues and decisions.
continue to refine the remit and scope of between UK and international members.
from outside the financial services sector.
To enhance Board succession planning, particularly in respect of key roles.
Actions taken in 2016 Actions taken in 2016 Actions taken in 2016 Actions taken in 2016 Actions taken in 2016 Actions taken in 2016 In early 2016, a set of Board objectives was John McFarlane and Sir Gerry Grimstone took All Directors have access to Board During 2016, a revised Board succession The Board training programme for 2016 The Boards agenda during 2016 focused agreed in order to track progress against responsibility for ensuring that all nonCommittee meeting papers and minutes, plan and updated skills matrix were included specific sessions aimed primarily more on strategic issues, including the the Boards priorities.
executive Directors were involved in strategic and are reminded that they may attend presented to the Board Nominations at non-executive Directors without a capital and liquidity impacts of Structural decision making.
Board Committee meetings whether or not Committee.
The plan addresses immediate financial services background.
For a description of the Boards Board agendas were updated to allow more they are members.
Some Directors made needs as well as longer-term requirements training programme offered during 2016 activity in 2016, including the input time for discussion of strategic options.
In the course of the year, it was decided that use of this option during 2016.
Board to take account of the tenure of can be found on page 87. provided to management on the This was also a key focus for the 2016 partnering non-executive Directors with Committee Chairmen have continued to non-executive Directors.
formulation of Group strategy and other Board Strategy Offsite.
members of the Group Executive Committee report to the Board on specific matters significant decisions, see pages 56 to 57. would not be taken forward.
However, the The succession plan included succession to Board dinners were used for more discussed at Board Committee meetings.
experience of non-executive Directors has key roles and considered the optimum size free-ranging discussions, with suggested been leveraged as appropriate, e. g. the During 2016, Sir Gerry Grimstone, chairman of the Board.
The future composition of the topics notified to the Directors in advance.
appointments of Steve Thieke and Diane of the Board Reputation Committee, took Board post-Structural Reform has also been No decisions were taken or required as part Schueneman to the board of Barclays US IHC.
action to define and focus its role and considered.
of these discussions, which were used to Non-executive Directors continue to make a scope more clearly, including implementing inform the broader debate at subsequent In addition, the Board received updates on valuable contribution to the Board and its new reporting initiatives such as the Board meetings.
executive talent management and Committees.
2016 findings 2016 findings 2016 findings 2016 findings 2016 findings 2016 findings Create regular broad-based risk oversight The Board effectiveness review reported on Continue to optimise the information flow Continue to refine the Board skills matrix to Continue to enhance the Director induction Review reporting arrangements on strategy sessions for the Board to allow Directors to positive and constructive relations between between Directors in the run-up to ensure it aligns with the Groups strategy with a focus on providing broader implementation and review the KPIs or look across the risk spectrum.
the Board and the new management team.
Structural Reform in 2018. and informs the succession plan for key governance training to anyone who has not dashboard reports for key initiatives.
Implement more regular previously served on a UK plc board.
Schedule a debate on the role of the Board Consider agreeing common values for the For 2017 this finding will be renamed as reporting to the Board on potential and non-executive Directors and link the Group and the banking subsidiary boards in Optimise reporting to the Board on non-executive Directors under conclusions to revised Board objectives to the new structure.
help focus the Boards agenda over the For 2017 this finding will be renamed as coming year.
Optimise communication and collaboration between directors, boards and committees.
Actions to be taken in 2017 Actions to be taken in 2017 Actions to be taken in 2017 Actions to be taken in 2017 Actions to be taken in 2017 Actions to be taken in 2017 We will continue to identify opportunities The Board will continue to support and The Chairman will continue to use his The Board skills matrix will be kept under The Director induction programme will be The form and content of reporting to the for more free-ranging discussion of risk, challenge executive management, with meetings with non-executive Directors review, with separate skills matrices to be reviewed and refreshed to factor in tailored Board will be reviewed and refreshed by including as part of the annual Board particular focus on execution of strategy.
ahead of Board meetings to ensure that all agreed with the respective chairmen of the governance training for new Directors.
management to ensure that the Board is strategy session.
non-executive Directors are briefed on banking subsidiaries.
The Group Board This is also being extended to directors of provided with appropriate management current issues.
succession plan will continue to be the new banking subsidiaries.
information on strategy and execution The role of the Group Board and Group reviewed on a regular basis by the Board priorities.
Specific topics that the Board non-executive Directors will be reviewed in Opportunities for the Board and, in due Nominations Committee and the Chairman indicated that it wished to review have been the context of Structural Reform.
course, the banking subsidiary boards to will keep current Board members regularly factored into the 2017 Board agenda.
spend more time together around Board updated on recruitment plans and potential meetings will be identified.
Once the subsidiary boards are established, a common set of values will be agreed to supplement the Governance Guiding Principles that are already in place.
82 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Review of Board and Board Committee Effectiveness Board priorities Leveraging Board experience Greater awareness Improvements to the Board Director induction Dealing more strategically in support of executives of Board Committee work appointment process with global regulation 2015 findings 2015 findings 2015 findings 2015 findings 2015 findings 2015 findings To ensure that the Board agenda is To continue to ensure that all non-executive To continue to raise awareness across all To continue to assess the skills and To enhance the Board training and To continue to provide opportunities for optimised, including time for blue-sky Directors have the opportunity to contribute Board members of the significant issues experience needed on the Board and to induction programme, with particular focus Board members to provide early input to discussion of major risks.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 83
