Performance review Non-Core and Africa Non-Core Africa Summary Summary The Non-Core run-down is a key driver of the As part of the strategic review on 1 March 2016, simplification of Barclays, helping to improve Barclays announced its intention to sell down Group returns and deliver value for its stake in BAGL to a level that would permit shareholders.
After our accelerated progress regulatory deconsolidation.
in 2016, we now intend to close Non-Core six months early at 30 June 2017.
Barclays Africa Group Limited BAGL is a leading pan-African diversified financial services provider headquartered in South Africa, with meaningful operations across the continent Botswana, Ghana, Kenya, Non-Core was formed in 2014 to oversee the divestment of Barclays Mauritius, Mozambique, Seychelles, South Africa, Tanzania, Uganda and non-strategic assets and businesses, releasing capital to support Zambia, and is listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
strategic growth in our Core businesses.
Non-Core brought together During 2016, we sold a 12.2% stake, reducing our previous 62.3% businesses and assets that did not fit our strategy, remained sub-scale holding to 50.1%.
Further sell-down to a level that will permit regulatory with limited growth opportunities, or were challenged by the regulatory deconsolidation is expected, and it is currently the Boards intention to capital environment.
maintain a minority shareholding and a commercial relationship with Non-Core is run by a dedicated management team operating within a BAGL.
Both would need to be consistent with the aim of achieving clear governance framework to optimise shareholder value as regulatory deconsolidation.
businesses and assets are divested.
It maintains a robust risk BAGL is represented in Barclays accounts through Africa Banking.
Africa management framework to mitigate the risks inherent in our businesses Banking represents BAGL accounts converted to GBP, in addition to and assets, as well as our divestiture and run-down processes.
The Barclays goodwill on acquisition and Head Office allocations that are clearly defined objectives for Non-Core are to bring down RWAs, reduce deemed to be incrementally incurred as a consequence of Barclays the ongoing operational cost base and simplify the residual portfolio and operations in Africa, such as the UK bank levy.
For clarity, the income risks in preparation for their return to Core.
statement is provided on page 257.
As Africa Banking meets the To divest Non-Core successfully we are partly dependent on external requirements for presentation as a discontinued operation, the results factors that can impact our planned run-down profile.
For instance, the are presented as two lines in the Group income statement, representing income from our businesses and assets, the quantum of associated profit after tax relating to our 50.1% stake, and the 49.9% portion RWAs and finally market appetite for Non-Core components are all attributable to the non-controlling interests in BAGL.
This can be seen in influenced by the market environment.
In addition, our ability to the Group income statement on page 277. complete divestitures depends on regulatory approvals in various Barclays and BAGL have been working closely together to plan and jurisdictions and regulatory changes in the treatment of RWAs can prepare for the successful separation and migration of BAGLs operations impact our stock of RWAs.
from the Barclays Group while Barclays assesses sell-down options, both 2016 was an important year for Non-Core as RWAs were reduced by on and off-market.
This work has culminated in the agreement of terms 41% to 32bn, preparing the division for reintegration into the Core in for transitional services and supporting arrangements with BAGL, the 2017.
The loss before tax increased to 2.8bn, reflecting the acceleration details of which have been submitted to relevant regulators as part of a of the run-down during the year, where significant progress was made request for approval for Barclays to sell down to below a 50% holding.
across all three components of Non-Core.
Business RWAs were reduced A successful regulatory deconsolidation of BAGLs operations will lead to by 4bn, with the completion of the sales of Barclays Risk Analytics and further simplification for the Group, resulting in CET1 ratio uplift and will Index Solutions, the Asia Wealth and Investment Management business, constitute a further step towards focusing on our core transatlantic the Southern European cards business, and the Italian retail business.
consumer, corporate and investment bank operations.
We also made good progress in the run-down of Derivatives, reducing RWAs by 10bn, and Securities & Loans by 3bn respectively.
Details on the performance of BAGL can be found at www.
com Given the progress made in 2016, we intend to close Non-Core six months early at 30 June 2017, with c. 25bn of RWAs, meaning that we will have reduced Non-Core RWAs by c. 85bn in just over three years.
We expect Non-Core losses in 2017 to be significantly lower than in 2016, with further reductions thereafter once the remaining assets are reabsorbed back into the Core where they will continue to be managed down.
36 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Corporate governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Overview of governance and financial performance home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 37
