Our strategy where success for us is to be a leading, diversified, transatlantic bank.
The strategy of Barclays PLC Group is to build on our strength as a transatlantic consumer, corporate and investment bank, anchored in our Summary two homes markets of the UK and US, with global reach.
Our two clearly defined divisions, Barclays UK and Barclays International, provide Our goal is to become the bank of choice by diversification by business line, geography and customer, enhancing providing superior services to customers and financial resilience and helping to contribute to the delivery of consistent returns through the business cycle.
We have a strong core business with clients and supporting our stakeholders via a exciting prospects, well positioned to deliver long-term value for our commercially successful business that shareholders.
Consistent with the objective of delivering long-term sustainable value for all our stakeholders, we have developed our Shared Growth Ambition our approach to citizenship and the sustainability of the business model we operate.
The aim is to make decisions and do business that provides our clients and customers, and the communities which we serve, with access to a prosperous future.
The delivery of our strategy is underpinned by the energy, commitment and passion of our people, and we are clear on our common purpose: to help people achieve their ambitions, in the right way.
Our shared values inform the way we work and how we act, guiding the choices we make every day.
Building the Barclays of the future In March 2016 we announced the following actions to materially progress our restructuring and lay the foundations for increased stability and improved performance: the creation of two clearly defined divisions, Barclays UK and Barclays International, consistent with the regulatory requirements of ring-fencing in the UK the sell-down of our 62.3% stake in Barclays Africa Group Limited BAGL to a non-controlling, regulatory deconsolidated, position a one-time increase to Barclays Non-Core, with a plan to accelerate the run down.
The priorities that emerged from our March 2016 announcement can be broadly summarised as: simplifying our core business accelerating the run down of our Non-Core operations continuing to address our remaining legacy conduct issues and improving our control environment.
Simplifying our core business Our two divisions represent a balanced business mix that we believe helps to enhance our resilience to developments in the external environment, while remaining focused on helping our customers and clients achieve their ambitions.
Barclays UK is our UK consumer and business bank differentiated by scale and proven digital capability.
Barclays UK will become the ring-fenced bank for the UK during 2018, providing transactional, lending and investment products and services to over 24 million Personal, Wealth and Business Banking customers and clients.
For further information on Barclays UKs performance, please see page 26.
10 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Corporate governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Non-Core run-down In 2016, Barclays completed the sale of its Retail Banking, Wealth and Investment Management and part of its Corporate Banking business in Portugal which serves small and medium-sized enterprises to Bankinter S. A. Barclays also completed the sale of its insurance business in Portugal to Bankinter Seguros fide Vida S. A. Seguros y Reaseguros, which operates an insurance joint-venture with Mapfre S. A.
Completion of this transaction was further progress towards completing the restructuring of Barclays, resulting in a further decrease in risk weighted assets of 1.8bn.
The sale is also expected to reduce Group annualised costs by c. 70m.
For further information, see http: www.
com r 3331 accelerated rundown of barclays non core continues sale Barclays International is our diversified transatlantic wholesale and Accelerating the run down of our Non-Core operations consumer bank which will be housed within Barclays Bank PLC, the Our Non-Core businesses act as a significant drag on Group profitability future non-ring-fenced bank.
We seek to compete in markets where we and exiting these businesses will enable us to focus on a simplified have the competitive advantage and provide best-in-class service to our Group, centred on our key areas of strength.
Over the year we have clients and customers.
On 1 July 2016 our US Intermediate Holding continued to run down our Non-Core business, reducing risk weighted Company IHC became operational, as part of Barclays International.
For assets and strengthening our Common Equity Tier 1 ratio in the process.
further information on Barclays Internationals performance, please see We have made strong progress in executing our strategy and are page 32. fully committed to the early closure of Non-Core in June 2017.
Our objective is to maintain solid investment grade ratings for our rated For further details please refer to the Non-Core Performance entities.
Barclays UK and Barclays International will be supported by a Group Continuing to address remaining legacy conduct issues and Service Company, a subsidiary which houses the majority of Barclays improving our control environment Group Functions and the Chief Operating Office, which includes We are working hard to resolve our remaining legacy conduct matters as Operations and Technology.
soon as is practical, while improving our control environment.
Further details on the structure of the Group under Structural Reform We aspire to be one of the worlds most respected and well-regarded can be found in the Supervision and Regulation section on page 236. banks.
We put our customers and clients at the heart of everything we We are also reducing our stake in Barclays Africa Group Limited to a do and seek to strengthen trust in the profession of banking, using non-controlling, regulatory deconsolidated position, subject to required transparency and integrity to engender the trust of our customers, approvals.
Having completed the first sell-down, to 50.1%, in 2016, we clients and wider society.
expect to continue to reduce our ownership and will execute this change in our investment responsibly.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 11 Our strategy where success for us is to be a leading, diversified, transatlantic bank.
Unreasonable Impact Barclays and Unreasonable Group have partnered to launch Unreasonable Impact, the worlds first international network of accelerators focused on scaling up entrepreneurial solutions that will help employ thousands worldwide while solving some of our most pressing societal challenges.
The programme supports the scale of growth-stage ventures by providing entrepreneurs with the resources, mentorship, and global network of support that they need to rapidly create jobs in high impact sectors such as clean energy, waste management and sustainable agriculture.
For further information, see unreasonableimpact.
com 12 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
