Performance review Barclays UK Personal Banking Summary Personal Banking provides simple and transparent banking products to around 16 million customers, helping them to anticipate and fulfil their financial needs.
This can range from opening a first bank account as a young person to managing finances in retirement, or from everyday insurance to buying a home.
A core element of our Personal Banking Whats an Eagle Lab?
business is to use technology to automate Our Eagle Labs form part our Digital Eagles initiative, opening up transactions, enabling us to interact with under-used space in our branches and offices.
The aim is to boost the UKs innovation, digital and maker skills by offering support and customers about what is important to them, training on new technologies and techniques.
We have opened nine when and how they want.
Labs so far, including Cambridge, Bournemouth and Brighton.
As well as businesses, our Labs are open to their communities.
They are developing manufacturing skills to inspire future innovators, and The scale and reach of Personal Banking offers a unique opportunity to giving the UKs digital skills a much needed boost.
Our Brighton Lab help people move forward, with confidence, in an increasingly dynamic helped transform the life of Rilee, aged three, who was born with and changing financial environment.
only one hand and forearm.
Rilee was too young to receive a We are continuing to transform our customer experience, by building prosthetic hand from the NHS.
Over several months, our lab innovative technology to make banking easier.
This more efficient technician Jon Paterson, designed and 3D-printed a prosthetic hand technology also allows our colleagues more time to spend with and arm for Rilee.
By using open source innovation and the latest customers, all of which positions us well for the future.
manufacturing methods, our Eagle Lab has helped Rilee in a way that is immeasurable.
Our focus is, therefore, on delivering an outstanding experience for our customers, our colleagues and the communities in which we operate.
For further information, see labs.
barclays We believe in building relationships that show we understand individual and collective circumstances to such a degree that we can provide a solution that is both relevant and meaningful.
We offer choice and flexibility in how to meet the different needs of our diverse customer base and we are proud to be the first UK bank to launch voice security and secure video banking.
Discovering the value of connecting customers with other people within their communities has proved to be a great success.
Our branches are Rewarding customers loyalty has been a focus for 2016.
Blue Rewards, providing spaces for Incubators and Barclays Accelerator projects, for Digital Eagle sessions and also Eagle Labs not only educating including cashback, Premier Exclusives and the launch of welcome gifts for first-time homebuyers, are good examples of this.
We wanted to customers on new and different technologies, but providing them with space to meet, collaborate, network and build on ideas.
create moments that stand out for our customers, and to make their lives easier by simplifying our processes.
This supports our ambition to Our innovative technology is industry leading and we are award-winners build better relationships with our customers at all levels.
for our work on intuitive products and ways of banking that suit customer needs.
Launching such a broad combination of products, We are continuing to transform our services and convenient ways to conduct everyday banking has meant, however, that we continue to see counter transactions decline.
customer experience by building innovative Nevertheless, we have evolved our physical estate and invested in areas technology to make banking easier.
such as Newcastle, with our new city centre branch, and also redesigned our Fenchurch Street and Hanover Square branches in London, to better We have improved the support we offer the communities we serve, suit the banking needs of the communities there.
Our highly-automated making it easier for students and young professionals to open an consumer lending business to existing customers is growing fast, account.
In addition, we are continuing our support to military personnel making Barclays the biggest digital unsecured personal lender in the UK.
to improve their access to banking.
Significant improvements have been made to the customer experience, We are creating an environment for our colleagues that inspires them to by looking at the end-to-end experience from our customers viewpoint.
be passionate and empathetic and that makes them feel empowered to This is an ongoing programme, but has already resulted in a double-digit find solutions for our customers in turn, helping our customers move drop in customer complaints, as well as helping to lower costs and forward and achieve their financial ambitions improve control.
28 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
