Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance: Directors report Other statutory information Section 414A of the Companies Act 2006 requires the Directors to The Directors present their report together present a Strategic report in the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The information can be found on pages 1 to 48. with the audited accounts for the year ended The Company has chosen, in accordance with section 414 C 11 of the 31 December 2016.
Companies Act 2006, and as noted in this Directors report, to include Other information that is relevant to the Directors report, and which certain matters in its Strategic report that would otherwise be disclosed is incorporated by reference into this report, can be located as follows: in this Directors report.
Page An indication of likely future developments may be found in the Strategic Employee involvement 95 report.
Policy concerning the employment of disabled persons 97 Financial instruments 299 to 321 The particulars of important events affecting the Company since the Hedge accounting policy 284 financial year end can be found in the Strategic report and Note 29, Remuneration policy, including details of the 99 to 133 Legal, competition and regulatory matters.
remuneration of each Director and Directors interests in shares Profit and dividends Corporate governance report 49 to 90 Statutory profit after tax for 2016 was 2,828m 2015: 623m.
The final Risk review 136 to 236 dividend for 2016 of 2.0p per share will be paid on 5 April 2017 to Viability statement 41 shareholders whose names are on the Register of Members at the close of business on 3 March 2017.
With the interim dividend totalling 1.0p per Disclosures required pursuant to Listing Rule 9.8.
4R can be found on ordinary share, paid in September 2016, the total distribution for 2016 is the following pages: 3.0p 2015: 6.5p per ordinary share.
The interim and final dividends for Page 2016 amounted to 757m 2016: 1,081m.
Long-term incentive schemes 111 Director emoluments 361 As at 31 December 2016, the distributable reserves of Barclays PLC the Allotment for cash of equity securities 342 Parent Company were 6,831m.
As at 31 December 2016, the Waiver of dividends 91 distributable reserves of Barclays Bank PLC were 25,834m.
The nominee companies of certain Barclays employee benefit trusts holding shares in Barclays in connection with the operation of the Companys share plans have lodged evergreen dividend waivers on shares held by them that have not been allocated to employees.
The total amount of dividends waived during the year ended 31 December 2016 was 2.6m 2015: 6.4m.
Shareholders may have their dividends reinvested in Barclays by joining the Barclays PLC Scrip Dividend Programme the Programme.
At the Barclays 2013 AGM, shareholders approved the introduction of the Programme to replace the Barclays Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
The Programme enables shareholders, if they wish, to receive new fully-paid ordinary shares in Barclays PLC instead of a cash dividend, without incurring dealing costs or stamp duty.
Board of Directors The names of the current Directors of Barclays PLC, along with their biographical details, are set out on pages 51 and 52 and are incorporated into this report by reference.
Changes to Directors during the year are set out below.
Effective date of appointment Name Role resignation Sir Gerald Gerry Non-executive Director Appointed 1 January 2016 Grimstone Mary Francis Non-executive Director Appointed 1 October 2016 Wendy Lucas-Bull Non-executive Director Retired 1 March 2016 Frits van Non-executive Director Retired 28 April 2016 Paasschen Appointment and retirement of Directors The appointment and retirement of Directors is governed by the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
The Articles may only be amended by a special resolution of the shareholders.
The Board has the power to appoint additional Directors or to fill a casual vacancy amongst the Directors.
Any such Director holds office only until the next AGM and may offer himself herself for re-election.
The Code recommends that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual re-election and all Directors will stand for election or re-election at the 2017 AGM with the exception of Diane fide Saint Victor and Steve Thieke.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 91 Governance: Directors report Other statutory information Directors indemnities Current Previous Previous reporting reporting reporting Comparison Qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of a b c d year year year year the Companies Act 2006 were in force during the course of the financial 2016 2015 2014 2013 year ended 31 December 2016 for the benefit of the then Directors and, Global GHG at the date of this report, are in force for the benefit of the Directors in emissions relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may incur or have e Total CO e tonnes 678,412 712,916 830,668 968,781 2 incurred in connection with their duties, powers or office.
In addition, Scope 1 CO e 2 the Company maintains Directors & Officers Liability Insurance which f emissions tonnes 46,571 56,642 49,994 58,176 gives appropriate cover for legal action brought against its Directors.
Scope 2 CO e 2 Qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions as defined by section g emissions tonnes 538,783 520,098 655,426 723,993 235 of the Companies Act 2006 were in force during the course of the Scope 3 CO e 2 financial year ended 31 December 2016 for the benefit of the then h emissions tonnes 93,059 136,176 125,248 186,612 Directors, and at the date of this report are in force for the benefit of i Intensity ratio directors of Barclays Pension Funds Trustees Limited as Trustee of the Total full time Barclays Bank UK Retirement Fund.
The directors of the Trustee are employees FTE 119,300 129,400 132,300 139,600 indemnified against liability incurred in connection with the companys Total CO e per FTE 2 activities as Trustee of the Barclays Bank UK Retirement Fund.
tonnes 5.69 5.51 6.28 6.94 Similarly, qualifying pension scheme indemnities were in force during Scope 2 market 2016 for the benefit of directors of Barclays Executive Schemes Trustees based emissions j Limited as Trustee of Barclays Bank International Limited Zambia Staff tonnes 596,198 Pension Fund 1965, Barclays Capital International Pension Scheme Notes No.
1, and Barclays PLC Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefits a 2016 Reporting Year covers Q4 2015 and Q1, 2, 3 of 2016.
The carbon reporting year is Scheme.
The directors of the Trustee are indemnified against liability not fully aligned to the financial reporting year covered by the Directors report.
incurred in connection with the companys activities as Trustee of the b 2015 Reporting Year covers Q4 2014 and Q1, 2, 3 of 2015. c 2014 Reporting Year covers Q4 2013 and Q1, 2, 3 of 2014. schemes above.
d 2013 Reporting Year covers Q4 2012 and Q1, 2, 3 of 2013. e The methodology used to calculate our CO e emissions is the operational control 2 Political donations approach on reporting boundaries as defined by the World Resources Institute World The Group did not give any money for political purposes in the UK, the Business Council for Sustainable Development WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol GHG : A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition.
rest of the EU or outside of the EU, nor did it make any political Where properties are covered by Barclays consolidated financial statements but are donations to political parties or other political organisations, or to any leased to tenants who are invoiced for utilities, these emissions are not included in the independent election candidates, or incur any political expenditure Group GHG calculations.
We also capture consumption from properties which are yet during the year.
to be consolidated by Barclays and as such Barclays still is responsible for the utility cost.
In accordance with the US Federal Election Campaign Act, Barclays f Scope 1 covers direct combustion of fuels and company owned vehicles from UK and South Africa only, which is the most material contributors.
Fugitive emissions reported provides administrative support to a federal Political Action Committee in Scope 1 for 2013 2016 cover emissions from Americas, Asia Pacific and South PAC in the US funded by the voluntary political contributions of eligible Africa.
Scope 1 fugitive emissions excludes the UK while we amend our governance employees.
The PAC is not controlled by Barclays and all decisions procedures in the UK.
Business travel is reported in Scope 1. regarding the amounts and recipients of contributions are directed by a g Scope 2 covers emissions from electricity and steam purchased for own use.
Scope 2 emissions are using location based emission factors.
Please see note j below for Scope steering committee comprising employees eligible to contribute to the 2 Market Based emissions.
Contributions to political organisations reported by the PAC during h Scope 3 covers indirect emissions from business travel global flights and ground the calendar year 2016 totalled $12,500 2015: $79,500.
transport from the UK and South Africa.
From 2014 onwards car hire data covers the USA and India.
Ground transportation data excluding Scope 1 company cars covers only countries where this type of transport is material and data is available.
Environment i Intensity ratio calculations have been calculated using location based emission factors Barclays focuses on addressing environmental issues where we believe only.
we have the greatest potential to make a difference.
We focus on j Scope 2 Market Based emissions have been reported for 2016 only.
managing our own carbon footprint and reducing our absolute carbon emissions: developing products and services to help enable the Research and development transition to a low-carbon economy, and managing the risks of climate In the ordinary course of business the Group develops new products and change to our operations, clients, customers and society at large.
We services in each of its business divisions.
invest in improving the energy efficiency of our operations and offset the emissions remaining through the purchase of carbon credits.
We also have a long-standing commitment to managing the environmental and social risks associated with our lending practices, which is embedded into our Credit Risk processes.
A governance structure is in place to facilitate clear dialogue across the business and with suppliers around issues of potential environmental and social risk.
We have disclosed global greenhouse gas emissions that we are responsible for as set out by The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
We provide fuller disclosure on i financing solutions for the lower carbon economy, ii environmental risk management and iii management of our carbon and environmental footprint in the Barclays Environmental, Social and Governance ESG Supplement available on our website at home.
92 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Share capital and pari passu with any other class of preference shares other than any class of shares then in issue ranking in priority to the relevant series of Share capital structure The Company has ordinary shares in issue.
The Companys Articles also preference shares, repayment of the amount paid up or treated as paid up in respect of the nominal value of the preference share together with allow for the issuance of sterling, US dollar, euro and yen preference shares preference shares.
No preference shares have been issued as at any premium which was paid or treated as paid when the preference share was issued in addition to an amount equal to accrued and unpaid 20 February 2017 the latest practicable date for inclusion in this report.
Ordinary shares therefore represent 100% of the total issued share dividends.
capital as at 31 December 2016 and as at 20 February 2017 the latest practicable date for inclusion in this report.
Details of the movement in Variation of rights The rights attached to any class of shares may be varied either with the ordinary share capital during the year can be found in Note 31 on page 342. consent in writing of the holders of at least 75% in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, or with the sanction of a special resolution Voting passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
The rights of shares shall not unless expressly provided by the rights Every member who is present in person or represented at any general meeting of the Company, and who is entitled to vote, has one vote on a attached to such shares be deemed varied by the creation of further shares ranking equally with them or subsequent to them.
Every proxy present has one vote.
The proxy will have one vote for and one vote against a resolution if he she has been Limitations on foreign shareholders instructed to vote for or against the resolution by different members or in one direction by a member while another member has permitted the There are no restrictions imposed by the Articles of Association or subject to the effect of any economic sanctions that may be in force proxy discretion as to how to vote.
On a poll, every member who is present or represented and who is entitled to vote has one vote for every from time to time by current UK laws which relate only to non-residents of the UK and which limit the rights of such non-residents to hold or share held.
In the case of joint holders, only the vote of the senior holder as determined by order in the share register or his proxy may be when entitled to do so vote the ordinary shares.
If any sum payable remains unpaid in relation to a members shareholding, that member is not entitled to vote that share or exercise Exercisability of rights under an employee share scheme Employee Benefit Trusts EBTs operate in connection with certain of the any other right in relation to a meeting of the Company unless the Board otherwise determine.
If any member, or any other person appearing to Groups Employee Share Plans Plans.
The trustees of the EBTs may exercise all rights attached to the shares in accordance with their be interested in any of the Companys ordinary shares, is served with a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and does not fiduciary duties other than as specifically restricted in the relevant Plan governing documents.
The trustees of the EBTs have informed the supply the Company with the information required in the notice, then the Board, in its absolute discretion, may direct that that member shall Company that their normal policy is to abstain from voting in respect of the Barclays shares held in trust.
The trustees of the Global not be entitled to attend or vote at any meeting of the Company.
The Board may further direct that if the shares of the defaulting member Sharepurchase EBT and UK Sharepurchase EBTs may vote in respect of Barclays shares held in the EBTs, but only as instructed by participants in represent 0.25% or more of the issued shares of the relevant class, that dividends or other monies payable on those shares shall be retained by those Plans in respect of their partnership shares and when vested matching and dividend shares.
The trustees will not otherwise vote in the Company until the direction ceases to have effect and that no transfer of those shares shall be registered other than certain specified respect of shares held in the Sharepurchase EBTs.
A direction ceases to have effect seven days after the Company has received the information requested, or when the Special rights Company is notified that an excepted transfer of all of the relevant There are no persons holding securities that carry special rights with shares to a third party has occurred, or as the Board otherwise regard to the control of the Company.
Major shareholders Transfers Major shareholders do not have different voting rights from those of Ordinary shares may be held in either certificated or uncertificated form.
Information provided to the Company by substantial Certificated ordinary shares shall be transferred in writing in any usual or shareholders pursuant to the FCAs Disclosure Guidance and other form approved by the Secretary and executed by or on behalf of Transparency Rules are published via a Regulatory Information Service the transferor.
Transfers of uncertificated ordinary shares shall be made and is available on the Companys website.
As at 31 December 2016, the in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and CREST Regulations.
Company had been notified under Rule 5 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules of the following holdings of voting rights in its The Board is not bound to register a transfer of partly-paid ordinary shares.
shares or fully-paid shares in exceptional circumstances approved by the FCA.
The Board may also decline to register an instrument of transfer of % of total certificated ordinary shares unless it is duly stamped and deposited at voting rights attaching to the prescribed place and accompanied by the share certificate s and Number of issued share such other evidence as reasonably required by the Board to evidence a Person interested Barclays shares capital right to transfer, it is in respect of one class of shares only, and it is in b The Capital Group Companies Inc 1,172,090,125 6.98 favour of a single transferee or not more than four joint transferees c Qatar Holding LLC 1,017,455,690 5.99 except in the case of executors or trustees of a member.
d BlackRock, Inc. 922,509,972 5.45 In accordance with the provisions of Section 84 of the Small Business, Norges Bank 512,348,359 3.03 Enterprise and Employment Act 2015, preference shares may only be Notes issued in registered form.
Preference shares shall be transferred in a The percentage of voting rights detailed above was calculated at the time of the writing in any usual or other form approved by the Secretary and relevant disclosures made in accordance with Rule 5 of the Disclosure Guidance and executed by or on behalf of the transferor.
The Companys registrar shall Transparency Rules.
b The Capital Group Companies Inc CG holds its shares via CG Management register such transfers of preference shares by making the appropriate companies and funds.
Part of the CG holding is held as American Depositary Receipts.
entries in the register of preference shares.
Each preference share shall c Qatar Holding LLC is wholly-owned by Qatar Investment Authority.
confer, in the event of a winding up or any return of capital by reduction d Total shown includes 3,860,531 contracts for difference to which voting rights are of capital other than, unless otherwise provided by their terms of issue, attached.
Part of the holding is held as American Depositary Receipts.
On 19 January 2017, BlackRock, Inc. disclosed by way of a Schedule 13G filed with the SEC, beneficial a redemption or purchase by the Company of any of its issued shares, or ownership of 1,054,988,420 ordinary shares of the Company as of 31 December 2016, a reduction of share capital, the right to receive out of the surplus representing 6.2% of that class of shares.
assets of the Company available for distribution amongst the members and in priority to the holders of the ordinary shares and any other shares in the Company ranking junior to the relevant series of preference shares home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 93 Governance: Directors report Other Statutory Information Between 31 December 2016 and 20 February 2017 the latest Directors responsibility statement The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company and the practicable date for inclusion in this report the Company was notified that Norges Bank now holds 508,175,594 Barclays shares, representing Group keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and the Group and which enable 2.996% of the total voting rights attached to issued share capital.
them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 2006.
Powers of Directors to issue or buy back the Companys shares The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the The powers of the Directors are determined by the Companies Act 2006 Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and and the Companys Articles.
The Directors are authorised to issue and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other allot shares and to buy back shares subject to annual shareholder jurisdictions.
Such authorities were granted by shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
It will be proposed at the 2017 AGM that the Directors be The Directors have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to granted new authorities to allot and buy back shares.
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Repurchase of shares The Directors, whose names and functions are set out on pages 51 and The Company did not repurchase any of its ordinary shares during 2016 52, confirm to the best of their knowledge that: 2015: none.
As at 20 February 2017 the latest practicable date for inclusion in this report the Company had an unexpired authority to a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, repurchase ordinary shares up to a maximum of 1,681m ordinary shares.
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and Change of control There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a party b the management report, which is incorporated in the Directors that are affected by a change of control of the Company following a Report on pages 49 to 94, includes a fair review of the development takeover bid.
There are no agreements between the Company and its and performance of the business and the position of the Company Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Going concern By order of the Board The Groups business activities, financial position, capital, factors likely to affect its future development and performance and its objectives and policies in managing the financial risks to which it is exposed are discussed in the Strategic report and Risk review and Risk management sections.
Claire Davies The Directors considered it appropriate to prepare the financial Company Secretary statements on a going concern basis.
22 February 2017 Disclosure of information to the auditor Barclays PLC Each Director confirms that, so far as he she is aware, there is no Registered in England.
relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware Company No.
48839 and that each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given pursuant to section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 and should be interpreted in accordance with and subject to those provisions.
Directors responsibilities The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the Auditors report set out on page 269 to 275, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the auditors in relation to the accounts.
The Directors are required by the Companies Act 2006 to prepare accounts for each financial year and, with regards to Group accounts, in accordance with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors have prepared Group and individual accounts in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
The accounts are required by law and IFRS to present fairly the financial position and performance of the Company and the Group for that period.
The Companies Act 2006 provides, in relation to such accounts, that references to accounts giving a true and fair view are references to fair presentation.
The Directors consider that, in preparing the accounts on pages 267 to 374, and the additional information contained on pages 134 to 236, the Group has used appropriate accounting policies, supported by reasonable judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
Having taken all the matters considered by the Board and brought to the attention of the Board during the year into account, the Directors are satisfied that the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
94 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
