 , increased Summary , anda150mchargein ,  2016 reflected good operational performance .
Operating of Barclays UK and Barclays International   reflecting the benefits of diversification across % 2015: customers and clients, geographies and 100.3%  products.
:income offsetbyincomegrowth  base, targetingaGroupcost:%overtime.
Group capital and leverage % December 2016 2015 2015:11.4%  CommonEquityTier1 CET1 ratio 12.4% 11.4% 45.2bn,  Cost:incomeratio 76% 84%   generatedintheperiod,  equity RoTE 3.6% 0.7% items.
  16,338m 18,536m  Non-CoreRWAs 32bn 54bn currenciesagainstGBP  ZAR, , whichmore Group performance  % 2015: 0.7%  2015: 1.9p  2015:1,146m.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance Our corporate governance processes and the role they play in supporting the delivery of our strategy, including reports from the Chairman and each of the Board Committee Chairmen.
Directors report Page UK Corporate Governance Index to disclosures 50 Code Who we are Board of Directors 51 Group Executive Committee 53 Board diversity 53 What we did in 2016 Chairmans introduction 54 Board Audit Committee report 58 Board Risk Committee report 68 Board Reputation Committee report 73 Board Nominations Committee report 77 How we comply 84 Other statutory information 91 95 People 99 Remuneration report home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 49 Governance: Directors report UK Corporate Governance Code - index to disclosures The purpose of corporate governance is to facilitate effective, entrepreneurial and prudent management that can deliver the long-term success of the company.
The UK Corporate Governance Code The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code is not a rigid set of rules.
It consists of principles main and supporting and provisions.
The Listing Rules require companies to apply the main principles and report to shareholders on how they have done so.
You can find our disclosures as follows: Page Every company should be headed by an effective board which is Board of Directors 51 to 52 Leadership collectively responsible for the long-term success of the company.
Composition of the Board 87 There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Roles on the Board 85 company between the running of the board and the executive responsibility for the running of the companys business.
No one individual should have unfettered powers of decision.
The chairman is responsible for leadership of the board and ensuring Roles on the Board 85 its effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
As part of their role as members of a unitary board, non-executive Roles on the Board 85 directors should constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy.
The board and its committees should have the appropriate balance of Board of Directors 51 to 52 Effectiveness skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the company to enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the Appointment and re-election of 80 appointment of new directors to the board.
Directors All directors should be able to allocate sufficient time to the company to Attendance 86 discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Time commitment 87 All directors should receive an induction on joining the board and should Induction, Training and 87 regularly update and refresh their skills and knowledge.
development The board should be supplied in a timely manner with information in a Information provided to the Board 88 form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
The board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of Review of Board and Board 81 its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
Committee effectiveness All directors should be submitted for re-election at regular intervals, Roles on the Board 85 subject to continued satisfactory performance.
Appointment and re-election of 80 Directors The board should present a fair, balanced and understandable Strategic report 1 to 48 Accountability assessment of the companys position and prospects.
Risk management 145 to 162 Viability statement, going concern 41, 80 The board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the Risk management and internal 88 to 89 principal risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
The control board should maintain sound risk management and internal control systems.
The board should establish formal and transparent arrangements for Board Audit Committee report 58 to 67 considering how they should apply the corporate reporting, risk management and internal control principles, and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the companys auditors.
Executive directors remuneration should be designed to promote the Remuneration report 99 to 133 Remuneration long-term success of the company.
Performance-related elements should be transparent, stretching and rigorously applied.
There should be a formal and transparent procedure for developing Remuneration report 99 to 133 policy on executive remuneration and for fixing the remuneration packages of individual directors.
No director should be involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the mutual Stakeholder engagement 89 to 90 Relations with understanding of objectives.
The board as a whole has responsibility for shareholders ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.
The board should use general meetings to communicate with investors Stakeholder engagement 89 to 90 and to encourage their participation.
50 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
