Strategic report Corporate governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 5412 7512 3412 3456 In 2016, Barclaycard celebrated its 50th anniversary, having launched the Barclaycard Consumer UK first credit card in the UK in 1966.
We have been responsible for many firsts from company credit cards through Chip & PIN to contactless, mobile payments and most recently our range of wearable payment options.
As Summary Barclays is the only major UK card issuer and payment acceptance provider, we are in a unique position to shape the payments landscape, make Barclaycard Consumer UK is a leading credit businesses more successful and give people greater control over their money.
In UK Cards, we offer three core credit card products.
Our Barclaycard We are a responsible lender and help Initial credit card is aimed at customers who are looking for a first credit consumers fund purchases by providing card, or have a limited credit history, and helps them to build a credit profile.
Our Barclaycard Platinum card offers promotional savings on credit based on their credit history, ability to balance transfers and purchases for borrowers with good credit history.
afford credit and our risk appetite.
We enable Alternatively, shoppers can earn reward points everywhere they shop with our Barclaycard Freedom Rewards credit card.
All our products are consumers to pay in the way that suits them underpinned by terms and conditions that have received the Plain by card, online, mobile or using a wearable English Crystal Mark.
device, including Barclaycard Contactless Every Barclaycard comes with additional features and benefits, including ways to manage accounts online and on the go with the Barclaycard Mobile and Apple Pay.
We offer free Experian Credit Scores and a range of entertainment benefits.
We also give support to consumers by providing guides on how We are customer focused and invest in to protect themselves from fraud, how they can protect their purchases people, processes and future technologies in and what to do if they have money worries.
order to continue to play a leading role in the Were continuously looking for ways to improve the customer experience we deliver.
We track our Transactional Net Promoter Score TNPS after industry and help our customers move customer interactions and use social media as a way to get feedback forward every day.
from our customers and improve our processes.
Since UK Cards was brought under the Barclays UK structure in March, we have been looking for ways to enhance the services we provide to our joint customers.
For example, Barclays customers can now apply for a Barclaycard through the Barclays Mobile Banking app, with guaranteed pre-approvals for eligible customers.
The unsecured lending and consumer payments markets continue to experience considerable change, driven by new entrants, new technologies, changing consumer expectations and behaviour.
We are continuing to invest in new technology and to develop pioneering new products and services for our consumers, for example we launched proprietary contactless Andriod capability through our app, six months ahead of our nearest competitor.
We are pleased to have won a number of awards, acknowledging the market-leading products and services we offer our consumers.
We won Best Overall Credit Card Provider at the Money Pages Personal Finance Awards 2016 17.
In addition, we have won awards for our support for vulnerable customers and our use of social media.
Money Worries hub Many people hide from debt problems because they are embarrassed, and can find it difficult to ask their bank for help.
We have created the Money Worries hub, in partnership with StepChange Debt Charity, to encourage customers to come forward and ask for support by showing that we understand their situation and are here to help.
The Money Worries hub is designed to help customers understand how UK Cards has helped people who have been in similar situations and how they can help someone they care about.
For further information, see barclaycard.
co. uk personal customer money-worries home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 29 5412 4020 8618 2857
