Performance review Barclays UK Market and environment in which the division operates 2016 was a year in which a number of significant events took place, such as the UKs vote to leave the EU and the presidential election in the US both of which impacted our customers and our operating environment.
In addition, the UK retail banking environment is increasingly competitive and dynamic, and is experiencing significant regulatory and technological change.
The speed of change and innovation is expected to continue to accelerate with the introduction of new data regulations, such as the Open Banking Standards.
Unfortunately, we are also seeing significant growth in sophisticated cyber-fraud.
Customer expectations are also increasing.
Our customers want prompt responses to their banking requirements.
They want their transactions to be accurate and efficient, yet still have that personalised support during key moments in their lives.
Barclays UK has a tremendous opportunity to grow our business and generate sustainable returns by building meaningful relationships with Summary the 24 million customers we currently do business with.
By innovating and harnessing technology we are able to provide simple and relevant Our aim at Barclays UK is to help people move solutions for our customers and clients, build sustainable revenue flows, structurally remove cost and achieve prudent, balanced growth within forward.
We do this by creating meaningful our risk appetite.
relationships with our customers, offering We achieve this through: them relevant products and services, and by leveraging our data capabilities to identify when our customers need using our leading data and analytic solutions e. g. SmartBusiness, our first big data product providing SMEs with key information, metrics and insights to help them grow capabilities to ensure suitability and delivery their business of excellent customer experience.
enhancing functionality on mobile and internet banking to enable customers to undertake all their routine transactional banking quickly During 2018, Barclays UK will become the and easily.
Over 9.5 million of our customers are digitally active ring-fenced bank for the UK, continuing to building the Direct Bank.
We have built capabilities, such as voice recognition and video banking, which allow us to interact with our provide transactional, lending and investment customers 24 7, increase capacity, and have more meaningful products and services to over 24 million interactions with our customers Personal, Wealth and Business Banking tailoring services, such as pre-selecting existing banking customers for a Barclaycard, providing instant digital fulfilment and personalised customers and clients, via a separate legal entity.
experience through Barclays Mobile Banking providing fully-integrated banking and investments with new, sophisticated digital platforms with a range of helpful tools, planners and information to help customers make informed decisions and take control of their investments giving customers and clients market data they need to make Ashok Vaswani is the CEO for Barclays UK and personalised choices across business, property, education or has spent the last seven years with Barclays in investment by using our annual Barclays UK Prosperity Map or a variety of roles following an extensive career through our Unlock Britain campaign at Citigroup.
Ashok represents Barclays as a Non-Executive Director on the Board of keeping our customers and clients safe with increased focus and Barclays Africa Group Limited and is a member investment in tackling cyber-fraud.
of the Board of Directors of Telenor ASA.
He also sits on the advisory boards of a number of We are also leading the digital revolution with our colleagues, working institutions such as Citizens Advice, FICO, hand in hand with our communities, and helping our customers feel Rutberg & Co and is Founder Director of comfortable in the digital environment by introducing them to our Lend-a-Hand, a non-profit organisation focused on rural education in India.
Digital Eagles and our Digital Wings initiatives.
Barclays UK provides diversification to the Group with our balance of products and services in the UK banking sector.
This diversification helps protect revenue flows in the changing environment, and allows us to remain close to our customers for all their banking needs.
Risks to the operating model We monitor the market environment closely in particular the effect of low interest rates, the expected growth in credit and unsecured lending, and adjust our financial and economic assumptions in a considered 26 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Corporate governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information manner.
As a large UK retail bank, we are cognisant of the credit risk This year, we launched automated valuations for home purchases, faced through our lending.
Our conservative risk profile for lending shaving four to five days off processing time and transforming both the through products such as mortgages and credit cards, is continually colleague and customer experience.
Weve also introduced Mortgage monitored to ensure our exposure is aligned to our risk appetite.
Agreement in Principle in 338 branches, allowing a customer to obtain a mortgage decision in less than 15 minutes.
We are also offering bespoke Barclays UK is the largest contributor to margin-led income for the Group.
mortgage products for Premier customers.
Overall, our mortgage Our focus on pricing discipline, reflected in our stable net interest margin in business is seeing significant sustainable growth.
recent years, and our structural hedge programme investing in interest rate swaps to provide a smoothing effect on interest rate step changes We have focused on automating the end-to-end customer journey have both provided protection against adverse changes in the interest across all parts of our business, which is resulting in improved customer rate environment in 2016, and will continue to do so going forward, albeit experience, reduced costs and a double-digit drop in customer the beneficial impact of the structural hedge will decline over time.
We have made it easier for business clients to open accounts and borrow money from us with digital on-boarding, the We are committed to ensuring continued growth of the UK business, Solicitor Portal a dedicated portal for managing the end-to-end and are developing our product offering and services to suit customers business lending journey and pre-approved limits.
Business Instant needs, in their local environments.
We understand the challenges posed Lending has reduced cycle times for customers requesting unsecured by significant technological change and know it is essential that we stay loans of less than 25,000, from five days to a matter of minutes.
relevant and provide up-to-date solutions for our customers.
The pace of development also means a changing set of risks: from data integrity to We have also launched an exciting new product for SMEs.
We ensure our contingency systems are  is a data analytics tool that allows a business to know its tested to ensure there is no disruption to customer service.
Cyber-risk is monthly sales, annual debit card transactions, year-on-year sales, or a continuing concern, and we have invested heavily in cyber-crime average transaction values in a simple snapshot, using all of our debit prevention, working very closely with the UK government and other card and credit card data for that business.
We believe providing these providers to create a secure digital environment.
analytics to small businesses will help move their business forward.
We want to ensure we can put past conduct issues behind us, and have We are delivering on significant opportunities in UK Cards, both by continued to fide-risk and simplify our product portfolio.
providing credit cards to existing current account customers, leveraging what we have learnt in digital delivery of consumer lending, and by You can read more about changes in regulation, and risks to the extending programmes like SmartSpend and Features Store to all UK business in the Risk section and the Supervisory and Regulation sections Cards customers.
Pingit, our app where you can undertake a transaction whether or not you Business highlights are a Barclays customer, now has 3.2 million registered users.
Its companion One of our highlights of 2016 has been the creation of Barclays UK and app is our reference tool, Cloudit, which allows all correspondence with the an even greater focus on transforming how we interact with our bank to be stored on a customers personal cloud.
customers and use data to identify opportunities to meet their needs.
We are the only bank in Europe to have launched video banking, rolling it out at scale, and encrypting the process.
And were the first bank in the In 2016, Barclays UK RoTE excluding notable items was 19.3% 2015: 21.1%, as profit before tax decreased 5% to 2,587m driven by an UK to introduce contactless cash a completely new way for our customers to withdraw cash, using contactless technology.
increase in credit impairment charges, partially offset by a reduction in total operating expenses.
Including notable items, reflecting provisions We have made significant changes to our business in 2016, and I am for UK customer redress, RoTE was 9.6% 2015: 0.3%.
We have seen confident that in 2017 we will continue on our path of innovation and growth.
strong deposit growth, a stable net interest margin and prudent growth in loans and advances, focused on remortgage and lower loan-to-value segments, and unsecured loans to existing customers.
We now have 5.7 million registered users on Barclays Mobile Banking.
On average, customers come into our mobile app 31 times a month, an indication of deep engagement.
Ashok Vaswani CEO, Barclays UK Barclays UK operational model Customers Products Value Contribution and Clients and services creation to Group Individuals Personal banking services To our customers & clients 7.5bn Income Building meaningful SMEs Credit cards and 1.7bn Profit before tax relationships to provide transactional lending 9.6% RoTE relevant financial solutions Investment products 65% Cost: Income ratio To society Helping and services 67.5bn Risk Weighted communities move forward Business banking solutions Assets To Barclays Ring-fenced UK-focused bank with sustainable revenues and prudent balance growth home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 27
