Directors Report Additional Disclosures On 1 November 2007, a subsidiary of the Company, BBA Aviation Finance, entered into qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 in favour of its directors, under which each director is Additional indemnified against liabilities incurred by that director in respect of acts or omissions arising in the course of their office or otherwise by virtue of their office and such provisions remain in force as at the date of this report.
Disclosures Employee information Group results and dividends The Company provides employees with various opportunities to obtain information The results for the year ended 31 December 2016 are shown in the Consolidated on matters of concern to them and to improve their awareness of the financial and Statement of Comprehensive Income on page 90. economic factors that affect the performance of the Company.
These include All Hands Briefings, staff forums, and meetings with trade unions that take place The directors recommend the payment of a final ordinary share dividend for 2016 throughout the year.
of 9.12 net per share on 19 May 2017 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 7 April 2017, which together with the interim dividend paid on All companies within the Group strive to operate fairly at all times and this includes 4 November 2016 makes a total of 12.75 net per ordinary share for the year not permitting discrimination against any employee or applicant for employment 2015: 13.53.
Shareholders will receive their dividends in sterling unless they on the basis of race, religion or belief, colour, gender, disability, national origin, age, have previously elected to receive their dividends in US dollars.
Shareholders who military service, veteran status, sexual orientation or marital status.
This includes wish to receive dividends in US dollars must make the appropriate election to the giving full and fair consideration to suitable applications for employment from Companys registrars no later than 5.30 pm on 26 April 2017.
A new election is not disabled persons and making appropriate accommodations so that if existing required if shareholders have previously made a valid election to receive dividends employees become disabled they can continue to be employed, wherever in US dollars.
Further information concerning the dividend currency election practicable, in the same job or, if this is not practicable, making every effort to find can be found on the Companys website at www.
suitable alternative employment and to provide relevant training.
Acquisitions and disposals Agreements Acquisitions and disposals in the year are described in notes 24 and 25 to the Under section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company discloses that in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
event of a change of control in the Company: i The Companys commitments under the $1,650 million Acquisition Financing Agreement dated 23 September 2015 and as Events after the balance sheet date amended and restated on 16 November 2015, its $650 million revolving credit facility The disposal of the ASIG business was completed on 31 January 2017 and is dated 10 April 2014, its $300 million private note placement dated 18 May 2011 as described in more detail in note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
amended and its $200 million private note placement dated 17 December 2014 There are no other disclosable events after the balance sheet date.
could become repayable: ii the Engine Lease Agreement dated 29 June 2009 as amended under which $83 million of aircraft engines have been leased to the Engine Board of Directors Repair & Overhaul ERO business could be terminated: iii the consent of Netjets The current directors of the Company at the date of this report appear on pages would be required for the transfer of the benefits under its contract with Signature 44 and 45.
Nick Land stepped down from the Board after the AGM on 6 May 2016.
Flight Support: and iv the operating licence with London Luton Airport Operations All other directors held office throughout the financial year under review.
Directors interests in shares Future developments Directors interests in shares and share options are contained in the Directors The Strategic Report discusses future developments of the Groups businesses.
Suppliers payment policy Directors indemnities The Company and Groups policy is to settle terms of payment with suppliers when The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity in favour of each of its directors, agreeing the terms of each transaction, to ensure that suppliers are made aware of under which the Company agrees to indemnify each director against liabilities the terms of payment and abide by the terms of the payment.
incurred by that director in respect of acts or omissions arising in the course of their office or otherwise by virtue of their office.
In addition, the Company has entered into indemnity deed polls in substantially similar terms in favour of members of the Executive Management Committee and other members of senior management.
Where such deeds are for the benefit of directors, they are qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by section 309B of the Companies Act 1985 or section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, as applicable.
At the date of this report, these indemnities are therefore in force for the benefit of all the current directors of the Company and other members of senior management.
80 Directors Report Additional Disclosures Share capital Charitable and political donations Details of the Companys share capital and changes to the share capital are shown Group donations to charities worldwide were $1,057,712 2015: $675,000.
in note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
That note also contains No donations were made to any political party in either year.
a summary of the rights attaching to each class of shares and details of the number of ordinary shares held in employee benefit trusts.
Awards granted under Auditor the Companys share plans are satisfied either by shares held in the employee As required by section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each of the directors, at the benefit trusts or by the issue of new shares when awards vest.
The Remuneration date of the approval of this report, confirms that: Committee monitors the number of awards made under the various share plans a so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the and their potential impact on the relevant dilution limits recommended by the Companys auditor is unaware: and Investment Association.
There is a 5% limit in respect of discretionary plans and a b the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to 10% limit in respect of all plans.
Based on the Companys issued share capital as at make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the 31 December 2016, the Company has used 2% towards the 5% limit and 2.6% Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Words and phrases used in this confirmation should be interpreted in accordance with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company was given authority to purchase up to 14.99% of its existing ordinary share capital at the 2016 AGM.
That authority will expire at the conclusion of the AGM A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company will be proposed at in 2017 unless renewed.
Accordingly, a special resolution to renew the authority will the AGM.
be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Greenhouse gas emissions The existing authority for directors to allot ordinary shares will expire at the The greenhouse gas emissions are disclosed on page 29. conclusion of the 2017 AGM.
Accordingly, an ordinary resolution to renew this authority will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
In addition, it will be proposed Financial Risk Management to give the directors further authority to allot ordinary shares in connection with a Financial Risk Management is discussed on pages 22 to 25. rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders.
This is in line with guidance issued by the Investment Association.
If the directors were to use such further authority in the The Directors Report was approved by the Board on 28 February 2017 and signed year following the 2017 AGM, all directors wishing to remain in office would stand for on its behalf by: re-election at the 2018 AGM.
Details of these resolutions are included within the Notice of AGM.
David Blizzard Company Secretary Resolutions at the Annual General Meeting The Companys AGM will be held on 5 May 2017.
Accompanying this report is the Notice of AGM which sets out the resolutions to be considered and approved at the meeting together with some explanatory notes.
The resolutions cover such routine matters as the renewal of authority to allot shares referred to earlier, to disapply pre-emption rights and to purchase own shares.
Substantial shareholdings The Company has been notified of the following material interests in the voting rights of the Company under the provisions of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: As at As at 31 12 16 28 2 17 William H. Gates III 14.19% 14.19% Aviva plc and its subsidiaries 6.46% 6.42% APG Asset Management NV 5.17% 5.17% 1 2 West Capital Management LP 5.01% Below 3% 81
