Directors Report Going Concern and Viability Statement The Groups forecasts and projections taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance show that the Group should be able to operate within the level Going Concern of its current facilities in the foreseeable future.
The principal risks and uncertainties affecting the forecasts and projections, to which the Group is exposed, relate to the number of hours of flying activity, principally in Business & General Aviation, but also and Viability to a lesser extent in commercial and military aviation.
Flying hours largely dictate the drivers of revenue, namely fuel volumes in Signature, engine overhaul cycles in ERO and demand for components in Ontic.
Further details of these risks and uncertainties are provided on pages 22-25.
Statement The directors have carried out a critical review of the Groups 2017 budget and medium-term plans with due regard for the risks and uncertainties to which the Group is exposed and the impact that these could have on trading performance.
The key assumptions used in constructing the budget were as follows: In Flight Support we anticipate continued strong momentum in Signature Flight Going Concern The Groups business activities together with the factors likely to affect its future Support, supported by a more sustained recovery in B&GA flying hours.
In Aftermarket Services, Ontics outlook remains solid with a strong order development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report and Directors Report on pages 01-82.
The financial position of the Group, its cash backlog.
Engine Repair & Overhaul has now addressed the operational inefficiencies related to the footprint rationalisation programme but with a flows and liquidity position are described on pages 34-36.
In addition, note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements includes the Groups objectives, policies competitive market and pricing environment further opportunities to simplify the business will be taken to improve efficiency.
and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to In addition, our overall performance will be supported by further incremental contributions from the substantial investments made across the Group in recent credit risk and liquidity risk.
Over the longer term, the underlying strengths of our market-leading The Groups committed bank facilities comprise a $650 million multicurrency revolving businesses, the continuing improvement in their operational performance and credit facility dated 10 April 2014 due to expire in April 2019 and an Acquisition the structural growth and consolidation in our major markets support the Boards Financing Agreement AFA put in place during 2015 to fund the acquisition of confidence in our ability to generate superior through-cycle returns.
Landmark Aviation in conjunction with the rights issue.
The AFA comprised three term debt facilities, i Facility A for $150 million which was repaid in full on 30 June The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have 2016 following the disposal of the six FBOs in accordance with the requirements of adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
the U. S. Department of Justice, ii Facility B for $400 million due to expire in February Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the 2019 of which $37 million was prepaid from the disposal proceeds for the six FBOs annual financial statements.
received on 30 June 2016 and iii Facility C for $450 million due to expire in September 2020.
The AFA facilities were fully drawn on 5 February 2016 upon the completion of Viability Statement the Landmark Aviation acquisition with Facility B and Facility C outstanding as at 31 In accordance with provision c. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the December 2016. directors have assessed the financial and operational position and prospects of the BBA Aviation Group.
The directors assessment considered the three-year period to In addition, BBA Aviation plc has US private placement USPP obligations of December 2019.
This assessment was based on the three year-financial forecast for $500 million senior notes with various maturity dates between 2018 and 2026.
In total the BBA Aviation Group.
The BBA Aviation Group three-year financial forecast was the Group has debt obligations and facilities of $1,963 million and as at 31 December prepared on a business by business basis alongside the BBA Aviation Group annual 2016 the Group has available $420 million of undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
These debt obligations and facilities are subject to cross default.
Further details relating to these debt arrangements are provided in note 16 to the Consolidated Financial The Directors consider the three-year period to December 2019 to be the appropriate Statements.
The bank facilities and the USPP notes are subject to two main financial viability assessment period as it encompasses the period over which the BBA Aviation covenants: maximum net debt to underlying EBITDA of 3.5 times and minimum net Group will achieve for run rate synergies following the transformational acquisition interest cover of 3.0 times underlying EBITDA.
Following an acquisition, the Group can of Landmark Aviation and the completion of the disposal of ASIG and the associated invoke an acquisition spike across its debt facilities whereby the net debt to EBITDA Transitional Services Agreement TSA period.
During the viability assessment covenant will increase to 4.0 times for the next two testing periods before reverting period BBA Aviation expects to deliver significant synergies take out post TSA the back to the 3.5 times level.
The directors invoked the acquisition spike following the infrastructure and associated costs that currently serve ASIG and deleverage towards completion of the Landmark Aviation acquisition.
This resulted in the net debt to pre-Landmark Aviation acquisition levels.
EBITDA covenant increasing to 4.0 times for the 30 June 2016 and 31 December 2016 In making their assessments the directors have considered the potential financial testing periods.
This will now revert to 3.5 times net debt to EBITDA for the 30 June and operational impacts of severe yet plausible scenarios that could impact the three 2017 testing period.
This acquisition spike can only be utilised once during the life of year financial forecasts for BBA Aviation.
The plausible scenarios considered are the bank facilities and twice during the life of the USPP notes.
The directors expect the broadly aligned to the principal risks and uncertainties set out on pages 22-25.
In their Group to comply with these covenants for the foreseeable future.
assessment of the impact of plausible scenarios on BBA Aviation, the directors have also considered the likely effectiveness of available mitigating actions.
Based on this assessment, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the BBA Aviation Group will be able to continue in operation and meet their liabilities as they fall due for the three-year period to December 2019.
