Strategic Report Signature Flight Support 2016 Performance Signature Flight Support 2016 Performance Revenue 30 June 2016: the $186.6m proceeds were used for debt repayment.
The full year 2016 results include an EBITDA contribution of $7.9 million 2016 2015 Inc dec from these FBOs.
$m $m % In December we completed the transaction to combine the aircraft North America 1274.3 787.4 62% management and charter business, acquired through the acquisition Europe & ROW 164.0 132.8 23% of Landmark Aviation, with Gama Aviations US aircraft management Total 1438.3 920.2 56% business.
The combined business, which is named Gama Aviation Signature Aircraft Management, is one of the largest aircraft Signature Flight Supports existing locations i. e. excluding acquired management and charter businesses in the world with around 200 locations delivered another strong performance in a moderate airplanes under management.
It also offers our Signature business growth environment, reflecting the continued benefits of its strong the opportunity to provide support in terms of its global FBO network, and customer-relevant network.
Organic revenue increased by 5% to hangar space, line maintenance and engine support capability.
Signatures continued market outperformance further demonstrates the strong demand from existing and new customers for During the year, Signature continued to expand its network with the its market leading services, and facilities across its unique, growing and addition of a new location at Stewart International Airport, NY in July, global network.
as well as further extensions of the Signature network in Latin America and the Caribbean, with the opening of new facilities at Tocumen The acquisition of Landmark Aviation completed on 5 February 2016 International Airport, Panama and Trinidad-Piarco International Airport, and the business has subsequently met all of our expectations.
In Europe, Signature added four new FBOs to its network detailed and large scale integration plan has been executed very in Italy in April 2016 through a joint venture with SEA Prime S. P. A. effectively and all FBOs are now fully integrated within the Signature adding locations at Milan Linate, Milan Malpensa, Rome Ciampino and network.
Following the successful integration, Signature is now well Venice Marco Polo airports.
positioned to focus on optimising this unique and high quality global network of FBOs, through the provision of a broader range of B&GA Signature further expanded its network globally through its affiliate TM services to our extensive customer base and enhancing network FBO programme, Signature Select, with the addition of three new performance to accelerate value creation.
The enlarged Signature locations in Johannesburg, South Africa, Bogota, Colombia, and at TM network has the unmatched ability to satisfy the needs of our Farmingdale, Long Island, increasing the Signature Select network customers at many more locations that they want to fly to, supporting to 18 locations globally.
anticipated continued outperformance in 2017 and beyond.
Signature continued to invest in its current network, with the successful opening of its newly constructed state-of-the-art FBO at London Cost synergies have been delivered ahead of schedule and we Luton Airport in December 2016 and new FBO at Mineta San Jose anticipate delivering $39 million of cost synergies in 2017.
Landmark International Airport in February 2016.
Signature also opened newly Aviation and the associated synergies will no longer be reported constructed facilities at Cleveland Burke Lakefront Airport and at separately and will instead form part of Signatures overall performance Gerald R. Ford International Airport in Grand Rapids, Michigan.
The total cost of integration is approximately addition, Signature secured two new strategic and significant leases $42 million, consisting of $25 million of one-off expenses, shown as at its existing facilities at Biggin Hill Airport, outside of London, and in exceptionals, which is in line with guidance, and $17 million of capital Nashville International Airport, in Tennessee, where the construction expenditure, which is below the $19 million originally anticipated.
of a new FBO terminal and hangars will begin this year.
Six FBOs were sold in order to satisfy regulatory requirements for the Landmark Aviation acquisition and this transaction was completed on There are now 203 locations in Signatures global network.
