Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement Board of Directors and Executive Management Executive Directors Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Executive Management Simon Pryce, Sir Nigel Rudd, Wayne Edmunds David Blizzard Kevin Erickson Group Chief Executive Chairman Gareth Hall Mark Johnstone Mike Powell Peter Edwards Susan Kilsby Group Finance Director Peter Ratcliffe Peter Ventress Erik Keller Tony Lefebvre Maria Sastre 44 Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement Executive Directors Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Simon Pryce 55 Sir Nigel Rudd 70 N R Peter Ventress 56 A N R Wayne Edmunds 61 A N R Group Chief Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board as Group Appointed to the Board in December Appointed to the Board in January Appointed to the Board in August Chief Executive in June 2007.
Sir Nigel Rudd became Chairman 2016.
Peter is Chairman of Galliford 2013.
Waynes current appointments also chairs the BBA Aviation Executive in May 2014.
Sir Nigel is also chairman Try plc and a non-executive director include being Chairman of Dialight plc, Management Committee.
In addition to of Meggitt PLC and Sappi Limited.
He was formerly a a non-executive director of Ashtead his BBA Aviation plc position, Simon is In February 2011, he was appointed non-executive director of Premier Group plc, and MSCI.
He was Chief on the board of Electrocomponents plc Chairman of the Business Growth Fund.
From 2009 he spent six years Executive of Invensys plc until and the General Aviation Manufacturers Sir Nigel has a wealth of experience as Chief Executive Officer of Berendsen January 2014.
He has extensive Association GAMA, the US general at the top of UK industry, including plc.
Prior to this he held several senior commercial experience, particularly aviation trade body, and is chairman previous chairmanships of Invensys executive roles, including International in the US markets.
Previously, Wayne of its International Affairs Committee.
plc, Alliance Boots plc, Pendragon President at Staples Inc. and Chief was chief financial officer of Invensys Simon is a Fellow of the Royal plc, Heathrow Airport Holdings Ltd Executive Officer, at Corporate Express plc, having joined the business in 2008 Aeronautical Society, a member and Pilkington plc: and as founder of NV a Dutch quoted company prior to its as CFO of Invensys Process Systems.
of the Council of the University of Williams plc he oversaw its demerger acquisition by Staples Inc. Peter has held He joined Invensys plc from Reuters Reading, a chartered accountant and in 2000, creating Chubb plc and Kidde a number of other senior management America, Inc. having held other senior a member of the Chartered Institute plc.
Sir Nigel is a Deputy Lieutenant of positions across different businesses business and financial roles in the for Securities and Investment.
He was Derbyshire and a Freeman of the City in a variety of industries and has lived technology sector, including 17 years at previously with JP Morgan and Lazards of London.
and worked in France, Canada and the Lucent Technologies, Inc. in London and New York and GKN plc Netherlands.
Peter Ratcliffe 68 A N R in a range of international finance and Peter Edwards 61 A N R Susan Kilsby 58 A N R management roles.
Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board in January 2009.
Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board in January 2016.
Mike Powell 49 Peter brings to the Board his experience Appointed to the Board in April 2012 Peter has spent his career primarily in Group Finance Director of working in an industry focused on and became Chairman of the the aerospace sector across a wide Appointed to the Board as Group customer service, as he was the chief Remuneration Committee in May 2013. spectrum of roles.
He began his career Finance Director in July 2014.
Mike executive officer of P&O Princess Susan brings to the Board her global with Air Research Aviation, followed joined from AZ Electronic Materials, Cruises PLC until April 2003 and chief investment banking experience, having by nine years at Gulfstream in a variety a FTSE 250 company with international executive officer of the P&O Princess begun her career at the First Boston of senior sales and marketing roles.
reach, where he held the role of Chief Cruises division of Carnival Corporation Corporation and later worked at In 1995, he joined Bombardier Financial Officer from 2011.
Prior to this and Carnival plc from 2003 to 2007.
Bankers Trust and BZW, before the Aerospace Corporation, where in 2001 Mike was Group Finance Director of He also brings his significant latter was acquired by Credit Suisse.
he was appointed President of Nippon Sheet Glass Co. Limited, having experience both as an executive and She was chairman of the EMEA Mergers Business Aircraft.
Peter was Chief previously spent 15 years at Pilkington a non-executive director of UK and and Acquisitions Group at Credit Suisse Executive Officer of Jet Aviation, a plc in a variety of senior finance roles.
He was until 2009 and she was also a nonglobal business aircraft service provider, He is a non-executive director of previously an executive director of executive director of LOccitane, Keurig between 2007 and 2011.
Since leaving Low & Bonar PLC.
The Peninsular and Oriental Steam Green Mountain and Coca Cola HBC.
Jet Aviation, Peter is active with his Navigation Company.
He is a chartered Her current appointments include being aviation advisory practice, along with accountant and a dual US UK citizen.
chairman of Shire plc, a non-executive various roles in European-based He is currently a non-executive director director of Fortune Brands Home ventures in the commercial and business of Mead Johnson Nutrition Company & Security, Inc. and Goldman Sachs aviation sectors.
In January 2012, he and Casa Pacifica Centers for Children International.
Her experience advising co-founded Axis Simulation Holdings, and Families.
clients across a range of industries the parent company of Austrian-based includes significant deals in the aviation Axis Flight Training Systems, a high-end and aerospace sectors.
manufacturer of advanced full-motion aircraft flight training simulators, where he is both principal and Chairman.
Key to Committee members A Audit and Risk Committee N Nomination Committee R Remuneration Committee 45 Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement The Board is committed to ensuring Corporate appropriate standards of corporate governance are maintained at BBA Aviation plc.
Governance The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it.
The Board monitors the evolution of Corporate Governance best practice, at a Glance reviews and updates its procedures as required, and adopts, where relevant, recommendations of governance review bodies in relation to Board leadership and effectiveness, accountability, remuneration and relations with shareholders.
The governance framework is shown below: The Board Remuneration Committee Audit and Risk Committee Nomination Committee see page 47 for a summary and see page 47 for a summary see page 47 for a summary the Directors Remuneration and 52 for more detail and 51 for more detail Report starting on page 56 Disclosure Committee Implementation Committee see page 47 for more detail see page 47 for more detail Group Chief Executive Executive Management Committee Risk Framework see pages 22 to 25 for more detail 46 Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement Responsibilities of the Board and its Committees Remuneration Committee The Board The Remuneration Committee has two principal functions: There is a schedule of matters reserved to the Board that includes making recommendations to the Board on the framework matters such as: strategy and objectives: Group policies: annual and Board policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, executive budgets: dividends: acquisitions and disposals of businesses over directors and other designated senior executives: and a certain size : expenditure over a certain limit: financial results: determining, on behalf of the Board, the specific remuneration and appointment and removal of directors and Company Secretary.
package for each of the executive directors, including pension rights and any compensation payments.
This schedule of matters is reviewed by the Board each year.
Matters outside the scope of this formal schedule are decided Nomination Committee by management in accordance with delegated authorities approved The primary responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are to: by the Board and by the Audit and Risk Committee.
make appropriate recommendations to the Board for the appointment or replacement of additional Directors: Audit and Risk Committee devise and consider succession planning arrangements The Audit and Risk Committee may consider any matter that for Directors and senior executives: and might have a financial impact on the Group.
However, its primary regularly review the structure, size and composition of the roles are to: Board and make recommendations to the Board with regard monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal to any changes.
control and risk assessment: monitor the effectiveness of the Companys Internal Audit function: Implementation Committee review and assess the Companys external audit function, including The Implementation Committee comprises any two directors the annual audit plan and results of the external audit and the normally the two executive directors and it is authorised to independence of the external auditor: implement Board decisions.
monitor the integrity and audit of the Companys financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the Disclosure Committee Companys financial performance, including a review of the The Disclosure Committee comprises any two directors or any significant financial reporting judgements contained within them: director and the Company Secretary and has responsibility for review the contents of the Annual Report and Accounts and advise determining, on a timely basis, the disclosure treatment of the Board on whether, taken as a whole, they are fair, balanced material information.
and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy: review the Going Concern Statement and the Viability Statement on behalf of the Board: and establish and oversee the Companys arrangements for employee disclosure and fraud prevention within the Company.
47 Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement Following the Board effectiveness review B6, Susan Kilsby collated the feedback on the Chairman, discussed this with the other non-executive directors and, taking into Compliance account the views of the executive directors, provided feedback to the Chairman.
Section B: Effectiveness Statement B1: The Composition of the Board At the date of this report, the Board comprises the Chairman, five independent non-executive directors and two executive directors, who contribute a wide range of complementary skills and experience.
The Board has concluded that Wayne Edmunds, Peter Edwards, Susan Kilsby, The Company applies the principles of Corporate Governance set out in the UK Peter Ratcliffe and Peter Ventress are independent in character and judgement.
Corporate Governance Code published in September 2014 the Code, which is the The Company has formal procedures in place to ensure that the Boards powers to version of the Code that applies to the 2016 financial year.
The directors can confirm authorise conflicts are operated effectively and such procedures have been followed compliance throughout 2016 with all relevant provisions set out in the Code.
throughout 2016 and to the date of this report.
The section below sets out how the Company has complied with the main principles of the Code and the disclosures are set out in the order they appear in the Code.
B2: Appointments to the Board There is a rigorous and transparent procedure for appointments that is described in the Report of the Nomination Committee on page 51.
Peter Edwards and Section A: Leadership Peter Ventress were appointed to the Board on 1 January 2016 following a A1: Role of the Board comprehensive process.
The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
Its role includes providing effective leadership and agreeing the Groups strategic B3: Commitment aims.
It assesses business opportunities and seeks to ensure that appropriate The Chairman and each of the non-executive directors have provided assurances to controls are in place to examine and manage risk.
the Board that they remain fully committed to their respective roles and can dedicate It is responsible for reviewing managements performance and oversees senior the necessary amount of time to attend to the Companys affairs.
The Board is level succession planning within the Group.
The Board is also responsible for setting satisfied that each of the directors is able to devote sufficient time to the Company the Companys values and standards, ensuring that the Companys obligations to its and its affairs to effectively discharge their duties.
Letters of appointment for the non-executive directors are available for inspection There were seven scheduled Board meetings in 2016. by shareholders at each AGM and during normal business hours at the Companys registered office.
The Company has arranged insurance for the directors and officers of the Company.
Executive directors must obtain the prior consent of the Board before A2: Division of Responsibilities accepting a non-executive directorship in any other company.
During 2016, The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are distinct.
The division of following consent of the Board, both Simon Pryce and Mike Powell accepted responsibilities is reviewed annually by the Board and is available on the non-executive directorships.
Simon Pryce was appointed to the Board of Corporate Governance Section of the BBA Aviation plc website.
The statement Electrocomponents plc on 26 September 2016 and Mike Powell was appointed was last reviewed by the Board in December 2016.
In summary, Sir Nigel Rudd, the to the Board of Low & Bonar PLC on 1 December 2016.
Executive directors may Chairman, is responsible for leading the Board and its effectiveness: Simon Pryce retain the fees from any such directorships.
Additionally, Simon Pryce is a member the Chief Executive is responsible for the implementation of the Group strategy of the Council of the University of Reading and is on the Board of the General and running the businesses.
A3: The Chairman B4: Development Sir Nigel sets the Board agenda in consultation with the Chief Executive, the There is a written framework for the induction of new directors which includes Group Finance Director, other Board members and the Company Secretary.
site visits, meetings with senior management and advisers, and the provision of On appointment as Chairman in May 2014 the Board considered Sir Nigel to be corporate documentation.
The focus of any induction programme is tailored to independent in accordance with the Code provisions.
the background of the new director concerned.
The induction programmes for Peter Edwards and Peter Ventress are described in more detail on page 50.
A4: Non-executive directors The Board and its Committees are kept informed of Corporate Governance and Susan Kilsby became the Senior Independent Director and Wayne Edmunds relevant regulatory developments as they arise and receive topical business became Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee following the 2016 AGM when briefings.
The Board also keeps itself informed about the Companys activities Nick Land retired.
through a structured programme of presentations from each of the businesses During the year, the Chairman met the non-executive directors on a one-to-one within the Group and from a number of Group functional leaders.
Additionally, the Chairman met the non-executive directors without the A training log is maintained by the Company and this register is periodically reviewed executive directors on a number of occasions.
There were several occasions during by the Chairman with the director concerned, as part of the Chairmans regular the year when discussions between various directors took place on an informal basis.
review of their training and development needs.
If particular training needs are In addition to formal Board meetings, the Chairman maintains regular contact during identified, then plans are put in place and the Company provides appropriate the year with the other directors to discuss specific issues.
resources for developing and updating the directors knowledge and skills.
48 Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement The Board believes that the identification of individual training and development Overall responsibility for systems of internal control rests with the Board.
needs is primarily the responsibility of each individual director, bearing in mind the The Board reviewed the effectiveness and systems throughout the year range of experiences and skills that are developed by their differing portfolios.
and further information is set out on pages 54 and 55.
B5: Information and support C3: Audit Committee and Auditors The Chairman takes responsibility for ensuring the directors receive accurate, timely Compliance with the Code provisions in respect of the Audit Committee and clear information, with Board and Committee papers being circulated sufficiently requirements and Auditors is contained within the Audit Committee in advance of meetings.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, Section D: Remuneration and the Board has established a procedure whereby directors wishing to do so Please refer to the Directors Remuneration Report for further information in furtherance of their duties may take independent professional advice at the and in particular: Companys expense.
The Company arranges appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal actions against its directors.
The Company has also entered into indemnities D1: Level and components of remuneration with its directors, as described on page 80.
B6: Evaluation D2: Procedure In 2015, the Board appointed Clare Chalmers of Independent Audit to conduct a Pages 56 78 Board effectiveness review.
The process was described in detail in the 2015 Annual Report.
In 2016, the Board invited Clare Chalmers to support the effectiveness In addition, the fees of the non-executive directors are determined by the Board as a review.
Telephone interviews were conducted with each of the directors and Clare whole on the recommendation of the Group Chief Executive.
No director is involved prepared and presented a paper to the Board in November reviewing progress and in deciding his or her own remuneration or fees.
Section E: Relations with Shareholders Overall, the conclusion from the Board evaluation and appraisal process was positive, E1: Dialogue with shareholders with all directors contributing actively to the effective performance of the Board and the Committees of which he or she is a member.
The new non-executive directors The Board is kept up to date on the views of BBA Aviations major shareholders.
The executive directors undertake an annual programme of meetings with banks, have settled in well and both felt theyd received a comprehensive and useful induction.
The review confirmed the strengths that had been identified in 2015 institutional shareholders, fund managers and analysts to maintain a continuing dialogue with the Companys providers of finance.
The Board receives formal written and identified a number of areas of focus, for further continuous improvement.
reports from its brokers as well as reports from the executive directors regarding The areas for focus and continuous improvement are that: the views of shareholders following the roadshows that follow the preliminary and The succession planning process should have more visibility at Board half-year results announcements and at other times as appropriate.
Nomination Committee level - including increasing the Boards exposure to senior management below Executive Management Committee level: All non-executive directors, including the Senior Independent Director, are available The good quality of the Board papers could be further enhanced with improved to meet with major shareholders.
The Chairman wrote to major shareholders executive summaries and appendices or other tools to aid the reader: and ahead of the 2016 AGM offering them the opportunity to raise any issues or The length and detail of the minutes should be kept under review.
The Chairman and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee also maintain contact, as required, with major shareholders about directors remuneration The Board is committed to making improvements in these areas highlighted in the matters.
In 2016, there was a comprehensive engagement programme with the Board evaluation.
top 10-12 shareholders on remuneration and this is described in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Board considers that its non-executive directors, B7: Re-election including the Senior Independent Director, have a good level of understanding The Board has decided that all Board members, with the exception of Mike Powell of the issues and concerns of major shareholders, as required by the Code.
who will be leaving at the end of May 2017, will retire and stand for re-election at the 2017 AGM.
The Board believes that each of such directors should be E2: Constructive use of General Meetings re-elected by shareholders, because each continues to be effective and The Companys AGM is used as an opportunity to communicate with private demonstrates commitment to their role.
It is intended that the notice of the AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Sir Nigel Rudd as Section C: Accountability Chairman of the Board and the Nomination Committee, Wayne Edmunds as C1: Financial and business reporting Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, and Susan Kilsby as Chairman of the The Directors responsibility statement for preparing the report and account is Remuneration Committee and Senior Independent Director will each be available set out on page 82. to answer questions, as appropriate, at the AGM in 2017.
Shareholders can vote separately on each proposal.
The Company counts all proxy votes cast in respect The business model is within the strategic report on pages 12 and 13. of the AGM and makes available the proxy voting figures for, against and vote withheld on each resolution.
The voting results of the AGM, together with the The Going Concern and Viability Statement is set out on page 79. details of proxy votes cast prior to the meeting, are made available on request and on the Companys website.
The results of the AGM voting is also announced to the C2: Risk management and internal control market via a Regulatory News Service.
The Board undertook a comprehensive review of the principal risks facing the Company and how the risks may impact the Companys prospects.
The Risk Management process is described in detail on pages 22-25.
49 Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement Induction The Board The induction for Peter Edwards and Peter Ventress focused on introducing them to the businesses of BBA Aviation.
How the Board spends its time Board meetings focus on strategy and financial and business performance.
Peter Edwards induction also included a session on the obligations and requirements of being the director of a listed company.
Peter Ventress induction did not include Additional meetings are called as required to deal with specific matters.
A number of the key matters considered by the Board during 2016 are shown this element as he already had wide experience as a non-executive director of other listed companies.
in the table below New non-executive directors are available to meet major shareholders on request.
Meeting Main issues considered Board Committees February Annual Results and Report content Written terms of reference for each Committee are reviewed each year and these AGM and dividend are available on the Groups website www.
com for the main Committees.
Health and Safety Matters The main responsibilities have been described in the At-a-glance section on page 47.
May Business review: Ontic June Business review: Western Europe and Signature 2016 Board and Board Committee meeting attendance Visit to Signature and ASIG operations The following table shows the attendance of Board and Board Committee members ASIG disposal at scheduled meetings.
It does not show attendance by non-Committee members August Half year results and interim dividend at meetings to which they were invited.
Progress against Board objectives ASIG disposal Audit October ASIG disposal and Risk Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee November Strategy Session Board Evaluation Number of Corporate Responsibility update scheduled meetings 7 5 5 1 Visit to NBAA tradeshow Sir Nigel Rudd 7 7 5 5 1 1 December 2017 budget and goals Simon Pryce 7 7 Board objectives progress and targets Mike Powell 7 7 Wayne Edmunds 7 7 5 5 5 5 1 1 At each meeting in 2016, the Board considered reports from the Group Chief Executive and the Finance Director: it also received reports and updates on mergers Peter Edwards 7 7 5 5 5 5 1 1 and acquisitions activity, the Signature Landmark integration, Health and Safety Susan Kilsby 7 7 5 5 5 5 1 1 matters and litigation at each meeting.
Nick Land 2 2 2 2 2 2 0 0 The Board is responsible for succession planning at Board level and below, although Peter Ratcliffe 7 7 5 5 5 5 1 1 part of the work is delegated to the Nomination Committee.
Peter Ventress 7 7 5 5 5 5 1 1 In December, the Board reviewed the objectives it set itself for 2016, which included succession planning, senior leadership development and enhancing the Boards exposure to regulatory issues.
The Board considers it has made good progress Nick Land retired from the Board at the AGM in 2016 and he attended all Board and against its objectives, although it recognises that succession planning remains an Board Committee meetings while he was a director of the Company.
If any director is unable to attend a meeting, they discuss, in advance, with the Opportunities also exist throughout the year for informal contact between Board relevant chairman their views on the business of that meeting so that their position members and with members of the senior management team.
Site visits are an can be represented.
important part of the Boards programme, enabling Board members to meet employees in individual operations.
In 2016, the Board held two of its scheduled seven meetings in the USA.
The June meeting was held in New York which allowed the Board to visit a number of Signature and ASIG operations in the surrounding area.
These visits enabled the Board to meet both formally and informally with a number of employees.
The November meeting was held in Orlando, and the Board visited the NBAA tradeshow exhibition.
During the time in Orlando, the Board met informally with the wider team responsible for the Landmark acquisition and integration.
50 Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement The appointment process Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee evaluates the existing balance of experience, skills, knowledge, independence and diversity of backgrounds on the Board The composition of the Nomination Committee is set out in the table below.
when considering Board succession planning.
The Committee recognises that During 2016, the Nomination Committee comprised the Chairman and independent promoting an inclusive environment and diverse participation on the Board requires non-executive directors.
that the external search consultants appointed to identify future candidates for a Board role be requested to approach their search with these goals in mind.
During year Other factors that also need to be taken into account are the current and future requirements of the Company and, in the case of a non-executive appointment, 01 01 16 Resigned Appointed 31 12 16 28 02 17 the time commitment expected.
Sir Nigel Rudd Chairman The appointment process is initiated by identifying suitable external search Wayne Edmunds consultants for the vacancy and preparing details of the role and capabilities Peter Edwards required for the appointment.
Such consultants will be a signatory to the voluntary Susan Kilsby code of conduct for executive search firms on gender diversity.
The process differs in its detail depending on whether the appointment is for an executive or non-executive Nick Land 6 5 16 position, but the essentials remain the same.
Peter Ratcliffe The executive search firm would present the Committee with a list of potential Peter Ventress candidates and a shortlist will be created through consultation among Nomination Committee members.
The Board as a whole would be updated regularly on the status of the process.
The selected candidates would meet with the Committee The Nomination Committee meets as required and other directors attend members as appropriate and the Committee would confirm that each Board Nomination Committee meetings by invitation.
member was given the opportunity to meet any short-listed candidates.
The Nomination Committee had one scheduled meeting and one additional The Nomination Committee would then meet to finalise a recommendation to meeting in 2016.
This was supplemented by informal meetings, individual the Board regarding the appointment.
The final decision rests with the Board.
briefings and meetings between Committee members.
In 2015, the Zygos Partnership Zygos was appointed to assist with the selection In 2017, the Nomination Committee plans to hold additional meetings to review processes that resulted in the appointment of Peter Edwards and Peter Ventress succession planning.
Zygos only relationship with BBA Aviation plc was in respect of search, selection and recruitment.
The appointment process was described in the How the Committee spends its time 2015 Annual Report and followed the process above.
During the year, the Committee continued to discuss matters relating to talent and succession planning for leadership development across the Group.
Diversity is considered as one aspect of the succession planning discussions, together with developing and strengthening the pipeline of talent within the Group and increasing the interaction between Board members and senior members of executive management and talented future executives.
The topic of diversity covers a variety of different elements, including professional and industry experience and an understanding of different geographical regions, ethnic backgrounds and genders.
The Board does not believe that gender quotas or any other quotas effectively promote the development of appropriate and broad diversity.
The Board does believe that an appreciation of the value that a diverse range of backgrounds brings is an important part of succession planning at all levels of the Group.
The Board does continue to have an aspiration to increase female representation on the Board and, when engaging external search consultants to identify future candidates for Board roles, such consultants would be requested to take full account of all aspects of diversity in preparing their candidate lists.
Appointments of non-executive directors are made by the Board for an initial term of three years.
This term is subject to the usual regulatory provisions and continued satisfactory performance of duties following the Boards annual performance evaluation.
Reappointment for a further term is not automatic but may be made by mutual agreement.
51 Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement All members of the Audit and Risk Committee are independent non-executive directors.
Wayne Edmunds, the Committees Chairman, has recent and relevant financial experience by virtue of his senior international finance roles.
In addition, the other Committee members all have experience of corporate financial matters and Peter Ratcliffe has a professional accountancy qualification.
The Committee has good relevant industry knowledge given Peter Edwards experience.
During 2016, the Audit and Risk Committee had five scheduled meetings, generally coinciding with key dates in the financial reporting and audit cycle.
These meetings are minuted by the Company Secretary or his designate.
The Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Chief Risk Officer as well as the external auditor and the PwC partner responsible for the co-sourced Internal Audit function, also generally attend the Audit and Risk Committee meetings by invitation.
In 2016, the Audit and Risk Committee held three confidential sessions with the Head of Group Internal Audit, the Chief Risk Officer and with the external Audit and Risk Committee auditor, but otherwise without management present.
In addition, the Committee Chairman met with the external auditor, the Chief Risk Officer and Internal Audit on a The Audit and Risk Committee, as can be seen from the description of its role in the number of occasions during the year and through to February 2017.
The Committee At-a-glance section above, discharges a number of key responsibilities on behalf Chairman may call a meeting at the request of any director or the Companys of the Board and the Company.
These include monitoring BBA Aviations financial external auditor.
reporting processes, overseeing the work of the Internal Audit team and reporting on the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
How the Committee spends its time The Audit and Risk Committee is routinely briefed on accounting and technical While risk strategy and risk appetite are matters for the whole Board, the oversight matters by senior management and by the external auditor.
In 2016, briefings of the processes that underpin risk assessment and internal control are matters that included considering the progress of the exposure draft on revenue recognition the Board delegates to this Committee.
For the production of the 2016 Report and and of proposed revisions to the exposure draft on accounting for leases.
Accounts, the Audit and Risk Committee was asked by the Board to advise whether the Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable The Audit and Risk Committee reviews twice-yearly reports on the Groups key and to provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys business risks and the Committee members all of whom are also members position, performance, business model and strategy.
of the Remuneration Committee are aware of the importance of keeping the The Audit and Risk Committee also reviewed the Viability Statement and the appropriateness of incentive structures under review.
The Committee also supporting process on behalf of the Board.
assesses compliance with the Directors Responsibility Statements.
The report of the Audit and Risk Committee is set out below.
There is a twice-yearly formal report to the Committee on business ethics and compliance, which includes such matters as the review of the Groups Disclosure of Unethical Conduct Policy, under which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns Wayne Edmunds about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.
In addition, the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Committee reviews reports on any items arising under that policy.
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on matters Composition within its remit, including the remuneration and appointment of the external auditor.
The composition of the Audit and Risk Committee during 2016 is set out in While the appointment of the external auditor is considered each year, it is the policy the table below.
of the Committee to review the appointment in greater detail at least every five years with a tender process taking place in 2014.
The Committee considers a number of factors, including audit effectiveness at both operating Company and Group-level: During year quality, continuity and depth of resources: and expertise and competitiveness of 01 01 16 Resigned Appointed 31 12 16 28 02 17 fees.
The appointment of the Senior Statutory Auditor is rotated every five years.
Wayne Edmunds Chairman The Audit and Risk Committee discharges its responsibilities through the review Peter Edwards of written reports circulated in advance of meetings and by discussing these reports and any other matters with the relevant auditors and management.
Susan Kilsby Nick Land 06 05 16 Peter Ratcliffe Peter Ventress Nick Land was Chairman of the Committee until his retirement at the AGM on 6 May 2016.
52 Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement In last years annual report we reported the Committees conclusion that a reasonably foreseeable change in the key assumptions underpinning the impairment Topics covered by the Committee during 2016 and to date in 2017 included: tests could result in a significant impairment being recorded in the financial Review of any significant financial reporting issues and judgements statements.
Following a deterioration in performance in the first half of 2016 an in respect of the half-year results and year-end report and accounts impairment test was undertaken as at 30 June and an impairment loss recognised in described in more detail below including disclosures relating to tax: relation to both of the ERO cash generating units CGUs.
Review of any significant matters raised by the internal auditors: Consideration of the audit fee and the balance between audit and The Committee reviewed analysis provided by management, the budgets non-audit fees: and plans on which they were based and the report of Deloitte LLP.
The Annual review of the terms of reference of the Committee, of Committee was satisfied that the impairment and the disclosure made in the schedule of the Committees agenda items for the forthcoming relation to it were appropriate.
year, of the non-audit services policy and of BBA Aviations matrix of authority levels: c. Purchase Price Accounting Review of the effectiveness of Internal Audit and discussion of Group The Group completed a number of acquisitions during 2016, the most significant Internal Audits overall strategy: being the acquisition of Landmark.
In each case the purchase price accounting was Auditor independence and audit effectiveness described in more detail applied, the results of which are detailed in note 24. on page 54 : and In each case the allocation of fair values to all acquired assets and liabilities is an area Systems of internal control described in more detail starting on page 54. of significant judgment.
As detailed in the Critical accounting judgments, key to the judgments required is the estimation of the related cash flows for each and every asset and liability acquired.
The judgments are often inherently dependent on, and The Committees terms of reference were updated during the year, primarily to sensitive to, long-term forecasts of the performance of the underlying business.
reflect the changes in the latest guidance.
The Committee relied upon a combination of analysis provided by management Significant financial reporting issues considered by the Audit and in the case of Landmark the work of external experts in relation to the valuation of the acquired intangible assets and property, plant and equipment both from the and Risk Committee acquisition due diligence and the purchase price accounting exercise.
The work of To aid its review, the Committee considers reports from the Group Finance Director both management and the external experts was also reported on by Deloitte LLP.
and Group Financial Controller and also reports from the outcome of the half-year The Committee was satisfied that the purchase price accounting and the disclosure review and annual audit.
The Committee supports Deloitte LLP in displaying the made in relation to it were appropriate.
necessary professional scepticism its role requires.
The primary areas of judgement considered by the Committee in relation to the 2016 financial statements and how d. Accounting for the disposal of ASIG these were addressed include: On 31 January 2017, the Group concluded the disposal of the ASIG business.
In Recording of exceptional and other items within operating profit: 2016, the determination of the point at which the business became held for sale, the Impairment: presentation of the business as a discontinued operation and the determination of Acquisition accounting and the determination of the fair valuation of assets and the fair value less cost to sell and hence the resulting impairment were all significant liabilities acquired: financial reporting issues.
Accounting for the disposal of ASIG: and, Provision for slow moving and obsolete inventory: The Committee reviewed analysis provided by management and the report of Deloitte LLP.
The Committee was satisfied that the judgments made and the These issues were discussed with management and the external auditor in the July, disclosures made in relation to them were appropriate.
September and December meetings when signing off on the auditors plan for the year-end, and no new areas were identified subsequently.
e. Provision for slow moving and obsolete inventory The Group holds significant inventory across its operations, with $235.8 million of a.
Recording of exceptional and other items within operating profit net inventory at 31 December 2016.
This inventory is held at cost net of a provision The Groups policy is to include certain items within operating profit within a middle for slow moving or obsolete inventory.
column within the Income Statement.
These items relate to restructuring activities, transaction costs associated with acquisitions, the amortisation of acquired During 2013, management undertook a review of the consistency in the estimations intangibles and material non-recurring events.
of the excess and obsolete inventory of engine and aircraft components across Aftermarket Services.
An amendment was made to the policy which is designed to b. Impairment achieve a greater level of consistency across the division as well as more precisely On an annual basis, management test for impairment of goodwill as is set out in note defining the basis for provisioning.
This policy has been consistently applied by 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
management during 2014, 2015 and 2016 and forms an important part of the audit by Deloitte LLP.
The Committee, through detailed discussion with both the Group Finance Director and external auditors, was satisfied that the policy had been applied consistently and The Committee has confirmed through its enquiries of management and Deloitte these items had been properly defined in the financial statements, such that the user that the policy remains appropriate and has been consistently applied.
of the accounts can understand the impact on our reported performance.
53 Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement Audit and accountability In December 2016, the Audit and Risk Committee reviewed the non-audit services policy and adopted a more restrictive regime for non-audit services to match the a.
Auditor independence and audit effectiveness latest FCA guidance.
The non-audit services policy is available on the Companys Central to the Audit and Risk Committees work is the review and monitoring website www.
of the external auditors independence and objectivity, and the effectiveness of the audit process.
The FRCs Audit Quality Review team selected to review the audit of the BBA Aviation plcs financial statements as part of their 2016 annual inspection of audit firms.
The Committee carried out a formal effectiveness assessment in respect of The focus of the review and their reporting is on identifying areas where work carried out during the year by the external auditor, including: improvements are required rather than highlighting areas performed to or above the continuity and objectivity of the audit partners and audit team: the expected level.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee received a full copy of the effectiveness of audit planning and execution: the findings of the Audit Quality Review team and has discussed these with Deloitte.
the role of management in ensuring an effective audit: Some matters were identified as requiring improvement and we have agreed an communication with and support of the Audit and Risk Committee: and action plan with Deloitte to ensure the matters identified by the AQR have been the formal reporting of the auditor.
addressed in the audit of the Companys 31 December 2016 financial statements.
The assessment was completed with input in the form of a survey of the key financial The Audit Committee is also satisfied that there is nothing within the report which management team, including the divisional Chief Financial Officers CFOs, the might have a bearing on the audit appointment.
Group Financial Controller and the Group Tax Director, together with the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing Other members of the Audit and Risk Committee also input their views and it its effectiveness rests with the Board.
Management is accountable to the directors was concluded that the external audit for 2016 had provided appropriate focus for monitoring this system and for providing assurance to the directors that it has and challenge on the primary areas of audit risk.
Overall, the quality of the audit done so.
The system of internal control is essentially an ongoing process embedded was assessed as good.
The Audit and Risk Committee also carried out a selfin the Groups businesses for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant assessment and believes that it has satisfied the requirements of the Code and risks faced by the Group, including social, environmental and ethical risks.
The Group the Guidance on Audit Committees published by the Financial Reporting Council considers that it has adequate information to identify and assess significant risks and in September 2012.
The Committee has confirmed that during the year it had opportunities affecting its long and short-term value.
formal and transparent arrangements for considering corporate reporting, risk management and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate This ongoing process has been in place for the year ended 31 December 2016 and up relationship with the external auditor.
to 28 February 2017 and the directors can therefore confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness in accordance with the internal control requirements of the Code One of the safeguards to ensure auditor objectivity and independence is the Groups throughout that period.
policy on the provision of non-audit services by its external auditor.
The policy is reviewed each year and, since December 2012, the policy prohibits the Groups The Groups internal system of control is reviewed annually by the directors and external auditor from carrying out remuneration consultancy and tax planning work accords with the guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2005: for the Group.
The external auditor is also prohibited from carrying out a number Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Code known as the Turnbull of other services for the Group such as book-keeping, Internal Audit, valuations, guidance.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure actuarial services and financial systems design and implementation.
Services which to achieve business objectives.
It can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance the external auditor may be permitted to carry out include assurance services such against material misstatement or loss, to the extent that is appropriate, taking as reporting accountant work and tax compliance services.
The Companys policy account of costs and benefits.
is not to use the external auditor for acquisition and due diligence work.
However, The principal risks and uncertainties which the Group faces are summarised on where the Group considers it appropriate or where conflicts arise, suppliers other pages 22 to 25, together with a description of their potential impact and mitigations than the preferred supplier may be asked to tender.
This would only include the in place.
The main features of the Groups internal control and risk management external auditor in unusual and exceptional circumstances.
Non-audit fees paid or due to the external auditor are regularly reviewed by the 1.
Risks are identified through a detailed written self-assessment process Committee and those paid in 2016 are set out in note 2 to the Consolidated carried out by division and by function.
The process analyses risk into Financial Statements.
eight types covering strategic, operational, financial, people, compliance, During 2016, if fees for non-audit projects within the scope of permitted tax services governance, hazard and an other category, including unpredictable, were expected to exceed 250,000, then the Audit and Risk Committee Chairman although with hindsight, often inevitable, events.
They are recorded is required to pre-approve each project.
In any event, specific project approval is on risk registers together with the mitigations.
required by the Committee Chairman for any such project where estimated fees On a bi-annual basis, risk registers are refreshed, and the key risks at division exceed 100,000.
Pre-approval would have been required for non-tax projects where and Group level are plotted on risk maps, which are discussed with senior fees are estimated to exceed 25,000. business management, Divisional management and BBA Aviations Executive Deloitte LLP has confirmed that all non-audit services they performed during the Management Committee in order to validate the risk profile.
The validated risk year were permitted by APB Ethical Standards and do not impair their independence maps are then discussed with the Audit and Risk Committee, together with key or objectivity.
On the basis of their own review of the services performed, the mitigation activities, and further mitigation, if any, is agreed.
requirement of pre-approval and the auditors confirmation, the Committee is satisfied that the non-audit services currently provided by Deloitte LLP do not impair their independence and objectivity.
54 Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement Group Internal Audit reviews the risk maps and risk registers and builds its annual 10.
All significant acquisitions and disposals of companies or businesses are audit plan from the risk profile.
A transparent mapping is produced to link the key approved by the Board.
risks to the Internal Audit profile, setting out the rationale for the focus of Internal 1 1.
A Group policies manual sets out policies and procedures concerning: business Audit activity.
This is agreed annually with the Audit and Risk Committee.
ethics, bribery and corruption, gifts and entertainment, equal opportunities Based on this information, the Board reviews the risks and, if satisfied, confirms and anti-harassment, competition law, legal policy, data privacy, Corporate it is satisfied that the risks are appropriately mitigated.
If this is not the case, the Responsibility, market disclosure and communications and share dealing.
Board requests that management take further action.
A review of compliance with such policies by Group companies is carried out twice a year and senior executives are also required to confirm compliance with 2.
An organisational structure is in place at both head office and divisional level which certain policies twice a year.
Group policies are complemented by divisional clearly defines responsibilities for operational, accounting, taxation, treasury, and Company-led initiatives and are supplemented by the Groups Disclosure legal, company secretarial and insurance functions.
of Unethical Conduct Policy, which includes a 24-hour hotline available to all employees.
This is supported by a formal investigation protocol and regular 3.
An Internal Audit function undertakes a programme of risk-based reviews of reporting to the Audit and Risk Committee as part of the twice-yearly report controls and business processes.
The role of Internal Audit is defined in a Group on Business Ethics and Compliance.
The Ethics Implementation Policy seeks Internal Audit charter and this includes its terms of reference, the standards to codify the overarching principles and processes that underlie the various which it adheres to, the scope and coverage of its work and its reporting elements set out in more detail in the Code of Business Ethics and the policies processes.
The Audit and Risk Committee receives a report from Internal Audit on bribery and corruption and gifts and entertainment.
Compliance with all at each meeting which includes opinions on the adequacy and effectiveness these policies and with the Groups procedures concerning the appointment of controls by site, together with a summary of key issues, work schedules and and remuneration of foreign agents is subject to review as considered necessary details of any action required.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance as part of the ongoing BBA Aviation risk-based Internal Audit programme.
The Code, the Audit and Risk Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of effectiveness of these policies is assessed alongside the risk review process Internal Audit using outside specialists as well as self-assessment techniques.
A co-sourcing arrangement exists with PwC, headed by a specialist PwC Internal 12.
A Group Safety Management System outlines policies, standards and Audit Partner who manages both BBA Aviation and PwC staff in the delivery of the procedures in conjunction with the business line procedure manuals of the Internal Audit service.
This arrangement provides access to a broad range of skills operating companies which are applicable throughout the Group.
Annual selfand experience to support its effective delivery.
assessment and or audits are carried out at Company level against the Group 4.
A Group Finance Manual details accounting policies and financial controls standards and business line procedures.
Group-level HSE audits are performed applicable to all reporting units.
The Group accounting policies are aligned with to validate Company level compliance.
An executive summary Health, Safety International Financial Reporting Standards and compliance with these policies is and Environmental HSE report is tabled at each meeting of the Executive reviewed as part of the Internal Audit process.
The Board also receives a summary HSE report in addition to updates on HSE activities.
These reports cover all Group companies 5.
An annual budgeting exercise is carried out to set targets for each of the Groups and are prepared by the internal Group HSE function.
Key HSE performance reporting units.
metrics are reviewed and verified annually by an independent third party 6.
Detailed management accounts are submitted monthly to management which organisation.
Senior managers performance and related financial incentives are measure actual performance against budget and forecasts.
The monthly tied in part to their success against selected annual HSE improvement objectives.
forecasts of sales, profits and operating cash are updated on a quarterly basis.
A Further details about HSE matters are set out in the Values Report 2016 on monthly report is provided to the Board, based on these management accounts, the BBA Aviation website.
BBA Aviations Group Internal Audit team includes highlighting key issues and summarising the detailed financial information a number of questions on Corporate Responsibility matters in the annual provided by the operating units.
The integrity of management accounts with Control Risk Assessment questionnaire which is completed by each of the the underlying financial records is subject to review as part of the Internal Audit operating businesses.
The Corporate Governance Statement was approved by the Board on 28 February 7.
C apital expenditure is controlled by means of budgets, authorisation levels 2017 and signed on its behalf by: requiring the approval of major projects by the Board, and post-investment appraisals.
The lessons learned from the post-investment appraisals are also Sir Nigel Rudd shared with members of senior management.
Defined procedures are laid down for investments, currency hedging, granting of guarantees and use of treasury products.
A matrix defines the levels of authority for the Groups senior executives and their direct reports in relation to acquisitions, capital expenditure, commercial and employee contracts and treasury matters.
This is authorised by the Audit and Risk Committee on behalf of the Board and is reviewed on an annual basis.
Compliance is reviewed as part of the Internal Audit process.
