Strategic Report A transformational year for BBA Aviation A transformational year for BBA Aviation During the year we have: 2016 Revenue Splits Materially expanded the size of Signature and created a unique global network of FBO locations The acquisition of Landmark Aviation, additional expansion in Flight Support 67% the USA and Europe, and the continuing growth of the Signature Aftermarket Services 33% TM Select affiliate programme has significantly increased our already market-leading footprint at key destinations for B&GA travel.
Signature 67% We have created a unique and high-quality global network of FBO locations, with an unrivalled ability to satisfy the needs of our Engine Repair & Overhaul 25% customers at many more of the locations that they want to fly to.
Ontic 8% Focused the Group on higher value-added, better IP-protected, strong ROIC and cash generative businesses In September, we announced the sale of ASIG, which completed on 31 January 2017.
Coupled with the growth of Signature, this has significantly increased our focus on providing value-added services B&GA 88% to the attractive and growing B&GA market where we are a market Commercial 7% leader.
We have also continued to invest to grow Ontics IP-protected portfolio of products, most recently through the GE Avionics Military 5% acquisition.
As a result, we have enhanced our focus on areas which are highly cash generative and where we see the potential North America 86% to generate enhanced returns on capital on a through-cycle basis.
Rest of World 14% Successfully integrated Landmark Aviation and delivered faster than anticipated cost synergies The Landmark Aviation acquisition brought 62 FBOs and nearly 3,000 new employees to BBA Aviation.
Business performance has ROIC, met all of our expectations and the detailed and complex integration down 90bps plan was executed effectively.
Synergies have been delivered ahead 10.1% of schedule and we anticipate annualised cost savings of $39 million from 2017.
Locations 220 Revenue, Continents up 25% $2,149.1m 5 Underlying Employees operating profit, $302.6m up 67% 6,500 Figures are reported on a continuing operations basis unless otherwise stated.
