Strategic Report Measuring Success Each year we set a series of short-term specific and Measuring measurable goals aligned with our Vision, Mission and Values and embed them in our businesses.
Execution Success of actions associated with these goals is actively monitored by our management processes.
Group financial Key Performance Indicators KPIs are detailed below.
Our non-financial safety KPIs are described on pages 26-29 in Corporate Responsibility.
Growth Performance Optimisation Cash Generation Value Creative Investment Organic Revenue Growth Adjusted Earnings per Share Cash Conversion Return on Invested Capital Organic revenue growth is a Adjusted earnings per Cash conversion measures Measuring ROIC ensures we measure of the underlying share measures the profit how effectively we convert are focused on the efficient growth of the business.
attributable to shareholders operating profit into cash.
use of assets and capital, with It excludes the impact of after interest and tax.
Focusing on this measure the target of operating returns foreign currency and fuel It excludes the impact encourages strong discipline generated across the cycle price fluctuations and any of exceptional items.
in the management of working exceeding the cost of holding contribution from acquisitions capital and decisions on capital the assets.
ROIC is defined Underlying PBT increased by and disposals.
deployment, enabling us to as underlying operating profit 59% and the average number continue to invest in growth expressed as a percentage Signature continued to of shares increased by opportunities.
of average invested capital at perform well, delivering 308 million via the October constant currency, including good organic growth.
2015 capital raise, resulting in The Group delivered another goodwill and intangible assets This growth was offset by continuing underlying adjusted year of excellent cash amortised or written off a weak performance from EPS increasing by 8%.
generation, reflecting its to reserves.
ERO, driving a small decrease attractive underlying financial in organic underlying characteristics which have ROIC increased to 10.1% continuing revenue.
been further enhanced despite the Groups increased by the acquisition of capital base.
15 2 Key performance indicators are on an as reported basis for the total Group.
