Our key differentiators Diversified business For our shareholders, Beazley aims Marine to deliver sector leading returns on a diversified business equity with relatively low volatility.
Over the past decade, we have The key to this performance over enhanced the ability of our portfolio time is the balance of Beazleys to weather rate declines in individual lines of business.
Wehave portfolio across specialist classes progressively diversified ouraccount, driven by different cycles.
expanding our marine liability book, entering the satellite market, Our diversified portfolio allows us to implement efficient cycle and significantly developing our management.
We assess the merits of writing a new line aviation business.
of business very carefully with an eye on the effect on the Clive Washbourn diversification of our portfolio.
Head of marine As our divisions have grown, they have also become more diversified.
Specialty lines, which accounted for 53% of our premiums in 2016, is the foremost example of this see pages 8 to 11, but our property and marine divisions have also diversified significantly in recent years.
A decade ago, large Diversification of the marine account 2016 scale property business written out of London accounted for more than half of our property divisions portfolio: last year Hull & miscellaneous 26% it stood at 29%.
Similarly, a decade ago marine hull and energy Liability 19% business together accounted for more than two thirds of Energy 18% our marine divisions portfolio: last year they accounted for Cargo 17% approximately 45% and aviation business, which we began War 9% underwriting in 2013, represented 8%.
Aviation 8% Satellite 3% Diversification of the marine account 2009 Hull & miscellaneous 34% Liability 3% Energy 34% Cargo 13% War 16% 4 Beazley Annual report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Diversified portfolio The spread of our overall portfolio by division and the impact this diversification has had on our combined ratio over the past five years can be seen in the chart below.
Diversified portfolio achieves consistent combined ratiothrough market cycles 160% 140% 120% 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Group combined ratio Life, accident & health Property Marine Reinsurance Political risks & contingency Specialty lines www.
com Annual report 2016 Beazley 5 Our key differentiators Diversified business continued Managed gross premiums growth by division $m Life, accident & health Marine Political risks & contingency With an experienced team of leading We help insure in excess of 20% of the worlds In addition to traditional lines such as underwriters many of whom have been ocean-going tonnage and are the pre-eminent contract frustration, expropriation and credit, together since the early 1990s, our leader of voyage and tow business in the we insure a growing number of businesses personal accident and specialty life London market.
We insure 60% of the Forbes against terrorism and political violence.
business is written on both an insurance List of the 25 Biggest Public Oil & Gas Our contingency team is one of the strongest and a reinsurance basis and covers a Companies.
We have extensive experience in the London market.
We also specialise in number of niche classes, including sports insuring a wide variety of cargoes including event cancellation writing everything from disability.
The business was acquired by project, fine art and specie.
Beazley in 2008 and has grown since then organically and through further acquisition.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Property Reinsurance Specialty lines The reinsurance team specialises in writing Weve protected clients ranging from Specialty lines comprises management worldwide property catastrophe: per risk: Fortune 1000 companies to homeowners liability and professional liability risks, aggregate excess of loss and pro-rata through 24 years of natural and man-made including cyber liability, underwritten for business: and casualty clash.
We underwrite this business clients on both a primary and excess basis 80% of our top clients have reinsured with through three platforms: Lloyds, the US in North America, Europe and around the us for 20 years or more.
and Singapore, with a business focus on world.
Our US clients are served both by our commercial property, engineering and underwriters at Lloyds and, on an admitted construction risks and select homeowners basis, by our local US-based underwriters.
