Specialty lines Profitable growth across numerous product lines andgeographies drives improved combined ratio.
Portfolio mix Technology, media & business services 27% Small businesses 20% Professions 18% Management liability 17% Healthcare 11% Treaty 6% Crime 1% Gross premiums written $m Adrian Cox 1200 Head of specialty lines 1000 800 600 400 200 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 $1,159.8m Gross premiums written Beazleys largest division continued togrow strongly in 2016, writing gross premiums of$1,159.8m 2015: $1,015.2m.
As in recent years, the main engine of growth was the US, where Beazley has hada local presence for over a decade anddemand for our specialist products hasbeen strong.
Specialty lines comprises in the main professional and management liability business, underwritten for large, mid sized and small companies and professional services firms around the world.
For the most part our London based underwriters focus on the larger and more complex risks, such as large hospitals, law firms and engineering firms, whereas our local US underwriters write smaller scale risks.
com 808.4 829.8 895.7 1,015.2 1,159.8 Strategic report Governance Financial statements In common with other lines of business The fastest growing cyber insurance Although demand for many of these underwritten at Beazley, we saw less market in the world has hitherto been products often begins in the US, the competition for small and mid sized the US, driven largely by complex state London insurance market remains a business in 2016 than for large risk and federal regulations governing how crucible for innovation in our industry business.
Overall, we saw premium rates data breaches must be reported to the and many of our most innovative rise 1% for the division as a whole during affected individuals.
In coming years, products and services originate with the year.
we expect other developed economies our London underwriters, working closely to begin to catch up as regulations in with specialist brokers.
For example, In much of the business we underwrite, those regions also tighten.
In Europe, our healthcare team, led by Nat Cross, claims take some time to crystallise the EU General Data Protection Regulation, has developed over the years a unique in many professional lines, for example, due to come into force in 2018, will make way of working with major hospitals this can occur six years or more after the challenge of managing data breaches to incentivise them to invest in patient the policies were underwritten.
We reserve more complex and more costly.
We also safety and quality measures that should prudently in the meantime and, after launched BBR in Canada during 2016 also, over time, reduce claims.
Premium claims are paid, are frequently able to to tap growing demand in that country.
credits paid to hospitals under this make reserve releases.
In 2016, these programme now exceed $7m.
We believe prior year reserve releases made an An important element of our long term that our approach, pioneered with some increased contribution to the divisions strategy in specialty lines described of the most respected hospitals in the profits of $68.5m 2015: $38.7m.
in detail on pages 8 to 11 is to promote US, should also prove valuable to This higher level of reserve release our products and expertise strongly in hospitals in other countries.
was possible as we distanced ourselves fast growing industries.
Technology is one from the credit crunch which affected such industry: our technology, media and London will also be a key focus for the the years 2008 through to 2011, where business service team that developed continuing development of our broader claims frequency appears to be higher BBR also underwrites technology errors international business outside the US.
than in the years immediately before & omissions business for many of the In December we welcomed Gerard Bloom and after this period.
worlds largest software and software to lead a new team focusing on the services companies.
Healthcare is another: development of this business, including Demand for data breach insurance and in 2016, we saw our healthcare liability non-US financial institutions risks.
other forms of cyber cover has been business grow by 18% to $126.7m.
We will be writing this business both consistently high since we launched our We also broadened our architects & from the Beazley box at Lloyds and pioneering data breach product, Beazley engineers professional liability practice from local offices around the world.
In 2016, to include contractors who are taking we took a number of steps to capture a in-house an ever growing proportion Beazley began life in 1986 as an insurer larger share of this fast growing market.
of design work that we seek to insure.
of large, complex risks: major US law firms In April, we announced a partnership with and engineering businesses were among the Corporate Insurance Partner unit of Another growth market for us in 2016 was our first clients.
However, in recent years, Munich Re, the worlds largest reinsurer, environmental liability.
We have taken full we have seen the strongest demand to underwrite large scale cyber risks, advantage of dislocations in this market to for our products from far smaller firms.
offering per risk capacity of up to $100m.
hire experienced underwriters and develop To position ourselves successfully in these This initiative has been very well received our book, mainly in the US.
Our team markets, we have invested in technology by brokers and clients.
underwrote premiums of $61.5m in 2016, designed to make our brokers work easier, more than double the level of premium mindful of the modest commissions During the course of the year we launched income generated in 2015. brokers receive on a per client basis for a number of other cyber partnerships with small business risks.
We continued in insurance companies across the world, In all of the industries we serve, clients 2016 to explore ways in which we can from the US to Latin America, mainland look to Beazley for well designed products offer our products through our brokers Europe and the Middle East, enabling that address their most pressing risks own proprietary channels as well as policyholders largely small and mid sized and perform as required in the event of through our e-trading platform, myBeazley.
businesses to obtain the broad data a claim.
Many of these products are highly breach cover and claims service for innovative for example the regulatory which Beazley is well known.
We see liability cover we offer to US hospitals to partnerships of this kind as holding protect them from billing errors, a major great promise in extending our reach concern in the highly complex and regulated cost effectively into markets where US healthcare market.
Other products Beazley lacks a local presence.
afford specialist services in the event of a claim services that can be far more valuable than monetary compensation.
