Board of directors 72 72 BBeeaazzleleyy A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 16 6 w ww ww w.. b bea eaz zlle ey y.. c co om m Governance Financial statements An effective board of directors made upof diverse and experienced members.
Governance framework Our committees and Board of directors committee chairmen Audit and risk committee The audit and risk committee assists the board of directors in The audit and risk committee is chaired fulfilling its oversight responsibilities for the financial reporting by Angela Crawford-Ingle.
process, the system of internal control, the audit process, and the companys process for monitoring compliance with Nomination committee laws and regulations and the code of conduct.
It also The nomination committee is chaired ensures that an effective risk management process exists by Dennis Holt.
in the major regulated subsidiaries and that the Beazley group has an effective framework and process for managing Remuneration committee its risks.
The remuneration committee is chaired by Sir Andrew Likierman.
The remuneration committee ensures that remuneration arrangements support the strategic aims of the business Executive committee and enable the recruitment, motivation and retention of The executive committee is chaired senior executives while complying with the requirements of by Andrew Horton and acts under regulatory and governance bodies, satisfying the expectations delegated authority from the board.
of shareholders and remaining consistent with the expectations of the wider employee population.
Where the appointment date of a director pre-dates 13 April 2016 being the date that Beazley plc became the holding company The nomination committee is focused on evaluating the of Beazley Group this appointment date refers board of directors, ensuring an appropriate balance of to their representation on the Beazley Ireland skills, considering and recommending board and committee Holdings plc board formerly Beazley plc.
candidates and considering board succession.
Find out more on pages 83 to 88 www.
com Annual report 2016 Beazley 73 Board of directors continued Executive directors Andrew Horton Martin Bride Neil Maidment Chief executive officer Group finance director Chief underwriting officer Appointed: 12 June 2003 Appointed: 5 May 2009 Appointed: 15 March 2001 Experience: Andrew joined Experience: Martin joined Beazley Experience: Neil joined Beazley Beazley in June 2003 as finance in May 2009 as finance director.
in 1990 and was appointed to director.
Prior to that he held He began his career in insurance the board in 1993.
He has over various financial positions within in 1985 and took up his first role 30 years of Lloyds experience ING, NatWest and Lloyds Bank as a finance director in 1996. and, in 2011, joined the board and was the chief financial officer He trained as a general insurance of the Lloyds Market Association, for the UK wholesale banking actuary, before pursuing a career becoming chairman on 1 January division of ING immediately prior in the composite insurance sector 2016.
Neil was elected to the to joining Beazley.
He qualified with Aviva and Zurich Financial Council of Lloyds with effect as a chartered accountant Services.
His experience spans from 1 February 2016. with Coopers and Lybrand personal and commercial lines Committee: Executive committee in 1987.
He joined the board general insurance, the London of Man Group plc in 2013 market, life insurance and asset as a non-executive director.
management in both the UK Committee: Executive and France.
committee chair Committee: Executive committee Adrian Cox Clive Washbourn Head of specialty lines Head of marine Appointed: 6 December 2010 Appointed: 4 December 2006 Experience: Adrian joined Beazley Experience: Clive has over in June 2001.
Prior to this, Adrian 30 years experience in the was at General Re for eight years, marine insurance industry and writing both treaty and facultative actively underwrites marine hull, business.
Since 2001 his marine liability and marine responsibilities have included war risks.
the casualty treaty portfolio and Committee: Executive committee the SME and large risks portfolios, before being promoted to head of specialty lines in 2008.
Committee: Executive committee 74 Beazley Annual report 2016 www.
com Governance Financial statements Non-executive directors Dennis Holt George Blunden Angela Crawford-Ingle Christine LaSala Chairman Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed: 21 July 2011 Appointed: 1 January 2010 Appointed: 27 March 2013 Appointed: 1 July 2016 Experience: Dennis has more than Experience: George is the senior Experience: Angela is a chartered Experience: Based in New York, 45 years experience in financial independent director.
He retired accountant with extensive audit Christine recently retired as chair services markets.
He was formerly as senior vice president and experience of multinational and of Willis Towers Watson North a main board executive director director from AllianceBernstein listed companies.
She has 40 years of at Lloyds TSB 2000-2001, Ltd in December 2009.
He had partner in  management, client leadership chief executive of AXA UK and a previously been chief executive specialising in financial services and financial experience in the member of AXAs Global executive of Union plc, and a director of for 20 years during which time she insurance industry including work committee 2001-2006.
He has SG Warburg Securities, Seccombe, led the insurance and investment as an underwriter and 27 years been chairman of Liverpool Marshall and Campion plc and management division and retired as an insurance broker working Victoria and deputy chairman Meridian Investment Performance in 2008.
She is currently a partner with large corporate and public of Bank of Ireland.
He is the chairman in Ambre Partners, a firm providing institution clients designing their appointed chairman of The of the Charity Bank Ltd and strategic, financial and operational risk management programmes Co-operative Bank plc in 2014. chairman of Stonewater Ltd. advice.
Angela is also currently a which included leadership roles Committee: Nomination Committees: Audit and non-executive director and audit at Johnson & Higgins and Marsh.
committee chair risk committee, remuneration chair of Swinton Group Ltd and Committee: Audit and risk committee, nomination committee River and Mercantile Group plc.
committee Committee: Audit and risk committee chair Sir Andrew Likierman John Sauerland Robert Stuchbery Catherine Woods Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed: 25 March 2015 Appointed: 5 May 2016 Appointed: 11 August 2016 Appointed: 1 January 2016 Experience: Andrew is dean of Experience: John is Chief Financial Experience: Bob had previously Experience: Catherine Woods is London Business School.
He was Officer of the Progressive been appointed as a non-executive a non-executive director of AIB Plc, founding director of the Executive Corporation, a US based insurance director to the board of Beazley AIB Mortgage Bank, and EBS Dac.
MBA programme and has been a holding company.
Prior to his Furlonge Ltd, the groups Lloyds She is also the senior independent professor at the School for many current role, he was Progressives managing agency, where he chairs director and chair of the audit years.
His research interests are Personal Lines Group President the risk committee.
He brings committee at AIB Plc.
She was in the field of the measurement for eight years, responsible for the extensive Lloyds experience, previously the finance expert on of performance.
Andrews career companys primary business unit having been CEO of Chaucer until the adjudication panel established has spanned the public and private with $17bn in revenues.
During 2015 and a deep knowledge of by the Irish government to oversee sectors: he has run a textile plant his tenure as Personal Lines the Lloyds market and distribution the rollout of the national broadband in Germany, been head of the Group President, he led the and operational strategies.
Her executive career Government Accountancy Service introduction of many innovations Committee: Audit and risk was with JP Morgan where she and was managing director of the such as Name Your Price and committee was a vice president and head UK Treasury.
Snapshot, the industry leading of the European banks equity Committees: Remuneration pay-as-you-drive offering.
Catherine is a committee chair, nomination oversaw significant growth of the former non-executive director committee companys direct marketing of An Post, and a former member efforts and consumer facing web of the Electronic Communications and mobile technology.
Committee: Remuneration Committee: Audit and risk committee committee www.
