Property Increased focus on small and mid-sized risks counter competitive pressures in large scale market.
Portfolio mix Commercial property 60% Small property business 17% Jewellers & homeowners 13% Engineering 10% Gross premiums written $m 400 Mark Bernacki 320 Head of property 240 160 80 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 $329.7m Gross premiums written 32 Beazley Annual report 2016 www.
com 376.7 371.4 344.7 353.1 329.7 Strategic report Governance Financial statements This year, we will be extending our large risk In common with most other Beazley Beazleys property division property underwriting capabilities to the US, divisions, the property division currently delivered a strong result in 2016 with a view to accessing business that we derives most of its business from the given market conditions that were do not currently see in London.
Nevertheless we continued to increasingly challenging formany continue to be the main focus for our large take steps in 2016 to tap new geographic risk property business and Simon Jackson, sources of business, including Latin lines of business, notably for large who leads our open market property team America and the Asia Pacific region.
scale catastrophe exposed risks in London, will continue to be globally In October we hired Santiago Jaramillo as writtenout of London.
responsible for our large risk business.
construction and engineering focus group In 2016, market conditions for this business leader for Latin America, working out of In addition to large scale commercial continued to deteriorate, with rates on our Miami office.
We also made good property business, the property division, renewal business falling 6%.
progress during the course of the year Beazleys second largest, underwrites in developing jewellers block and other small and mid sized commercial property Hurricane Matthew, which grazed the business in Brazil as the insurer of risks: construction and engineering risks: eastern seaboard of the US in October, around half of the jewellers in the UK, and homeowners risks in both the UK did not rank as a market changing event we have deep experience and very and US.
Our London underwriters also in terms of the rating environment for strong credentials in this line.
specialise in jewellers block, fine art and any of our teams.
It did however affect specie business.
The property account a number of our clients, both businesses At the end of the year in London we as a whole has become steadily more and homeowners, in the south eastern US welcomed two highly experienced Lloyds diversified in recent years, enhancing the and we were pleased to be able to support underwriters, Mark Bosshard and Scott consistency of our underwriting returns.
them through the storms aftermath.
Sellick, to expand our fine art and specie underwriting capabilities.
These lines In 2016, our UK and US homeowners A key single segment of our portfolio of business are complementary to our business performed particularly well, continues to be our small business unit, jewellers block business.
Specie risks with premiums rising 13% to $38m.
led by Paul Bromley, which underwrote such as bank vault contents, private art In common with all the business we $99.3m in 2016 2015: $123.7m.
collections and art dealers inventory also underwrite in the US, we insure We see greater residual profitability in this require significant capacity and we will be homeowners on a surplus lines basis, business much of it sourced from Lloyds offering a maximum line size of $100m meaning that we write risks that are coverholders with whom we have strong in support of this business.
not normally attractive to the standard, long term relationships than in our large or admitted, market.
Our clients and risk business.
Beazley has a strategic Looking ahead we see overcapacity brokers in this market value speed of initiative to enhance our attractiveness to continuing to depress rates for large service, both in underwriting and claims, small commercial clients and their brokers scale property business.
However with and we made major strides in delivering and we expect the small business unit to a portfolio that is increasingly diversified this in 2016. be a major beneficiary of this.
by geography, client size and type of risk, we have greater room for manoeuvre in Our US commercial property team, Our global construction and engineering protecting underwriting margins.
under the leadership of Ron Beauregard, team, led by Colin Rose, had a mixed year.
focuses on mid sized risks with some Our large risk business, much of which catastrophe exposures, performed we underwrite through the Construction creditably during the year, although Consortium at Lloyds in London and competition was strong.
Conditions underwritten by the team were in line were more difficult for our builders risk with the previous year at $75.5m.
team in the US, which focuses on smaller scale business.
The team expanded its product range in September, launching five new products that should enhance our ability to offer one-stop solutions for our broker partners and their construction clients across multiple industries.
