Strong roots, tall trees Specialty lines have been part of Beazleysince the companys earliest days.
They are a big part of its future too.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Specialty lines Gross premiums written 2007-2016 $m 1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thirty years later, Beazley remains a Commoditised, price-driven lines of As Beazley celebrated its major market for professionals such business are not well suited to this 30thanniversary, the division as lawyers, architects and engineers.
Instead, Beazleys underwriters that accounts for some of the However the companys interests in target more complicated risks where companys longest established specialty lines business encompassing it is possible to forge real partnerships a wide spectrum of professional and with brokers to develop innovative lines of business specialty lines management liability risks have solutions and explain them to clients.
has enjoyed a highly successful diversified hugely.
The divisions and In these areas the major investments year, reaping the rewards of Beazleys largest single line of business Beazley has made in talented individuals along term growth strategy in 2016 data breach insurance can pay off.
would have been inconceivable in 1986. thathas seen premiums rise We aim to attract people that enjoy by76% over the past decade.
Specialty lines, led by Adrian Cox since becoming experts you might even say 2008, has benefited from a consistent geeks on both the underwriting and Beazley was founded in 1986 in the midst strategy.
This starts with the identification claims side, says Adrian Cox.
Then we of a crisis of capacity for liability risks in the of promising business lines lines in deploy them in the field where they can US that prompted Time magazine to run a which highly skilled underwriters and best use their expertise to win the loyalty cover story in March of that year headlined claims specialists can make a major of clients and out-manoeuvre competitors.
Your insurance has been difference to the experience of clients This model does not suit the writing of cancelled.
Professional indemnity covers and brokers.
This difference may take lines such as personal auto insurance.
for large US law firms and for major US the form of a willingness to underwrite engineering design firms were among the risks that other insurers will not.
first risks Andrew Beazley underwrote on Invariably it reflects a commitment behalf of the fledgling Lloyds syndicate.
to providing excellent service, both in underwriting and claims.
com Annual report 2016 Beazley 9 660.2 753.3 754.2 744.0 711.2 808.4 829.8 895.7 1,015.2 1,159.8 Strong roots, tall trees continued The specialty lines team has also focused Environmental insurance represents An early area of focus, as had been the successfully on industries and business a major area of opportunity for Beazley case in 1986, was professional indemnity lines that have strong growth potential.
this is a significant growth market for architects and engineers.
However, Technology-related risks and the healthcare worldwide that has also suffered this time it was far smaller firms that were industry have accordingly been major dislocations as major insurers have targeted than had been originally sought targets in recent years, with premiums from withdrawn in recent years.
Beazley began out from London.
the former growing 55% over the past three underwriting environmental business in the years and from the latter 32%.
US in 2009 and expanded its team rapidly In 2005, Beazley underwrote $7.5m in during the course of 2016, attracting a specialty lines business in the US: by One of the attractions of the healthcare number of highly experienced and well last year, this had grown to $545.8m.
market, particularly in the US, is the high regarded underwriters.
The team, led The years in between saw the financial relevance of a wide range of Beazley by Jayne Cunningham, now numbers 13, crisis of 2008 and the recession that products, both from the specialty lines including 12 underwriters in the US and followed it.
However, perhaps more division and further afield.
Premiums grew significantly significant for Beazley, was the onward underwrites medical malpractice, in 2016 to $61.5m 2015: $25.8m.
march of Moores Law named after errors & omissions, directors & officers the co-founder of Intel, Gordon Moore, insurance, employment practices liability In terms of geography, the US has been who predicted in the 1960s that the and environmental impairment liability the most fertile region for the types of processing power of computers would for healthcare providers of many kinds.
insurance that Beazleys specialty lines double roughly every two years and the In addition, we have developed a highly underwriters focus on.
The division has related explosion in the online exchange innovative regulatory liability product accordingly been the largest beneficiary of data, including personal data.
for hospitals held responsible for of Beazleys decision, early this century, incorrectly billing US federal healthcare to establish a local US presence and the programmes such as Medicare and capacity to underwrite admitted business Medicaid a constant challenge given in the country.
Most of the Lloyds markets the massive complexity of the billing US business is transacted on a surplus regulations.
We have also been able lines basis, meaning that Lloyds to introduce underwriters from other underwriters can only target business Beazley divisions to our healthcare clients, that the local market declines.
In 2005 including underwriters of commercial Beazley established Beazley Insurance property and terrorism risks.
Company, Inc. as its US admitted carrier.
We were able to achieve significant growth in our environmental book in 2016.
We see further growth opportunities in the US and around the world, particularly from property owners and developers looking for well designed, long term protection from environmental lawsuits and regulatory action.
Jayne Cunningham Environmental focus group leader 10 Beazley Annual report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazleys technology, media and business BBR, developed by a team led by Although the US will unquestionably services TMB team within the specialty Mike Donovan, TMB focus group leader, continue to be the biggest market for lines division began underwriting network was the first really credible insurance the specialty lines division in the years to security and privacy risks in 2005. industry response to the growing legal come, business in other markets is gaining However, to establish clear leadership and reputational challenge to companies ground.
Lloyds remains a crucible for in the nascent data breach insurance posed by data breaches.
Several dozen innovation in insurance, as well as the market required a willingness to rethink states then had their own data breach natural home to many of the largest and the product from the ground up, notification laws the number has since most complex risks.
From 2017, as part of recognising that clients most pressing risen to 48 and coordinating responses the expansion of our international non-US need was not for third party liability cover in multiple states was a major challenge.
specialty lines business, a team under following a data breach, but for immediate BBR Services, the dedicated business Gerard Blooms leadership will be targeting hands-on help in handling the unit established by Beazley in 2012 new opportunities in financial institutions consequences of the breach.
to help clients manage data breaches and in other specialty lines such as effectively, strengthened the service management liability and cyber.
Thus Beazley Breach Response BBR still further.
Beazley has now worked with was launched in June 2009.
As billed in clients on more than 5,000 breaches.
Specialty lines is strongly rooted in the the press release, the product did indeed history and culture of Beazley as the bring radical change to the data breach In recent years, Beazleys leadership company has developed over three and security insurance market.
It provided position in cyber insurance has extended decades.
And trees with strong roots an array of tightly coordinated response outside the US.
This has occurred partly can grow very tall.
services to help clients manage data through launches of BBR in other markets breaches effectively for up to two million versions of the policy can be purchased affected individuals later increased through brokers in France, Italy, the to five million.
By tying the cap to the UK and Canada and partly through number of individuals notified of the reinsurance agreements with other breach, BBR alleviated any concerns insurers through which Beazleys data clients might have about running out of breach cover can be embedded in the insurance funds before the job was done.
other insurers existing product range.
5,000 The number of data breaches handled by Beazleys experts by late 2016 www.
