STRATEGIC REPORT Strategy Building on our success To achieve our overall strategy we employ short and mediumOur strategy for growth term objectives.
Each division and our Head Office teams are aligned behind this common set Demand ofobjectives.
Customer demand is robust across Our short and the country.
medium-term objectives Help to Buy extended until 2021 in England and enhanced in London.
Expand and enhance geographic Competition in mortgage market and coverage by opening new low interest rates ensure new homes remain affordable.
divisions principally in conurbations where demand is Household formation rate.
Value creation high and investing further in for shareholders our existing operational Supply through: divisional structure.
Good quality land opportunities at Progressive attractive rates of return.
Continue to invest in land dividend in areas of high demand that Positive planning environment policy meet or exceed our minimum supported by Housing Bill.
volume growth Labour availability is manageable.
in the Achieve detailed planning business Capacity permission DPP on land.
generating th New 18 division opened in Coventry growth in Proactive balance sheet NAV during the year and a further division management.
opened on 1 August 2016 in County Build the right product.
Six new divisions opened since Focus on retention, training August 2013. and recruitment of people.
Consistently excellent Balance sheet capacity provides customer experience.
Ensure sufficient resources are available in our specialist HeadOffice teams and that robust Group-wide systems are in place to support our expanding divisional network in delivering our growth strategy.
THE GROWTH WE ACHIEVE THROUGH OUR BUSINESS MODEL IS EXPLAINED ON PAGES 08 19 Our operational capacity is currently centred around a nationwide structure of 19 trading divisions.
The newest of these divisions is South Midlands which opened in February 2016 and is based in Coventry, and Durham, which opened in August 2016.
Our strategy of volume growth is best achieved through complementing capacity in existing divisions with the expansion of the divisional structure in areas of high demand.
We have significant balance sheet capacity with net assets of 1,867.0 million, including net cash of 26.5 million and undrawn bank facilities of 467.5 million as at 31 July 2016.
As a result of these factors we have the capacity to invest in land that either meets or exceeds our investment criteria, which include gross margin and ROCE.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Bellway p. l. c. 07
