Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 The Executive Board A diverse and experienced team.
We have strengthened our Executive Board to support the delivery of our strategic objectives.
The Executive Board 1 4 5 We appointed three new members to our Executive Board James Drummond Baba Suketu Devani 47 Gillian Duggan 49 in response to the evolution of Chief Executive Officer Managing Director, Group Director, our strategic approach: Baba Facility and Group Business HumanResources Suketu Devani, Gillian Duggan andChristophe Martin.
Development Date joined Berendsen: May 2016 Date joined Berendsen: During 2016, our Executive May 2016 Board formally met nine times.
More Key strengths: The members of our Executive 66 Key strengths: a Extensive HR Director experience Board also communicate a Creating and developing a International HR experience regularly outside of the formal strong teams 2 scheduled meetings.
a Leading talent development, a Corporate strategy, M&A succession planning and development and execution, diversity strategies Kevin Quinn post-merger integration Chief Financial Officer a Facilities management and a Commercial development: sales Executive Board tenure customer services and marketing in B2B, major bids and opportunity management, and Previous roles: development of new markets Prior to joining Berendsen, Gillian 5 years 1 year was at Amey plc where she was a P&L management in operationally More Group HR Director from 2004 to 33% 33% complex environments where 67 2008, Managing Director of the Built safety is a key priority Environment division from 2008 to a International experience: having had 2015 and Managing Director of the responsibility for all regions across 3 Social Infrastructure and Customer the globe and has lived and worked Experience Business Unit until 2016. in Africa, India, China, Middle East Previous roles include senior HR David Lawler and Europe positions at Danaher Corporation 1-5 years Company Secretary andTechnicolor UK.
Previous roles: 33% Qualications: Senior Strategy, Commercial and P&L Postgraduate Diploma in Criminology roles in Babcock, UTi worldwide and from Kingston University.
Nationalities Qualications: More MA in Politics, Philosophy and 67 Economics from the University of Oxford.
68 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements 6978 13 5 42 6 7 8 9 Niels Peter Hansen 58 Peter Havus 54 Christophe Martin 50 Claude Sada 45 Managing Director, Hospitality Managing Director, Workwear Managing Director, Director, Healthcare BerendsenExcellence Date joined Berendsen: Date joined Berendsen: March 1997 June 1985 Date joined Berendsen: Date joined Berendsen: May 2016 March 2013 Key strengths: Key strengths: Key strengths: Key strengths: a Track record for implementing a Excellent industry experience and strategies and change execution business model knowledge a Global business professional with a Extensive international experience 20years of experience in the having worked in France, Germany, a Strong commercial and sales a International management medical device industry Switzerland and the UK experience from all business areas experience EU and good operational insight a Background includes sales, a Process excellence & a Good experience in marketing, supply chain system thinking a International business and general management and operations management experience a Deep knowledge of procurement, a Strong operational skills and from Europe a Proven ability to start up, manage supply chain and process commercial understanding and expand businesses re-engineering using Lean and a Developing people and teams to a Good experience of mergers SixSigma methodologies be successful a Strong track record in mature and and acquisitions emerging markets a Change management in a A strong leadership style and a Managed several turnarounds in transformational environments general management experience a Experience in developing regional the industry strategies and driving change in a Strategy design and execution Previous roles: complex environments Previous roles: Joined the Group in 1997 and has Previous roles: Joined the Group in 1985 and experience of working across all Previous roles: Joined the Group in 2013 after appointed MD for the Continent Business Lines.
From 2009 to Joined the Group in 2016 as Managing holding senior procurement and Region in 2007.
He has held a number 2015, Niels Peter was our Managing Director, Healthcare.
Prior to joining supply chain transformational of senior posts, including MD Sweden, Director for German Healthcare and Berendsen, Christophe was Vice roles, with a particular focus on MD Denmark and COO, mainland German Workwear.
Prior to joining President One Ethicon EMEA for process re-engineering applying Europe, having started his career in Berendsen, Niels Peter had a career in Johnson & Johnson.
He has held Lean and Six Sigma methodologies, the textile rental industry in Sweden the Royal Danish Airforce followed by various General Management with companies such as Eaton in 1983.
Management Consultancy in PwC and positions in a number of countries Corporation, Hertz Corporation and senior management roles in logistics.
Qualications: across the EMEA region.
Degree in Economics from Qualications: Qualications: Qualications: Gymnasium Malm Borgarskola.
Degree from the Royal Danish Airforce Master of Science in Applied Degree in International Trade from Officers Academy and from the Mathematics and Business the Grenoble School of Management.
Administration from the University Masters degree in Business of Paris.
Management, Procurement and Supply Chain Management from the University of Geneva.
A trained Lean practitioner and a SixSigma Black Belt.
