GOVERNANCE Board of Directors and Group General Counsel and Company Secretary John Watson Ted Ayres Keith Adey Chairman non-executive Chief Executive Group Finance Director N NR NR Committee Committee Committee Appointed to the Board on 1 August 2011 Appointed to the Board on 1 February 2012 Appointed to the Board in 1995, becoming Chairman on 1 February 2013 Background and experience Background and experience Background and experience John, a Chartered Surveyor, joined Bellway in 1978 Ted joined Bellway in January 2002 as a divisional Keith, a Chartered Accountant, joined Bellway and was later appointed Managing Director of the Managing Director, becoming Southern Regional in December 2008 as Group Chief Accountant, North East division, a position which he held for 12 Chairman in 2006.
Ted was appointed to the Board as becoming Group Finance Director on 1February years.
John joined the Board as Technical Director Operations Director on 1 August 2011 and succeeded 2012.
Prior to joining Bellway he worked atKPMG in 1995 and became Chief Executive on 1 November John Watson as Chief Executive on 1 February 2013. andGrainger plc.
On 31 January 2013 he stepped down as Chief Other appointments Executive to become Chairman.
Bellway p. l. c. 1972 Pension Scheme Trustee.
John Cuthbert OBE DL Mike Toms Senior independent non-executive director Non-executive director A N R A N R Committees Committees Appointed to the Board on 1 November 2009 Appointed to the Board on 1 February 2009 Background and experience Background and experience John, a Chartered Accountant, worked in the Mike was formerly an executive director of BAA water industry from 1991 to 2010, when he retired as plc.
He has also been a non-executive Chairman Managing Director of Northumbrian Water Group plc, of Northern Ireland Electricity plc, a non-executive having formerly been Managing Director of North director of Viridian Group PLC and of UK Coal PLC.
East Water plc and Managing Director of Essex and He is a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Suffolk Water plc.
John became senior independent Surveyors MRICS and a member of the Royal Town non-executive director on 1 February 2014.
Other appointments Other appointments North Music Trust Trustee.
Birmingham Airport Holdings Limited non-executive director.
Amazing Media Group Limited Board Member.
J Murphy & Sons Limited non-executive director.
Lets Grow Investment Panel Chair.
Oxera Consulting LLP director non-statutory.
Sunderland University Development Committee Chair.
40 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GOVERNANCE Denise Jagger Paul Hampden Smith Simon Scougall Non-executive director Non-executive director Group General Counsel and Company Secretary A N R A N R Committees Committees Appointed to the Board on 1 August 2013 Appointed to the Board on 1 August 2013 Appointed on 1 February 2016 Background and experience Background and experience Background and experience Denise, a solicitor, has been a partner at Eversheds Paul is a Chartered Accountant and was Group Simon, a solicitor, was appointed Group General LLP since 2004.
Previously she was Company Finance Director of Travis Perkins plc from 1996 Counsel and Company Secretary in February 2016.
Secretary and General Counsel at ASDA Group plc, until his retirement in February 2013, having worked Simon joined Bellway in March 2011 and has held later part of Wal-Mart, from 1993 to 2004.
Prior to this for Travis Perkins since 1988.
He was previously a senior positions within the Group including that of she worked in the City in corporate finance with non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Group Commercial Director.
Hehas over 15 years Slaughter and May.
Denises previous non-executive Committee of Pendragon PLC and Redrow plc.
experience in the housebuilding sector, working directorships include The British Olympic Association, either in-house or for clients in privatepractice.
Other appointments Redrow plc, SCS Upholstery plc and Scarborough Clipper Logistics plc senior independent Building Society.
non-executive director and Chairman of the Other appointments AuditCommittee.
Pool Reinsurance Limited non-executive director.
Grafton Group plc non-executive director University of York council member.
and Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee and a member of the Nomination and St Giles Trust Trustee.
Delapre Abbey Preservation Trust Chairman.
Cumberland Lodge, Windsor Great Park Chairman of the Audit Committee.
A Audit Committee N Nomination Committee R Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration NR Board Committee on Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Denotes Committee Chairman Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Bellway p. l. c. 41
