Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Our business model Creating value for all stakeholders.
What we need Why our customers use us toexecute our Our new operating model business model Design Innovation and newtechnology Listening to the voice of our customers, we work in partnership to define Introducing new Customer requirements and select the right type of textiles technologies like RFID and management services to t our and Cool Chemistry will We continuously strive to deepen the customers needs.
enable us to provide our understanding of our customers requirements customers with relevant and market conditions.
and meaningful data on Process the usage of textiles in their sites and help us to lower We are constantly working to improve Great people and knowledge our carbon footprint.
the quality and consistency of our processes, either in the plant, i. e. We continue to strengthen employee skills, Our Design Centre improving the quality of the wash, or communication and engagement and assure provides our customers outside the plant by improving the a safe environment so that we can enable and with higher quality logistic cycle of delivery collection.
empower our people to execute our business garments tailored to their specic needs.
Purchasing and stock With our procurement centres of Brand and reputation specialism we drive value optimisation, We take pride in reliably servicing our product quality, and continuity of supply customers to keep their operations running whilst focusing on improving lead times and service.
We use our reputation and buying power to make returns Based on an agreed frequency we collect all to our customers by providing even more soiled textiles from our dynamic and cost-effective services.
customers sites and we move them to the closest possible site to Innovation and development A reliable logistic be processed.
service to ensure We continuously work together with both we always deliver Collection suppliers and customers to identify further on time and in innovative initiatives that will enhance Delivery full, to allow our quality and process efficiency and reduce customers to focus environmental impact.
Customer Infrastructure We are well positioned to execute our business model, having a robust operating platform, Specialist cleaning a diverse geographical footprint and the capability to improve the way in which we and sterilisation service our customers through our network oflaundries and facilities.
Strong balance sheet We aim to exceed our Ongoing inspection We have a track record of strong performance customer expectations andquality control by providing the highest and delivering a positive balance sheet.
Automatically and then cleaning quality standard manually, we check every This builds a strong foundation to execute possible, and assuring our textile we process to ourbusiness model.
sterilisation process delivers prevent any defect being 100% sterile textiles.
Determination Caring Empowerment Underpinned We are dedicated to We are passionate We have confidence giving our customers about the quality of in each other to take through our the best we have our work, the people action for the good to offer, and driven we work with and of our business, our shared values to pursue every the world we live in.
customers and our opportunity possible We take time to listen, communities at all to help grow our look ahead and deliver times.
We encourage sales andenhance exactly what our our employees to be our performance.
proactive and seek innovative solutions.
14 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements The benets our The results customers get of what we do Our business model not only provides our customers with Efficiency and cost-saving a differentiated service to suit their needs, but creates value Our differentiated production sites which can take many different forms.
allow us to be very competitive without compromising on quality.
Environmental credentials Revenue Lower washing temperature, introduction of telematics in our vehicles, lower use of chemicals 1,110.0m and many more initiatives are being progressed to reduce our carbon Operating profit footprint: this allows our customers to improve their environmental credentials, as we work together 140.7m forasustainable business.
Career prospects New ideas and solutions We are always working to improve our customers experience, 15,700 introducing new products or services We employ 15,700 employees in over 140 sites across Europe.
to alleviate our customers effort in themanagement of the textiles Cleaner environment theyneed for their business.
Low capital expenditure Our customers can rely on us to rent 3% reduction the best products and service to t We demonstrate our environmental efficiency through the reduction of our CO emissions in kg of CO per tonne of their needs, greatly reducing the capital 2 2 laundry shipped.
Shareholder return Service level We work with our customers to determine what service levels they need to support their operations and 33.0p we put in place operations to meet or 33.0p dividend per share 5% from 31.5p in 2015 demonstratesthe value we create for shareholders as exceed that service level.
aresultofthe improvements we make to the business.
Teamwork Safety Integrity We build great We always address We do what we say relationships the root causes of well do.
Thats the betweenour safetyissues rather way towin trust and teamsto connect than simply treating demonstrate our inner our people and the symptoms.
Its about expertise with being true to our customers and values and behaving partners so we in accordance candeliver the best with them in every possible service.
