STRATEGIC REPORT Going Concern and Long-Term Viability Statements Going Concern Statement After conducting a full review, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to fund its operations for the next three years.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts as discussed further onpage 81.
Long-Term Viability Statement As required by provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the directors have assessed the prospects of the Group over a three-year period, taking account of the Groups current position and principal risks.
The directors consider that a three-year period is appropriate as this is the period covered by the Groups near-term business plan.
To assess the Groups prospects the directors conduct an annual strategic review of the Groups business model and strategy, to ensure it remains fit for purpose.
A robust assessment was also carried out of the principal risks facing the business that would have an adverse impact on the Groups viability over the three-year period.
The Group has in place considerable flexible bank facilities with three lenders, which provides access to finance in tranches until 2020.
In advance of these facilities expiring, a review is undertaken to determine whether a facility needs to be renewed based on the strategy, cash forecast and pricing.
The land bank consists of land with DPP to meet our land requirements for the short and medium-term needs of the business bolstered by a further pipeline of sites which are being progressed through the planning process.
In addition, the Group has for the last seven consecutive financial years achieved year on year growth in legal completions, revenue and operating margin.
Having considered all the factors described above, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period oftheir assessment.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Bellway p. l. c. 25
