Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Our marketplace Key growth drivers in an active market.
1 Fragmented market with huge untapped potential The European textile rental market has an estimated value of 11 billion p. a. with the potential to at least double in size through increased outsourcing penetration.
In terms of supply, the market is still extremely fragmented and holds potential for growth.
We see an enormous opportunity to leverage growth from our existing position within our current geographical markets and, over the longer term, beyond them by moving into new service areas and expanding into 11bn new geographies with existing and new customers, within our core competencies.
Total market potential 2 Increase in regulations Berendsens strong regional presence andstandards Our services are critical to the safe and efficient production of the everyday essentials thatour customers provide to Finland Sweden their customers.
Norway Holland Our track record in understanding evolving standards, andour Estonia ability to devise innovative products and services to meet Latvia them, means we are a partner of choice in many industries, Denmark Russia across many geographies.
Lithuania UK Germany Poland Ireland More Slovakia 24 Austria Czech Republic 3 4 Demographics Growing regulation aroundsafety Ageing population is driving increased demand for elderly care.
Growing concern around safety means stricter legislation We are expanding our elderly care services and we will develop and more onus on organisations to ensure the safety of its and broaden these over the coming years.
Our economies of scale mean that we can make health andsafety our top priority.
This means that we can invest innew systems for reporting, operating and ultimately ensure that ourbusiness operates safely and efficiently.
More 22 06 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements 5 Increase in outsourcing The market dynamics that influence customers to outsourceremains strong as customers continue to look togain efficiencies in their non-core operations.
This combined with our specialist services, the growing need to be compliant with increasingly stringent legislation, hygiene and environmental standards and the increase in globalisation means there is a high potential to grow.
More 30 6 7 New technology Economic growth New developments in technology bring further Increase in GDP translates in an increase of customer opportunities to understand cost efficiency and reduce demand for services.
environmental impact, which are essential for growth.
As our customers experience more demand and growth, Our customers know that working with Berendsen enables wecangrow with them.
them to benefit from continual improvements aimed at reducing environmental impact and enhancing quality and process efficiency.
For example, introducing new technologies such as Radio-Frequency Identication RFID will enable us to provide our customers with relevant and meaningful data on the usage of textiles in their sites.
Introducing Cool Chemistry has also allowed us to reduce the washing water temperature, helping us to lower our carbon footprint.
Outlook The markets we operate in remain robust, with significant opportunities for growth in existing customer segments.
With our markets expected to grow ahead of GDP through continued outsourcing, we are well positioned to gain shares in a growth market.
Our focus in 2017 will be on investing in our operations and capabilities with the aim of improving growth across all Business Lines by signicantly increasing our headroom capacity, driving efficiencies and focusing on improving our ability to deliver customer led and market driven solutions.
