Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Report on directors remuneration continued Policy report extracts Berendsens policy report remains unchanged from that approved by shareholders at the AGM on 28 April 2016 which was approved by 98.8% of those shareholders who voted.
For convenience, extracts from the policy are included below with numbers and dates appropriately updated to provide context for how decisions were made during the year.
Our full remuneration policy can be found on our website at www.
Remuneration for Executive Directors comprises the following elements: Fixed pay Variable pay Long-term Total Base salary Benets Pension Annual bonus incentive remuneration Performance based Our strategic aim Our remuneration strategy is to reward executives in line with underlying company performance and the achievement of its strategic goals and priorities.
The aim is to encourage appropriate leadership behaviours whilst promoting challenging performance-based outcomes that are capable of incentivising genuine value creation for our shareholders.
Our principles The companys remuneration principles ensure that the structure and levels of executive remuneration remain appropriate for Berendsen.
This is achieved by having a remuneration policy that: a Provides an appropriate mix of rewards, incentives and benets balanced between: xed and variable pay short and long-term performance a Is weighted towards long-term performance and sustained shareholder value creation a Recognises and rewards stretching performance and appropriate risk reward behaviours Performance measures and target setting The performance measures that apply to annual bonuses adjusted EPS, free cash ow generation and revenue were chosen because of the companys ongoing strategic objectives to deliver organic revenue growth ahead of GDP, strong underlying cash ow and cash conversion, and EPS growth ahead of revenue.
Remuneration performance measures and how these relate to our strategic objectives: Incentive plan Performance measure Reason for selection Annual bonus PSP Adjusted EPS Captures long-term growth and improving financial returns by leveraging  Annual bonus Free cash ow Encourages operational cash discipline and improving capital efficiency Annual bonus Revenue Delivers sustainable organic growth PSP ROIC Improves capital discipline and efficiency More about our main KPIs More about our strategic objectives 16-19 08 In setting performance targets, the Committee takes account of annual budgets set by the Board, internal and external forecasts as well as the prevailing economic environment.
Performance targets are meant to be stretching but achievable.
The Committee will keep these performance measures and targets under periodic review and it retains the discretion to alter them or their respective weightings to ensure continued alignment with the companys prevailing strategy.
As part of any review, the Committee would consider the effect of that strategy on existing performance measures and targets.
108 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements Summary of remuneration elements for Executive Directors Fixed pay Base salary Benets Pension Purpose and link to strategy Purpose and link to strategy Purpose and link to strategy To provide a core reward for the role which is set To be market competitive for the purpose of To provide a market competitive level of at a level appropriate to attract and retain high attracting and retaining high calibre individuals.
calibre individuals needed to execute and deliver Operation Operation on the Groups strategic objectives.
Benets may be provided as determined by Pension contributions not exceeding a Operation the Remuneration Committee.
Typically, this percentage of the individuals base salary can Base salaries are normally reviewed annually includes a company car or cash allowance, be made to an appropriate retirement funding with effect from 1 January.
Salary levels and lifeassurance death in service, permanent vehicle typically, the individuals personal increases take account of a variety of factors healthinsurance and medical insurance.
pension scheme or the contributions can be such as: taken as a pension allowance cash supplement.
Executive Directors are also eligible to the scope and responsibility of the role: participate in all-employee share plans Maximum the experience, qualications and skills of the operatedby the company on the same basis The maximum pension contribution cash individual director: asother employees.
supplement in respect of a financial year is general economic and market conditions: Where applicable, relocation costs may be 20% of base salary.
salary levels for comparable roles at relevant provided in line with the companys relocation comparators: and Performance framework policy, which may include removal costs, general increases across the Group.
accommodation assistance, a cost of living allowance, school fees and tax equalisation.
Maximum There is no prescribed maximum increase.
Maximum In normal circumstances, increases will be There is no formal maximum limit as the broadly in line with those awarded to Group costofbenet provision can uctuate employees taking into account performance and depending on changes in provider cost geography.
In exceptional circumstances, such andindividual circumstances.
as a significant increase in the complexity size of the Group or the scope of an individuals position Participation in all-employee share plans issubject to statutory limits.
and or role has changed or where base salary has been set at a level below the desired market Performance framework level contingent on individual performance, None.
the Remuneration Committee can exceed the normal level of increase including exceeding it, over a phased period.
Performance framework The performance of both the Group and the individual are key considerations when determining salary increases.
Variable pay Annual bonus Purpose and link to strategy In future years, the Committee retains the Performance framework To incentivise and recognise the achievement of discretion to change the deferred amount and Current measures for financial performance are specic annual financial and business objectives or vary the deferral period provided that the adjusted earnings per share EPS, free cash in support of the companys short to mediumchange does not make the deferred amount ow and revenue but outcomes will only be term strategy.
anyless or the deferral period any shorter, determined provided that the earnings per share thanas outlined in this Policy report.
threshold has first been achieved.
Operation The Committee may apply judgement and The Committee retains discretion to annually Executive Directors may be eligible to receive shall have discretion to make appropriate adjust the performance measures targets a discretionary annual cash bonus which is not adjustments to an individuals annual bonus, for weightings in future years to reect the pensionable.
example, to reduce any potential annual bonus prevailing operational and strategic aims and At the start of each financial year, performance if the Committee believes that an individual has objectives of the business.
However, a minimum measures and weightings are determined not made satisfactory progress in contributing of 50% of the total will always be based on key and annual financial targets are set by the to the Groups non-financial strategic objectives.
Bonus outcomes are determined Malus and or clawback provisions apply to both Further details of the performance measures bythe Committee based on performance the cash and the deferred element.
target weightings are set out in the Annual against those targets.
report on remuneration on page 98.
A quarter of any bonus that may be paid shall Maximum becompulsorily deferred into shares that The maximum annual bonus potential for vest after three years subject to continued Executive Directors is 130% of base salary.
Deferred bonus shares are eligible Thethreshold, target and maximum bonus for dividend equivalents over the period from levelsare as follows: the date the deferred award is granted, to the Threshold as a % Target as a % Stretch as a % date of itssatisfaction.
of bonus ofbonus ofbonus 20% 60% 100% 109 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Report on directors remuneration continued Variable pay Long-term incentives Purpose and link to strategy Maximum To create, incentivise and recognise long-term shareholder value The maximum award limit in each financial year will be 200% of base throughthe satisfaction of challenging and stretching performance salary.
In exceptional circumstances, the Committee may make awards measures targets linked to the companys strategic objectives.
Operation Performance framework Long-term incentives will only comprise a Performance Share Plan There are two equally weighted performance measures: PSP award.
Adjusted earnings per share EPS : and Weighted average post-tax return on invested capital ROIC.
Awards are normally granted annually with vesting on the third anniversary of the grant date dependent on the achievement of stretching For threshold performance, 25% of the award will vest.
For maximum performance measures targets over a period of three financial years.
Vesting will operate on a straight-line basis.
The performance measures targets will be determined at the start of The Committee retains discretion to include additional or alternative each performance period in line with the companys strategic objectives.
financial performance measures targets and or adjust the weightings in Malus and or clawback provisions apply.
future years to reect the prevailing operational and strategic aims and objectives of the business.
Awards will be eligible for dividend equivalents over the period from the date the award is granted, to the date of its satisfaction.
Further details of long-term incentive awards are contained in the Annualreport on remuneration on pages 91 to 107.
Illustrating the application of the remuneration policy James Drummond 000 Kevin Quinn 000 2,737 48% 1,692 1,458 44% 23% 26% 949 29% 19% 697 28% 478 30% 100% 48% 26% 100% 50% 28% Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Fixed Elements Annual Variable Element Long-Term Variable Element Fixed Elements Annual Variable Element Long-Term Variable Element The potential reward opportunities illustrated above were calculated using base salaries effective from 1 January 2017.
For the annual bonus, the amounts illustrated are those potentially receivable in respect of performance for 2017.
It should be noted that any awards granted under the PSP do not normally vest until the third anniversary of the date of grant.
The projected values of PSP awards exclude the impact of share price growth and dividend accrual.
Illustrations are intended to provide further information to shareholders regarding the pay for performance relationship.
However, actual pay delivered will be influenced by changes in share price and the vesting period of awards.
The assumptions set out below have been made in compiling the above charts: Assumptions Minimum Target Maximum Fixed pay Base salary and pension provision Base salary and pension provision Base salary and pension provision effective 1 January 2017. benefit effective 1 January 2017. benefit effective 1 January 2017. benefit levels are assumed to be the same levels are assumed to be the same levels are assumed to be the same as the last financial year.
as the last financial year.
Annual bonus No annual bonus payable.
On target annual bonus of 60% of Maximum annual bonus bonus potential.
PSP Threshold not achieved Share award of 240% of base salary Share award of 240% of base salary zerovesting.
for James Drummond and 200% for James Drummond and 200% of base salary for Kevin Quinn.
of base salary for Kevin Quinn.
Notes: i In 2017, James Drummond will be granted an additional and exceptional long-term incentive award of 40% of base salary the total award will be equivalent to 240% of base salary.
ii Pension contributions are 20% of base salary for James Drummond and Kevin Quinn.
iii The Berendsen Sharesave Plan is excluded from the scenarios as the values are negligible.
110 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements Summary of remuneration elements for Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman Purpose and link to strategy To attract and retain Non-Executive Directors with the appropriate and requisite degree of experience, independence, knowledge and skills and to attract and retain a Chairman capable of providing effective leadership of the Board.
Operation Fee levels are reviewed and determined annually by the Board other than fee levels for the Chairman which are reviewed and determined by the Remuneration Committee under a policy that seeks to recognise the time commitment, responsibilities, the technical skills required to make a valuable contribution to the Board, and by reference to comparators.
Additional fees may be paid in respect of service as Chairman of a Committee or for additional duties such as serving as the Senior Independent Director.
Participation is not permitted in any incentive or pension arrangement operated by the company and, other than fees, no additional or other remuneration is paid.
Travel and subsistence for Non-Executive Directors based outside of the UK for company-related business will be reimbursed by the company.
Maximum Any fee increases are applied in line with the outcome of the annual review.
The maximum aggregate annual fee for all Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, as provided for in the companys Articles of Association, is 750,000.
