STRATEGIC REPORT Business Model Building homes, building value Reinvest profit Earnings for employees Buy land Build and sell new Payments to Share capital Buy materials homes sub-contractors and and apartments suppliers Retained profit Employ people which meet our customers' Investment in Bank finance Engage subaspirations communities contractors through section 106 infrastructure payments Dividends The following timeline demonstrates how we create value from purchasing land to selling homes Delivering an Selecting the Managing the Investing in Construction excellent customer right land planning our people of the right experience process product The detailed aspects of the business model are shown on the next few pages, together with recent progress achieved and our future plans.
We also report on the key performance indicators KPIs we use to measure our performance against our strategy.
Our principal KPIs The Group has five principal KPIs and a larger number of secondary KPIs to support them.
The principal KPIs are shown below and on page 9.
Stated before exceptional item see note 5 to the accounts.
08 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Selecting the right land Acquiring high quality sustainable sites in areas of high demand that meets or exceeds our financial and non-financial acquisition criteria is key to the success of the business.
For more information see pages 10 11 Managing the planning process Working with local planning authorities and communities in compliance with the National Planning Policy Framework 'NPPF' in order to deliver effective and sufficient planning consents for the business.
For more information see pages 12 13 Construction of the right product Providing an appropriate product range on housing and apartment developments, at prices that are affordable for our customers and which are built efficiently and to a high quality.
For more information see pages 14 15 Delivering an excellent customer experience Making sure that our customers receive an excellent experience when purchasing a new home, both prior to and following moving in.
For more information see pages 16 17 Investing in our people Providing our people with a rewarding and fulfilling career, enabling them to achieve their full potential and deliver high levels of performance, contributing to the success of thebusiness.
For more information see pages 18 19 Net asset value Proposed total dividend 108.0 1,522 per ordinary share p per ordinary share p 1,286 77.0 1,118 1,522 108.0 52.0 18.4% 40.3% 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Bellway p. l. c. 09 STRATEGIC REPORT Business Model continued Selecting the right land Description Land opportunities are identified by our divisional land and planning teams and the strategic land team using their local knowledge and contacts.
Aviability assessment and appraisal is prepared by the division, which is assessed in detail at regional and then Group level, where the final decision is taken on whether or not to purchase the site.
Board approval may also be required depending upon the value and nature of the proposed acquisition.
Land acquisitions are considered against a number of criteria, such as gross margin, ROCE, capital requirements, forecast sales rates and planning prognosis.
The number of large long-term sites we own is strictly controlled to avoid having too much capital tied up or concentrated in one location.
We often secure land without the benefit of an implementable DPP, typically brownfield sites, and use the expertise of our land teams to obtain aDPP which thereby adds value and enables higher returns.
KPIs Failure to have an adequate supply of land would put our ability to achieve our volume growth targets under pressure.
We therefore link part of the 1 executive directors bonuses to the delivery of a sufficient land bank to meet our growth aspirations.
ROCE is a key indicator of how we are delivering our strategy of building shareholder value which is reliant on land acquisition and the subsequent performance of our developments.
Gross margin enables us to monitor the robustness of our land purchasing process and the level of profit on land purchases.
All of these KPIs have improved during the year.
10 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT How we performed in 2015 16 We strengthened the Head Office land reduced by 4,700 to 10,100 plots, reflecting our We only acquired land which met or team with the appointment of three success at obtaining DPP in the period and exceeded our minimum acquisition regional strategic land directors.
also as a result of the disposal of our interest criteria.
in Barking Riverside Limited see note 5 to the We increased the number of plots we accounts.
We have an interest in a number own and control with DPP by 3,468 plots of long-term strategic land holdings, of which to 24,879 plots.
The number of plots 6,300 plots have been identified as benefiting owned and controlled awaiting from a positive planning status.
implementable DPP pipeline, has What we rely on Where sites require planning consent it may take many months to progress a parcel of land from contract through the planning consent process before we can start building and selling homes.
Wetherefore require our land teams to purchase sufficient sites to ensure that we have the necessary amount of land to meet our short-term volume growth targets as well as apipeline ofland for subsequent years.
How this links to strategy We need to have an adequate supply of land to meet our volume growth aspirations.
The proposed land acquisition must meet or exceed our minimum gross margin and ROCE acquisition criteria.
How this links to Corporate Responsibility By building homes on brownfield land we are contributing to the regeneration of areas inmainly urban locations.
By collaborating with local communities we are delivering high quality sustainable housingdevelopments.
For more information see pages 33-39 The risk we mitigate The inability to source suitable land at our minimum gross margin and ROCE hurdlerates.
During the year there has been no change in this risk.
For more information see pages 20-24 Our plans for 2016 17 We aim to ensure that plots in our owned We will continue to acquire land which We will continue to focus our land and controlled land bank with DPP at the meets or exceeds our acquisition criteria.
buyingin areas of high demand and year end are sufficient to meet the .
following years growth targets and to progress land through the planning system to contribute towards subsequent years' growth targets.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Bellway p. l. c. 11 STRATEGIC REPORT Business Model continued Managing the planning process Description Our land bank is comprised of three tiers: i land with DPP: ii medium-term pipeline land: iii strategic long-term land either owned or under option which has the benefit of a positive planning status in approved or emerging local plans.
Our divisional and Head Office planning teams work closely with localauthorities and communities to obtain DPP to construct homes which reflect planning and vernacular requirements.
The divisional and Head Office planning departments progress a combination of medium-term pipeline land and land from our strategic land bank throughout the planning system.
KPIs These KPIs enable us to monitor the number of plots in each tier of our land bank to ensure they remain sufficient to help us deliver our strategy of volume growth.
At the end of the year we had an appropriate number of plots in each land bank tier.
of plots in pipeline plots No.
of plots in strategic 14,800 6,300 6,000 land bank with positive planning status plots 10,100 2015 2016 2015 2016 12 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT How we performed in 2015 16 We secured DPP on sufficient land We invested in sufficient pipeline land to We increased the number of strategic duringthe year to meet our requirements provide plots to progress through the plots with a positive planning status from for 2016 17. planning process.
The number of plots that were converted from our medium-term pipeline land bank to land with DPP in 2015 16 was 7,265 plots 2015 6,909.
What we rely on Our planning teams build collaborative relationships with local councils, residents and interest groups so that our completed developments benefit the communities in which they are built and reflect local needs.
We also rely on government support to make improvements to the planning process such as the continuation of the NPPF.
How this links to strategy Without sufficient land with DPP we would be unable to achieve our volume growth targets.
Furthermore, by not efficiently progressing land through the planning process, capital could betied up in land for longer than necessary which may result in a reduction in ROCE.
We continue to focus on acquiring land through our pipeline, often acquiring sites conditionally with a deposit.
This approach to land buying helps secure a medium-term landsupply, without consuming excessive capital.
Strategic land helps to augment our land bank and complements our strategy of volume growth.
How this links to Corporate Responsibility We consult with local residents as part of the planning process to help us build the homes ourcustomers desire locally.
We make contributions to local communities through section 106 and Community Infrastructure Levy CIL payments.
For more information see page 33-39 The risk we mitigate Delays and increasing complexity in the planning process.
During the year there has been nochange in the risk.
For more information see page 20-24 Our plans for 2016 17 We aim to have sufficient plots with DPP at We aim to invest in sufficient pipeline We aim to increase the number 31 July 2017 to meet our 2017 18 volume land to provide plots which can be reliably ofstrategic option sites tocomplement growth aspirations.
progressed through the planningprocess the other tiers ofthelandbank.
and replenish land being actively developed without tying up excess capital.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Bellway p. l. c. 13 STRATEGIC REPORT Business Model continued Construction of theright product Description We construct a wide range of homes to suit a variety of budgets and lifestyles.
Our homes are built to specific building, technical, health and safety regulations and other regulatory requirements as well as toour own quality standards.
We take very seriously the health andsafety of our employees and sub-contractors who work on oursites and that of visitors to oursites.
We strive to maintain long-term working relationships with reputable sub-contractors to reduce health andsafety risks and to ensure the availability and quality of materials and labour.
We seek to ensure that we have suitable building materials available at competitive prices to enable us to construct homes to the high standards expected of us by ourcustomers, within budget and ontime.
We are signatories to the Prompt Payment Code and ensure that our sub-contractors and suppliers are paid in accordance with .
We closely monitor work in progress to ensure that build rates are consistent with sales rates.
KPIs The health and safety of our employees, sub-contractors and visitors on site is paramount.
We therefore include a health and safety target as part of the executive directors potential bonus payment.
Improvements in health and safety performance are indicated by a lower NHBC health and safety incident rate and by a reduction in the number of RIDDOR lost time accidents.
Unfortunately the number of RIDDOR lost time accidents rose by 3%.
NHBC health and safety No.
of RIDDOR lost time 1 0.936 43 445.19 430.75 incident rate Awards awards accidents per 100,000 1 0.766 33 site operatives no.
of NHBC Health and 9 Safety Awards awards 5 Note: 2015 2016 1.
For further information go to pages 54-68.
14 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT How we performed in 2015 16 We have trialled our standard house types Our construction programmes have bymonitoring performance against and construction specification and will benefited from certainty of materials' pre-determined targets and objectives.
use the experience gained from those supply through good forward planning Our sites were regularly inspected by both trials to begin a phased roll out across part and supplier relationships.
A good internal and external specialists to ensure of England.
This standardisation will help example of this is that the shortages of that high standards of health and safety us to control build cost and the quality of blockwork across the industry in 2016 was compliance were maintained.
well managed by our team and did not hold up our production schedule.
We have recruited an additional health We have reviewed all of our standard and safety manager dedicated to our contracts and trained our key employees The Board continues to pay close more complex London schemes.
in their use to help reduce the risk of cost attention to our health and safety escalation and claims during construction.
performance at each Board meeting What we rely on Experienced construction people, strong relationships with skilled sub-contractors and Group purchasing arrangements with suppliers andmanufacturers are key to enabling us to deliver homes built to the right standard, at the right time and at the right price.
How this links to strategy The homes we design and build must meet our customers needs and expectations and we use customer feedback to monitor this.
Good quality homes enhance customer satisfaction and ultimately our reputation, which aids our ability to sell the homes we build.
Thisinturnhelps us achieve our strategy of volume growth.
Having suitable materials at competitive prices controlled through Group purchasing arrangements enables us to meet our growth aspirations, helps support our returns and gives us better control over our cost base.
It is important to have high standards of health and safety on our sites to create the appropriate working environment to deliver a good qualityproduct and protect the well-being of our employees and sub-contractors and that of visitors to our sites.
Ensuring we build the type of homes our customers want to buy and matching our build rates to our sales rates reduces the amount ofcapitaltied up in work in progress and unsold finished properties, which could have an adverse impact on our ROCE.
How this links to Corporate Responsibility The health and safety of everyone who works on and visits our sites is paramount.
Reducing waste on-site delivers cost savings for the business and reduces the amount of waste sent to landfill.
Building strong long-term relationships with sub-contractors and suppliers and manufacturers of materials generates benefits for us, thosewedobusiness with and the communities in which we operate.
Adhering to the commitments we have signed up to in the Prompt Payment Code is consistent with our aim to be regarded  national housebuilder.
For more information see page 33-39 The risks we mitigate Shortage of appropriately skilled construction people and sub-contractors.
During the year this risk has increased in certain areas of the country.
Shortage of building materials at competitive prices.
There are significant health and safety risks inherent in the construction process.
Duringthe year there has been no change in this risk.
For more information see page 20-24 Our plans for 2016 17 A phased roll out of the new standard We will target improvements during Our sites will continue to be regularly house type range across part of England.
theyear through improved design, inspected by both internal and external construction processes and training.
specialists to ensure high standards of We will review and refresh our supplier health and safety compliance and arrangements to ensure we continue to The Board will continue to monitor the performance are maintained.
achieve certainty of supply at a good health and safety performance against price whilst further improving our controls targets at each Board meeting.
We will have focussed site briefings on quality and compliance.
thisyear on how to reduce slips, tripsandfalls to try to reduce the number of RIDDOR lost time accidents.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Bellway p. l. c. 15 STRATEGIC REPORT Business Model continued Delivering an excellent customer experience Description We aspire to sell homes that are desirable and affordable for our customers.
The satisfaction of our customers is paramount and ultimately this will determine the success or otherwise of our business.
We aim to deliver an excellent experience to our customers, both before and after occupation of their homes, building upon our reputation as a quality national housebuilder.
We aim to increase the number ofhomes sold through continued investment in appropriate land andour construction teams.
KPIs We have chosen the following KPIs as they demonstrate progress made by the Group in delivering its strategy of volume growth.
We believe that customer satisfaction plays a very important part in achieving this volume growth and part of the bonus available to the executive directors is based 1 upon improvements made in customer service.
All of these KPIs have improved during the year, apart from our 4 star housebuilder status, which has remained the same.
HBF NHBC housebuilder 169 4 4 status star 153 Note: 1.
16 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT How we performed in 2015 16 Our expanding national network 48% of our apartments sold in the year We successfully opened one new division ofdivisions, together with the were in the London boroughs.
during the financial year which will help to development of attractive, affordable augment our sales performance.
We have continued to train customerhomes ranging from apartments to facing employees throughout the year traditional five-bedroom homes has and are pleased to report that our helped increase the number of homes independent net customer satisfaction sold and the average selling price.
score has increased slightly to 85.7%.
What we rely on Sales and customer care teams who are well trained, have the right attitude and the resources available to them to deliver excellent service to our customers both before and after occupation of their home.
Site Managers who are responsible for, and take genuine pride in, the quality of each finished home that we build.
How this links to strategy It is important to have sufficient demand and mortgage finance availability for the homes we construct to ensure the Group is able to meet its volume growth targets.
Ensuring that our customers have an excellent experience is something we aim to deliver at all times.
It also helps to perpetuate a positive reputation for the Group and assists in generating further sales through personal recommendation and brand awareness.
We monitor customer satisfaction using feedback from our customers.
How this links to Corporate Responsibility We continue to improve the energy efficiency of the homes we build by building homes which are on average more energy efficient than that required by building regulations.
Customer handover folders now contain information on sustainable travel, local recycling centres and energy efficiency advice.
For every completed customer survey we make a donation to our national charity partner.
For more information see page 33-39 The risks we mitigate Mortgage availability.
During the year there were no material changes in these risks although interest rates have fallen which has improved mortgage affordability.
Market uncertainty following the EU Referendum.
This is a new risk identified during the year.
For more information see page 20-24 Our plans for 2016 17 We will continue to sell a wide range We aim to increase the number of new We have opened another operating ofhigh quality homes to suit a variety homes we bring to the market and division, based in County Durham, ofbudgets in locations sought after thereby increase the number of homes on 1 August 2016. byourcustomers.
We will increase the charitable donation We will continuously revisit and refresh We will seek to regain our HBF NHBC for every completed customer survey our training for all customer-facing 5star housebuilder status.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Bellway p. l. c. 17 STRATEGIC REPORT Business Model continued Investing in ourpeople Description Our people are key to the success of our business and we aim to provide them with a rewarding and fulfilling career.
KPIs We use the following KPIs as indicators of how successful we have been during the year in managing our people.
Employee turnover and the proportion of our people who have worked with us for more than ten years indicate how good we are at retention.
During the year employee turnover increased asa result of a general skills shortage in our sector, however, the proportion of our people who have ten or more years service also increased.
The other KPIs demonstrate our progress against training for our existing workforce and our success in recruiting new entrants to theindustry.
Employees who have Graduates and apprentices Site Managers and Assistant 21 83 48 worked for the Group for no.
Site Managers with NVQ 73 18 ten years or more % Level 6 or above % 34 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 Customer care training hours Employee turnover % 23.4 5,800 19.1 3,586 2015 2016 2015 2016 18 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT How we performed in 2015 16 We have increased the number of We continue to increase the level of We increased the minimum employer and graduates and apprentices we recruit and training provided to employees involved employee pension contributions for all train by 14%.
with sales, customer care and health employees from 3% to 4% of basicpay andsafety.
Work continues on developing our Human Resources strategy, which is now The percentage of our Site Managers and In June we launched the Bellway led by a newly appointed Group Human Assistant Site Managers who have now Learning Hub, an online learning platform Resources Director.
achieved NVQ Level 6 qualifications or which provides e-learning courses and above has increased by 140bps.
online resources for new and existing employees.
What we rely on Our skilled, professional and dedicated employees and sub-contractors are provided with theright level of training, support and resources.
How this links to strategy Our employees are essential to the delivery of our strategy through the value they add atallstages of our operations.
How this links to Corporate Responsibility Further improvements in training and development.
Increase in the minimum employer matched pension contribution rate to 4% of salary.
For more information see page 33-39 The risk we mitigate The inability to attract and retain appropriate people.
During the year this risk has notchanged.
For more information see page 20-24 Our plans for 2016 17 Develop a structured induction Develop and implement management Develop a structured apprenticeship programme.
development training, tools and guidance.
andgraduate training programme and increase the number of graduates and Create a suite of mandatory and Review and develop a succession apprentices we recruit and develop.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Bellway p. l. c. 19
