Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Directors report The directors present their Annual Report and audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016.
This Annual Report contains forwardBranches outside the UK Appointment and replacement looking statements.
These forwardof directors The Group has a branch in Finland.
looking statements are not guarantees Directors may be appointed by the of future performance.
Rather they are Results and dividends shareholders by ordinary resolution based on current views and assumptions or by the Board.
A director appointed The financial statements set out the and involve known and unknown by the Board holds office only until results of the Group for the financial year risks, uncertainties and other factors the following AGM of the company ended 31 December 2016 and are shown that may cause actual results to and is then eligible for election by the on page 136.
The directors recommend a differ from any future results or members.
The Board or any Committee final dividend of 22.5 pence per ordinary developments expressed in, or implied authorised by the Board may from time share which, together with the interim from, the forward-looking statements.
to time appoint one or more directors dividend of 10.5 pence per ordinary Each forward-looking statement to hold any employment or executive share paid in October 2016, makes a speaks only as of the date of that office for such period and on such terms total dividend for the year of 33.0 pence particular statement.
as they may determine and may also 2015: 31.5 pence per ordinary share.
The Directors report of the Group for unanimously revoke or terminate any Subject to approval by shareholders the financial year ended 31 December such appointment.
of the recommended final dividend, 2016 is set out on pages 112 to 114 the dividend award to shareholders for The shareholders may, by special inclusive.
Additional information 2016 will total 54.8 million.
If approved, resolution, remove any director before which is incorporated by reference the company will pay the final dividend the expiration of that directors period into this Directors report, including on 5 May 2017 to shareholders on the of office.
information required in accordance with register of members at 7 April 2017. the Companies Act 2006 and Listing At every AGM of the company, any of Rule 9.8.
4R of the Financial Conduct the directors who have been appointed Directors Authoritys Listing Rules, can be located by the Board since the last AGM The current directors of the company, as follows: shall seek election by the members.
including their biographical details, Notwithstanding provisions in the Disclosure Location are set out on pages 66 and 67. companys Articles in respect of the Each director served throughout the Future business Throughout the retirement by rotation of directors, the financial year ended 31 December 2016. developments Strategic report Board has agreed, in accordance with pages 1 to 59 the UK Corporate Governance Code, Copies of Executive Directors service and in line with previous years, that all Employee Our people contracts are available to shareholders of the directors wishing to continue will involvement page35 for inspection at the companys offer themselves for re-election by the registered office and at the Annual Financial risk Note 17 to shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
Details of the management the financial directors remuneration and service objectives statements contracts and their interests in the shares Directors indemnity and policies pages 154 to 161 of the company are included in the Article 131 of the Articles provides, including hedging Directors remuneration report which is among other things that, insofar as policy and use set out on pages 88 to 111. permitted by law, every director of the of financial company or any associated company instruments Powers of the directors may be indemnified by the company Details of longNote 21 to against any liability.
The Board of directors is responsible term incentive the financial for the management of the business of schemes statements Deed polls, which include the grant of the company and may exercise all the pages 165 to 168 indemnities constituting qualifying third powers of the company, subject to the party indemnity provisions as dened Directors Page 115 companys Articles of Association the by Section 234 of the Companies Act responsibilities Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and 2006, were in force during the year for statement any directions given by the shareholders each of the Chairman, Executive and Greenhouse gas Corporate by special resolution.
The Articles may Non-Executive Directors of the company emissions responsibility be amended by a special resolution of and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
report page 39 the companys shareholders.
In addition, the company has arranged appropriate insurance cover in respect Both the Directors report and the of legal action against its directors Strategic report have been drawn up and officers.
and presented in accordance with, and in reliance upon, applicable English company law.
The liabilities of the directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
112 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements Share capital Restrictions on transfer of Rights under the employee securities in the company share scheme As at 2 March 2017, the companys issued share capital equalled an amount There are no restrictions on the transfer As at 31 December 2016, Estera Trust of 51,785,326 divided into 172,617,754 of securities in the company, except: Jersey Limited Estera, as trustee of ordinary shares of 30 pence each no the Berendsen Employee benefit Trust, a That certain restrictions may from shares are held in treasury.
Details of held 1,390,393 shares in trust for the time to time be imposed by laws the movements in the companys issued benefit of the Executive Directors and and regulations for example, insider share capital in the year are set out in employees of the Group.
A dividend trading laws note 20 to the financial statements.
waiver is in place in respect of Esteras a Pursuant to the Listing Rules of shareholding and Estera currently Rights and obligations the Financial Conduct Authority, abstains from voting but Estera whereby certain employees of the may, upon the recommendation of attaching to shares company require the approval of the the company and having taken into Subject to the Articles, the Companies company to deal in the companys account all relevant matters including Act 2006 and other shareholders rights: ordinary shares the interests of beneciaries, accept or shares in the company may be issued reject any offer relating to the shares in with such rights and restrictions as the The directors are not aware of any any way it sees t, without incurring any shareholders may by ordinary resolution agreements between holders of liability and without being required to decide, or if there is no such resolution, securities that may result in restrictions give reasons for its decision.
as the Board may decide provided it on the transfer of securities.
does not conict with any resolution Authority to purchase own passed by the shareholders.
Restrictions on voting shares The rights attached to any class of shares No shareholder shall be entitled to vote At the AGM held on 28 April 2016, can be amended if approved, either by at any general meeting or upon a poll shareholders authorised the company to 75% of shareholders holding the issued or exercise any other right conferred purchase in the market up to 10% of its shares in that class by amount, or by by membership unless the directors issued share capital 17,257,992 ordinary special resolution passed at a separate decide otherwise in respect of any shares and, as at 31 December 2016, meeting of the holders of the relevant share held by him or her if any call or the full extent of this authority remained class of shares.
other sum then payable by him or her in force and unused.
This authority Every member and every duly appointed in respect of that share remains unpaid is renewable annually, and a special proxy present at a general meeting or or if a shareholder has been served resolution will be proposed at the 2017 class meeting has, upon a show of hands, with a restriction notice as dened in AGM to renew it.
The directors will only one vote and every member present in the Articles after failure to provide the purchase the companys shares in the person or by proxy has, upon a poll, one company with information concerning market if they believe it is in the best vote for every share held by him or her.
interests in those shares required to be interests of shareholders generally.
provided under the Financial Conduct No person holds securities in the Authoritys Listing Rules.
company carrying special rights with regard to control of the company.
The directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
Substantial shareholdings The table below shows the holdings in the companys issued share capital which had been notied to the company pursuant to the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
The information below was correct at the date of notication.
It should be noted that these holdings are likely to have changed since the company was notied.
However, notication of any change is not required until the next notiable threshold is crossed.
31 December 2016 2 March 2017 Direct indirect No.
of shares m % Direct indirect No.
of shares m % Prudential plc Direct 14.4 8.33 Direct 14.4 8.33 Ameriprise Financial Inc and its group Direct 8.67 5.03 Direct 8.67 5.03 Fidelity Management & Research Company FMR Direct 8.65 5.01 Direct 8.65 5.01 BlackRock Direct 8.64 5.00 Direct 8.64 5.00 Royal London Asset Management Direct 5.18 3.00 Direct 5.18 3.00 Being the latest practicable date prior to publication of the Annual Report.
113 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Directors report continued Appropriate arrangements are made for The Group has considerable financial significant agreements the continued employment and training, resources together with long-term There are a number of agreements career development and promotion of contracts with a number of customers that take effect, alter or terminate upon persons with disabilities employed by the and suppliers across different a change of control of the company, Group.
If there were to be any instance of geographic areas and industries.
As a such as commercial contracts, bank an employee becoming disabled during consequence, the directors believe that loan agreements, property lease their employment with us, every effort the Group is well placed to manage its arrangements and employees share would be made to make sure that their business risks successfully.
None of these are deemed to be employment with us continues and that, significant in terms of their potential Having assessed the principal risks, and where needed, appropriate retraining impact on the business of the Group other matters discussed in connection is arranged.
as a whole, except for the following: US with the viability statement, the directors Private Placement Note Agreements consider it appropriate to adopt the Political donations US$100 million dated 25 May 2006, going concern basis of accounting in There were no political donations during US$229 million and 25 million dated preparing the financial statements.
DKK655 million dated 15 December Annual General Meeting 2015 and the 510 million Multicurrency Auditors and disclosure of The Notice of the AGM to be held at Revolving Credit Facility dated 19 March information to auditors 11.00am on Thursday 27 April 2017 is 2016.
These agreements contain change The companys auditors, being sent separately to shareholders of control provisions which, if triggered,  LLP, have with this report.
The venue for the could limit future utilisations, require the indicated their willingness to continue in meeting is The Athenaeum Hotel at repayment of existing utilisations or lead office and a resolution to reappoint them 116Piccadilly, Mayfair, London, W1J 7BJ.
will be proposed at the AGM.
The Directors report has been approved As far as each director is aware, there is by the Board of directors and is signed Employees on its behalf by: no relevant audit information of which The Board recognises the importance of the companys auditors are unaware.
attracting, developing and retaining the David Lawler Each director has taken all the steps that right people, as well as maintaining a safe Company Secretary they ought to have taken as a director working environment for our existing 2 March 2017 in order to make themselves aware of employees.
Please refer to page 35 for any relevant audit information and to further details about Group policies and establish that the companys auditors are procedures on how employees skills, aware of that information.
communication and engagement are strengthened: go to page 36 for health Going concern and safety policies and procedures.
The Groups business activities, together In accordance with best practice, the with the factors likely to affect its future company has employment policies in development, performance and position place which provide equal opportunities are set out in the Strategic report on for all employees, irrespective of sex, pages 1 to 59.
The financial position age, race, colour, disability, sexual of the Group, its cash ows, liquidity orientation, religious beliefs or marital position and borrowing facilities are status, educational and professional described in the Financial review on background.
The company gives full pages 42 to 51.
In addition, note 17 to the and fair consideration to applications financial statements includes the Groups for employment from applicants objectives, policies and processes for with disabilities where they have the managing its capital: its financial risk appropriate skills and potential.
management objectives and policies: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to price, credit, liquidity andcash ow risk.
