STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT HOMES Connectivity and smart homes Space standards Adaptable homes We are increasingly living in a connected In 2014, we were the first private Our 2016-2018 commitment to enhance There is a need to provide more high 2016-2018 HEADLINE COMMITMENTS world, with customers expecting access to developer to commit to minimum space customer engagement mechanisms see quality homes in the UK.
At the same time, the internet from the first day they move standards for all our new homes.
We set page 24 will further aid the development we require homes that adapt to lifestyle Design our homes to consider future climate change into a new home.
Berkeley has worked standards covering three core aspects of our designs.
changes and provide families with space to to ensure continued thermal comfort closely with other developers and third in every home: master bedroom depth, live in urban areas.
To meet these demands, We are also exploring new processes, Understand the evolution of smart technology and party infrastructure and service providers, oor-to-ceiling height and storage.
These we have developed the Berkeley Urban materials and products to understand connectivity in homes and on developments to develop practical solutions that help have been implemented on 90% of our House which allows the retention of a how they can influence and improve the whole industry to provide the correct developments submitted to planning since typical street appearance while increasing the design of our homes.
This includes infrastructure to customers.
The majority May 2014. housing density.
It is designed with exible looking further into areas such as modern of our new developments submitted to 2014-2016 HEADLINE COMMITMENTS space to adapt to meet different needs Since introducing our commitment, methods of construction, fabric efficiency planning during 2014-2016 are able to as families grow, making it suitable for a Government has published a nationally Enable bre broadband on all our new homes improvements and the operational 95% provide bre broadband in line with our first-time buyer, through to those raising a described space standard which local and provide community Wi-Fi impacts of our buildings.
Those developments not family or considering downsizing.
In 2016, planning policy can now refer to.
We will meeting our requirements have been Guarantee space standards for all new homes Climate change adaptation we completed our first Berkeley Urban implement the Governments standard 90% restrained by the existing infrastructure Houses at Kidbrooke Village.
where requested and will go beyond It is essential that homes remain t for provided in the area.
We continue to apply this by applying master bedroom depth, Launch a new R&D programme to utilise customer purpose over their lifetime.
We have Attention to detail our commitment to enable bre broadband oor-to-ceiling height and storage criteria feedback and drive innovation through improved design therefore also committed to further in all our new homes moving forward.
The quality which we demand in our new in locations where compliance is not understanding the impacts of future homes requires a skilled workforce and Technology also continues to develop, requested by the local authority.
climate change on our homes and attention to detail.
We use our marketing providing people with enhanced designing measures to adapt our homes Research and development suites as the benchmark for build quality monitoring and control over their home.
to reduce these as applicable.
and nish in each individual home.
As part of our 2016-2018 headline We continually evolve the design of Bespoke design Every area is thoroughly checked before commitments, we are committed our homes.
To help this process we handover to ensure that high standards to exploring the smart technologies undertake research and development, Berkeley builds for everyone, from are maintained.
available on the market and how these with a new working group formed from families to first-time buyers, students could be incorporated into our homes.
representatives of a range of departments to senior people, and luxury living to including technical, customer services and affordable housing.
There is no generic sustainability.
A key action to date has Berkeley scheme: every design is included the strengthening of feedback bespoke, something which is uncommon channels between customers and other within the industry.
stakeholders and our design teams.
2016 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS WINNER London Evening Standard The Sunday Times British New Homes Awards 2015: Homes Awards 2015: Best Luxury Home Large Homebuilder of the Year Developer for Ebury Square 64% 72% individual homes supplied with low individual homes provided carbon or renewable technology with smart meters Learn more about Homes at www.
co. uk about-berkeley-group our-vision homes Abell & Cleland, Westminster 375 Kensington High Street, Kensington 28 29 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Berkeley is currently developing riverside apartments that will redefine the London skyline.
One Tower Bridge, Southwark 30 31 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT PLACES We are committed to creating great places where people enjoy a good quality of life, now and in the future.
To remain a developer of choice, it is essential that we focus on the outcome of our developments in the long-term.
This begins right from the outset by ensuring the location is right at land purchase, to focusing on placemaking during design and to ensuring that suitable management processes are in place once the development is occupied.
Creating great places to live is integral to what we do as it is about enabling our residents to enjoy a good quality of life, now and in the future.
OUR APPROACH We create well designed, high quality, safe and sustainable places which will endure as settled, vibrant communities long into the future.
These are places where people choose to live, work and spend their time, that directly encourage peoples wellbeing and quality of life, and offer them a space and a base from which to lead their lives.
Through our ability both to collaborate and to deliver, we aim to be the developer of choice for local authorities and existing communities.
We believe that appreciating the needs of our customers and wider stakeholders before, during and after the delivery of our schemes is what makes them thrive as a community.
Through the design of our developments we have a strong focus on the identity of the place.
We focus on creating thriving communities that are distinctive through their architecture and unique designs.
Celebrating the Queens birthday at Royal Arsenal Riverside, Woolwich Berkeley is creating a new school at Barns Green Woodberry Down, Finsbury Park The Leman Street Tavern at Goodmans Fields, Aldgate 32 33 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT PLACES Community engagement Creating communities Climate change adaptation We involve the community in the Our work on quality of life and social With the effects of climate change At Woodberry Down, we have supported 2016-2018 HEADLINE COMMITMENTS development of our schemes from the sustainability has identied that already being observed in the UK, we are the London Wildlife Trust to restore the outset, using our Community Engagement placekeeping is as important as placemaking taking action to ensure that our homes reservoir and create a new nature reserve Implement community plans on our developments Strategy as a framework for the type and that they should be thought of as two and developments remain comfortable for London.
The Woodberry Wetlands to facilitate thriving communities of engagement to be applied.
Many of elements of the same process.
places in which to live for decades nature reserve was unveiled by Sir David Develop and apply an approach to ensure that all our projects adopt community planning to come.
Climate change adaptation Attenborough in April 2016 and provides We want to ensure that our developments new developments create a net biodiversity gain strategies where local people are measures around the key issues of multiple habitats that combine to create a remain great places in which to live for involved in the design at an early stage, ooding, overheating and water shortage haven for wildlife.
Over the last two years whereas others include different types of are considered on new developments we have reviewed our estate management Sustainable infrastructure 2014-2016 HEADLINE COMMITMENTS community events to share information submitted to planning.
To achieve this, we practices across the business.
have developed a checklist which is applied The sustainability of the wider Measure and increase peoples quality of life has led to the creation of community to schemes to identify the most pertinent development is as important as the by applying a framework for social sustainability Quality of life plans as a structured approach to help issues to address, based on the type of individual homes we create.
When new communities to thrive for the Test new forms of estate management To help us measure and enhance peoples development planned and its location.
acquiring sites, locality to transport links is long-term.
To date, community plans and community governance quality of life we launched a social a key consideration.
We further encourage have been initiated at three of our We have also worked with the Zero Carbon sustainability toolkit in 2014.
We refer residents to use more sustainable Adapt all developments to climate change through large developments: Kidbrooke Village, Hub to develop a greater understanding 91% to it during the design process for all transport methods by providing cycle measures on ooding, overheating and water shortage Woodberry Down and Saffron Square.
of the potential effects of climate change new developments and are committed storage and electrical car charging points.
We intend further to develop our on our homes.
To build on this work during to conducting a formal assessment approach across the breadth of 2016-2018, we have a new commitment Green infrastructure is incorporated into pre-planning for every development our scheme types and sizes so that under our Homes focus area see page 28. our developments through the provision of 100 homes or more.
Over the last community plans can be implemented of open space, parks, gardens and living two years, 24 assessments have been Biodiversity consistently on our developments roofs.
We were pleased to present our completed on our larger developments.
Biodiversity is the variation within wildlife, work on green infrastructure as a best In 2016, LSE London undertook research species and habitats.
It plays an important practice case study at the UK Green at Saffron Square to understand role within our towns and cities as it helps Building Council City Conference in residents experiences of living within the to improve air quality, provide resilience to February 2016. development.
The research was based climate change and adds amenity value.
on our social sustainability framework We consult an ecologist on our schemes and found that 86% of respondents feel and have a new ambitious headline reasonably happy, compared to 68% of commitment for 2016-2018 to enhance people in similar areas.
biodiversity and to create a net gain.
2016 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS WINNER The Sunday Times British Homes Awards 2015: Development of the Year for The RESI Awards 2015: Wimbledon Hill Park up to 25 Large Developer of the Year homes category and One Tower Bridge over 100 homes category Public consultation events 85% 96% developments incorporating developments incorporating features designed to sustainable drainage measures enhance ecology Learn more about Places at www.
co. uk about-berkeley-group our-vision places Places for everyone.
Saffron Square, Croydon The Woodberry Wetlands nature reserve RARE - Royal Arsenal Riverside Explore - is an exciting vision for the community 34 35 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONS We are committed to making the right long-term decisions whilst running the business efficiently and working with our supply chain.
Running our operations effectively and considerately is fundamental to the long-term success of the business.
Running our operations effectively and considerately is We need a skilled and reliable supply chain to help us fundamental to the long-term success of the business.
deliver the pipeline of work and good relationships We need a skilled and reliable supply chain to help us with local stakeholders are essential to maintain our deliver the pipeline of work and good relationships reputation for quality.
with local stakeholders are essential to maintain our reputation for quality.
OUR APPROACH OUR APPROACH Through recognition that the property market is inherently cyclical we make decisions with a focus on Through recognition that the property market is the long-term.
We understand the operational risks inherently cyclical we make decisions with a focus on in trying to successfully identify, design, build and sell the long-term.
We understand the operational risks homes and create new places.
We aspire to maintain in trying to successfully identify, design, build and excellent partnerships with our supply chain to ensure sell homes and create new places.
We continue to that high quality services and materials are consistently develop and build upon the good relationships we have provided and we are a client of choice.
We support and with our supply chain and our communities to help engage with our supply chain and, through our supply us gain planning permission, to build and to sell our chain, we help to provide employment.
We conduct our developments and remain a developer of choice.
Each day-to-day operations in an environmentally efficient of our developments is led by a dedicated project team manner and with consideration to our neighbours.
responsible for all aspects of the design and delivery on the project, including the coordination of professional teams of consultants and contractors ensuring strong communication throughout.
We aspire to maintain Construction at Goodmans Fields, Aldgate excellent partnerships with our supply chain to ensure that high quality services and materials are consistently provided.
Furthermore, we support and engage with our supply chain and through which, we help to provide employment.
We conduct our day-to-day operations in an environmentally efficient manner and with consideration to our neighbours.
Berkeley graduates on site Yasar Ugur, a graduate of the Street Elite programme Sharing best practice 36 37 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONS Apprenticeships and training Supply chain Resource efficiency Innovation Fund Increasing the capacity of the workforce, The support of our supply chain is Office carbon emissions per person have Berkeleys Innovation Fund was launched 2016-2018 HEADLINE COMMITMENTS to ensure that there are enough people critical to the success of our business.
reduced by 12% this year as a result of in January 2015 to promote innovation with the right skills to deliver the pipeline Engagement with our suppliers is the actions taken under our 2014-2016 in health and safety, and in doing so, Reduce our operational carbon emissions intensity of future work, is a key challenge facing therefore key to remaining a client commitment to reduce energy costs see provide a positive influence to reduce by 10% and introduce a programme to become the industry.
Berkeley recognises this and of choice and achieving high quality page 42.
Our aim is to focus on realising construction-related risk and improve carbon positive has committed to take action.
Initiatives to outcomes, on time and on budget.
As a 10% reduction across all our direct health and safety performance on sites.
Ensure at least 1,500 people across our direct and date include the launch of the Berkeley a result, we are further increasing our activities during 2016-2018.
To achieve To date, 1.5 million has been committed indirect workforce undertake an apprenticeship Apprenticeship Scheme at Kidbrooke engagement with suppliers, particularly this, we plan to introduce minimum to 12 projects ranging from research or vocational training Village and the introduction of a through our Supply Chain Taskforce.
standards for the set up and operation studies through to product development.
Group-wide forum to share best practice.
of our offices, sites and marketing suites.
We plan to build on the success of the We are continuing our work to map our We also work closely with our supply chain This will build on the recommendations fund by broadening its scope, with the supply chain risks and are supporting 2014-2016 HEADLINE COMMITMENTS and educational establishments.
In April of energy audits completed to comply next phase of funding envisaged to be CIRIAs research on responsible sourcing 2016, over 10% of our site workforce were in with the Energy Savings Opportunity open to new applications from autumn Achieve a 50% increase in site-based apprenticeships in the construction industry.
Our evolved an apprenticeship or training.
For emissions that remain, we 2016.
For more information see www.
and training knowledge will feed into a new strategy in this area will be further progressed plan to introduce an offsetting programme berkeleygroup.
to source our materials more responsibly.
Launch a 2 million fund for the supply chain to during 2016-2018, with greater focus on to become carbon positive.
Further This is due to be launched later this year.
Considerate construction support innovation in health and safety direct apprenticeships across our activities.
information on our 2016 carbon emissions It is recognised that the majority of our is set out within the Directors report on Berkeleys continued efforts to construct Map our supply chain risks and develop a sustainable Encouraging young people to join the sustainability impacts occur indirectly page 100. developments with consideration of 92% specication and procurement strategy industry is vital.
This year we became through our supply chain.
We are proud our workforce, the local community the construction partner of the Mayor of In the same period, water consumption to be the first housebuilder to become and the environment have once again Londons HeadStart London programme across our activities has increased by 10%, a partner of the Homes School which been recognised at the Considerate which seeks to bridge the employability principally due to extensive landscaping was launched by the Supply Chain Constructors Schemes 2016 National gap between school and work.
As part of works and demolition operations requiring Sustainability School in November 2015.
We are delighted that this, we have provided work experience dust suppression.
The Homes School provides suppliers more than half of our schemes achieved placements and our staff have volunteered with free resources to provide consistent awards, including four which obtained at employability workshops.
messaging on sustainability and encourage Most Considerate Site Runner-Up status, more sustainable practices.
Furthermore, ranking them in the top 36 construction the Group has introduced a Human Rights, sites in the country.
Modern Slavery and Child Labour policy during the year as set out in the Directors Report on page 100.
2016 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS CIRIAs BIG Biodiversity Challenge Awards 2015: Mayor of Londons Business Energy Challenge 2015: Temporary Category Winner for Chiswick Gate Silver Award Winner 12% 42 50 reduction in office carbon average Considerate Constructors emissions per person Scheme score industry average: 36 Learn more about Operations at www.
co. uk about-berkeley-group our-vision operations A trusted supply chain Topping out ceremony at Brewery Wharf, Twickenham 38 39 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PEOPLE We are committed to developing a highly skilled workforce who run autonomous businesses, operate in a safe and supportive working environment and contribute to wider society.
A warm welcome to a Berkeley marketing suite Our people are key to the development process, from the identication and purchase of land through to the sale of our homes and ongoing customer service.
To run any business successfully it is vital to ensure that the workforce is highly skilled and motivated.
We understand the importance of supporting all our employees to allow them to work in a safe environment and to continue to advance their knowledge and skills.
Developing and retaining our workforce enables us to deliver our objectives and grow as a business.
OUR APPROACH A devolved business structure is at the heart of our strategy.
Our recognised brands and autonomous operational teams carefully manage each individual scheme to ensure that the entrepreneurial spirit of the business continues.
Recruiting and retaining a high calibre workforce is crucial to our approach.
We must support both our direct employees and the wider workforce of the contractors working on our sites.
We are proud to be safe: safety continues to be a key focus area across all of our operations, in addition to enhancing health and wellbeing.
We also aim to have a positive impact on society and enable young people to get into work through our support of the Berkeley Foundation.
We employ over 11,500 contractors We take pride in all aspects of our sites Berkeley staff taking part in the Three Peaks Challenge to raise money for the Berkeley Foundation 40 41 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PEOPLE Living wage Supporting a diverse workforce Health and safety The Living Wage Foundations rate Our business continues to grow: we now Through working closely with our supply More information on the achievements of 2016-2018 HEADLINE COMMITMENTS of pay is calculated according to the have over 2,300 direct employees working chain we aim to achieve industry-leading the Berkeley Foundation over the last five basic cost of living.
We continue to in a range of roles across just under 100 performance in health and safety.
Our years is provided on pages 46 and 47.
Launch and implement a new programme to promote the pay at least the Living Wage to all our sites and offices.
Across the Group, 37% Innovation Fund summarised within wellbeing of our staff and create healthy workplaces Energy and wellbeing employees, going beyond Governments of direct employees are female as are 23% the Operations section on page 39 is Invest in training and development through our talent new mandatory national living wage of our Board directors.
an example of a leading initiative to help Over the last two years we have focused management programmes to realise the potential of introduced in April 2016.
We encourage improve health and safety, not just within on understanding consumption and We also support a large workforce through our people across all areas of the business our contractors to do so also.
Berkeley but across the industry as a whole.
A number of our contractors with more than 11,500 our sites and offices have trialled more Talent management people working on our sites in April 2016.
We are pleased to be able to report a effective sub-metering and monitored reduced Accident Incident Rate AIR 2014-2016 HEADLINE COMMITMENTS We have a talented and varied workforce Female Male Total out-of-hours usage to identify areas for of 2.40 2015: 2.46, demonstrating that is our strongest resource.
There has also been a focus Pay at least the Living Wage to all direct employees Total Employees 888 1,491 2,379 performance beyond the industry average.
to recognise employees performance on site temporary electrics efficiency.
As Our Accident Frequency Rate AFR is and potential and to provide support and Senior Management 2 5 7 a result of our 2014-2016 commitment, we 0.11, down from 0.12 in 2015.
Reduce energy costs by up to 500,000, investing development opportunities.
As a result have reduced our electricity consumption 63% Board of Directors 3 10 13 50% of the saving in new health and wellbeing initiatives of our 2014-2016 commitment, various The NHBC Health and Safety Awards across our activities by 16% per person talent management programmes have At 30 April 2016 recognise the very best in health and and costs by just over 310,000.
We aim Encourage and support every member of staff been introduced across the operating safety.
We are delighted that two of the further to reduce our broader energy to be involved with the Berkeley Foundation each year The Berkeley Foundation businesses.
Some are intensive schemes three 2015 National Best Site Awards consumption through our new carbon Launch a talent management programme which for selected individuals, whereas other All Berkeley offices have a Foundation were won by Berkeley projects.
commitment see the Operations section, develops new ideas to enhance the business businesses are undertaking programmes Representative who encourages staff page 38. for all staff.
Our 2016-2018 commitment to get involved in fundraising events Health and wellbeing initiatives have been seeks to highlight the successes of these and volunteering.
selected locally by operating businesses programmes and build upon them.
This year, 68% of staff engaged with the and include well person clinics, office fruit We are extremely proud that one of our activities of the Berkeley Foundation baskets, exercise classes and awareness senior project managers, Paul Dunnett, won through fundraising, Give As You Earn or campaigns.
There will be an increased focus the prestigious accolade of the NHBCs volunteering, raising just under 1 million.
during 2016-2018 on providing workplace Pride in the Job Supreme Award for the Our aim is to inspire all employees to environments that encourage and enable multi-storey category in January 2016.
This support the Foundation at least once our employees to lead healthy lifestyles.
marks the second consecutive year that a each year.
Berkeley employee has received this award.
2016 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS NHBC Health and Safety Awards 2015: Payroll Giving Platinum Award National Best Site Awards for 2016 achieved as over 30% of Ryewood Large Builder and employees donate through the Saffron Square Multi-Storey Builder GAYE scheme Our talented workforce is our strongest resource 2.40 68% Accident Incident Rate employees involved with the industry average: 4.20, Berkeley Foundation HSE October 2015 gure Learn more about Our People at www.
co. uk about-berkeley-group our-vision our-people Staff and family supporting runners on Apprentices on site We provide support and development opportunities to all employees theVirgin Money London Marathon 42 43 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Great developments are delivered by bringing together teams of talented people with a real passion for creating places that stand the test of time.
44 45 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT THE BERKELEY FOUNDATION The Berkeley Foundation was launched five years ago.
Since 2011, it has committed 7.9 million to more than 85 charities, reaching over 6,500 people.
The Foundation is focused on supporting projects which tackle homelessness, develop skills, create jobs, and help people to live positively with disability or illness.
Partnerships range from major national charities, such as Shelter and the Lords Taverners, to smaller charities chosen by Berkeley staff that are local to our offices and sites.
This year, 10% of Berkeley staff took part in Vertical Rush, climbing 200,000 steps and raising 56,000 for Shelter.
We are delighted that Berkeley and The Change Foundation won the Best Charity Partnership Property & Construction category Berkeley supports Queen Elizabeths at the Third Sector's Business Charity Awards for the Street Elite Street Elite Festival Foundation for Disabled People programme.
This has helped almost 300 young people on the edge of gangs and crime to build the skills for work, with 15 Street Elite graduates now employed directly by Berkeley.
Tough Mudder READ MORE ONLINE: www.
uk Dragon boat racing at Woodberry Down Volunteering at Providence Row Three Peaks triathlon 2016 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS 7.9m Third Sector Business Charity has been committed to more Awards 2016: than 85 charities since the Foundation launched five Charity Partnership Property years ago & Construction for Street Elite The Berkeley Group and The Change Foundation Berkeley staff abseiled down the ArcelorMittal Orbit Staff at Vertical Rush 2016 46 47 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS MODEL OUR BUSINESS IS ABOUT PLACEMAKING: IT IS ABOUT CREATING STRONG COMMUNITIES WHERE PEOPLE ENJOY A GREAT QUALITY OF LIFE.
Identifying and acquiring land Designing Customer and planning service and MAKING new homes stewardship THE RIGHT and places DECISIONS TO CREATE GREAT PLACES Marketing and Building new selling homes homes and places READ MORE ONLINE: www.
co. uk about-berkeley-group Fulham Reach, Fulham 48 49 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS MODEL THE PLACES THAT WE CREATE RANGE FROM A FEW HOMES IN MARKET TOWNS TO COMPLEX, MIXED-USE URBAN REGENERATION SCHEMES OF OVER 4,000 HOMES.
IDENTIFYING AND DESIGNING AND PLANNING BUILDING NEW HOMES MARKETING AND CUSTOMER SERVICE AWARDS ACQUIRING LAND NEW HOMES AND PLACES AND PLACES SELLING HOMES AND STEWARDSHIP We acquire land selectively with We work with consultants, local We are supporting the Whether first-time buyers, Customer satisfaction is the a focus on long-term, complex authorities and communities and employment of some 13,800 families, experienced investors, essential measure of whether our schemes where we can use our aim to create places characterised people in our offices and on retailers, our partners in housing homes and our service meet the expertise to add value through by the quality of their design, our schemes under construction, associations or providers of aspirations of our customers.
public realm, sustainability, building new homes and student accommodation, Berkeley transport links and access to jobs places for current and strives to ensure that its customers and amenities.
receive an unparalleled service Queens Award for Enterprise: when buying from Berkeley.
Sustainable Development 2014 Experience Consultation Intensive management Customer focus Customer journey Our experienced land teams understand We use professional architects and Each of our developments is led by a Sales teams across the business have Dedicated customer relationship our focus on investing selectively in the leading consultants and engineers to dedicated project team responsible for all an in-depth knowledge of their managers look after every stage of the right locations in our core markets of provide bespoke designs for every aspects of detailed design, delivery, quality, developments and help our customers customer journey and provide a high London and the South of England, where new scheme, however large or small, health and safety, commercial appraisal nd the right home to suit their needs.
level of care and service after completion, there is underlying demand for new in consultation with local communities.
The coordination of They have the knowledge and which we expect to match the quality of homes, good transport links and the With the knowledge gained from professional teams of consultants and understanding to explain the intricacies our product across all of our schemes.
We scope to create successful new places.
other developments, we strive to contractors and strong communication of every development, from the benchmark our performance on customer deliver schemes which are of high throughout are critical in ensuring the specication of each new home and service not just across the sector but Institute of Customer Service Appraisal quality, sensitive to their heritage and smooth delivery of every project.
the technical details to the on-site against the top businesses in the country, ServiceMark achieved across We undertake a rigorous internal appraisal surroundings and meet the aspirations amenities and wider context of and look continually to improve our offering.
all businesses Health and safety process to assess the opportunities of our customers and local and the scheme.
Estate management and risks of potential acquisitions and national stakeholders.
We place the utmost importance on the Meeting demand pre-authorise all land offers at Board health, safety and wellbeing of our people Successful places need the right Social and environmental sustainability level, which enables us to act quickly, and our subcontractor teams on site with We aim to forward sell our homes where long-term management strategy and innovatively and decisively, and deliver We have addressed the challenge of dedicated health and safety managers possible to ensure that our buildings we work closely with appointed on our offers.
understanding what makes a successful overseeing all of our developments and reect what our customers want and managing agents to set the right tone place by implementing a framework health and safety matters monitored, enables us to provide a range of customer for our schemes long after they have Entrepreneurship to promote quality of life and strength prioritised and debated at every Board choices and a bespoke service across been completed.
We are committed to The Group thrives in adopting an of community, which we now apply to meeting in every company within the all of our developments.
Our financial investigating and implementing excellent entrepreneurial approach in taking on our schemes.
We have led the way in business.
We are proud of our record in strength affords us the exibility to evolve forms of estate management and complex, challenging, browneld land delivering environmentally sustainable this area but seek continual improvement our product to meet our customers tastes community governance on our schemes.
which others are often reluctant to living on largescale developments in our methodologies and approach.
and be exible in how and when we Future-proong undertake, but only where there are and continue to lead our sector in deliver it.
Considerate construction the right commercial fundamentals, the sustainable development.
We recognise that technology advances Modern living potential to add value and where we have The reputation of Berkeley amongst rapidly, sometimes more quickly than Partnerships the vision to create something special its partners and stakeholders relies We are constantly evolving our design, we can build our schemes, and that we through the development process.
We engage closely with our partners in on all of our project teams engaging product and features, as well as the need to be at the forefront of employing the local authorities and communities with surrounding communities, being a wider on-site amenities on each scheme, new techniques and enabling the latest surrounding each of our sites to responsible and considerate neighbour to help turn our developments into the technology to serve our customers.
Our understand stakeholders needs and and working with our suppliers and homes that meet the expectations and current commitments under Our Vision prevailing sensitivities and reect these contractors to complete our schemes aspirations of people today.
Many of our includes the incorporation of evolving in our designs.
We continue to build on on time and budget.
This year, more commitments under Our Vision reect smart technology and connectivity our reputation for quality and for than half of our sites were recognised at changing priorities for our customers and in our new homes.
delivering on our promises, and thrive the Considerate Constructors Schemes help keep our homes at the forefront of on the strong working relationships that National Site Awards.
We are signed up modern living.
to the Prompt Payment Code, and aim to develop strong, long-term relationships with our contractors and suppliers.
50 51 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS B u c k i n g h a m s h i e r r i h e s r e t s e c r o W BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT WHERE WE OPERATE WE FOCUS ON LONDON AND THE SOUTH OF ENGLAND, MARKETS THAT WE KNOW AND UNDERSTAND.
LONDON SOUTH OF ENGLAND 10 Cambridgeshire 33 34 6 30 Warwickshire 5 16 14 41 11 9 2 39 8 14 11 21 1 Gloucestershire Essex 12 24 23 31 3 32 4 25 36 18 17 10 35 22 28 4 6 2 13 7 3 9 38 27 3 15 37 12 1 Oxfordshire 5 19 2 5 20 LONDON 7 11 13 Berkshire 40 9 26 3 8 1 6 6 4 Wiltshire 2 10 Kent 12 Surrey 29 Hampshire Somerset 8 7 7 1 5 West Sussex East Sussex 4 8 SOUTH OF ENGLAND LONDON UNDER CONSTRUCTION LONDON FUTURE SITES SOUTH OF ENGLAND UNDER CONSTRUCTION FUTURE SITES 1 1 21 1 1 8 190 Strand London Dock, Wapping Battersea Barns Green North Bersted Ascot 2 2 22 2 2 9 250 City Road, City of London Marine Wharf, Deptford Blackheath Fleet Reading 2 sites Borehamwood Gasworks 3 3 23 3 3 10 375 Kensington High Street Merano, Albert Embankment Chambers Wharf, Southwark Gillingham Sevenoaks Rickmansworth & Kensington Row 4 24 4 4 11 Sevenoaks 2 sites One Blackfriars, Southwark Fulham Gasworks Gosport Taplow 4 Abell & Cleland House, Westminster 5 25 5 5 12 Southwater One Tower Bridge Hornsey Gasworks High Wycombe Tunbridge Wells 5 Battersea Reach 6 26 6 6 13 Watford Gasworks Queenshurst, Kingston Kingston Holborough Wareld 6 Beaufort Park, Hendon 7 27 7 7 14 Winchester Riverlight, Battersea Oval Gasworks Horsham Worcester 7 Brewery Wharf, Twickenham 8 28 8 Wokingham Royal Arsenal Riverside Southall 8 Brunswick Square, Orpington 29 9 Saffron Square, Croydon Stephenson Street 9 Chelsea Creek 30 10 Smitheld Square, Hornsey Trent Park, Cockfosters 10 Chiswick Gate 31 11 South Quay Plaza, Docklands West End Green, Paddington 11 Dickens Yard, Ealing 32 12 Sovereign Court, Hammersmith Westminster 12 Fitzroy Gate, Isleworth 33 St Josephs, Mill Hill 13 Fulham Reach, Hammersmith 34 Stanmore Place 14 Goodmans Fields, Aldgate 35 The Corniche, Albert Embankment 15 Hurlingham Gate & Walk, Fulham 36 The Dumont, Albert Embankment 16 Imperial Square, Finchley 37 The Villas, Barnes 17 Kew Bridge Road 38 Vista, Battersea 18 Kew Bridge West, Brentford 39 White City 19 Kidbrooke Village 40 Wimbledon Hill Park New sites contracted for acquisition during the year New sites contracted for acquisition during the year 20 Latchmere House, Richmond 41 Woodberry Park 52 53 H e e r i r h t s f n o o t r p d s m h i r a e h t r o N B e d f o r d s h i r e STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT From traditional family homes in the countryside to city apartments and vibrant mixed-use schemes, the Berkeley Group is renowned for creating award winning homes.
Woodberry Down, Finsbury Park 54 55 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE MANAGE RISK Risk appetite Risk management framework KEEPING FINANCIAL Exposure to financial risks RISK LOW The Board is responsible for setting and The assessment of risk and embedding In making its assessment, the Directors have The financial risks to which Berkeley is exposed include: monitoring the risk appetite for Berkeley risk management into the business is a considered the principal risks facing the when pursuing its strategic objectives.
key element of setting and delivering our Group and how the Group mitigates such Berkeley keeps financial risk Liquidity risk Market interest rate risk The Boards approach to, and appetite strategy.
Our approach combines a toprisks, which are summarised on pages 58 The risk that the funding required for The risk that Group nancing activities low by maintaining a strong for risk is summarised below: down strategic review and feedback of to 65 of the Strategic Report.
The majority the Group to pursue its activities may are affected by uctuations in market risk by the Board, coupled with a bottom of risks to the Group are operational in balance sheet and simplicity not be available.
Cyclical market up review and reporting of risk by each nature primarily because the sites acquired Berkeleys business model is centred and transparency in its approach operating business.
are mostly complex, long-term regeneration on the Boards appreciation of the schemes and therefore risk management Market credit risk Other financial risks to financing the business.
The top down assessment of risk by the risks of the cyclical market in which is appropriately embedded in the day-toThe risk that counterparties mainly Berkeley contracts all of its sales and the Board includes a review of the external the business operates, in which market day business processes and controls.
The customers will default on their vast majority of its purchases in sterling, environment in which Berkeley operates, sentiment and transaction levels individual site cash ow forecasts, which are contractual obligations, resulting in a and so has no significant exposure to coupled with a deep seated knowledge change, requiring us to adopt a exible used to prepare the Groups consolidated loss to the Group.
The Groups exposure currency risk, but does recognise that of our industry and operations based on approach to our investment decisions.
cash forecasts, take account of these to credit risk is comprised of cash its credit risk includes receivables from the substantial experience of the Board.
and cash equivalents and trade and customers in a range of jurisdictions Operational challenges This takes into account the likelihood and other receivables.
who are themselves exposed to The business model also recognises the impact of risks, whether pre-existing or The Groups business model, as set out on currency risk in contracting in sterling.
complexity of the planning and delivery emerging, which may materialise in the pages 49 and 50 of the Strategic Report, of the sites Berkeley undertakes, and short or longer-term.
recognises these operational risks, and that mitigates this risk by focusing its the property market is inherently cyclical, A fundamental principle of the operating activities in London and the South Management of financial risks and accordingly a core principal for the structure of the Group is that the prime East, recognising the importance of Group is to keep financial risk sufficiently Berkeley adopts a prudent approach to managing these financial risks.
responsibility for assessing, managing relationships and local knowledge and low through forward selling where possible, and monitoring the majority of the risks having highly skilled teams in place.
maintaining a sound balance sheet and Treasury policy and central overview Forward sales rests with operational management, thus headroom within its nancing activities.
Autonomy and values The Board approves treasury policy and Berkeleys approach to forward ensuring risk management is embedded in The Groups consolidated cash ow We have recognised brands and senior management control day-to-day selling new homes to customers provides our day-to-day operations.
forecasts include appropriate allowances for autonomous, talented and experienced operations.
Relationships with banks good visibility over future cash ows, as Risk registers at operational level are discretionary investment and the quantum teams who embrace Berkeleys core and cash management are coordinated expressed in cash due on forward sales overlain by wider strategic risks facing and timing of this is in turn subject to the values in their approach.
We create centrally as a Group function.
The which stands at 3,259 million at 30 April the Group, such as macro-economic risk.
delivery of the individual site operational bespoke solutions for each site treasury policy is intended to maintain 2016.
It also helps mitigate market credit This is then assessed and managed by the cash ows.
The viability assessment which requires experienced, intensive an appropriate capital structure to risk by virtue of customers deposits held Board and Executive Committee.
has considered the impact of reduced management and as such do not manage the financial risks identied from the point of unconditional exchange sales activity in the five year period from produce a standard product.
and provide the right platform for the of contracts with customers.
These The Audit Committee has responsibility the current forecast levels as a result of business to manage its operating risks.
deposits stood at 1,106 million at for ensuring the effectiveness of risk Strong nancials adverse macro-economic conditions and 30 April 2016 and provide security for management and internal controls on This translates into an approach that, Low gearing the Directors have also taken into account Berkeley in the event of customer default behalf of the Board.
The controls and at all times through the cycle, keeps The Group is currently nancing its appropriate mitigating actions which may at the point of completion of sales.
processes surrounding how we assess financial risk low in recognition of the operations through shareholder equity, be instigated in response, primarily around risk across the Group are explained operational risks within the business supported by over 107 million of net Land holdings curtailed discretionary investment, such as further in the Corporate Governance refer to page opposite.
cash on the balance sheet.
This in turn By investing in land at the right point in lower new land purchases or deferment of report on page 76. has mitigated its current exposure to the cycle, holding a clear development new site starts, amongst others.
pipeline in our land holdings and The principal operating risks and our Based on the assessment, the Directors continually reviewing our existing approach to mitigating them are described Headroom provided by bank facilities confirm that they have a reasonable holdings, we are not under pressure to in more detail on pages 58 to 65.
The Group extended its borrowing expectation that the Group will be able buy new land when it would be wrong for facilities in the year, and now has Viability statement to continue in operation and meet its the long-term returns for the business.
575 million of committed, undrawn liabilities as they fall due over the five year In accordance with provision C2.2 of the 2014 credit facilities maturing in March 2021.
Detailed appraisal of spending period commencing 1 May 2016. revision of the UK Corporate Governance These facilities retain a further one commitments Code, the Directors have assessed the year extension option.
Berkeley has a A culture which prioritises an longer term viability of the Group.
strong working partnership with the six understanding of the impact of all banks which provide the facilities listed decisions on the Groups spending The Directors have undertaken their on page 147 and is key to Berkeleys commitments and hence its balance assessment over a five year period, as the approach to mitigating liquidity risk.
sheet, alongside weekly and monthly majority of the Groups developments are reviews of cash ow forecasts at long-term in nature and the Boards strategic operating company, divisional and planning reviews cover a five year timeframe.
Group levels, recognises that cash Furthermore, the Group owns or controls ow management is central to the the land required for the next five years and continued success of Berkeley.
accordingly there is sufficient detail within the individual site cash ow forecasts to enable a meaningful assessment over this period.
56 57 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE MANAGE RISK Continued Risk description Approach to mitigating risk Measurement Annual change Read more As a property developer, Recognition that Berkeley operates in a cyclical market The strength of the balance sheet is measured The UK economy continues to grow, Chief Executives Review ECONOMIC Berkeleys business is sensitive is central to our strategy and maintaining a strong financial by monitoring our KPIs, principally net asset with unemployment and interest rates page 8 OUTLOOK to wider economic factors such position is fundamental to our business model and protects us value per share, the profitability of the business at historically low levels.
2016 Performance as changes in interest rates, against adverse changes in economic conditions.
through profit before tax and basic earnings per The timing of interest rate rises remains Highlights employment levels and general share, and the efficiency of the balance sheet Land investment is carefully targeted and underpinned by uncertain, albeit consensus appears to page 2 consumer confidence.
demand fundamentals and a solid viability case, even when be that increases will be deferred.
- Net asset value per share Some customers are also markets are uncertain.
Forward sales secured, cash levels and headroom - Adjusted profit before tax sensitive to changes in the of available bank facilities are all assessed to ensure - Adjusted basic earnings Levels of committed expenditure are carefully monitored sterling exchange rate in terms financial risk is kept low.
per share against forward sales secured, cash levels and headroom of their buying decisions or - Adjusted return on equity against our available bank facilities, with the objective ability to meet their obligations of keeping financial risk low to mitigate the operating risks Risk Appetite under contracts.
of delivery in uncertain markets.
page 56 Changes to economic conditions Production programmes are continually assessed, depending in the UK, Europe and worldwide upon market conditions.
may lead to a reduction in demand for housing which could The business is committed to operating at an optimal size, impact on the Groups ability to with a strong balance sheet, through autonomous businesses deliver its corporate strategy.
to maintain the exibility to react swiftly, when necessary, to changes in market conditions.
significant political events, Whilst we cannot directly influence political events, the risks The impact that specic political events have, or There are significant political Chairmans Statement POLITICAL including membership of the are taken into account when setting our business strategy and could have on the business is regularly assessed.
uncertainties at present, which has page 6 OUTLOOK EU, may impact Berkeleys operating model.
In addition, we actively engage in the debate on therefore increased the risk this year.
Chief Executives Review business through, for instance, policy decisions.
page 8 the reluctance of buyers to make investment decisions due to political uncertainty and, subsequently, specic policies and regulation may be introduced that directly impact our business model.
Adverse changes to Government Berkeley is focused geographically on London and the South The impact that regulatory changes have, or could During the year we have seen Chairmans Statement REGULATION policy on areas such as taxation, of England, which limits our risk when understanding and have on the business is regularly assessed.
increased property taxation for second page 6 housing and the environment determining the impact of new regulation across multiple home buy-to-let investors, as well Chief Executives Review could restrict the ability of the locations and jurisdictions.
as a number of other new regulatory page 8 Group to deliver its strategy.
changes which increase risk such as The effects of changes to Government policies at all levels are new HSE prosecution guidelines and Directors Report Failure to comply with laws closely monitored by operating businesses and the Board, and the requirement to assess our supply page 100 and regulations could expose representations made to policy-setters where appropriate.
the Group to penalties and Risk Appetite Berkeleys experienced teams are well placed to interpret and reputational damage.
page 56 implement new regulations at the appropriate time through direct lines of communication across the Group, with support from internal and external legal advisors.
Detailed policies and procedures are in place where appropriate to the prevailing regulations and these are communicated to all staff.
58 59 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE MANAGE RISK Continued Risk description Approach to mitigating risk Measurement Annual change Read more An inability to source suitable Understanding the markets in which we operate is central Maintaining a strong financial position gives Accessing good quality land is a core Trading and Financial LAND land to maintain the Groups to Berkeleys strategy and, consequently, land acquisition is us the liquidity and exibility to remain inherent risk of the business that we Review AVAILABILITY land holdings at appropriate focused on Berkeleys core markets of London and the South competitive when bidding for new land and steadily manage in a cyclical market.
page 66 margins in a highly competitive of England, markets in which it believes that the demand gives vendors the confidence that Berkeley We continue to focus on enhancing Business Model market could impact on the fundamentals are strong.
will deliver on any deals negotiated.
the value of our land bank and this page 50 Groups ability to deliver its Berkeley has experienced land teams with strong market We carefully monitor the level of estimated risk is unchanged.
2016 Performance knowledge in their areas of focus, which gives us the confidence future gross margin in our land holdings as a Highlights to buy land without an implementable planning consent and, with key performance indicator.
This reects the page 3 an understanding of local stakeholders needs, positions Berkeley future potential of the business from current land - Gross margin on land with the best chance of securing a viable planning consent.
holdings valued at current prices and current costs.
holdings Berkeley acquires land opportunistically, where it meets its internal criteria for purchase, and considers joint ventures in particular as a vehicle to work with the right partners who bring good quality land complemented by Berkeleys expertise.
Each land acquisition is subject to a formal internal appraisal and approval process prior to the submission of a bid and again prior to exchange of contracts to give the Group the greatest chance of securing targeted land.
The Group maintains its land holdings to mitigate against significant impacts from market changes or delayed build activity.
Delays or refusals in obtaining The Groups strategic geographical focus and expertise places it We believe that our commitments to customer The planning process is complex but Business Model PLANNING commercially viable planning in the best position to conceive and deliver the right consents for service, design, quality and placemaking can make us has been stable this year, and so the page 50 PROCESS permissions could result in the the land acquired.
the developer of choice for local authorities, which risk prole is steady.
Our Vision Group being unable to develop will help deliver the right planning consents for our Full detailed planning and risk assessments are performed and - Places page 32 its land holdings.
This has led to us securing further new monitored for each site without planning permission, both before consents this year to support the future business.
This could have a direct impact and after purchase.
on the Groups ability to deliver By maintaining a strong balance sheet, and Our assessment of the risk prole dictates whether sites are its product and on its profitability.
through a long-established reputation, our acquired either conditionally or unconditionally.
stakeholders in local communities trust our ability The planning status of all sites is reviewed at both monthly to deliver against any commitments that we make, divisional Board meetings and Main Board meetings.
The Group works closely with local communities in respect of planning proposals and strong relationships are maintained with local authorities and planning officers.
An inability to attract, develop, We have developed a series of commitments within Our Vision, Remuneration packages are designed with A stable senior team has continued 2016 Performance RETAINING motivate and retain talented our plan for the business, to ensure that we retain and develop retention in mind and are explained within the to manage the normal pressures of Highlights PEOPLE employees could have an impact the best people to support the business in the long-term.
Financials section of this report and accounted people retention.
pages 2 and 3 on the Groups ability to deliver for in accordance with International Financial Succession planning is regularly reviewed at both divisional and Our Vision its strategic priorities.
Close relationships and dialogue are maintained - Our People page 40 Failure to consider the with key personnel.
Consequently, they are appropriately reected in our retention and succession of profit-related KPIs and senior management across Remuneration packages are constantly benchmarked against the key management could result the business has remained stable.
industry to ensure they remain competitive.
in a loss of knowledge and Berkeleys Our People commitments are articulated competitive advantage.
We promote the engagement of our people with the business within Our Vision.
We measure the engagement and its impact on wider society through the activities of the of our people with the Berkeley Foundation as Berkeley Foundation.
representative of their engagement with the business and its wider impact.
Staff turnover rates are regularly monitored.
60 61 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE MANAGE RISK Continued Risk description Approach to mitigating risk Measurement Annual change Read more An inability to match supply to Detailed market demand assessments of each site are undertaken The level of cash due on secured forward sales is a The London housing market has Chief Executives Review SECURING demand in terms of product, before acquisition and regularly during delivery of each scheme KPI which measures the cash Berkeley expects to remained stable and there is page 8 SALES location and price could result to ensure that supply is matched to demand in each location.
receive on contracted forward sales over the next good underlying demand, albeit Business Model in missed sales targets and or three financial years.
This provides both a good transaction levels at the upper-end Design, product type and product quality are all assessed on a page 51 high levels of completed stock indication of past sales performance and visibility of the housing market have moderated site-by-site basis to ensure that they meet the target market and which in turn could impact on over future cash ows.
2016 Performance customer aspirations in that location.
the Groups ability to deliver its Highlights Through our commitments to Customers in corporate strategy.
The Group has a diverse range of developments with homes pages 2 and 3 Our Vision, we have placed customer service, available across a broad range of property prices to appeal - Cash due on interaction with our purchasers and a commitment to a wide market.
forward sales to market schemes in the UK first at the forefront - Net promoter score The Groups ability to forward sell reduces the risk of the of our business.
development cycle where possible, thereby justifying and Our Vision We recognise this by measuring our performance underpinning the financial investment in each of the Groups sites.
- Customers page 22 through the Net Promotor score.
Completed stock levels are reviewed regularly.
An inability of customers to Berkeley has a broad product mix and customer base which The financial measure of cash due on forward sales An economic environment of continued 2016 Performance MORTGAGE secure sufficient mortgage reduces the reliance on mortgage availability across its portfolio.
provides an indication of the level of sales on which low interest rates, combined with a Highlights AVAILABILITY finance now or in the future deposits have been taken and hence hedges against stable return to economic growth, page 3 The Group participates in the Governments Help to Buy scheme, could have a direct impact on the risk of non-completion of sales.
has supported mortgage availability, - Cash due on which provides deposit assistance to first-time buyers, and has the Groups transaction levels.
leading to a steady risk prole.
forward sales participated in other Government schemes historically.
Deposits are taken on all sales to mitigate the financial impact on the Group in the event that sales do not complete due to a lack of mortgage availability.
Berkeley is aware of the Our Vision includes specic commitments to enhance Berkeleys commitments within Our Vision focus Our focus on this area remains a key Our Vision ENVIRONMENT environmental and social impact environmental and social sustainability considerations in the on the long-term sustainability of our schemes and differentiator of Berkeley and the risks - Homes page 26 AND SOCIAL of the homes and communities delivery of our schemes and operation of our business.
business, including operating a carbon positive and our approach continually evolve.
- Places page 32 SUSTAINABILITY that it builds, both during the business and ensuring that all new developments - Operations page 36 These complement existing practices within the Group to focus construction phase and on create a net biodiversity gain.
on browneld development, monitor carbon emissions and to be occupation by its customers.
a considerate contractor on all of our schemes and welcomed in Failure to address sustainability the communities within which we operate.
issues could affect the Groups ability to acquire land, gain planning permission, manage sites effectively and respond to increasing customer demand for sustainable homes.
Berkeleys operations have a Berkeley considers this to be an area of critical importance.
We continue to monitor RIDDOR reportable This consistently remains an operational 2016 Performance HEALTH AND direct impact on the health and Berkeleys health and safety strategy is set by the Board.
Accident Incident Rates, reported within Our priority for Berkeley.
Highlights SAFETY safety of its people, contractors Dedicated health and safety teams are in place in each division Vision, and promote continual health and safety page 3 and members of the public.
- Accident Incident Rate A lack of adequate procedures Procedures, training and reporting are all regularly reviewed Our Vision also includes a core commitment Our Vision and systems to reduce the to ensure high standards are maintained and comprehensive to promote the wellbeing of our staff and create - Operations page 36 dangers inherent in the accident investigation procedures are in place.
Insurance is held healthy workplaces.
- Our People page 40 construction process increases to cover the risks inherent in large-scale construction projects.
the risk of accidents or The Group has implemented a number of initiatives to improve site-related catastrophes, health and safety standards on site, with workshops held with including re and ood, which contractors during the year.
could result in serious injury or loss of life leading to reputational damage, financial penalties and disruption to operations.
62 63 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE MANAGE RISK Continued Risk description Approach to mitigating risk Measurement Annual change Read more Build costs are affected by the A procurement and programming strategy for each development Delivering new homes to customers on time and on During the year we have seen a 2016 Performance BUILD COST AND availability of skilled labour is agreed by the divisional Board before site acquisition, whilst budget are crucial to meeting our profit targets, as moderation in cost ination, principally Highlights PROGRAMME and the price and availability a further assessment of procurement and programming is measured by our profit-related KPIs.
through material costs, with pressure pages 2 and 3 of materials, supplies and undertaken and agreed by the divisional Board prior to the remaining on labour input costs.
- Adjusted profit before tax Control and deployment of capital, whilst embracing subcontractors.
- Adjusted basic earnings the sector-leading commitments in Our Vision, is per share Changes to these prices and Build cost reconciliations and build programme dates are essential in promoting the long-term success of - Adjusted return on equity the availability of labour could presented and reviewed in detail at divisional cost review the business and delivering planned returns to impact on the profitability of meetings each month.
- Operations page 36 The Group monitors its development obligations and recognises any associated liabilities which arise.
Berkeley has a reputation Detailed reviews are undertaken of the product on each scheme We believe that delivering a quality product Our strong focus on maintaining 2016 Performance PRODUCT for high standards of quality both during the acquisition of the site and throughout the build in great places drives long-term profitability quality of design and product has Highlights QUALITY in its product.
process to ensure that product quality is maintained.
through the planning consents that we can remained steady.
pages 2 and 3 secure, demand for the product and If the Group fails to deliver Customer satisfaction surveys are undertaken on the handover of - Adjusted profit before tax recommendations from our customers.
against these standards and its our homes, and feedback incorporated into the specication and - Adjusted basic earnings wider development obligations, it design of subsequent schemes.
Commitments for Homes and Places within per share could be exposed to reputational Our Vision demonstrate Berkeleys targets for - Adjusted return on equity damage, as well as reduced sales continual improvement of our product delivery, - Net promoter score and increased cost.
and our Customers commitments provide Our Vision assurance, especially in the area of customer - Homes page 26 service, that the product delivers the right - Places page 32 experience for our customers.
The Group could suffer significant The Group acknowledges that it places significant reliance upon The Group has achieved certication under the There has been an increased awareness CYBER AND financial and reputational the availability, accuracy and security of all of its underlying Cyber-Essentials scheme.
This accreditation and focus upon emerging cyber-risk DATA RISK damage as a result of the operating systems and the data contained therein, whilst also was further extended to Cyber-Essentials Plus over the last year.
corruption, loss or theft of data, recognising the changing landscape of cyber-risk.
Consequently, certication following the successful completion whether inadvertent or via a Berkeleys systems and control procedures are designed to ensure of penetration testing by an external party.
that data condentiality and integrity are not compromised.
accreditation is subject to ongoing quarterly testing.
Our Information Security Programme mirrors the relevant core The Group is also regularly subject to independent elements of the security standard ISO27001: Information Security internal audits to ensure that its standard controls Management.
Whilst there is a primary focus upon stopping and procedures remain in line with current practice.
security breaches in the first instance, ongoing monitoring and The results of these audits are addressed accordingly.
An IT Security Committee meets on a monthly basis to address all cyber security matters.
During the year, the committee initiated a review under the Governments Cyber-Essentials scheme, which reviews compliance with key control areas.
Additionally, a Group-wide security awareness programme has been rolled out.
The Group operates multiple data centres, thereby ensuring that there is no centralised risk exposure and the adequacy of the IT disaster recovery plan is regularly assessed.
The Group has Cyber insurance in place to mitigate against any financial impact.
64 65 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT TRADING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Trading analysis last year was also from the sale of office, 15 April 2016 with the vesting of the second Adjusted pre-tax return on equity, Financial position Banking retail and leisure space across a number of tranche of awards.
In the prior year, there excluding profit from the sale of ground Revenue of 2,047.5 million in the year Net assets increased over the course The Groups financial position is further the Groups developments, in particular an was a charge of 47.0 million in respect of rent assets, has decreased from 29.5% to 2015: 2,120.0 million included of the year by 174.9 million, or 10.7%, to supported by the extension of the Groups 89,000 sq ft hotel at Goodmans Fields.
the Companys decision to settle the tax 27.8%.
Basic earnings per share has 1,994.1 million of revenue from operations 1,812.8 million 2015: 1,637.9 million.
banking facilities during the year.
On 23 and national insurance liabilities arising on decreased by 5.5% from 313.0 pence to 2015: 2,020.2 million and 53.4 million During the year, the Group sold a portfolio This is after payment of 259.5 million of March 2016, Berkeley extended its the vesting of options for participants in 295.8 pence, which takes into account the from the sale of a portfolio of ground rent of ground rent assets across some 43 sites dividends and equates to a net asset value committed corporate banking facilities of Part B of the 2009 LTIP scheme on 15 April issue of a further 1.4 million shares issued in assets 2015: 99.8 million.
for proceeds of 53.4 million and a gross per share of 1,314 pence, up 9.6% from 575 million, taking the maturity date of 2015, in lieu of issuing shares to this value.
April to satisfy share awards under Part B profit of 51.0 million.
In the prior year, the 1,199 pence at 30 April 2015. the Groups facilities from March 2020 to The 1,994.1 million of revenue from of the 2009 LTIP scheme.
Group sold a portfolio of ground rent The result is that the Groups adjusted March 2021.
This gives clarity of nancing operations included 1,965.2 million of Inventories have increased by assets across some 60 sites for proceeds operating margin, excluding the profit for five years, with the option held over a Taxation residential revenue 2015: 1,936.2 million, 602.0 million from 2,654.1 million of 99.8 million and a gross profit of from sale of the ground rent assets, has further one year extension, and extends the 2.3 million from land sales on two sites at 30 April 2015 to 3,256.1 million The Group has an overall tax charge 85.1 million.
Income and expenses increased to 22.6% from 21.7% last year.
benefit of the materially reduced ongoing 2015: 12.3 million and 26.6 million of at 30 April 2016.
Inventories include of 126.8 million for the year associated with both sales have been costs associated with the facility.
Berkeleys share of the results of joint 384.1 million of land not under 30 April 2015: 116.2 million and an recognised in the income statement ventures was a profit of 36.5 million development 30 April 2015: Joint ventures effective tax rate of 23.9% 30 April 2015: 3,776 new homes 2015: 3,355 were sold through revenue and gross profit.
2015: 28.3 million which reects ongoing 342.0 million, 2,853.9 million of work 21.5%.
The Group manages its tax affairs in across London and the South of England at Investments accounted for using the equity The adjusted gross margin percentage, completions at 375 Kensington High Street in progress 30 April 2015: 2,280.2 million an open and transparent manner with the an average selling price of 515,000 2015: method have increased from 50.1 million excluding profit from the sale of ground and Stanmore Place within St Edward and and 18.1 million of completed stock tax authorities and observes all applicable 575,000.
The changes to the average at 30 April 2015 to 150.0 million at rent assets, has increased to 32.6% the costs for St William in the initial 30 April 2015: 31.9 million.
rules and regulations in the countries in selling price are a result of mix with 30 April 2016.
Berkeleys joint ventures 2015: 31.3%, and reects the mix pre-development stage of the joint venture.
Factors that may affect Berkeley completing two student Trade and other payables are include St Edward, a joint venture with of homes sold in the year.
the Groups tax charge in future periods developments in the current year, one in The Group has remained cash positive 1,858.9 million at 30 April 2016 Prudential plc and St William, a joint include changes in tax legislation and the Bath and one in London which together Overheads of 199.8 million 2015: throughout the year, and has exercised an 1,635.5 million at 30 April 2015. venture with National Grid plc.
The increase resolution of open issues.
192.7 million included a charge of option to extend the term of its current These include 1,105.8 million of on in joint venture investments during the year 27.4 million in respect of the acceleration corporate banking facilities by a further account receipts from customers reects funding into the St William joint The Group holds tax provisions in respect Revenue of 26.6 million from commercial there is no increase in the overall cost of year to 2021.
The result is that net finance 30 April 2015: 920.9 million, which venture along with profits generated in, of the potential tax liability that may activities 2015: 71.7 million included the the accounting charge for the modications costs in the year have decreased from have increased as a result of strong but not distributed from, St Edward.
arise on the resolution of open tax issues, sale of some 119,000 sq ft of office, retail to the 2011 LTIP following the changes to 12.7 million to 7.5 million with the prior trading in the year, and land creditors of however the amount ultimately payable and leisure space across a number of the St Edward has four schemes currently in the shareholder returns programme made year including a 3.9 million charge from 174.7 million 30 April 2015: 205.1 million.
may be higher or lower than the amount Groups developments including Fulham development at Stanmore Place, during the year.
It also included an amortising fees on the renancing of Provisions of 88.5 million 30 April 2015: accrued thus reducing or improving the Reach in Hammersmith, Battersea Reach in 375 Kensington High Street, 190 Strand 8.3 million charge for Part B of the 2009 the Groups bank facilities.
75.1 million include post completion overall profitability and cash ow of the Wandsworth and Goodmans Fields in and, launched in the first half of the year, LTIP scheme which completed on development obligations and Group in future periods.
The increase in central London.
The 71.7 million of revenue a new site at Green Park in Reading.
the effective tax rate this year reects an 240 homes were sold in the year at an increase in the prior year tax provision, The Group ended the year ungeared with average selling price of 1,329,000 Income Statement for the year ended 30 April 2016 2015 Change along with the repricing of deferred net cash of 107.4 million 30 April 2015: 2015: 230 at 1,229,000, which reects million million million % tax assets following changes to future 430.9 million.
This is a decrease of the mix of properties sold, predominantly Revenue 2,047.5 2,120.0 -72.5 -3.4% corporate tax rates announced in the year.
323.5 million during the year at 375 Kensington High Street.
- from operations 1,994.1 2,020.2 -26.1 -1.3% 2015: increase of 301.7 million as a 1,868 plots in Berkeleys land holdings relate result of 530.8 million of cash generated - sale of ground rent assets 53.4 99.8 to St Edward schemes.
St Edward is from operations 2015: 528.4 million and continuing to identify opportunities to Gross profit 701.7 716.8 -15.1 -2.1% a net outow of 436.8 million in working develop the joint venture through further capital 2015: net inow of 115.2 million, - from operations 650.7 631.7 19.0 3.0% sites to which it can add value, and controls before tax and other net cash outows a commercial site in Westminster which - sale of ground rent assets 51.0 85.1 of 158.0 million 2015: 106.7 million has a detailed planning consent but will not and dividends of 259.5 million Operating expenses 199.8 192.7 -7.1 3.7% move into development until the premises 2015: 243.5 million.
Operating profit 501.9 524.1 -22.2 -4.2% are vacated by the current tenant.
Net finance costs 7.5 12.7 5.2 3,599 plots in Berkeleys land holdings relate to St William schemes.
Berkeley is Share of joint ventures 36.5 28.3 8.2 working closely with National Grid to profit before tax 530.9 539.7 -8.8 -1.6% identify sites from across its portfolio to bring through into its land holdings.
Of the profit before tax Adjusted 479.9 454.6 25.3 5.6% 12 new sites acquired by the Group during Income tax expense 126.8 116.2 -10.6 9.1% the year, four were through St William.
profit after tax 404.1 423.5 -19.4 -4.6% Earnings Per Share Basic 295.8p 313.0p -17.2p -5.5% Earnings Per Share Adjusted 267.3p 263.6p 3.7p 1.4% Dividend Per Share 190p 180p 10p 5.6% Pre-Tax Return on Equity Adjusted 27.8% 29.5% -1.7% Adjusted gures exclude 53.4 million of revenue 2015: 99.8 million and 51.0 million of profit 2015: 85.1 million from the sale of ground rent assets 66 67 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT TRADING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Continued Land Berkeley has secured 30 planning consents The Groups land holdings at 30 April 2016 Balance Sheet 2016 Change 2015 this year, nine on schemes which did not are across some 77 sites, of which 56 73% as at 30 April million million million Berkeley has made strong progress in previously have an implementable planning have an implementable planning consent delivering value into and from its land Investment in joint ventures 150.0 99.9 50.1 consent and 21 revised consents.
The new and are in construction, a further seven holdings during the year.
At 30 April 2016, consents include White City for over 9% have at least a resolution to grant Other non-current assets 112.6 -13.0 125.6 the Group including joint ventures 1,450 homes to be delivered over the next planning but the consent is not yet controlled some 42,858 plots with an Inventories 3,256.1 602.0 2,654.1 15 years, St Williams scheme in Battersea, implementable and 14 18% remain in the estimated future gross margin of West End Green in Paddington and on planning process.
Of this latter category, Debtors 212.3 66.7 145.6 6,146 million.
This compares with other developments in Southwater, Taplow, 11 are subject to conditional contracts.
Deposits and on account receipts 1,105.8 37,473 plots and an estimated future gross -184.9 920.9 Winchester, Latchmere, Kingston and margin of 5,272 million at 30 April 2015.
This shows the underlying strength of the Other trade payables 831.3 -58.9 772.4 Cranleigh, some of which remain subject Of the total land holdings plots, 33,786 Groups land bank which will be developed to nalisation of Section 106 agreements.
Provisions 88.5 -13.4 75.1 plots 2015: 34,215 are owned and included over the next 20 years.
The estimated These schemes are all in good locations on the balance sheet and 9,072 plots future gross margin represents Capital employed 1,705.4 498.4 1,207.0 underpinned by strong demand.
2015: 3,258 are contracted sites which managements risk-adjusted assessment of Net cash 107.4 -323.5 430.9 cannot be moved into development as they The revised consents include the securing the potential development outturn for each do not have an implementable planning of an improved masterplan at Southall site, taking account of a wide range of Net assets 1,812.8 174.9 1,637.9 consent and or as there are constraints and along with a resolution to grant detailed factors, including: current sales and input challenges surrounding, for example, vacant planning for the first phase on this prices: the political and economic 1,314p NAVPS 115p 1,199p possession, CPO requirements or utilities long-term regeneration scheme.
The first backdrop: the planning regime: and other provision which need to be resolved.
We phase comprises some 620 units over market forces: all of which could have a also hold a strategic pipeline of long-term nine blocks with 1.4 acres of public significant effect on the eventual outcome.
options for in excess of 5,000 plots.
The affordable housing will be The increase in gross margin in the year is delivered ahead of the private units.
Our due to both acquisitions and value added 12 new sites have been added to the land Analysis of Inventory 2016 Change 2015 core long-term regeneration schemes now through improvements secured both to as at 30 April million million million bank in the year.
The acquisitions have comprise Royal Arsenal, Kidbrooke Village, current and future schemes, a core part of included a range of sites from outside of Land not under development 384.1 42.1 342.0 Woodberry Down, Beaufort Park, Southall the Groups activities.
London in desirable locations such as and Stephenson Street, which we acquired Work in progress: land cost 975.8 177.2 798.6 Ascot, Wokingham and Southwater and in in the year.
The latter site comprises some London at Cockfosters, Blackheath and 1,359.9 219.3 1,140.6 27 acres adjacent to West Ham station and West End Green in Paddington, along with offers real placemaking potential to Work in progress: build cost 1,878.1 396.5 1,481.6 the large, complex and long-term regenerate this area of East London, regeneration sites of Stephenson Street, Completed units 18.1 -13.8 31.9 providing an equal mix of private the Oval Gasworks, and within St William, affordable and private rental homes.
Inventory 3,256.1 602.0 2,654.1 the former gasworks sites at Fulham, Hornsey, Watford and Borehamwood.
Five of the sites have been acquired unconditionally and seven are contracted Abridged cash ow 2016 2015 on a subject to planning or vacant for year ended 30 April million million possession basis.
Adjusted profit before tax 479.9 454.6 profit on sale of ground rents 51.0 85.1 Increase in inventory 602.0 172.9 Land holdings 2016 Change 2015 Increase in customer deposits 184.9 179.2 as at 30 April Other working capital movements 21.2 108.9 Owned 33,786 - 429 34,215 Proceeds from the sale of a rental fund 12.8 - Contracted 9,072 5,814 3,258 Net investment in receipts from joint ventures 63.2 39.6 Plots 42,858 5,385 37,473 Tax paid 100.8 140.5 Estimated sales value 20,758m 3,683m 17,075m Other movements 5.4 8.8 Average selling price 484k 28k 456k Cash outow inow before dividends 64.0 545.2 Average plot cost 63k 5k 58k 259.5 Dividends 243.5 Land cost % 12.9% 0.2% 12.7% Decrease increase in net cash 323.5 301.7 Estimated gross margin 6,146m 874m 5,272m Opening net cash 430.9 129.2 Gross margin % 29.6% - 1.3% 30.9% Closing net cash 107.4 430.9 Adjusted ASP with joint venture revenue at 100% is 529k 2015: 486k 68 69 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE Battersea Reach, Wandsworth 70 71 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS CHAIRMAN AND EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS N Tony Pidgley CBE Rob Perrins BSC Hons FCA Richard Stearn FCA Karl Whiteman BSC Hons Sean Ellis BSC Hons Greg Fry FCA Co-founder of the Company in Joined the Company in 1994.
Re-joined Berkeley on 13 April Joined Berkeley in 1996 as Joined Berkeley in 2004 with Joined the Group in 1982 and 1976.
He was appointed Group He was appointed to the 2015 as Group Finance Director, a Construction Director and an expertise in land and is is currently Chairman of Chairman on 9 September 2009, Group Main Board on 1 May having previously worked for currently leads the Berkeley currently Chairman of St George, having been a having previously been the 2001 on becoming Managing the company from 2002 to 2011 Homes East Thames division.
St James Group, St William Director since its inception in Group Managing Director since Director of Berkeley Homes as Group Financial Controller.
He joined the Board on and the Berkeley Homes 1986.
He was reappointed to the formation of the Group in plc.
He became Group Finance Prior to re-joining Berkeley, 10 September 2009 as a Eastern Counties division.
He the Group Main Board on 1976.
He was elected President Director on 2 November 2001, Richard spent three years at Divisional Executive Director.
joined the Group Main Board 5 September 2011 as a of the London Chamber of moving to his current role as Quintain Estates and on 9 September 2010 as a Divisional Executive Director, Commerce and Industry in Group Chief Executive on Development plc, becoming its Divisional Executive Director.
having previously been a September 2013, and a trustee 9 September 2009.
He is also Finance Director in July 2012. member of the Group Main of both Open City London a Governor of Wellington He trained and practiced for Board from 1 May 1996 to and the Sir Simon Milton College and Aston University.
He is Chairman accountant with PwC.
COMPANY SECRETARY NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS E A Driver N R A N A Sir John Armitt Adrian Li Alison Nimmo CBE Veronica Wadley Glyn Barker BSc Hons FCA Andy Myers BEng ACA Diana BrightmoreA R A R N Armour FCCA, MCT Appointed a Non-executive Appointed a Non-executive Appointed a Non-executive Appointed a Non-executive Director on 1 October 2007 and Director on 2 September Director on 5 September 2011, Director on 3 January 2012.
Appointed a Non-executive Appointed a Non-executive Appointed a Non-executive became Deputy Chairman on 2013.
He is currently Executive Alison is Chief Executive of The She is currently Chair of the Director on 3 January 2012 Director on 6 December 2013, Director on 1 May 2014, Diana 5 September 2012.
He is Director and Deputy Chief Crown Estate.
Prior to that she Arts Council London and a following a 35 year career with he is currently Chief Financial is currently the UK, Europe currently Chairman of National Executive of The Bank of East led the design and delivery of National Council member of PwC.
He held a number of senior Officer at McLaren Technology & Middle East CEO of The Express Group PLC and the City Asia, Ltd.
He is an Independent the London 2012 Olympic and Arts Council England.
Until posts within PwC including Group Limited, having previously Australia and New Zealand and Guilds Group, a member of Non-executive Director of Paralympic venues as Director 1 May 2016, she was a Senior Managing Partner, Head of held senior finance roles in Rolls Banking Group Ltd and the Transport for London Board Sino Land Company Ltd. of Regeneration and Design at Advisor to the Mayor of Assurance and most recently Royce plc and BMW Rover previously held the position and the National Infrastructure Tsim Sha Tsui Properties Ltd. the Olympic Delivery Authority.
Previously Editor its UK Vice Chairman as well as Group.
He is Chairman of the of CEO, Corporate Banking at Commission and President of Sino Hotels Holdings Ltd. She is a trustee of the UKs of The Evening Standard, establishing and running their Audit Committee.
Lloyds Banking Group 2004- the Institution of Civil Engineers.
China State Construction Green Building Council.
she is also an Independent Transactions Services Business.
Diana has 30 years of Sir John was Chairman of the International Holdings Ltd. Director of Times Newspapers Glyn is a Non-executive international experience in Olympic Delivery Authority and COSCO Pacic Ltd.
He is Holdings Ltd. Director of Aviva plc and banking, corporate finance, 2007 - 2014.
From 2001 to a member of the International Transocean Limited, Chairman financial management, Key 2007, he was Chief Executive of Advisory Board of Abertis of the law rm Irwin Mitchell treasury and audit.
Network Rail and its predecessor, Infraestructuras, S. A. and Interserve plc and a Director N Nomination Committee Railtrack.
Sir John is the Senior of the English National Opera A Audit Committee Independent Director.
He is Chairman of the R Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee.
72 73 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Company is committed to maintaining Effectiveness In addition to the above formal meetings Board evaluation as it thinks t. The decision to authorise a overseeing the relationship with the a high standard of corporate governance Composition, Diversity and Independence of the whole Board, the Non-executive The Code requires that the Board conict of interest can only be made by external auditor.
The Audit Committee in respect of the main principles of the UK At the date of this report the Board Directors meet with the Group Chairman.
undertakes an annual evaluation of its own non-conicted Directors those who have comprises four independent Non-executive Corporate Governance Code 2014 the comprises thirteen Directors: the Chairman, The Group Chief Executive and Group performance and that of its committees no interest in the matter being considered Directors.
The Committee is chaired by Code : five Executive Directors and seven Finance Director are invited to attend these and individual directors with an externally and in making such a decision the Directors AMyers and the other members at 30April independent Non-executive Directors.
The meetings in part, to provide an update on facilitated evaluation conducted at least must act in a way they consider in good 2016 were A Nimmo CBE, G Barker and V Leadership biographies of these directors are set out the business activities of the Group.
The Board evaluation faith will be most likely to promote the Wadley.
Non-executive Directors meet at least for 2016 was, in accordance with Code Companys success.
A Myers and G Barker are both considered annually without the Group Chairman Provision B.
6.2, externally facilitated by Accountability The Board has evolved over recent years to The Company has established a procedure to have recent and relevant experience.
present, chaired by the Senior Independent Claire Howard Consultancies, who have put in place the succession planning that whereby actual and potential conicts of A Myers is qualied as a chartered Remuneration Director.
no other connection with the Company.
all successful organisations require and interest of current and proposed roles to be accountant and is currently Chief Financial Following planning sessions with the Group Relations with shareholders the composition of the Board continues to Board papers and agendas are sent out undertaken by Directors of the Board with Officer at McLaren Technology Group Chairman and Group Solicitor and review be reviewed on a regular basis to ensure in the week prior to each meeting, thus other organisations are regularly reviewed Limited and G Barker is also qualied as a This section, including the Audit Committee of selected documents, condential face that an appropriate balance of skills and allowing sufficient time for detailed review in respect of both the nature of those chartered accountant, having previously Report and the Directors Remuneration to face meetings were held with each of experience is maintained.
Currently women and consideration of the documents roles, and their time commitment, and for held a number of senior posts within PwC Report, details how the Company has the Main Board Directors and the Group comprise 23% of the Board.
In addition, the Board is proper authorisation to be sought prior to including Managing Partner and Head of applied the main principles and provisions Solicitor.
The Board evaluation meetings chosen not to set specic representation supplied with comprehensive management the appointment of any new director.
The Companys business were free-owing and covered, Inter alia, targets for women on the Board at this information on a regular basis.
Board consider these procedures to be model is explained in the Strategic Report.
the following areas: The Committee met formally on three time, however, it recognises that the working effectively.
It is the Boards view that it has been fully Election and re-election of Directors occasions during the year to 30 April 2016 benets of diversity, including gender Strategy, strategic direction and role of compliant with the Code throughout the The Articles of Association of the Company Insurance with no absences.
diversity, will continue to be an active the Board 2015 16 financial year.
A copy of the Code include the requirement for Directors to The Company had in place at 30 April consideration when further changes to the An explanation of the role and activities is available on the Financial Reporting submit themselves to shareholders for People, organisational development and 2016 an appropriate policy which insures Boards composition are considered.
of the Audit Committee during the year is Councils website www.
uk re-election every three years.
In addition, succession planning Directors against certain liabilities, including contained in the Audit Committee report The Board considers that all of the current all Directors are subject to election by legal costs, which they may incur in Leadership Board and Committee composition, on pages 78 and 79.
Non-executive Directors were independent shareholders at the first opportunity carrying out their duties.
This remains in The Board has a collective responsibility dynamics and culture throughout the year.
The Non-executive after their appointment and thereafter at place.
Remuneration Committee for promoting the long-term success of the Directors, led by the Senior Independent intervals of no more than three years.
Structure and operation of the Board The Remuneration Committee is Company in a safe and sustainable manner Board Committees Director Sir J Armitt, have the skills, and its Committees responsible for determining the Companys in order to create shareholder value.
The In accordance with the requirements of the The Board has delegated certain matters experience, independence and knowledge policy for Executive remuneration and Board provides leadership and sets the Code, all Directors offer themselves for reConduct and outcome of last years to individual Executives and to the of the Company to enable them to the precise terms of employment and Companys strategic long-term objectives.
election at the Annual General Meeting to Board evaluation and how to get the specic committees of the Board: audit, discharge their respective duties and remuneration of the Executive Directors.
be held on 6 September 2016. best out of this one remuneration and nomination.
The main Its duties are set out in a formal schedule responsibilities effectively.
three Board Committees operate within At 30 April 2016, the Committee comprised of matters specifically reserved for decision Induction and development The review concluded that the Board The Group Executive Directors do not hold clearly dened Terms of Reference G Barker, Sir J Armitt and A Myers who are by the Board, which include: On appointment, Non-executive Directors continues to work effectively and that all any Non-executive Director appointments pursuant to the provisions of the Code.
The are provided with a detailed induction the Directors remain passionate about, and Overall management of the Group, its or commitments required to be disclosed Terms of Reference can be downloaded Committee was chaired by G Barker.
This covers an overview of committed to, the business and its future strategy and long-term objectives: under the Code.
from the section dealing with Investor the Groups operations and its policies, prospects.
Recommendations from the The Committee met formally on three Relations on the Berkeley website www.
Approval of corporate plans: Chairman and Managing Director corporate responsibility and corporate previous years Board Evaluation either had occasions during the year to April 2016 berkeleygroup.
Copies are also The roles of Group Chairman and Group affairs issues, legal matters, and the been, or were being, implemented.
Approval of all material corporate available to shareholders on application to Chief Executive are separately held opportunity to meet with Directors and key transactions: The Board has a pivotal role in preserving the Company Secretary.
No Director is involved in deciding his and there are clear written guidelines staff and to visit the Groups sites.
the organisations culture and ultimately or her remuneration.
The Executive Changes to the Groups capital structure: to support the division of responsibility The responsibilities of the key Board No training needs were identied this year, its success.
In line with all successful Directors decide the remuneration of between them.
The Group Chairman is committees are described below.
Approval of the Groups treasury policy: although ongoing training is available to organisations, succession planning and the Non-executive Directors and the responsible for the effective conduct of the all Directors to meet their individual needs.
talent management are seen as key Executive Committee Committee takes into consideration the Approval of the Groups interim and Board and shareholder general meetings Board members also receive guidance success factors for the business and the The Executive Committee meets monthly recommendations of the Group Chief annual results, dividend policy and and for ensuring that each Director on regulatory matters and the corporate Board continues to focus on this area.
The and reviews the financial and operating Executive and Group Finance Director shareholder distributions: contributes to effective decision-making.
governance framework that the Group autonomous structure of the Group also performance of all Group divisions and regarding the remuneration of their The Group Chief Executive has day-to-day Reviewing the Groups risks and system operates under.
provides strength in depth which further companies.
The Group Chief Executive, Executive colleagues.
executive responsibility for the running of internal control: mitigates this risk.
R C Perrins, chairs this Committee and of the Groups businesses.
His role is to Members of the Audit and Remuneration The principles and details of Directors other members comprise, A W Pidgley Changes to the Board and other senior develop and deliver the strategy to enable Committees received briengs from Recommendations from the 2015 16 remuneration are contained in the CBE, R J Stearn, K Whiteman, S Ellis executive roles: the Group to meet its objectives.
our auditors and remuneration advisers Evaluation were included in the papers for Directors Remuneration Report on pages and GJ Fry alongside other senior respectively to ensure they remain up the June 2016 Board Meeting and agreed 80 to 98.
Corporate Governance arrangements Meetings management employees.
to date with current regulations and actions will be implemented over the and the Board evaluation: and The Board met four times during 2015 16 Nomination Committee developments.
Audit Committee and there were no absences other than The Nomination Committee ensures Approval of policies in key areas The Audit Committee is responsible for A Nimmo CBE was unable to attend the All Directors have access to advice from Conicts of interest that the membership and composition including Sustainability, Health & Safety monitoring and reviewing the financial meeting on 8 September 2015 due to the Company Secretary and independent In accordance with the Companies of the Board, including the balance of and Business Ethics.
reporting and accounting policies of unavoidable personal circumstances.
professional advisers, at the Companys Act 2006, the Companys Articles of skills, is appropriate, as well as giving full the Company, reviewing the adequacy expense, where specic expertise is Association allow the Board to authorise consideration to succession planning on a of internal controls and the activities of required in the course of their duties.
potential conicts of interest that may arise regular basis.
the Groups internal audit function and and to impose such limits or conditions 74 75 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Committee is chaired by the Group cover all aspects of the business.
Formal Companys financial reporting cycle.
the Annual and Interim Reports and Chairman, A W Pidgley CBE, and at 30 reporting lines and delegated levels of Interim Management Statements.
In Policies and procedures April 2016 includes Sir J Armitt, V Wadley authority exist within this structure and the addition, the corporate website provides Policies and procedures, including and D Brightmore-Armour who are all review of risk and performance occurs at information on the Group and latest news, operating and financial controls, are independent Non-executive Directors.
multiple levels throughout the operating including regulatory announcements.
detailed in policies and procedures companies, divisions and at a Group level.
The presentations made after the The Committee met formally on two manuals that are refreshed and improved announcement of the preliminary and occasions during the year to 30 April 2016 Risk assessment as appropriate.
Training to staff is given interim results are also available on the with no absences.
Risk reporting is embedded within ongoing where necessary.
management reporting throughout During the year, the activities of the Central functions the Group.
At operating company and The Board is kept informed of the views Committee included considering and Strong central functions, including Legal, divisional level, Board meeting agendas of the shareholders through periodic making recommendations to the Board Health & Safety and Company Secretarial, and information packs are structured reports from the Companys broker, UBS.
regarding the membership of the Board provide support and consistency to the around the key risks facing the businesses.
Additionally, the Non-executive Directors committees and reviewing succession rest of the Group.
In addition, the principal These risks include health and safety, sales, have the opportunity to attend the biplans for the Executive team.
treasury-related risks, decisions and control production build cost and programme, annual analyst presentations.
processes are managed by the Group The process for identifying and land and planning, retaining people, Finance function, under the direction of the The Senior Independent Director is recommending new appointments economic and political outlook, regulatory Group Finance Director.
available to shareholders if they have includes a combination of discussions and site specic matters.
concerns where contact through the and consultations, in addition to formal Internal audit In addition, there is a formalised process normal channels has failed or when such interviews, utilising the services of Internal auditors are in place at divisional whereby each division produces quarterly contact is inappropriate.
independent recruitment specialists, as and Group level to provide assurance risk and control reports that identify risks, appropriate.
on the operation of the Groups control Annual General Meeting the potential impact and the actions framework.
All shareholders are invited to participate Accountability being taken to mitigate the risks.
These in the Annual General Meeting AGM Key risks and internal control risk reports are reviewed and updated Whistleblowing on 6 September 2016 at 11:00am where The Board acknowledges that it has overall quarterly.
The Group has a whistleblowing policy the Group Chairman, the Group Chief responsibility for ensuring that the Groups which has been communicated to all A Group Risk Management Report is Executive and the Chairmen of the Audit, system of internal control complies with the employees, where Directors, management, presented at each Group Main Board Remuneration and Nomination Committees Code and for reviewing its effectiveness, at employees and external stakeholders Meeting, which overlays wider strategic will be available to answer questions and least annually.
can report in confidence any concerns risks than those covered by the operations.
will also be available for discussions with they may have of malpractice, financial Internal control procedures are designed This sets out the annual changes in the shareholders both prior to and after the irregularity, breaches of any Group to manage rather than eliminate the risk risk prole of the Group, the impact and meeting.
The policy is of failure to achieve business objectives, mitigation of these risks.
available to view on the Groups website.
In accordance with the Code, the Company and can only provide reasonable and Financial reporting arranges for the Annual Report and not absolute assurance against material Bribery Act and Anti-Money Laundering A comprehensive budgeting and real-time Accounts and related papers to be posted misstatement or loss.
Regulations forecasting system, covering both profit to shareholders so as to allow at least 20 The Board has responsibility for complying There are ongoing processes and and cash, operates within the Group.
This working days for consideration prior to the with the requirements of the Bribery procedures for identifying, evaluating and enables executive management to view AGM.
Act 2010 and The Money Laundering managing the significant risks faced by the key financial and operating data on a daily Regulations 2007 and is charged The Company complies with the provisions Group.
These processes and procedures basis.
On a weekly and monthly basis with overseeing the development and of the Code relating to the disclosure of were in place from the start of the financial more formal reporting up to the Group implementation of the Groups policies proxy votes, which, including abstentions, year to the date on which the 2016 Annual Executives is prepared.
The results of all and procedures and monitoring ongoing are declared at the AGM after each Report and Accounts were approved and operating units are reported monthly and compliance.
resolution has been dealt with on a show accord with the Turnbull guidance issued compared to budget and forecast.
of hands and are announced to the Stock in 2005.
Remuneration There is a consolidation process in place Exchange shortly after the close of the The principles and details of Directors The processes are regularly reviewed by which ensures that there is an audit trail meeting.
The Company also complies remuneration are contained in the the Board and include an annual review between the Groups financial reporting with the requirements of the Code with Directors Remuneration Report on pages by the Directors of the operation and system and the Groups statutory financial the separation of resolutions and the 80 to 98. effectiveness of the system of internal statements.
attendance of the Chairmen of the Board control as part of its year end procedures.
Investment and contracting controls The key features of the system of internal The Company encourages active The Group has clearly dened guidelines The terms and conditions of appointment control include: dialogue with its current and prospective for the purchase and sale of land within for the Non-executive Directors, which shareholders through ongoing meetings Clear organisational structure the Group, which include detailed set out their expected time commitment, or calls with institutional investors.
Major The Group operates through autonomous environmental, planning and financial in addition to the service contracts for shareholders have the opportunity to divisions and operating companies, each appraisal and are subject to executive the Executive Directors, are available for meet all Directors after the Annual General with its own board.
Rigorous procedures are also inspection at the AGM and during normal Meeting in addition to individual meetings boards meet on a weekly basis and followed for the selection of consultants business hours at the Companys registered with the Company.
divisional boards on a monthly basis, and and contractors.
comprehensive information is prepared for monitoring of all build programmes and Shareholders are also kept up to date such meetings on a standardised basis to budgets are a fundamental element of the with the Companys activities through 76 77 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Board of Directors presents its Audit issued during the year.
The Committees A table of movements in provisions over Internal control and internal audit their work and updated the Committee on The Committee has concluded that Committee Report for the year ended 30 review incorporated consideration of the the period is included in note 17 to the The Committee undertook its annual regulatory changes for the current year.
it is comfortable that the auditors are April 2016 which has been prepared on the appropriateness of the relevant accounting financial statements.
review of the Groups Internal Control independent.
KPMG reported to the Committee at the recommendation of the Audit Committee policies and financial reporting judgements Framework during the year.
This review Revenue recognition year end, prior to the public announcement Appointment of KPMG the Committee.
focused on the system of risk management The Committee recognises that of the Companys results, in which it set On completion of the audit, the and internal control in place which is The report has been prepared in The Committees review of the Annual the Groups accounting policy for out its assessment of the Companys Committee reviewed the performance and explained in more detail on page 76 of accordance with the requirements of the Report concentrated on whether, revenue recognition, namely that judgements and estimates in respect of effectiveness of KPMG with feedback from the Corporate Governance Report, and UK Corporate Governance Code, Schedule taken as a whole, it was fair, balanced properties are treated as sold and these risks and any other findings arising executive management.
The Committee covered: 8 of the Large & Medium-Sized Companies and understandable and provided the profits are recognised when contracts from its work.
has resolved to propose KPMGs reand Groups Accounts and Reports information necessary for users of the are exchanged and building work is the key risks facing the Group: appointment at the 2016 Annual General The external auditors have open recourse Regulations 2008, and the Listing Rules of Annual Report to assess the Groups physically complete, involves an element Meeting.
the key elements of the Groups control to the Non-executive Directors should the Financial Conduct Authority.
of judgement in determining the point processes to mitigate these risks: they consider it necessary.
There is private The Committee remains mindful of evolving at which building work is physically Details of the composition, experience and The views of the Groups auditor, which dialogue between the Chairman of the best practice under the UK Corporate complete.
The Committee reviewed the the operations and effectiveness of the number of meetings of the Committee was in attendance at each meeting of the Audit Committee and the external auditors Governance Code 2014, and will monitor quantum of properties not yet legally internal audit.
are reported on page 75 of the Corporate Committee during the year, were taken prior to each Audit Committee meeting the new requirements of the Financial completed at each balance sheet date, in Governance Report.
into account in reaching its conclusions on A paper was also presented to the and, after each meeting, the opportunity Reporting Council and the European Union conjunction with the review undertaken these matters.
Committee which summarised the Groups for the Committee to meet with the in determining its future approach to reRole and responsibilities of the Audit by the Groups external auditor and consideration, controls and monitoring of external auditors without the Executive tendering the external audit appointment.
committee The significant matters considered by the concluded that the judgements were fraud risk across its activities.
The Committee has formal Terms of Committee during the 2015 16 financial appropriate.
Reference which set out its role and the year included: The Committee also considered any Independence of the external auditors Share-based payments A Myers authority delegated to it by the Board.
The internal control recommendations As part of its audit strategy presentation, Carrying value of inventories and The Committee recognises that Chairman, Audit Committee key responsibilities of the Committee are raised by the Groups auditors during and through the audit tender process, margin recognition accounting for share-based payments 21 June 2016 as follows: the course of the external audit and the KPMG identied the safeguards in Inventories comprise land not under represents a complex accounting area companys response to dealing with such place within its internal processes and Financial Reporting development, work in progress and and particularly so in a year in which recommendations.
procedures to protect, in respect of its own Monitoring the integrity of the financial completed units, which are held in there was a modication to a scheme role, the independence of its audit.
reporting of the Company and reviewing the balance sheet at the lower of 2011 LTIP.
The Committee reviewed A report summarising the recent activities significant financial reporting matters cost and net realisable value.
This the impact of this modication in of the Internal Audit function within The Committee has a policy on the use of and accounting policies: requires a periodic assessment by the conjunction with the external auditors Berkeley was presented to each of the the auditors for non-audit services in order management team of each of Berkeleys assessment and concluded that the Committee meetings during the year.
to safeguard auditor independence and Internal Control and Internal Audit sites which is sensitive to assumptions judgement and application were These reports covered: the ratio of audit fees including the fees Reviewing the adequacy and in terms of future sales prices and appropriate.
for the Interim Review to non-audit fees effectiveness of the Groups internal a summary of the key findings arising construction costs and recognises the should be no greater than 1:1.
The ratio for control and risk management systems Compliance with laws and regulations from the most recent formal internal inherently cyclical nature of the property the year ended 30 April 2016 was within and monitoring the effectiveness of the The Committee recognises that the audits undertaken: market and the risks of delivery.
These the limits of this ratio.
Audit and non-audit Groups internal audit function: and Company is subject to laws and assumptions are also relevant to the management responses to any control fee disclosures are set out in Note 5 of the regulations across a number of areas External Audit determination of profit recognised on weaknesses identied, the closure of any Consolidated Financial Statements.
including, but not limited to, anti-bribery, Overseeing the relationship with the properties sold.
The conclusions of this open items and any recurring themes: anti-money laundering and sanctions Any departure from this ratio will only external auditor, including appointment, assessment were reported by exception checking.
The Committee considered the outcome of other operational review be as a consequence of transactional removal and fees, and ensuring the to the Committee in a financial overview the Groups approach to reviewing and work undertaken by the internal audit work, where the Committee considers it auditors independence and the paper prior to release of the Groups updating its policies with respect to function: is right for the auditors to undertake such effectiveness of the audit process.
compliance with laws and regulations.
work where the reasons for doing so are the internal audit plan for the coming This report considers each of these Provisions In performing this review, it considered compelling, such as where: year, for debate with and the approval of responsibilities in turn, and how the The Committee recognises that relevant legal matters.
i it is proprietary to them: Committee has discharged them during accounting for provisions relies on was satisfied that there were no material the year.
management judgement in estimating instances of non-compliance.
The Committee was satisfied that the ii they have pre-existing knowledge and the quantum and timing of outows of scope, extent and effectiveness of the experience that precludes the use of Financial reporting Other matters considered by the resources to settle any associated legal Internal Audit function are appropriate for alternative rms: At each of the Audit Committee meetings, Committee included managements or constructive obligations.
the Group Chief Executive and or the assessment of the going concern status iii the nature of the transaction is such holds provisions for post-completion Group Finance Director presented, and of the Group at the balance sheet date, External audit that the Groups auditors are the only development obligations, onerous the Committee debated, the results and the Boards assessment of the KPMG LLP KPMG was appointed as the practical appointment.
leases, estate liabilities and litigation.
The and business plan of the Group and any viability statement.
The Committee Companys auditor in the year ended 30 basis for determining these provisions Non-audit work carried out by all significant financial reporting judgements concurred with the approach adopted April 2014. was presented to the Committee for accounting rms, including the auditors, is relevant to this.
The Committee Approach formally reported to the Audit Committee The Committee reviewed, prior to their reviewed the relevant papers and Since the year end, the Committee has KPMG presented its audit strategy to at each meeting.
There is open dialogue publication, the financial disclosures in discussed the assumptions underlying completed its review of the 2016 Annual the Audit Committee during the year.
between KPMG and the Companys senior the Groups Annual Report and Accounts, this determination with management Report and has confirmed to the Board The strategy document identied its finance team to monitor any proposed new Preliminary Announcement, Half Year and the Groups external auditor, and that it considers it to be fair, balanced assessment of the key risks of the business instructions.
Results Announcement and the contents concluded that it was satisfied that the and understandable.
for the purpose of the audit, the scope of of interim management statements assumptions adopted were appropriate.
78 79 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Annual statement from Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Berkeleys total shareholder return, when compared to the companies in the sector and also the FTSE 250, FTSE 100 and FTSE All Share indices, illustrates the value delivered to shareholders over the long term.
Dear Shareholder Total shareholder return from 30 April 2005 % This Remuneration Report is split into two parts: 650 i Our Remuneration at a Glance sets out a summary of Berkeleys Directors Remuneration policy and the key remuneration decisions 600 made by the Committee for the financial year ending 30 April 2016.
550 ii The Annual Report on Remuneration sets out payments and awards made to the Directors and details the link between Company 500 performance and remuneration for the 2015 16 financial year.
450 The Annual Report on Remuneration, together with this letter, is subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the AGM on 6 September 400 2016.
The sections of this report that have been subject to audit are labelled accordingly.
350 In line with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, the Directors 300 Remuneration Policy has not been presented in this report given that the Policy was approved at the 2014 AGM and it is not intended to 250 move a similar resolution again at the 2016 AGM.
The Directors Remuneration Policy is available to view in full on the Companys website Berkeley Group at www.
200 Holdings plc 150 Corporate performance FTSE 250 Index Berkeley has delivered strong performance and growth over 2015 16, with the key highlights being: 100 FTSE 100 Index 50 Dividends paid to shareholders of 259 million 2015: 243 million FTSE All Share Index 0 Sector Adjusted pre-tax return on shareholders equity of 27.8% 2015: 29.5% 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Net asset value increased by 10.7% to 1,813 million 2015: 1,638 million Berkeleys remuneration policy aims to encourage, reward and retain the Executives and ensure that their actions are aligned with the Future anticipated gross margin in the land bank up 16.6% to 6,146 million 2015: 5,272 million Companys strategy.
In particular, the emphasis on performance related pay aligns the Executives with the performance of the business Adjusted earnings per share increased by 1.4% to 267.3 pence 2015: 263.6 pence which is coupled with long term incentives that lock in the Executive team for up to 10 years, which is far longer than is typical in most publicly listed companies.
The results continue to underline the Groups strategy of balancing earnings in the near term and creating a sustainable business, delivering value to shareholders over the long term.
Berkeleys Return on Equity compared with the sector over the last eight years Incentive outcomes illustrates the relative performance of the Company: On the back of continued strong corporate performance and also the performance of the Executives, the remuneration decisions and incentive outcomes from the performance this year are: The Executive Directors earned 100% of the maximum annual contribution under the Bonus Plan following performance against the 2008 9 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 2014 15 2015 16 stretching Net Asset Value growth, Return on Equity and Divisional PBT targets see page 84 for details : Berkeley 16.2% 13.3% 15.3% 21.2% 22.4% 27.5% 29.5% 27.8% The balance of the 2009 LTIP Part B awards vested during the year.
The exercise of these awards resulted in a significant increase in shareholding for A W Pidgley, R C Perrins, G J Fry, K Whiteman and S Ellis see page 85 for details.
Adjusted gures exclude gross margin from the sale of ground rents Bonus Since 2011, Divisional Directors bonus targets have been set by reference to both Group and Divisional targets with an equal weighting.
Following a review of the operation of the Bonus Plan for 2016 17 and onwards, the Committee has determined that the bonus payable for all the Executive Directors will be determined by reference to the Group performance conditions only.
The change has been made on the basis that the Committee wants the Executive Directors as a team to be focused on the strategic drivers of the business, being Return on Equity and growth in Net Asset Value following the increased focus on annual dividends as a result of the changes made to the Groups strategic delivery during the year.
Divisional performance continues to be an important part of the Committees assessment of performance.
Therefore, for the Divisional Directors the Committee will take into account their respective Divisions performance when determining bonus payments for 2016 17 and future years.
While the maximum amount of bonus for Divisional Directors will be determined by the satisfaction of the Group targets: at the discretion of the Committee the failure of a particular Division to meet its individual targets may result in a reduction to the bonus amount paid to the relevant Divisional Director.
As with prior years we have disclosed our Group targets for the 2016 17 bonus year in full on pages 86 and 87.
80 81 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Changes to the 2011 LTIP OUR REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE It is a key element of the Berkeley Remuneration philosophy that the remuneration arrangements are directly linked to the achievement Ahead of the detail behind payments for 2015 16, I would like to take this opportunity to outline the Committees policy, key decisions of the Companys corporate strategy.
In December 2015, the Company announced two changes to the delivery of the corporate and performance outcomes during the past year.
strategy: Summary of Directors Remuneration Policy The increase in the targeted cumulative dividends paid by no later than 30 September 2021 by 3.34, from 13.00 to 16.34: Element Policy summary description Maximum opportunity The introduction of annual phased payments of dividends.
Executive Directors As a result of these changes the Remuneration Committee conducted a thorough review of the operation of the 2011 LTIP and determined that it should be amended in the following way: Base salary Core element of remuneration, set at a level which is sufficiently competitive to Where an Executive is extremely recruit and retain Executive Directors of the appropriate calibre and experience experienced and has a long-track The exercise price payable for the options should be increased by 3.34.
This means that the total exercise price from the date of to achieve the Companys business strategy.
record of proven performance grant has increased from 13.00 to 16.34: salaries may be in the upper decile In setting levels of base salary, the Committee takes into account the following The introduction of phased vesting of options to match the dividend payments: when compared to companies factors: of broadly comparable size and In addition, the Committee took the opportunity to amend the 2011 LTIP to bring it up to date for corporate governance best practice The individual Executive Directors experience and responsibilities: complexity in particular those by i introducing malus and clawback provisions and ii capping the maximum value the participants can receive under the Plan.
within the comparator group and The levels of base salary for similar positions with comparable status, In line with the rules of the 2011 LTIP and the Regulations, the proposed changes to the operation of the Plan and consequential changes those in the FTSE 250. responsibility and skills in organisations of broadly similar size and to the Companys Remuneration Policy required shareholder approval, and approval was sought and received at a General Meeting held complexity: In general salary rises will be limited on 16 February 2016. to the level provided to employees of The performance of the individual Executive Director and the Group: In advance of seeking formal shareholder approval at the Meeting, the Company conducted an extensive consultation exercise with the Company as a whole.
I and the other members of the Remuneration Committee were extremely appreciative of the input Pay and conditions throughout the Group.
received from shareholders as part of this process and the support we received for the changes and ultimately the approval at the General Meeting 94.07% voted in favour of the amendments.
Pension and benets The Companys policy is either to provide a contribution to a pension The maximum contribution or arrangement or provide payments in lieu of pension.
payment in lieu is 25% of salary.
It should also be noted that as these proposed changes reduced the potential benefit received by participants their approval was required and the participants unanimously agreed to these changes.
Other benets are provided to the Executive Directors including a fully Levels of benets are dened by expensed company car or cash allowance alternative, medical insurance and market rates.
Full details of the changes made to the 2011 LTIP are set out on pages 87 to 89.
In addition, the notice for the General Meeting on 16 other benets may be provided from time to time.
February 2016 provides further information on the background to these changes.
Annual bonus The Bonus Plan aligns rewards to the key objectives linked to short to medium 300% of salary.
In addition, the Committee determined to increase the minimum shareholding requirement for R C Perrins so that the requirement for term performance whilst ensuring that there is a balance between incentivising both the Group Chairman and the Group Chief Executive are the same at 400% of salary.
the Executive Directors, providing a sustainable ongoing level of return to In conclusion shareholders and ensuring the long term sustainability of the Company.
The Annual Report on Remuneration together with this letter will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the forthcoming AGM Under the Bonus Plan, awards are earned annually over a six year plan period, in September 2016.
Details of voting at last years Annual General Meeting, where 85.43% of those voting supported the resolution to subject to stretching performance targets.
approve the Annual Report on Remuneration, are set out on page 98 of this report.
50% of a participants plan account will be paid out annually for the first five I look forward to receiving your support for the resolution seeking approval of the Annual Report on Remuneration at our forthcoming years with 100% of the balance paid at the end of the sixth plan year.
Long term Incentives No plan available for new grants during the three year Policy Period unless, on recruitment, where a new Executive Director may be eligible to participate in the 2011 LTIP and also provided the total number of awards granted to all G Barker participants do not exceed the limits agreed with shareholders at the 2011 AGM.
Chairman, Remuneration Committee Shareholding The Committee operates a system of shareholder guidelines to encourage 400% of base salary for the requirement long-term share ownership by the Executive Directors.
Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive.
This should be achieved within five years of appointment for Executive Directors.
200% of base salary for other Executive Directors.
Non-executive Directors Fees Each Non-executive Director receives a fee which relates to membership of the In setting fees, the Board looks Board and additional fees are paid for Committee Chairmanship.
at the upper quartile fee levels of companies of broadly similar size and complexity - in particular those within the comparator group and those in the FTSE 250.
In general fee rises will be limited to the level provided to employees of the Company as a whole.
The Directors Remuneration Policy is available to view in full on the Companys website at www.
82 83 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED How have we performed against our 2015 16 Bonus Plan objectives?
Single total gure of Remuneration for Executive Directors for 2015 16 The following table sets out the various performance metrics targeted by the Bonus Plan and how the Company has performed The table below summarises the 2015 16 single total gure of remuneration: against these metrics in respect of 2015 16.
It should be noted that this is the first year of operation of the six-year Bonus Plan that was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
Multi-year Executive Director performance 1 Percentage 000 Salary Benets Annual bonus incentive Pensions Total of bonus A W Pidgley 850 49 1,275 19,170 145 21,489 element earned R C Perrins 515 33 773 9,585 87 10,993 following R J Stearn 350 17 350 53 770 assessment Actual against the G J Fry 355 29 311 6,390 53 7,138 performance performance Bonus Plan performance conditions Targets set at the start of the year outcome targets K Whiteman 335 28 335 3,195 50 3,943 Group performance Return on 27.8% S Ellis 335 20 369 2,236 50 3,010 ROE of 25% maximum target 1 condition 100% Equity ROE Notes weighting for the 100% 1.
2015 16 Multi-year performance incentive the amounts relate to the balance of the 2009 LTIP Part B awards that vested in 2015 16.
10.7% Net Group Executives, 50% Net Asset Net Asset Value Growth of 5% maximum target Asset Value weighting for Divisional Value Total equity exposure at 30 April 2016 Growth Directors The following table and chart sets out all subsisting interests in the equity of the Company held by the Executive Directors at 30 April Divisional PBT Divisional PBT targets are set at the beginning of the 2016: 100% of performance condition financial year at a level which is challenging taking into Divisional PBT Divisional 50% weighting for account the potential level of bonus payments, the 100% Scheme interests Options and awards over shares targets PBT target Divisional Directors market, development availability and other relevant 2 achieved 2011 LTIP Option issues.
beneficially owned interests subject to Other awards subject 1 Executive Director shares conditions to conditions Total interests held Notes 1.
Adjusted Return on Equity excludes gross margin from the sale of ground rents A W Pidgley 6,463,855 5,000,000 5,000,000 2.
Divisional PBT performance condition for the Divisional Directors the percentage achievement of target is shown as the average performance for each Division.
Disclosure of PBT targets are considered to be commercially sensitive as the disclosure of such details could be detrimental to the Companys R C Perrins 1,676,598 5,000,000 5,000,000 future strategic plans.
The Committee will disclose these targets when they are no longer considered commercially sensitive which is anticipated to be at the end of a period of two years.
R J Stearn 3,867 954,328 45,672 1,000,000 G J Fry 1,351,327 1,866,503 1,866,503 The Committee is satisfied that there is strong alignment between Company performance and the remuneration of the Executive Directors.
As a result of strong performance during the year, the Committee determined that the Executive Directors would receive K Whiteman 153,003 1,000,000 1,000,000 bonus payments equal to 100% of their maximum bonus potential as set at the start of the year.
Further details are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 91 and 92.
S Ellis 113,659 2,250,000 2,250,000 Other remuneration outcomes during the year Notes 1.
Buy out awards granted to R J Stearn on joining Berkeley on 13 April 2015.
Full details were provided in the Directors Remuneration Report for 2014 15.
The balance of the awards granted under the 2009 LTIP Part B vested on 15 April 2016.
These awards vested following the achievement of the Net Assets per share performance condition underpin of 9.00.
Actual Net Assets per share were 12.89 at 31 October 2015 The following charts show the minimum shareholding requirements for the Executive Directors, the value of the shares they currently and 13.14 at 30 April 2016.
The exercise of these awards resulted in a significant increase in shareholding for A W Pidgley, R C Perrins, own and the value of share incentives held.
All the Executive Directors exceed their minimum shareholding requirements other than GJFry, K Whiteman and S Ellis.
RJStearn who has only recently been appointed and has five years to meet the requirements.
Shareholder approval was received at the 2011 AGM to amend the rules of the 2009 LTIP Part B so that the terms of existing options granted can be adjusted in the event of the payment of a cash dividend or dividend in specie.
The exercise price of the 2009 LTIP Part B A W Pidgley % of salary G J Fry % of salary awards at the date of vesting was 3.06 following 5.34 of dividends being paid during the vesting period.
Full details are disclosed on 400% 200% page 93.
22,776% 11,401% 11,147% 9,963% 0 5000 10000 15000 20000 25000 0 2000 4000 6000 8000 10000 12000 R C Perrins % of salary K Whiteman % of salary 400% 200% 9,750% 1,368% 18,398% 5,657% 0 5000 10000 15000 20000 0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 R J Stearn % of salary S Ellis % of salary 200% 200% 33% 1,016% 5,558% 12,728% 0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 0 3000 6000 9000 12000 15000 Key: Shareholding requirement Value of beneficially owned shares Value gain on interests over shares unvested 84 85 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the following financial year The Committee when setting the Group performance conditions follows the approach agreed with shareholders as part of the approval of the Bonus Plan.
The Committee committed to setting performance conditions to ensure that over the six year plan period on average Executive Directors the following ranges were achieved: The remuneration policy and its implementation for the forthcoming financial year is summarised below.
ROE range 20% to 25% p. a. : Salary: The salaries for 2016 17 are set out below: NAV Growth range 0% to 5% p. a.
The Committee believes that taking into account the market faced by the Company and the strategy set that the above targets are FTSE 250 - 000 suitably challenging given the incentive opportunity that can be earned.
The ROE targets have been increased to reect the Companys expectations on revenue performance over the next period.
The NAV Growth targets remain the same as the Committee believes they 2015 16 Salary 2016 17 Salary provide the appropriate dynamic tension with the requirement to pay dividends whilst maintaining the Companys asset base.
Executive Director 000 000 % change Lower Quartile Median Upper Quartile Long-term incentives: The current Executive Directors will not be granted additional options under the 2011 LTIP.
A W Pidgley 850 875 2.9 465 542 618 Non-executive Directors R C Perrins 515 530 2.9 472 547 617 The following table sets out the fee rates for the Non-executive Directors in the year ended 30 April 2016 and those rates which will R J Stearn 350 360 2.9 310 361 415 apply in the year ending 30 April 2017: G J Fry 355 365 2.8 293 347 398 2015 16 2016 17 Non-executive Director 000 000 % change K Whiteman 335 345 3.0 293 347 398 Deputy Chairman and SID fees 109.25 112.5 3.0 S Ellis 335 345 3.0 293 347 398 Basic Fee 60.25 62.0 2.9 In reviewing the salaries of the Executive Directors for 2016 17, the Committee has also taken account of the employment conditions and Additional fee for chairmanship of Audit or Remuneration Committee 12.5 12.5 salary increases awarded to employees throughout the Group, which were on average 5.1%.
Benets and Pension: No changes are proposed to benets or pension in 2016 17.
In reviewing the fees of the Non-executive Directors for 2016 17, the Committee has also taken account of the employment conditions Bonus Plan: The maximum bonus potentials for the year ending 30 April 2017, the second year of operation of the new Bonus Plan and salary increases awarded to employees throughout the Group, which were on average 5.1%.
approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM, are set out below.
These are the same as those provided to each Executive Director for the Changes to the 2011 LTIP approved by shareholders at the General Meeting held on 16 February 2016 last financial year.
In 2011, Berkeley put in place a clear framework to deliver 13 per share to shareholders over a ten year period, as the market began to recover from the global financial crisis.
At the time this challenging ambition represented 183% of the prevailing net asset value per share.
It was anticipated that the return Executive Director A W Pidgley R C Perrins R J Stearn G J Fry K Whiteman S Ellis would realise the significant majority of the value of the balance sheet and the potential within the land bank.
Maximum Bonus % of salary 300% 300% 200% 175% 200% 220% Berkeley is ahead of this plan in terms of profitability and cash generation, following a period of land investment at the right time in the cycle and a favourable London market with ongoing stability following the May 2015 General Election result.
This was reected in the From 2016 17 onwards the Committee has determined the bonus payable for all the Executive Directors will be determined by reference 2billion three year cumulative PBT ambition the Company set out with its results for the year ended 30 April 2015. to Group performance conditions only.
The Committees rationale for the change is set out in the Chairmans Annual Statement.
The Berkeley had also achieved the first milestone under the plan of returning 4.34 to shareholders by 30 September 2015 and was on table below sets out the targets in respect of the forthcoming year for all Executive Directors.
course to deliver the two remaining milestones in September 2018 and September 2021.
Group performance condition year ending 30 April 2017 In December 2015, the Company announced that it was increasing the 2021 target from 13.00 per share to 16.34 per share, with the remaining 12 to be paid in annual dividends of 2 per share over the next six years equating to 100% of current NAV, with sufficient Net Asset Value Growth capital retained for incremental investment in the business.
0% 0.0% 1.0% 2.0% 3.0% 4.0% 5.0% Rationale for revision to strategic delivery The Company announced in June 2015, as part of the annual results for the year to 30 April 2015, a plan to deliver pre-tax profits of Performance Requirement Matrix 0.0% 50.0% 60% 70.0% 80.0% 90.0% 100.0% 2billion over the three year period to 30 April 2018.
This reected three principle factors: Bonus Plan 25.0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% London had emerged from the financial crisis rmly at the centre of the global economy, attracting both investment and talent to Deduction stimulate demand in the under-supplied Capital: 25.0% 50% 0% 25% 30% 35% 40% 45% 50% Berkeleys strategy enabled it to acquire a number of outstanding sites in the period from 2009 to 2013 that are now being delivered: 26.0% 60% 0% 30% 36% 42% 48% 54% 60% The May 2015 General Election result had provided the UK and, specifically, the London market with the ongoing stability that business required to make long-term investment decisions.
27.0% 70% 0% 35% 42% 49% 56% 63% 70% At this point in the cycle, the Company had sufficient visibility to enhance the dividend return programme while retaining sufficient 28.0% 80% 0% 40% 48% 56% 64% 72% 80% capital to invest in opportunities that will add incremental value to the future business.
Summary of amendments to the 2011 LTIP 29.0% 90% 0% 45% 54% 63% 72% 81% 90% At the 16 February 2016 General Meeting the following changes were approved by shareholders: 30.0% 100% 0% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% An increase in the exercise price payable for the options by 3.34.
This means that the total exercise price from the date of grant has increased from 13.00 to 16.34: The introduction of phased vesting of options to match the dividend payments.
In addition, the Committee amended the 2011 LTIP to bring it up to date for corporate governance best practice by: Introducing malus and clawback provisions: Capping the maximum value the participants can receive under the Plan.
