STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CUSTOMERS Customer service UK First Customer insight Berkeleys customers expect a professional, We recognise that UK customers should Berkeley operates in a highly competitive We are particularly proud that Berkeley 2016-2018 HEADLINE COMMITMENTS quality and efficient service when purchasing have the opportunity to buy our homes as market.
Key to the ongoing success of was named the winner of the Customer a property.
We aim to meet and exceed a priority.
In line with our 2014-2016 our business is that we listen to, Focus Award Large Enterprise at the Deliver world-class customer service as evidenced by a top these expectations throughout the headline commitment, we introduced our understand and respond to the needs Institute of Customer Services UK quartile Net Promoter Score compared to UK Customer customer journey, starting from the UK First Policy in 2014.
The UK First Policy of our customers.
Satisfaction Index results moment a customer enquires about a requires the initial sales launch to be in the This award recognises that Berkeley has Feedback is already sought through Run a programme of engagement and research to further property, through the sales process, at the UK, with every individual home to be made transitioned to a company that places the customer surveys to help inform our enhance our product and processes based on the needs point of handover and during occupation.
available to purchasers in the UK either first customer at the centre of our operations approach.
Due to the limitations of this of our customers or at the same time as launching overseas.
There is no single prescriptive world-class feedback mechanism, we aim to run a Our UK First Policy continues to be customer service process.
As our programme of enhanced engagement My Home Plus implemented on all schemes.
customers are individuals with varying over the next two years to achieve greater 2014-2016 HEADLINE COMMITMENTS Providing a personalised service is key to needs, Berkeley has created a customer Berkeley also appreciates that customer insight.
This will allow us to ensuring our customers feel valued.
Each first mind-set and has empowered teams international investors play a vital role in evolve our customer service and design Deliver world-class customer service measured through customer receives tailored information to think and act differently.
By responding generating the cash ow and confidence processes to keep up to date with latest the Net Promoter Score relating to the home they have purchased to the results of the Institute of Customer to begin construction.
This year, Berkeley customer behaviours.
Launch an interactive way of communicating with our and a dedicated contact at each stage of Service ICS employee surveys, we have increased its overseas portfolio by Sustainable living customers, My Home Plus the customer journey.
improved our processes and highlighted opening a new sales office in Shanghai.
the importance of our commitment to We continue to promote sustainable Market all our developments in the UK first To enhance the way that we communicate customer service to all employees.
In 2016, living, both through the design of the with our customers, an interactive online we ran our first Customer Service homes and places we create, and system called My Home Plus has been Academy, bringing talented individuals through the inclusion of information developed.
Initially launched in 2015 as a from other industries into the business and on sustainability features within trial on several developments, further providing them with a structured training marketing and handover material functionality has been added over the last programme before placing them in a role.
The full version will be introduced on new Our continued efforts to provide developments moving forward, providing world-class customer service are customers with the information they need evidenced through our high levels of in one easily accessible place.
In 2016, our Net updates on the buying process and Promoter Score has increased to 71.2 construction progress, along with key and 98% of customers would recommend information around specication choices and us to a friend.
manuals relating to the features of the home.
2016 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS UK Customer Satisfaction Awards 2016: Institute of Customer Service Customer Focus Award Winner ServiceMark achieved across Large Enterprise all businesses 71.2 98% Tailored information with My Home Plus Net Promoter Score customers would recommend on a scale of -100 to 100 us to a friend Learn more about Customers at www.
co. uk about-berkeley-group our-vision customers Professional, quality and efficient service Sustainable living at Woodberry Down World-class customer service 24 25 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT HOMES W e are committed to developing individually designed, high quality homes with low environmental impact.
As a residential-led developer, building high quality and well designed homes is fundamental to our business and is intrinsic to all the other areas of Our Vision.
It is demanded of us by our customers and differentiates Berkeley.
It is clear that to have a successful business, our focus has to be on the end product of the homes right from the outset.
OUR APPROACH Each of our homes and developments is bespoke and we use external architects to design each scheme.
Attention to detail in design is paramount to ensure homes meet the needs of our customers and our specications are planned to meet the varied needs of all types of homebuyers, from luxurious houses to key worker apartments.
The impact on the environment throughout the lifetime of the home is considered during its design, with an aim to minimise impacts and provide homeowners with the opportunity to live more sustainably.
The high quality nish which we demand in our new homes requires a skilled workforce and thorough checks before handover.
Highwood, Horsham Kidbrooke Village, Greenwich Student accommodation in Bath Goodmans Fields, Aldgate 26 27
