RESOURCES AND RESPONSIBILITIES Sustainability lies at the heart of our business We understand our corporate responsibility, which is embedded in our culture and believe we can make a difference to society.
The concept of sustainability lies at the heart activities accordingly.
Since then the Bank We aim to regularly monitor environmental of our business and reflects our contribution ensures it has a consistent approach to and social risks associated with the Banks to sustainable development development evaluating and managing environmental, human activities, and assessing clients compliance that meets the needs of the present without health and safety risks of financed projects.
with the terms of respective agreements compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.
These procedures are now being integrated Through ensuring comprehensive environmental into the Banks credit risk management process and social assessment and action plans, as We consider sustainability to be integral to and soon will be routinely applied to all a part of the stable due diligence, the Bank the growth of our business.
In all that the Bank encourages its customers to fulfil their agenda allows us to be profitable as well as does, it strives to find sustainable solutions environmental and social obligations and environmentally and socially responsible at the that make business sense to the clients established a framework for them to achieve same time.
By implementing a sustainability and minimise its impacts on the social and good environmental and social standards.
approach in our activities, we foster long-term natural environment.
In many cases, the Banks proper and timely relationships with our main stakeholders management of the customers environmental by providing high return on investment for The main objective of the Environmental and and social risks has helped them to avoid shareholders, satisfying the financial needs Social Policy is to increase the environmental financial and legal sanctions during inspections of customers, developing employees and and social benefits for our clients.
Through the conducted by state enforcement agencies.
contributing to the economic and social welfare ESRM Procedure, the Bank enhances our of local communities, while taking into account clients opportunities to be in compliance with Environmental and social issues are tracked our environmental footprint.
national environmental and social regulations at the project site in cooperation with facility and adopt international best practices in this staff, providing ongoing advice and guidance In 2012, in order to effectively manage the area.
The Environmental and Social Policy and on good practice and standards and Groups direct and indirect impact on society Risk Management Procedures comprise the monitoring compliance with the requirements.
and the environment, the Board of Directors core components of the Banks Environmental For environmental and social due diligence of adopted an Environmental and Social Policy.
and Social Risk Management System ESMS.
certain high risk projects, the Bank contracts This policy describes the Groups strategy to Under this concept, the Bank endeavours to independent external experts.
As a part of developing solid management controls to become an environmentally friendly financial monitoring, the Bank requires each of the high conserve natural resources, minimise health institution.
In 2014 Bank of Georgia won the risk clients to provide the Bank with the annual and safety risks, and provide employees Green Service award at the Georgian Green report on their environmental and social with equal development opportunities, fair Business Awards ceremony organised by the performance and the implementation compensation and benefits.
We are pioneering Ministry of Environmental and Natural of applicable Environmental and Social Action sustainability practices in our operations and Resources Protection of Georgia.
Plans or each client is visited by the Bank staff are constantly seeking new ways to improve on a regular basis.
During 2016, the Bank held our performance.
The policy was last updated Furthermore, to ensure a more effective extensive Environmental and Social Due in 2016. operation and maintenance of the ESRM Policy, Diligence ESDD, monitored relevant clients the Social and Environmental Risk Unit was and developed action plans for non-compliant SOCIAL MATTERS created in September 2016.
Due to the Banks efforts, a few clients The Group considers the interests of its Environmental and Social Risk Coordinator conducted environmental audits and obtained main stakeholders which include customers, was responsible for the implementation of the the necessary environmental impact permits shareholders, employees, lenders and wider Policy.
In 2017, we aim to appoint a Social to continue their business operations legally.
society when developing the strategy and and Environmental Risk Specialist to oversee Those clients started to identify, avoid, mitigate the processes to improve its operations.
day-to-day implementation of the Banks and manage environmental and social risks We continually strive to positively contribute ESRM Policy.
and impacts on the natural and social to society through the entire scope of our environment.
In addition, as a result of ESDD business activities by developing sociallyWe implement the following procedures to some clients took out loans to enhance their oriented products and services, implementing ensure the operation and maintenance of companies power and ability to reduce responsible approaches to our business the ESMS: negative impacts on the environment and operations, carrying out sponsorship and positively benefit their communities.
We refrain from financing environmentally or socially sensitive business activities In the Association Agreement between the SOCIALLY ORIENTED mentioned in the exclusion lists of European Union and Georgia, Georgia has PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Development Finance Institutions such committed to progressively approximate CORPORATE BANKING as EBRD, IFC, DEG, FMO and ADB its legislation in the relevant sectors with that among others of the EU and to implement it effectively.
In order to efficiently manage its indirect environmental and social impact, the Bank We aim to assess the relative level of Through this approximation process, Georgia environmental and social risk associated is actively developing and amending its national prioritises the integration of sustainable finance principles into its credit risk management with clients businesses.
We require certain legislation in the relevant sectors.
In 2013, the Bank updated its customers to implement specific the Bank regularly checks legal developments environmental or social action plans to avoid and updates with regard to environmental, Environmental and Social Risk Management ESRM Procedures in order to ensure the or mitigate their environmental and social health and safety and labour issues and places impact and adhere to specific monitoring great emphasis on the improvement of ESDD proper application of appropriate, risk-based and sector-specific environmental and social and reporting requirements that we set in opportunities.
The Banks staff are very focused risk assessment practices to its commercial order to minimise environmental and social on introducing clients to information about risk.
These requirements are included as relevant existing and new regulations and laws lending activities and in 2014, the Bank actively started to put the procedures into practice.
covenants in agreements between certain during ESDD with the aim of strengthening the of our customers and the Bank clients knowledge and capacity in the area of The Bank defined priority targets and promotes environmental and social risk management environmental and social protection.
46 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC Training activities are also an important element The hotel is scheduled for launch in 2017 and points that can be converted into mobile phone for enhancing capacity for policy implementation.
will be operated by local management.
It is top-ups and used to pay public transportation In 2016, the Bank provided opportunities located in the very centre of old Batumi, which and utility bills.
This award programme for the development and enhancement of the due to its exclusive location is one of the most encourages the student population to use capacity of Head of Corporate & SME Credit popular tourist destinations in the city.
The hotel financial services and supports them financially Risk Department and the staff involved in also provides a variety of international and local during their studies.
environmental and social management process.
cuisines, operated by the client.
Head of Corporate & SME Credit Risk Youth support.
We have developed a wide Department participated in the tenth Annual In 2016, the Bank financed the upgrade of a range of financial products to support young Performance Standards Community of Learning data centre, specialising in Bitcoin mining, via people in Georgia.
For example, via the special organised by IFC.
The Community of Learning the Georgia Bitcoin Mining Data Centre BFDC.
conditions of the Child Deposit we provide is a knowledge-sharing forum aimed at A free industrial zone in Tbilisi hosts the data parents with the opportunity to secure their strengthening the implementation of environmental centre and provides a tax-free zone for the childrens future.
Starting from a minimal and social standards by financial institutions entities working in the information technology amount of GEL 10, a deposit can be opened in emerging markets.
The data centre was founded by for at least two years at any time from a childs a chance to exchange experience, learn Bitfury, a world leader in Bitcoin mining.
The birth until the age of 18.
The annual interest rate from investment case studies and engage total financing required for the upgrade was 10.5% for Georgian Lari and 1.5-4.0% for in dialogue among environmental and social US$ 15.0 million, of which Bank of Georgia foreign currency is added to the initial deposit.
risk management specialists from all over financed US$ 5.0 million.
In 2016, we opened approximately 5,930 Child the globe.
As mentioned above, Social and Deposit accounts.
Environmental Risk Management training In addition, the Bank endeavours to finance was held for the staff with a strong focus on projects that provide millions of people with The Bank also offers special products that strengthening of social and environmental due access to safe drinking water, well-maintained allow young people to receive higher education.
More generally, urban roads and other projects that provide Examples of such products are student loans the Bank has delivered several training sessions important sustainable development benefits with favourable terms that do not require any in this area and consequently more than 100 to households and enterprises across Georgia.
Total employees were trained during the last three portfolio of student loans stood at GEL 430,449 years.
Leading experts and state inspectors RETAIL BANKING by the end of 2016, while GEL 301,081 was were invited as trainers.
We intend to continue issued in 2016 alone.
Bank of Georgia continues to innovate and these types of training activities.
generate a wide range of socially oriented Another example of the Banks products aimed financial products and services that provide Other highlights of the year included the additional value to individuals and small and at supporting young people is a social-educational development and adoption of a Procedure for medium-sized enterprises SMEs and meet project sCool Card a multifunctional card for Addressing External Queries and Concerns.
The main objective of the their respective needs.
The Procedure is intended to provide a means project is to teach the children about financial for the public to submit queries or concerns culture and build their knowledge around Express Banking.
The Georgian banking related to the Banks Environmental & Social sector still experiences difficulties in overcoming financial services at an early stage.
sCool Card Policy, and have these inquiries responded to economic and geographical barriers in expanding is available at no cost and all of the transactions by the Bank in a timely manner.
This process and services are also free of charge.
sCool its financial services in remote regions and of receiving, reviewing and responding to among low-income parts of the population.
Card provides special benefits for children in communications from external stakeholders Georgian public and private schools.
The is managed by the relevant departments of Our Express Banking service plays an important benefits include free public transportation in the Bank.
role in addressing this issue: Tbilisi metro, buses, discounts for entertaining centres popular among children, bookstores, The Bank is committed to respecting the As at 31 December 2016, a network of websites of book publishers, school subject principles of sustainable development, competitions as well as the accumulation of 128 Express branches and 2,729 Express protecting the environment and is willing Pay terminals are located all over the country, bonuses sCoola per each transaction.
to improve the level of public health safety including in remote mountain regions and protection of human health as an In a further effort to help children better understand Express financial products such as Express essential element for sustainable development card, Express deposit and Express loan banking products, the Bank opened a sCool and economic growth.
Card Business School, where experienced staff are uncomplicated, easily accessible and affordable to a segment of the population provide free training about topics such as: The Bank continues to make progress that would not have access to banking What is money, Banking products, Bank toward its objective and to ensure efficient professions and Time management.
By implementation of the Environmental and Social 31 December 2016, the Bank had attracted Management System.
The Bank will continue SME support.
We continue to provide 471,967 clients, of which 46,617 became to conduct business with due consideration clients of the Bank in 2016 alone financing to SMEs, a backbone of the Georgian to environmental and social protection and economy that helps to ensure the sustainable contribute to the creation of a sustainable development of Georgia.
Apart from our own As a part of the Express Banking service, society.
The Bank will further help increase we prioritise the development of self-service micro-financing and SME loan programmes, clients benefits through proper and diligent we also participate in various programmes that skills of our clients.
We plan to expand services implementation of the Environmental and in Express Pay terminals, develop web-based support entrepreneurs.
In 2015, the Bank Social Policy.
application processing tools and implement partnered with a non-profit Agricultural Projects Management Agency which supports a new instalment credit product.
All of these The Bank also continues to support Georgias changes will provide a more accessible banking agricultural SMEs.
Together, we co-financed emerging economy by financing industries that agricultural loans at fixed annual interest rates service to our clients.
are strategically important for the development which were significantly lower than previous of the country.
In 2016 we replaced the Student Card with the loans SMEs received by other institutions.
In 2016, the total amount of Bank loans Express Student Card which has all debit card Tourism still remains one of the most rapidly functions, as well as special discounts on public issued to SMEs was GEL 1.3 million, of which developing sectors of the Georgian economy.
GEL 75 million was issued through the transportation and free distance banking The Bank actively provides financing for services among other benefits.
Students are Preferential Agriculture Lending Programme.
hotel constructions throughout the country.
automatically involved in the Express Bonus Alongside financing the construction of hotels In 2016 the Bank enhanced financing to Points Loyalty Scheme.
Students who collect a in Tbilisi, the Bank has financed the acquisition minimum of 600 Express Points on a monthly micro-business owners that were previously and a renovation of a 34-room hotel in Batumi.
basis are awarded with additional 3,000 bonus Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 47 Additional Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements Performance Strategy Overview RESOURCES AND RESPONSIBILITIES CONTINUED The Bank now has a dedicated staff and to the emerging middle class in Georgia, establishment.
The clinic is a unique provider 2 established processes for its new product especially young families.
m Real Estate has of this service in Georgia, for which about micro-express loans that targets microcompleted six projects for the development and GEL 2 million is annually subsidised.
In 2016, business segment and offers loans under sale of affordable residential apartments.
701 young patients received treatment under GEL 10,000. this programme.
The company uses an innovative approach In 2016 the Bank partnered with European to design and construction processes so that Sponsoring medical TV programmes is GHGs Bank for Reconstruction and Development each square metre is distributed efficiently and way of promoting good health awareness and EBRD to offer the market a much needed local is tailored to the customers needs and wishes.
practices, which helps the company reach a currency funding.
Bank of Georgia is committed As few customers can afford to buy large flats wide range of the Georgian population.
GHG 2 to further extending its financing to SMEs.
with an area exceeding 100m, the company has five TV shows: The Doctors, Day Show, Furthermore, the Bank is keen to develop continuously works to optimise the size of Impulse, Medical hour and Mechanical financial products and lending practices, to apartments to meet the current demand of Ventilation Khelovnuri Suntkva, a soap opera.
specifically service women-led SMEs, which its customers without compromising the The shows share their expertise in a simple and will ultimately increase their involvement in apartments convenience and usability.
clear manner on various health and wellness developing Georgias private sector.
The loan A large segment of the Groups customers issues such as screening programmes, facility signed with EBRD enables the Bank to are represented by young Georgian families.
allergies, cardiovascular disease, oncology, issue longer-term local currency loans, providing We believe that by continuing to offer affordable arthritis and others.
Sometimes celebrity essential support for micro, small and medium housing products, we are helping to interviews are conducted, health news, healthy sized enterprises to converge to DCFTA significantly enhance the quality of their lives.
recipes and helpful tips are also broadcast requirements, as well as underserved women during the shows.
As GHGs medical TV entrepreneurs.
SPONSORSHIP AND CHARITY programmes proved to be very popular in As part of our sponsorship and charitable 2015, it increased their scale and financing from In 2016 the Bank created a Startup for activities, the Group continues to focus on GEL 177,180 in 2015 to GEL 730,841 in 2016.
Women programme under EBRDs Women in promoting and enhancing access to education, Business WiB.
WiB enables the Bank to take conserving nature and supporting people with GGU regularly runs charitable activities for the more risk in financing this segment by offering disabilities and special needs.
The Groups social service agency Child and Environment, partial first loss coverage.
The programme Sponsorship and Charity Policy encourages international humanitarian network Catharsis started in late November and eight projects partnering with Foundations and Nonin Tbilisi and Retirement Home in Rustavi.
amounting to GEL 228,600 were already Governmental Organisations NGOs to deliver GGU covers the annual water supply expenses financed by the end of 2016. sustainable results and bring about positive for Child and Environment the agency that change.
Our priority is to help solve the cause, cares for homeless children and children with Combined with supporting SMEs financially, not the symptom.
The Group chooses to focus disabilities.
Twice a year GGU sponsors the the Bank also plans to launch an SME portal on three areas bearing the utmost importance project Dinner for Everyone which is organised in the beginning of 2017.
The portal will provide for Georgian society.
Sponsorship and charity by Catharsis for approximately 3,000 people.
financial and business-related advice to funds are channelled through the Tree of Life entrepreneurs in order to enhance their finance Foundation that, in its turn, distributes funding Promoting and enhancing access to management skills and ensure the sustainable via means of grants competitions thus assuring education.
Bank of Georgia University, development of their businesses.
The portal a transparent and fair way of financing.
established in 2014, welcomed its third intake will contain information on training, provide of MBA in Finance students in autumn 2016. entrepreneurs with knowledge and skills Georgia Healthcare Group PLC GHG is the The cost of studies in 2016 were again largely in accounting, legal documents, business largest private healthcare services provider in subsidised by the Bank GEL 101,250 in total, development, sales and marketing.
The company operates giving a possibility to up to ten top students to a network of medical centres and hospitals study free of charge while the next 20 can enjoy Environmental and social risk management through its healthcare services business.
a 0% loan and start repaying one year after processes of SME clients are embedded It covers more than 75% of the Georgian graduation.
Besides providing high-quality throughout the Banks activities.
By ensuring population with clinics located across the education, Bank of Georgia University offers its that comprehensive environmental and social country providing access to high-quality students hands-on experience by offering them risk assessment and action plans are undertaken, medical services to the population including the possibility to observe various business we encourage our SME clients to be in those living in remote mountain regions.
processes at the Groups companies.
compliance with national environmental and Accessibility of medical services is ensured by social legislation in order to achieve good scheduling regular visits by specialists to small In 2013, the Bank became the first Georgian environmental and social standards.
During site towns and villages and by providing patients company to cooperate with one of the most visits, we provide advice and guidance on good with transportation to larger clinics in urgent prestigious scholarship programmes in the practice and standards in these areas, update cases and in cases when more sophisticated world, the Chevening scholarship, in order to clients with regards to environmental, health treatment is required.
provide Georgian students with an opportunity and safety as well as labour issues and monitor to pursue education in the UK.
The Group compliance with environmental and social The GHG healthcare services business also provided GBP 65,405 in total and funded three legislation.
In many cases of non-compliance, provides free regular medical examinations students in 2016.
The partnership with our proper and timely management of the SME at various locations throughout the country Chevening has been extended for the next year clients environmental and social risks facilitate including Batumi, Khulo, Keda, Shuakhevi, and the Group is looking forward to selecting avoidance of financial and legal sanctions Poti, Kvareli, Telavi and others.
In addition, students who will continue their Masters during inspections conducted by the state GHGs specialists deliver free medical services, studies in the UK.
including examinations and treatments for socially and economically disadvantaged In 2014, the Bank signed a partnership AFFORDABLE HOUSING parts of the population.
In cooperation with agreement with the prestigious US Fulbright Currently, the Georgian real estate market is other healthcare institutions, GHG arranges scholarship scheme.
Thanks to the Bank of vulnerable to various economic and financial free blood transportation and donations for Georgias contribution, one student from uncertainties.
Numerous construction projects its patients.
Georgia will be able to enrol in a two-year remain unfinished for long periods of time while Masters degree programme at a US university there is a strong growing demand for housing GHG traditionally participates in the state in 2017.
Funding provided to the student for from the Georgian population.
In response to Childrens oncology programme under which two years amounts to US$ 100,000. this increasing demand, the Groups real estate it offers oncology treatment for children in 2 development business, m Real Estate was Tbilisi Iashvili Paediatric Tertiary Referral established in order to offer affordable housing Hospital, its multi-profile paediatric medical 48 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC For the past four years the Bank has been The Human Capital Management HCM GENDER DIVERSITY supporting a public speaking competition department and the management system it organised by the English Speaking Union, implements play a vital role in managing our DIRECTORS Georgia.
The competition allows top students most valuable resources our employees.
who are in their senior year at a high school, The HCM department develops Human or freshmen year at a university, to prepare a Resource HR policies and procedures which speech on a predetermined topic and present determine key principles, areas, approaches it in front of a competent jury.
The winner is and methods that are crucial for building HCM 7 granted a fully paid trip to London to attend the systems for all our businesses.
We aim to support this competition in 2017 as well.
Examples of some our HR policies and 2014 7 0 7 procedures include, but are not limited to: 2015 9 1 8 The Bank has been supporting every single 2016 7 1 6 TEDxTbilisi conference from when it was first employee planning and recruiting organised in 2012.
A TEDx conference is a staff administration locally organised TED format event, where compensation and benefits Female communities, organisations and individuals join code of conduct Male to initiate a conversation and connect with each employee development and training other on different matters which are important human rights to the society.
grievances whistleblowing SENIOR MANAGERS Conserving nature.
Another priority of the retrenchment Groups charitable activities is the preservation anti-nepotism of wildlife diversity.
In 2016, the Bank granted US$ 100,000 to the Caucasus Nature Fund The Banks HCM department works closely 76 CNF to provide support to the Protected with HR managers and executives from our Areas of Georgia.
subsidiaries in order to ensure proper implementation of the main principles and the 2014 48 7 41 Supporting people with disabilities.
Since provision of necessary support in all HR-related 2015 63 16 47 2014, the Bank has focused its efforts on matters.
supporting people with disabilities, mainly 2016 76 16 60 children one of the most vulnerable social We recognise the importance of observing groups in Georgia.
In 2016, the Bank broadened human rights and are committed to Female the scope to include all people with disabilities implementing socially responsible business Male and donated GEL 101,313 to the Tree of Life practices.
Our Human Rights Policy establishes Foundation for this cause.
The Foundation priorities and puts control procedures in place distributed the funds through two grant to provide equal opportunities and prevent competitions one intended for the relevant discrimination or harassment on any grounds, ALL EMPLOYEES NGOs that work on the issues of people with including disability.
Our Human Rights Policy disabilities and another with the specific aim applies to all employees including the disabled of promoting social entrepreneurship.
In order and includes the procedures in relation to to qualify for the competition, proposals had employment processes including recruitment to focus on the creation of a small enterprise procedures and procedures governing the 22,080 with a social component aimed at improving continuity of employment of employees who the livelihood of people with disabilities.
become disabled during the course of their employment, training and development.
2014 13,395 9,786 3,609 In total, the Tree of Life allocated over 2015 15,955 11,714 4,241 GEL 1 million to support education, nature We are committed to employee engagement.
2016 22,080 14,796 7,284 conservation and people with disabilities We believe that the knowledge of our Group and special needs.
is key and we strive to provide our employees with a continuous flow of information which Female In addition to external projects, the Bank includes but is not limited to information about Male continued to focus on the adaptation of its our corporate culture, the Groups strategy and own infrastructure.
In 2016, an additional performance, risks relating to its performance, ten service centres have become available such as financial and economic factors, and for people with disabilities.
We provide information in a number of ways, including via EMPLOYEE MATTERS managers, presentations, intranet, email and A key factor to our success is a cohesive and regular town hall and off-site meetings.
We also professional team, capable of accomplishing value the views of our employees.
We consult the Groups objectives.
We are committed to with them regularly and have implemented attracting and identifying the best professionals, feedback systems, such as frequent employee caring and planning for their needs, investing in satisfaction surveys, which ensure that opinions their development and fostering their commitment.
of our employees are taken into account when making decisions which are likely to affect their interests.
Employee feedback also helps to improve our customer-focused orientation and client servicing approach.
Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 49 Additional Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements Performance Strategy Overview RESOURCES AND RESPONSIBILITIES CONTINUED TOTAL HEADCOUNT BY AGE CATEGORY TALENT ATTRACTION organisational structure, HR management policies, Sustained development of the Groups history of the Group and specific courses for businesses requires the strengthening of the development of communication, presentation, teams of our subsidiaries both by using the management and leadership skills, among Groups own significant internal resources others.
Selected mid-level and senior-level 22,080 through staff development and rotation and by employees are given the opportunity to receive attracting external candidates.
Our recruitment external training in well-known training policy and relevant control procedures ensure institutions outside of Georgia.
an unbiased hiring process that provides equal 104 2,707 opportunities for all candidates.
The Groups corporate learning system is Bank 5,016 1,633 comprised of a wide range of internal and 424 According to the HR Policy, internal candidates external training sessions specifically designed 148 have priority when filling vacant positions, to meet the needs of front and back office especially in situations where there are employees at the Groups subsidiaries including 0 vacancies in top and middle management.
banking, healthcare, insurance and real 167 Thus, in 2016, 262 Group employees were estate development.
23 10 In 2014-2015, Bank of Georgia launched a In order to attract young talent, we actively Leadership Development Executive Coaching partner with leading Georgian business schools programme.
It provides an individual approach 88 and universities, participate in job fairs and towards developing leadership skills of the 3,595 3,133 GHG12,720 run extensive internship programmes aimed participants.
The programme continued to run 2,448 at the professional development of young successfully throughout 2016 and benefited 3,456 professionals and their further employment.
its participants with a personally tailored In 2012, Bank of Georgia established a new development experience.
Participants gained 14 format for its traditional internship programme a greater awareness of their leadership 417 and continues to implement it.
The programme strengths and opportunities for further growth.
494 GGU2,379 attracts promising graduates and provides 479 them with the opportunity to participate in a Based on its experience in 2016, the Bank 975 major professional training and leadership started refining its Leadership Development development programme.
Interns are directly System together with 360 Degree Assessments.
1 coached by the Banks executives to help them Updated programmes are planned for launch 42 2 30 on their path to gaining their first management in 2017. m 80 7 positions in the near future.
In 2016 the 0 Company successfully completed a talent The Bank highly values the talents of its acquisition project for its Investment Officer employees and provides various talent retention 33 position.
This project has also allowed the activities engaging them through leadership 790 selection of a number of young and talented development and various professional Others 1,596 450 candidates, who were hired for various certification programmes.
The Company 204 assignments within BGEO Group.
In 2016, the creates different development opportunities 119 number of young professionals under 30 years for employees in terms of career and personal old increased by 16% compared to 2015 and growth.
Internal promotions are part of the currently represents 38% of the total headcount.
talent attraction system and also create a basis for employee loyalty and retention.
The Bank In 2016, GGU, in collaboration with Georgias also offers competitive remuneration and Innovation and Technology Agency, launched benefits packages for its employees and Less than 20 years old a project for talented and motivated young supports work-life balance by providing 21-30 years old people with technical academic backgrounds.
additional paid days off, in addition to those 31-40 years old Participants had opportunity to work on in the Labour Code of Georgia.
The Bank also 41-50 years old and introduce technological solutions to real encourages engagement and dedication of its Over 51 years old challenges that the company is facing in the talented employees with awards made to the fields of water supply and sewerage systems.
Best Employee and Team of the Year.
Approximately 15 authors of the best projects were offered a job and they are successfully Each of the Groups businesses has developed continuing their work and development within an extensive training programme for front office the company.
The project is planned to take employees in order to provide them with place annually.
relevant skills, such as effective communication and building strong and valued client relationships.
TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT For example, the Banks mentoring programme To manage our employees in a way that is part of a front office training process.
Every best supports our business strategy, we seek new employee is provided with regular advice, to help our employees contribute to business guidance and practical instructions from an performance through personal and professional appointed mentor who later participates in the development.
Through this programme, we aim to provide Following our aspiration to develop strong individual support to our employees in leaders, we have developed an extensive achieving their professional results and programme for leadership development.
We improving their personal effectiveness.
provide a standard induction training course for employees appointed to managerial positions.
GHGs healthcare services business provides The programme covers a wide range of topics additional training to its employees that work in including corporate values, strategy and objectives, the specialised field of healthcare.
The company 50 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC remains the only healthcare institution in per month.
We implemented this system in the relevant Georgian legislation which defines Georgia to have in-house training of personnel.
all of the Banks branches during 2014.
Since risk categories and appropriate procedures for In 2016 GHG has invested about GEL 2 million 2015 the Bank has worked towards minimising the treatment of medical waste.
in training and development for ER, nurses paper waste.
Green Boxes are placed on and specialists in various medical fields.
The every floor of the Banks headquarters and are To prevent human and environmental harm, business operates training and development designated to collect paper for recycling GHG clinics collect and dispose of medical and activities via the Evex Learning Centre purposes.
The Group is also in the process of biological waste through an outsourced service established in 2014. automating its operational processes in order specialising in medical waste disposal.
For the to reduce the volume of printed documents and collection of waste the company uses plastic OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY consequently minimise the overall use of paper.
bags that have sufficient strength and are Ensuring the safety of the workplace and The Bank continues to acquire new printers secured with staples to safely retain waste.
providing healthy working conditions are among which offer double-sided printing by default.
In Further, steam sterilisation is used to the Groups fundamental HR management 2016 the Bank started replacing 80W and 60W decontaminate biological and bio hazardous principles.
The Group pays particular attention traditional light bulbs with 20W and 12W LED waste.
To ensure the reliability of the contractors to preventive measures, such as conducting light bulbs in all of its service centres.
New used, GHG examines their certificates and regular staff training and medical check-ups, lighting systems will continue to be introduced monthly reporting as well as imposing penalties certifying workplaces and promoting a throughout 2017 and save considerable energy if necessary.
Similarly, new air conditioning systems were introduced in the Banks In order to light up the hospital premises and In order to enhance the awareness of employees headquarters.
The VRV VRF system was run the necessary medical equipment, GHG and contractors regarding health and safety installed in air conditioners which enables the annually consumes thousands of kilowatts risks associated with the construction process chillers to reduce energy consumption from of electricity.
In fact, electricity usage accounts the company conducts regular training and 120KW to 75KW.
The Bank installed new for about a half of our total greenhouse gas educational seminars.
In 2014, 2015 and 2016, charging facilities for electric vehicles in 2016 generation.
To decrease this negative impact the number of health and safety training hours and once there is a supply of service centres for the company has implemented a number of amounted to approximately 1,008, 110 and them, the Bank is keen to start replacing its car energy saving solutions, such as installation 2 70 respectively.
In addition, m Real Estate fleet, that runs on petrol, with electric vehicles.
of LED lights and energy efficient equipment.
publishes brochures and booklets with GHG also works towards minimising its carbon warnings and special rules to be followed The most significant direct impact on the footprint by other means.
For example, heat when working on sites.
Respective control environment within the Group is created insulation is being improved in a number 2 procedures include quarterly audits by external by our real estate development business, m of hospitals.
health and safety consultants and internal Real Estate.
The company addresses industry- 2 monthly inspections of m Real Estate specific environmental issues and undertakes GGUs major emission sources are caused 2 worksites.
In addition, m Real Estate has appropriate measures to manage them.
by water supply, wastewater treatment and a comprehensive reporting procedure for energy generation.
GGU is focusing efforts health and safety concerns.
Focusing on enhancing the resource efficiency on optimising water extraction, treatment and 2 of its apartment buildings, m Real Estate has distribution with minimal energy inputs.
GGU With regard to emergency preparedness and two ongoing development projects with strictly follows the standards implemented by 2 response, m Real Estate follows an Emergency financial support from IFC and another two the Georgian legislation for its waste water Management Plan.
This outlines possible in the pipeline.
The company has entered the treatment and hydro power plants.
In addition, scenarios during emergency situations and hospitality market with an exclusive agreement GGU regularly rehabilitates dilapidated determines specific strategies for the companys with the Ramada group to develop Ramada sewerage network.
employees, contractors and visitors on how Encore hotels in Georgia also financed by IFC.
to react when in a crisis situation.
The company not only follows high environmental GGU is currently developing an Environmental standards that IFC imposes on its borrowers and Social Management System ESMS ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS but is also a participant of the IFC-Canada in accordance with the roadmap schedule 1 The Group recognises that its operations Climate Change Programme and thus meets presented in the Environmental & Social Policy have both an indirect and direct impact on the all mandatory requirements of the programme Framework, adopted by the company in 2016. environment and therefore seeks to establish regarding green building construction.
ESMS will be in compliance with Georgian management approaches which will help legislation and the IFC performance standards it become a more  Aiming at increasing the efficient use of energy, Environmental, Health and safety guidelines for 2 institution.
Being the largest financial institution water and materials, m Real Estate installs Water and Sanitation.
The roadmap schedule in Georgia, the Bank, through the projects it energy efficient lighting systems and uses further develops the Environmental and Social finances, produces significant indirect impacts double-glazed windows and other modern Action Plan ESAP based on the outcomes of on the environmental.
In order to properly insulation materials thus reducing the U-value the current ongoing audit.
ESMS will allow GGU 2 manage this impact, the Bank has implemented of constructed buildings to 0.21W m K. As a to gradually implement the ISO14000 standard Environmental and Social Policy and Risk result, it is expected that utility costs for these for environmental management and the Management Procedures, as detailed in the buildings will be reduced by up to 43% ISO26000 standard for social responsibility.
compared to an average residential building in Georgia.
METHODOLOGY As for the direct environmental impact, We have reported on all of the emission we believe that the impact of the banking GHGs direct environmental impact mainly sources required under the Companies Act and insurance businesses is not significant.
comes from the medical waste generation and 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Nevertheless, we undertake a number of combustion of fuels, both for stationary use Regulations 2013 Scope 1 and 2 and measures to reduce electricity, paper, water, and for owned vehicles.
GHGs operations additionally have reported on those emissions and fuel consumption.
For example, in 2013 also affect the environment by using significant under Scope 3 that are applicable to our we upgraded our lighting system in the Banks amounts of water in hospitals and purchasing business.
All reported sources fall within our headquarters by installing energy-saving electricity and paper.
Although its overall consolidated financial statements which bulbs and implemented KNX EIB System negative impact is relatively low, GHG still aims can be found on pages 126 to 213.
We do management, which not only helped us at becoming more resource efficient and not have responsibility for any emission sources minimise our environmental impact but also .
GHGs waste that are not included in our consolidated reduced our energy costs by GEL 4,000-5,000 management procedures are compliant with financial statements.
1 The IFC-Canada Climate Change Programme, established in 2011, is a partnership between the Government of Canada and IFC to promote private sector financing for clean energy projects, through the use of concessional funds to catalyse investments in renewable, low-carbon technologies that would not otherwise happen www.
Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 51 Additional Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements Performance Strategy Overview RESOURCES AND RESPONSIBILITIES CONTINUED Environmental aspect Preventive measures Dust Introducing speed limits on unmade roads Damping down using water bowsers with spray bars Sheeting of construction materials and storage piles Using defined moving routes and reductions in vehicle speed limits where required Spills and leaks during Installing a sealed drainage system at refuelling areas refuelling Providing suitable tanks e. g. double skinned, bunds and impermeable liners at fuel stores and refuelling points Using drip trays for static plant e. g. generators and pumps Training staff in refuelling and pump operations Shortening the refuelling line as much as possible Performing regular maintenance checks of hoses and valves Conducting follow-up procedures for proper and safe refuelling by operators Air emissions Ensuring that new vehicles comply with the current European Union EU emissions standards at the time of purchase Implementing a regular maintenance programme to ensure all new vehicles continue to comply with relevant EU emissions standards Ensuring that older vehicles are maintained in order to eliminate extra emissions as much as reasonably practicable Strictly enforcing speed limits in order to optimise fuel consumption and production of exhaust fumes, and minimise dust generation on unpaved surfaces Water contamination Locating fuel stores and refuelling points further away from watercourses and aquifers Fire Providing a fire extinguisher adjacent to each item of mobile plant and equipment Noise Fitting effective silencers at all plant and machinery, and providing ear defenders and or plugs on sites No idling or revving of plant engines and all vehicles Using controlled venting, silenced equipment and absorbing screens Working at preferred times of day daylight hours Monday to Saturday, otherwise communicated to the local community and authorities Vibration Operating the equipment within the manufacturer specification limits and limiting any overuse Depletion of the Ensuring that no ozone depleting substances ODS such as chlorofluorocarbons CFCs and hydrostratospheric ozone layer chlorofluorocarbons HCFCs or products with known global warming potential are used In preparing our emissions data, we have used the Georgia Healthcare Group represented by Scope 3 includes emissions from: World Resources Institute World Business Council Evex and Imedi L, which includes its main for Sustainable Development WRI WBCSD office and hospitals where the Company has Air business travel short haul and long haul : Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting operational control information on the class of travel is and Reporting Standard revised edition and unavailable hence we used an average emissions factors from the UK Governments Scope 1 combustion of fuel and operation of passenger conversion factor Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors for Company facilities includes emissions from: Ground transportation, including taxis, Reporting 2016.
For wastewater treatment coaches and car hire and discharge operations we used conversion Combustion of natural gas, diesel and petrol factors from 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National in stationary equipment at owned and Data on emissions resulting from travel is reported Greenhouse Gas Inventories.
controlled sites for business-related travel only and excludes Combustion of petrol, diesel and aviation commuting travel.
Data from joint ventures, Our reported data is collected and reported on fuel in owned transportation devices cars investments or sub-leased properties have in respect of five of the Groups main businesses: and aeroplane not been included within the reported figures.
Banking represented by the Bank, which Scope 2 electricity, heat, steam and cooling The data is provided by on-site delegates, includes all of its offices and retail branches purchased for own use includes emissions invoices and metre readings.
where the Bank has operational control from: Real estate development represented by The Group has in place a Code of Ethics, as 2 m Real Estate, which includes its offices Used electricity at owned and controlled well as policies which relate to environmental and construction sites sites: to calculate the emissions, we used matters, employees, social matters, our respect Utility and energy business represented the conversion factor for Non-OECD Europe for human rights and anti-corruption and bribery.
by Georgia Global Utilities which includes and Eurasia average conversion from the all of its offices and operational sites UK Governments Greenhouse Gas Conversion Copies of these polices can be found on the P&C insurance represented by Aldagi, Factors for Company Reporting 2014 Groups website: http: bgeo.
com page id 69 which includes all of its offices and retail Used heat and steam only applies to one policies branches where the Company has site of Imedi L operational control TOTAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS DATA FOR THE PERIOD BEGINNING 1 JANUARY 2016 AND ENDED 31 DECEMBER 1 2016 TONNES OF CO E 2 2014 2015 2016 Scope 1 emissions fuel combustion and facility operations 7,614 6,679 10,567 Scope 2 emissions from electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 11,034 12,183 30,826 Scope 3 emissions from air travel and ground transportation 3,822 4,487 10,266 TOTAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 22,470 23,349 51,660 FTEs 13,395 15,955 21,278 TOTAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS PER FTE 1.68 1.46 2.43 1 Due to the nature of their operations, GHG and GGU contributed to the increase in greenhouse gas emissions in 2016.
52 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
