DIRECTORS REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Attend, speak and exercise voting rights at general meetings, either The Strategic Report on pages 1 to 73 was approved by the Board in person or by proxy Participate in any distribution of income or capital of Directors on 13 April 2017 and signed on its behalf by Irakli Gilauri, Chief Executive Officer.
In accordance with a request issued by BGEO, Sanne Fiduciary Services MANAGEMENT REPORT Limited, acting as trustee of the Trust, has waived its right to receive any This Directors Report together with the Strategic Report on pages 1 dividends.
This waiver will remain in place indefinitely, unless otherwise instructed by BGEO.
to 73 form the Management Report for the purposes of DTR 4.1.
5 R. INFORMATION CONTAINED ELSEWHERE IN THE ANNUAL REPORT BGEO is permitted to make market purchases of its own shares Information required to be part of this Directors Report can be found provided it is duly authorised by its members in a general meeting and elsewhere in the Annual Report as indicated in the table below and is subject to and in accordance with section 701 of the Companies Act 2006.
Such authority was given at the 2016 AGM.
incorporated into this report by reference: Information Location in Annual Report The Company's share buyback and cancellation programme is Future developments Pages 2 to 73 described on the next page.
BGEO risk management Pages 34 to 35 In 2016, the Board approved funding of approximately US$ 30 million Going concern statement Page 35 to enable Sanne, our Trustee, to purchase shares in the market to satisfy awards in respect of the 2015 and 2016 work years.
Since listing on the Viability statement Page 35 London Stock Exchange in 2012 until 31 December 2016, a total of Bank risk management Pages 40 to 45 1,138,283 shares have been purchased in the market for the Trust.
Principal risks and uncertainties Pages 36 to 39 The Group previously committed that new shares issued in satisfaction Directors Governance Overview Page 74 of deferred share compensation from the time of the Companys listing on the Premium Segment of the LSE will not exceed 10% of BGEOs The Board of Directors Pages 75 to 77 ordinary share capital over any ten-year period.
Nomination Committee Report Pages 86 to 88 None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to Audit Committee Report Pages 89 to 93 control of BGEO.
Risk Committee Report Pages 94 to 96 Greenhouse gas emissions Page 52 There are no restrictions on transfers of shares other than: Employee matters Page 49 Certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws Environmental matters Pages 51 and 52 or regulations such as those relating to insider dealing Pursuant to the Group Share Dealing Code, whereby the Directors Share capital Note 20 on page 187 and designated employees require approval to deal in BGEOs shares Information on the Groups financial risk Note 29 on pages Where a person with an interest in BGEOs shares has been served management objectives and policies, 193 to 202 with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide BGEO with and its exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk, information concerning interests in those shares interest rate risk, foreign currency risk and financial instruments All employees including Directors that are deemed by BGEO to be insiders have complied with the Groups Share Dealing Code.
There are no restrictions on exercising voting rights save in situations where BGEO STATEMENT OF DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO THE AUDITOR is legally entitled to impose such a restriction for example, under the We confirm that, so far as we are aware, there is no relevant audit Articles of Association where amounts remain unpaid in the shares after information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and we request, or the holder is otherwise in default of an obligation to BGEO.
have taken all steps that we reasonably should have taken as BGEO is not aware of any arrangements between shareholders that may Directors in order to make ourselves aware of any relevant audit result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
information and to establish that the Companys statutory auditors are aware of such information.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The Group made a profit before taxation of GEL 389.9 million year ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION ended 31 December 2015: GEL 359.4 million.
The Groups profit after BGEOs Articles of Association may only be amended by a special taxation for the year was GEL 428.6 million year ended 31 December resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
The process for the 2015: GEL 310.9 million.
appointment and removal of Directors is included in our Articles of Association.
The BGEO Articles of Association are available on BGEOs BGEO may by ordinary resolution declare dividends provided that website: http: bgeo.
com uploads pages  such dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by BGEOs association-91.
The Directors may also pay interim dividends as appear to be justified by the profits of BGEO available for distribution.
SHARE CAPITAL AND RIGHTS ATTACHING TO THE SHARES Details of the movements in share capital during the year are provided As BGEO is a holding company, BGEO relies primarily on dividends and in Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements on page 187. other statutorily if any and contractually permissible payments from its subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet its obligations and As at the date of this Annual Report, there was a single class of pay dividend to its shareholders.
39,469,320 ordinary shares of one pence each in issue, each with one vote.
The rights and obligations attaching to BGEOs ordinary shares As a result of the Banks strong financial performance and condition, are set out in its Articles of Association.
Holders of ordinary shares the BGEO Board intends to recommend an annual dividend of GEL 2.6 are entitled, subject to any applicable law and BGEOs Articles of payable in British Pounds Sterling, which is subject to shareholders Association, to: approval at the 2017 AGM.
If approved, the dividend will be paid on 7 July 2017 to shareholders on the UK register of members at the close Have shareholder documents made available to them including the of business in the UK 6:00 pm London time on 23 June 2017. notice of any general meeting Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 115 Additional Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements Performance Strategy Overview DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED POWERS OF DIRECTORS Not propose or procure the proposal of any resolution of the The Directors may exercise all powers of BGEO subject to applicable shareholders or any class thereof which is intended, or appears to legislation and regulation and BGEOs Articles of Association.
be intended, to circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules: and or CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Abstain from voting on any resolution required by LR 11.1.
7R 3 In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Directors have of the Listing Rules to approve a transaction with a related party adopted a policy and procedure for the disclosure and authorisation if involving BGEO.
appropriate of conflicts of interest, and these have been followed during 2016.
BGEOs Articles of Association also contain provisions to allow the The Relationship Agreement entitles BGEO to appoint one person Directors to authorise potential conflicts of interest so that a Director is to be a Non-Executive Director of GHG for so long as it together with not in breach of his duty under company law.
its associates holds at least 20% of the voting share capital of GHG.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The Relationship Agreement also provides that subject to permitted Directors fees are determined by the Board from time to time.
The exceptions neither BGEO nor its associates shall compete with the remuneration of our Directors must be in accordance with the Directors business of GHG nor use any names associated with GHG and that Remuneration Policy approved by our shareholders.
Fees for NonGHG shall not use any names associated with BGEO or its associates.
Executive Directors as distinct from any salary, remuneration or other amount payable to a Director pursuant to other provisions of the Articles A copy of the Relationship Agreement is available to view at the of Association or otherwise may not exceed GBP 750,000 per annum Companys registered office.
in aggregate or such higher amounts as may from time to time be determined by ordinary resolution of BGEO.
The fees paid to the At no time during 2016 did any Director hold a material interest in any Non-Executive Directors in 2016 pursuant to their letters of appointment contracts of significance with BGEO or any subsidiary of the Group.
The fees paid to our sole Executive Director in BGEO is not party to any significant agreements that would take effect, 2016 pursuant to his service agreements with BGEO and the Bank are alter or terminate following a change of control of BGEO.
There are no agreements between the Company and any Director or DIRECTORS INTERESTS employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or loss The Directors beneficial interests in ordinary shares of BGEO as at of employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
31 December 2016 are shown on page 110.
However, under the terms of Mr Gilauri's service agreements as described INDEMNITY in further detail in the Directors' Remuneration Report, unvested shares will Subject to applicable legislation, every current and former Director or vest on a change of control of the Company, the Bank or or any other officer of BGEO other than any person engaged by the Company intermediary holding company of the Bank as appropriate.
as auditor shall be indemnified by BGEO against any liability in relation to BGEO, other than broadly any liability to BGEO or a member of the PRESENCE OUTSIDE OF GEORGIA Group, or any criminal or regulatory fine.
We have representative offices in London, Budapest, Istanbul and Tel Aviv.
RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES Details of related party disclosures are set out in Note 32 to the PAYMENT OF CREDITORS consolidated financial statements on page 211.
We value our suppliers and acknowledge the importance of paying invoices in an orderly and timely manner.
It is the Groups practice to SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS agree terms on an individual basis when entering into contracts and On 23 October 2015, BGEO entered into a Relationship Agreement with meet obligations accordingly.
The Group does not follow any specific GHG and JSC BGEO Investments which regulates the degree of control published code or standard on payment practice.
that BGEO and its associates may exercise over the management and business of GHG.
The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement EMPLOYEE DISCLOSURES is to ensure that GHG and its subsidiaries are capable at all times of Our disclosures relating to the number of women in senior management, carrying on their business independently of BGEO and its associates.
employee engagement and policies as well as human rights, including The Relationship Agreement took effect on 12 November 2015 and will employment of the disabled, are included in Employee matters on continue until the earlier of: i GHG shares ceasing to be admitted to pages 49 to 51. listing on the Official List: and ii BGEO, together with its associates, ceasing to own or control directly or indirectly 20% or more of the POLITICAL DONATIONS voting share capital of GHG.
If BGEO ceases to be a controlling The Group did not make any political donations or expenditures shareholder within the meaning of LR 6.1.
2A of the Listing Rules, during 2016. it may terminate the Relationship Agreement by giving one months written notice to GHG.
CODE OF CONDUCT AND ETHICS The Board has adopted a Code of Conduct relating to the lawful and Under the Relationship Agreement, for so long as BGEO and its ethical conduct of the business, supported by the Groups core values.
associates together hold 20% or more of the voting share capital of The Code of Conduct has been communicated to all Directors and GHG, BGEO and its associates shall amongst other things: employees, all of whom are expected to observe high standards of integrity and fair dealing in relation to customers, staff and regulators Conduct all transactions, agreements or arrangements entered into in the communities in which the Group operates.
Our Code of Conduct between: i BGEO and its associates, and ii GHG or any of its is available on our website: http: bgeo.
com uploads pages code-ofsubsidiaries on an arms length basis and on normal commercial .
terms and in accordance with the related party transaction rules set out in the Listing Rules: INDEPENDENT AUDITORS Not take any action that has or would have the effect of preventing A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of BGEO will be GHG or any of its subsidiaries from complying with their obligations put to shareholders at the upcoming AGM.
under the Listing Rules: 116 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC MAJOR INTERESTS IN SHARES fide-DOLLARISATION PROGRAMME The table below lists shareholders with voting rights of more than 3% On 11 January 2017, the Government of Georgia approved a fide-dollarisation as of 31 December 2016.
A description of changes in voting rights which programme.
The purpose of the programme is to increase the disposable have been notified to BGEO for the period 1 January 2017 up to and income of individuals, reduce their dependency on foreign exchange rate including 31 March 2017 are disclosed below the table.
fluctuations and promote financial stability in Georgia.
Under the programme rules, all Georgian commercial banks were, at the request of As of 31 December 2016 a client, convert eligible Dollar-denominated loans into Lari, at a discount Number of % of compensated by the Government until 25 March 2017.
Effective from Shareholder voting rights voting rights 15 January 2017, the NBG introduced a new regulation whereby Harding Loevner LP 3,805,270 9.63% borrowings that are less than GEL 100,000 will be issued in Lari effective Schroder Investment Management 2,118,956 5.36% from 15 January 2017.
Artemis Investment Management 1,765,639 4.47% Sanne Fiduciary Services 1,566,224 3.97% By order of the Board Westwood International Advisors 1,377,615 3.49% JP Morgan Asset Management 1,101,754 2.79% Kate Bennett Rea Source: Georgeson, Computershare on behalf of Sirius Compliance Solutions Notes: Group Company Secretary On 21 February 2017, Sanne's voting rights decreased slightly to 1,571,007, or 3.97%.
13 April 2017 On 23 January 2017 Shroder's voting rights decreased slightly to 1,928,526, or 4.88% On 9 January 2017, Shroder's voting rights decreased slightly to 1,961,920, or 4.97%.
The respective regulatory filings by shareholders are available on the BGEO website: http: bgeo.
com  and the London Stock Exchange website: www.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS BGEO SHARE BUYBACK AND CANCELLATION PROGRAMME As a result of the Groups strong capital position, in November 2016 the Board approved a US$ 50 million share buyback and cancellation programme to be completed over a two-year period.
BGEO entered into an agreement with Numis Securities Limited Numis on 7 March 2017 to enable Numis to use the maximum consideration of US$ 50 million over a two-year period expiring 6 March 2019 to purchase shares in accordance with the terms of the general authority to make market purchases of up to 3,950,032 of its shares granted to BGEO by its shareholders at the 2016 AGM and subject to its shareholders approval of a similar buyback resolution at BGEOs 2017 AGM in respect of any purchases to be made after the date of that meeting.
On behalf of the Company, Numis Securities Ltd purchased a total of 31,000 BGEO Group PLC ordinary shares of GBP 0.01 total nominal value purchased: GBP 310 at each between 17 March 2017 and 22 March 2017.
The net cost for the purchased shares was GBP 940,701.33.
The 31,000 shares purchased represent 0.78% of the issued share capital as at the date of this Annual Report.
Any shares repurchased will be immediately cancelled.
Pursuant to the Company's agreement with Numis, Numis must carry out purchases on the London Stock Exchange and executed in accordance with Article 5 1 of Regulation EU No 596 2014, Chapter 12 of the Financial Conduct Authority's Listing Rules and the rules of the London Stock Exchange.
ESOP FUNDING In March 2017, the Group provided additional funding of US$ 6 million to enable Sane to purchase more shares in the market to satisfy upcoming awards.
JSC ABC PHARMACIA ACQUISITION On 6 January 2017, Georgia Healthcare Group, through ones of its subsidiaries, acquired 67% of the shares of JSC ABC Pharmacy, a pharmaceuticals company operating in Georgia from individual investors.
Consideration comprised GEL 72,341, which consists of a cash payment of GEL 32,554, a holdback amount with a fair value of GEL 30,041 and non-cash consideration of GEL 9,746 comprising 33% of GPC shares.
Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 117 Additional Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements Performance Strategy Overview
