INDUSTRY AND MARKET OVERVIEW Resilient economy with a comprehensive reform agenda to boost growth Georgia is an open and resilient emerging market with a realistic ambition to transform itself into a Regional Hub Economy.
The Governments four-pillar reform programme and deepening economic integration with the EU is expected to boost the economys productive capacity, support further economic diversification and attract foreign investments.
Measures to sustain fiscal discipline and increase the usage of local currency are expected to insure macroeconomic stability, strengthen resilience to external headwinds and boost growth in 2017 and beyond.
EASE OF DOING BUSINESS RANKED REFORMS-DRIVEN SUCCESS The EU-Georgia Association Agreement that GEORGIA IN 2017 Georgia carried out genuine economic came into force in July 2016 and related Deep and structural improvements which were and Comprehensive Free Trade Agreement In registering property institutionalised.
As a result, corruption effective since September 2014 lay solid decreased, doing business became easier, groundwork to improve governance, strengthen productivity was enhanced and the economy the rule of law and provide more economic 3rd diversified enabling the country to withstand opportunities by expanding the EU market to global financial crisis and recent shocks related Georgian goods and services.
A closer In protecting minority investors to the commodity price slump with a relative economic tie with the EU and related trust in strength.
Georgia is consistently ranked as prudent policy-making are also expected to the top performer in governance and doing attract foreign investments to Georgia.
Visa-free 7th business indicators, in economic policy and travel to the EU, granted to Georgian passport institutional assessments as tracked by eminent holders since March 2017, is another major In starting a business international institutions.
Georgia was named success in Georgias foreign policy.
While top performer globally over the past 12 years remaining committed to EU integration, Georgia in the latest WB-IFC doing business report.
has also managed to stabilise relations with 8th Russia as the latter lifted its embargo on The economic Liberty Act, effective since Georgian products in 2013.
Tourism sector January 2014, ensures the continuation of a increasingly benefits from rising Russian Overall ranking credible fiscal and monetary framework for arrivals, with Georgia being re-discovered Georgia, by capping consolidated Government by Russian as well as other visitors from expenditures at 30% of GDP, fiscal deficit at 3% regional countries.
16th of GDP and public debt at 60% of GDP.
The rd Liberty Act also requires electorates approval Georgia once again demonstrated its Up from 23 in 2016, ahead of Germany, Ireland and Austria.
through a nationwide referendum for imposing commitment to European standards and norms Source: World Bank-IFC Doing Business.
new taxes and raising existing tax rates, subject by ensuring free and fair 2016 parliamentary to certain exceptions.
To further liberalise tax elections.
After the elections, Georgias ruling policy, in 2016 Tax Code was amended and Georgian Dream party introduced a package of ECONOMIC FREEDOM INDEX RANKED corporate income tax is now applicable to only legislative changes to support the implementation GEORGIA IN 2017 distributed profits: undistributed profits, of the Governments four-pillar reform programme reinvested or retained, are exempted.
Georgia introduced in February 2016 aimed to boost rd Up from 23 in 2016, Ahead of the Netherlands, has one of the worlds friendliest tax regimes growth and enhance the economys resilience the United States and Sweden according to Forbes Misery Tax Index by to external shocks.
The programme includes slashing the number of taxes from 21 in 2004 new tax benefits, infrastructure schemes, to just six currently.
governance reforms and modernisation of the 13th education system.
The country is ranked 16th out of 190 Source: Heritage Foundation.
economies in the World Banks 2017 Ease of Measures to further liberalise tax and customs Doing Business, 13th out of 180 countries by procedures include the introduction of the GLOBAL CORRUPTION BAROMETER % Index of Economic Freedom measured by Estonian model, which envisages the application ADMITTING HAVING PAID A BRIBE IN 2015 Heritage Foundation in 2017 and 11th out of of corporate income tax to only distributed 197 countries in the Trace Internationals 2014 profits: undistributed profits, reinvested or Ahead of the Czech Republic, the Slovak Matrix of Business Bribery Risk.
Georgia is a retained, are exempted starting 1 January 2017.
Republic and Latvia positive exception to the trend of high bribery Based on USAID assessment, this measure rates in regional economies and is on a par with will add 1.5ppts to growth in the medium term.
EU member states with only 7% of people Other reform measures, amongst others, 7% admitting having paid a bribe, according to the include creating a single window principle for 2016 Global Corruption Barometer study by the provision of Government services to legal Source: Transparency International.
persons, tailoring the education system offerings to labour market demands and speeding up the implementation of strategic infrastructure projects.
Under new infrastructure schemes, the Government plans to implement the projects that would enhance the countrys tourist and transit potential, support private sector investments and create new jobs.
10 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC In an effort to put fiscal accounts on a A natural transport and logistics hub, COMPARATIVE REAL GDP GROWTH sustainable path faced with higher capital connecting important regions and a market RATES %, 2006-2015 expenditures and lower corporate income tax of 900 million customers without customs revenues under the four-pillar reform duties.
Georgias favourable geographic 5.1 programme, the Government introduced location between land-locked energy-rich revenue generation as well as expenditure countries in the East and European markets in consolidation measures in its 2017 budget.
the West and well-developed air, land and sea Constrained by the Economic Liberty Act transport networks position the country to reap provisions and in order to achieve a better the benefits in transport, logistics and tourism.
management of public sector recurrent The Anaklia deep sea project is seen as a spending, the Government plans to overhaul major scheme to enhance regional transit public finance management.
In this context, the hub potential.
The Port of Anaklia sits on the Government works to address shortcomings shortest route from China to Europe, the route in employment benefit schemes, further cut that has become a major focal point for non-essential expenditures, consolidate public Chinese investments in infrastructure.
sector institutions, make social and healthcare completed, it will be the first Georgian port spending more targeted and increase capital capable of accommodating Panamax size expenditure efficiencies.
Government infrastructure GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT % investments under the four-pillar reform In order to enhance external sustainability, programme and increased spending on roads, National Bank of Georgia introduced a energy, tourism and municipal infrastructure 12.6% ten-point fide-dollarisation action plan, including will also reinforce the potential.
To enhance 9.4% reforms to expand the use of the local currency Georgias competitiveness Government 7.2% in the economy, address high dollarisation in continues to strengthen integration in existing 6.4% 6.2% 2.4% 4.6% the banking sector and support domestic international systems as well as new transit 3.4% 2.9% 2.7% savings in the economy through capital markets routes e. g. Lapis Lazuli, Persian Gulf Black development.
Moreover, a new US$ 285 million Sea, Baltic Sea Black Sea.
Georgia is a three-year IMF programme, which supports the regional energy corridor that accounts for Governments economic reform agenda and is approximately 1.6% of the worlds oil and gas -3.7% subject to IMF board approval in April 2017, supply transit volumes.
Georgias existing free 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 feeds trust in the continuity of prudent trade deals with the EU, CIS, Turkey, enable economic policies.
it to access a market of 900 million customers.
An imminent free trade agreement with China Nominal GDP, US$ billion MEASURES TO STRENGTHEN negotiations completed in 2016 and ongoing Real GDP growth, y-o-y % GEORGIAS POSITIONING TO BECOME free trade agreement negotiations with Hong THE REGIONAL HUB ECONOMY Kong are expected to strengthen Georgias Source: GeoStat.
With its business-friendly environment, stable positioning as a platform to trade with, produce Government, developed infrastructure, stable for and service regional markets.
STRONGER DOLLAR, REGIONAL ECONOMIC energy supply, flexible labour legislation, PROBLEMS AND DOMESTIC EXPECTATIONS stable and profitable banking sector, strategic Established tourism destination.
Georgia is FED INTO GEL MOVES % geography and a Government committed already an established tourism destination.
to addressing structural improvements in Travel inflows are a significant source of foreign Armenia 15.9% the economy through its four-pillar reform currency for Georgia.
The number of visitors programme, Georgia is well positioned to to Georgia increased at a 22.1% compounded Euro 26.1% become a regional hub economy.
annual growth rate CAGR over 2007-2016 Moldova 28.7% and tourism inflows stood at US$ 2.2 billion 15.1% of GDP in 2016.
The Government Georgia 28.9% plans to enhance Georgias positioning as a Turkey 36.4% four season tourism location through improved connectivity of different regions with an aim to Russia 41.3% tap their potential.
Kazakhstan 44.8% Belarus 45.0% Ukraine 54.4% Azerbaijan 54.5% Source: Bloomberg.
Note: Dollar per unit of national currency: August 2014 to March 2017.
Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 11 Ukraine 7.8 Hungary Slovenia 10.2 Serbia Latvia 12.8 Estonia Czech Rep 10.8 Bulgaria Bosnia & Herz 11.6 Russia Lithuania 14.4 Romania Montenegro 15.8 Macedonia Slovak Rep 16.1 Moldova Poland 16.5 Turkey Belarus 14.0 Armenia Georgia 14.0 Kazakhstan Additional Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements Performance Strategy Overview INDUSTRY AND MARKET OVERVIEW CONTINUED WHILE GEORGIA USED LESS RESERVE Stable energy supply and electricity transit Georgias exports untapped potential.
TO SUPPORT GEL COMPARED TO PEERS hub potential.
Georgia has a developed, stable There have been significant changes in RESERVE LOSS GAIN, % and competitively priced energy sector.
The Georgias export structure and destination country has overcome the chronic energy markets in recent years: however, Georgia shortages of electricity and gas supply has not yet demonstrated success in tapping interruptions of a decade ago by renovating international markets, notwithstanding and building new hydropower plants, improving remarkable improvements in the business transmission infrastructure and increasingly environment, progress in trade liberalisation, diversifying its natural gas import partners.
enhancement of trade-related infrastructure and Georgia became a net electricity exporter in streamlining of customs procedures.
Another 2016 and in the years 2007-2011 a net big change in Georgian exports has been a importer in 2012-2015 due to low precipitation reorientation from the Russian market after the and increased domestic demand, after being 2005 embargo, which caused the share of a net importer for more than a decade before exports to Russia in total exports to decrease 2007.
Currently, only an estimated 20-25% from 18% in 2005 to 8% in 2006 and 2% in of Georgias hydro potential is utilised.
The embargo forced Georgian Source: IMF.
pipeline of investment projects in the energy producers to redirect exports to other CIS Note: August 2014 to February 2017: Armenias reserves sector is estimated at about US$ 5.4 billion in countries, the EU and the Middle East.
Exports exclude a US$ 500mln Eurobond issued in March 2015. the next five to seven years, including US$ 2.5 to Russia picked up in 2013 as Russia opened billion for three large HPP projects: Nenskra, its borders to Georgian products, but Khudoni and Tskhenistskali cascade.
Currently, accounted for only six percentage points in 52 power plants are in various stages of the 22% total export growth in 2013.
Despite NPLS TO GROSS LOANS %, 1H16 construction or development, with 66 more in these positive developments, the share of feasibility study stage.
A total installed capacity merchandise exports to GDP has not increased Turkey 3.2 of 352MW was added to the grid in 2013- significantly over the past decade, while the Georgia 3.7 2016.
Georgias transmission capacity is poised share of services exports to GDP has almost Latvia 3.8 to increase and accommodate an additional doubled, driven by growth in tourism and Poland 4.4 installed capacity of 3.5GW by 2027 to meet transport receipts.
Georgias exports Lithuania 5.5 the export and domestic demand growth.
performance is explained by its commodity Georgia is foreseen to be an electricity transit structure, dominated by used car re-exports Macedonia 7.2 hub for neighbouring economies: in 2016, and resource-based metals and minerals, while Russia 9.7 850GWh of electricity was already transited  processed product Hungary 10.0 through Georgia to neighbouring countries.
While recent Moldova 11.1 regional economic troubles significantly Romania 11.3 Attractive place for foreign investors.
weighed on car re-exports to Azerbaijan and Georgias business-friendly environment coupled Armenia, since 2013 Georgias developed Belarus 11.5 with its sustainable growth prospects continues logistics and transport infrastructure has helped Bosnia & Herz.
Georgias liberal to shore up opportunities for new re-export Croatia 15.9 economic reforms, favourable international commodities, including copper and rankings of business environment and low level pharmaceuticals.
Given these trends, it is likely of corruption supported substantial Foreign that re-exports will continue to fuel Georgias Source: IMF.
Direct Investment FDI over the past decade.
export growth supported also by the These capital flows boosted productivity and Government policies aimed at further enhancing accelerated growth.
Public infrastructure the platform for current and potential trade projects were also instrumental in driving partners.
The share of Georgias exports to the growth, as well as better realising the countrys EU has increased in recent years and averaged potential in logistics, transport and tourism.
28.0% in 2015-2016 and export flows to the Faced with low domestic savings, FDI is an EU remained relatively stable during recent important source of financing growth in shocks.
Georgia, as well as a reliable source of Georgias persistently high current account As noted above, Georgias existing free trade deficit funding.
Despite the fact that many deals with the EU, CIS, Turkey, enable it to countries faced reduced capital flows during access a market of 900 million customers.
recent economic turbulence, FDI into Georgia An imminent free trade agreement with China was relatively secure thanks to the businessnegotiations completed in 2016 and ongoing friendly environment as well as strategic free trade agreement negotiations with Hong infrastructure projects such as the BP gas Kong are expected to strengthen Georgias pipeline construction project and the railway positioning as a platform to trade with, produce project connecting .
for and service regional markets and offer In 2016 FDI inflow to Georgia was up 5.2% significant upside potential for Georgias exports.
y-o-y and amounted to US$ 1.6 billion 11.5% of GDP.
12 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC Georgia 2.7% Kazakhstan 1.2% Ukraine -4.5% Turkey -12.8% Russia -19.4% Armenia -19.5% Moldova -21.2% Belarus -27.3% Azerbaijan -64.4% GEORGIAN ECONOMY TOP More uncertain global and regional financial WELL CAPITALISED BANKING SECTOR PERFORMER IN THE REGION IN 2016 markets, a stronger Dollar following the WITH LOW NPLS The Georgian economy has performed relatively elections in the USA and domestic factors The Georgian banking sector has been well, notwithstanding long-lasting external renewed pressure on the GEL in 4Q16, which one of the faster growing sectors of the shocks related to the oil price slump, currency regained some of its earlier losses in 1H16.
The banking sector depreciations, geopolitical tensions and related This, coupled with slowly adjusting imports, assets growth rate of 21.7% ten-year CAGR weakness in external markets.
Growth resulted in GEL weakness.
The Lari lost another has far outstripped the nominal GDP growth remained stable at 2.7% despite the reduction 9% in 2016 against the Dollar after a 22% rate for the same period.
The banking sector in the exports and further depreciation against depreciation in 2015.
Commitment to exchange is entirely privately-owned and quite the Dollar.
Capital flows and remittances have rate flexibility helped Georgia again in 2016 to concentrated, with the two largest banks increased.
Despite the growth below potential, absorb most of the shocks through the accounting for 63% of total assets.
Amidst some country-specific characteristics, stronger exchange rate minimising potential negative multiple downgrades by global rating agencies institutions and prudent policies have helped impact on real sector as well as preserving FX in the face of the recent economic recession Georgia to weather shocks better than regional reserves.
across the region, the Georgian banking sector peers.
Price pressures have been contained has remained profitable and maintained its due to weak aggregate demand, low global oil Comprehensive reform agenda strengthens credit ratings with a stable outlook.
Prudent and food prices and the last years high base.
growth outlook for 2017 and beyond.
regulation and conservative oversight by the Annual inflation came in at 1.8% in December 2017 started strongly with the growth averaging central bank resulted in stability and resilience 2016 well below the NBGs target of 5.0%.
4.8% y-o-y in 2M17 reflecting recovery in of the financial sector during different shocks The NBG has reacted to weak inflation and external markets as well as improved consumer to the economy.
In 2016 the average capital persistently low global commodity prices by and business confidence locally due to adequacy ratio remained above 16%, the share gradually cutting its policy rate to 6.5% at the appreciating GEL.
The latter was affected by of NPLs stood at 3.4% and the overall liquidity end of 2016 from 8.0% at the beginning of 2016. surge in export of goods, remittances and ratio remained high at close to 40%.
Credit tourist arrivals in the first two months of 2017. growth remained stable averaging 10% y-o-y.
Tourism drove the growth with the number of The improving external environment due to the Although Lari depreciation spurred loan and tourists visiting Georgia increasing 19.1% to stabilisation of commodity prices and a deposit ratios to GDP, penetration rates still 2.7 million tourists in 2016.
Notably, export of moderate recovery in the economies of the remain low with retail loans estimated at 27.7% services, fuelled by tourist inflows, have partner countries is expected to positively of GDP and total loans at 53.4% of GDP as of surpassed the export of goods for two years in impact the export of goods throughout the year.
Due to a row and averaged 22.9% in 2015-2016, Moreover, significant growth is anticipated in the Central Banks conservative regulations, which is 1.7ppts higher than the same figure for tourism revenues, with Georgia being a cheap liquidity in the banking sector and capitalisation the export of goods.
Construction sector, the and popular tourist destination, as well as rates have been historically high.
Nevertheless, largest contributor to growth, increased 8.1% a solid level of FDI US$ 1.7 billion expected profitability in banking sector has remained y-o-y despite a slowdown in the second half of are other significant positive factors for growth.
robust at 19% ROE over the past three years.
2016, which is explained by the high base last A projected 15% increase in remittances year.
Importantly, growth was posted in the two coupled with new job creation anticipated in largest sectors of the economy manufacturing the construction sector is expected to support 4.8% y-o-y and trade 1.8% y-o-y increased retail spending.
In 2017 the budget reflecting a recovery in both external and is more focused on capital spending, compared domestic demand, supported by increased to previous years, and investments are remittances since June 2016.
Robust tourist expected to drive the growth.
Corporate arrivals drove growth in hospitality sector which income tax benefits for companies has created increased 9.9% y-o-y.
Financial sector grew further stimulus for domestic investments.
9.3% y-o-y, and real estate was another fastest Fresh reforms under the four-pillar reform growing sector 6.7% y-o-y despite the programme aiming to boost the growth, uncertainties related to the GEL depreciation.
together with the measures addressing high Transport -0.9% y-o-y and communication dollarisation of the Georgian economy to -0.2% y-o-y were the only sectors in improve resilience to external headwinds, feed downturn, while growth in agriculture was flat.
trust in Georgias growth framework and Increased capital and parliamentary elections macroeconomic stability.
The IMF expects related spending widened the fiscal deficit to growth to be 4.0% y-o-y in 2017 and to 4.1% of GDP in 2016.
The deficit, however, is average 5.0% annually in 2018-2021. expected to decrease in the medium term subject to ongoing reforms in public finance management.
The Current account deficit widened to 13.3% of GDP in 2016 from 12.0% in 2015.
However FDI, increasing 5.2% y-o-y to US$ 1.6 billion 11.5% of GDP remained the main source of current account deficit funding, with net FDI financing 74.9% of the deficit.
Prudent supervision as well as positive growth supported the stability in the banking sector with NPLs amounting to 3.4% in December 2016.
Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 13 Additional Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements Performance Strategy Overview
