SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Fostering open and honest communication The Company has a comprehensive shareholder engagement In addition to our shareholders, we meet and present to analysts programme and maintains an open and transparent dialogue with throughout the year, hold regular meetings with the Groups existing existing and potential shareholders, a responsibility that the Company lenders and actively engage with potential lenders to discuss our takes very seriously.
Our Group Company Secretary also has ongoing communication with the shareholders advisory groups.
The Boards primary contact with institutional shareholders is through the Chairman, Independent Non-Executive Directors, CEO and Head of The Chairman has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Board Investor Relations, each of whom provide a standing invitation understands the views of major stakeholders.
The full Board is regularly to shareholders to meet and discuss any matters they wish to raise.
kept informed of these views by the Chairman as well as executive Our Committee Chairmen also make themselves available to answer management and the Investor Relations team and, to the extent deemed questions from investors.
appropriate, issues raised at these meetings have been adopted by the Group.
Informal feedback from analysts and the Groups corporate We formally communicate with our shareholders via our AGM, Annual advisors is also shared with the Board.
Report and Accounts, Half-Year Report and Interim Management Statements.
These are supported by a combination of presentations Our website, www.
com, provides our stakeholders with access the and telephone briefings.
Over the course of the year, we met with over Groups results, press releases, investor presentations, analyst reports, 300 institutional investors, and participated in more than 20 investor details on our corporate governance and corporate and social conferences and road shows around the world.
Throughout the year, responsibility framework, our leadership, as well as other information our Directors and management met with shareholders in the United relevant to our stakeholders.
We also ensure that shareholders can Kingdom, Europe, the United States and South Africa.
access details of the Groups results and other news releases through the London Stock Exchanges Regulatory News Service.
In November 2016, BGEO hosted an investor day in Tbilisi, which was open to all investors and analysts.
This investor day provided the opportunity for investors to receive an update from the Board and executive management on strategy and performance as well as meet informally with Board members and raise matters of interest.
BGEO was pleased to host 50 investors and analysts at our investor day.
Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 97 Additional Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements Performance Strategy Overview
