Global network Bodycote is experienced in all major market sectors and is able to combine the capability and expertise of a network of 189 worldwide locations to deliver global, or local, services for customers.
Overview North America As the only global provider of subcontract thermal processing services, Bodycote is able to offer significant advantages to its customers.
Through an international network of plants, Bodycote can effectively utilise a wealth of knowledge, experience and specialist expertise to deliver quality service when and where it is needed.
The network operates from 189 worldwide locations, with customers able to benefit from Bodycotes comprehensive range of services from multiple locations.
Customers know that if their business expands, Bodycote will have the capability to meet their needs.
They recognise that if they were to broaden their manufacturing footprint, Bodycote would be able to assist them.
They are aware that they can obtain the same process to the same quality standards from multiple locations.
Bodycote is the largest provider of thermal processing services Such a large network brings economies of scale, with technology in North America by a significant margin, with a comprehensive developed at one location being available globally if the market network coverage.
This network offers 61 locations convenient to requires it.
Similarly, network utilisation is enhanced by using customers in all areas where manufacturing and technical industries logistics to put customers work into the most effective facilities to are concentrated.
Our facilities offer the widest and deepest range of processes for The Bodycote network has a wealth of technical accreditations, aerospace and energy applications and all the leading technologies some industry or customer specific, others more general.
operations concentrate on the accreditations suited to their market.
Although Bodycote is headquartered in the UK, 92% of the Groups revenue is derived outside the UK.
With facilities in 23 countries, Bodycote is truly global.
Group revenue by market sector Revenue by market sector North America m m Aerospace and Defence 150.8 87.9 Aerospace and Defence Energy 52.0 Energy 21.4 Automotive 171.4 Automotive 59.9 General Industrial 226.4 General Industrial 59.8 Total 600.6 Total 229.0 12 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2016 25229.04 9 March 2017 5:13 PM PROOF 5 post self editing Although Bodycote is headquartered in the UK, 92% of the Groups revenue is derived outside the UK.
Western Europe Emerging markets Bodycote has 26 facilities in emerging geographies covering Bodycote operates from 102 locations in Western Europe and is the Eastern Europe, China, Mexico and Dubai.
number one provider of thermal processing services, with by far the largest network and a comprehensive service offering.
Bodycote is the number one thermal processing provider in Eastern Europe and is the leading Western provider in China.
These markets The range of process offerings varies somewhat by country and have a special emphasis in the Groups growth strategy for the region, reflecting which types of industry are prominent in those future.
locations, thus enabling the Group to best meet the needs of customers.
Revenue by market sector Western Europe Revenue by market sector Emerging markets m m 61.2 1.7 Aerospace and Defence Aerospace and Defence Energy 30.2 Energy 0.4 Automotive 85.4 Automotive 26.1 General Industrial 153.2 General Industrial 13.4 Total 330.0 Total 41.6 13 Stock code: BOY www.
com 25229.04 9 March 2017 5:13 PM PROOF 5 post self editing Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Markets Aerospace, Defence & Energy markets Automotive & General Industrial markets 1 1 Civil aerospace revenues increased in 2016 by 2% at constant Automotive revenues increased year on year by 2% at constant 1 1 exchange rates 12% at actual exchange rates, with strong growth exchange rates 13% at actual exchange rates, reflecting a strong in Western Europe.
Available seat kilometres grew globally again in performance in car and light truck, particularly in the second half.
2016 by a further 6%, and prospects remain good, with a number of This was most notable in businesses served by our Western key development programmes expected to boost output in coming European plants, which benefited from the buoyant global market, years once they are properly up and running.
In the meantime, as well as new contract wins.
Car and light truck revenue growth of 1 1 supply chain adjustments and the exact pace of the changeover 3% in the first half accelerated to 6% in the second half.
Heavy of aircraft and engine platforms make this a difficult market to truck revenues, on the other hand, were weak, reflecting softness forecast.
in the heavy truck market more generally.
Revenues in oil & gas were substantially lower again in 2016, falling Bodycote also provides services for a wide range of capital 1 by more than 40% at constant exchange rates as a result of the equipment customers in our General Industrial markets.
In 2016, knock-on impact from the fall in crude oil prices noted above.
The these customers suffered from the knock-on effect of lower Specialist Technologies of HIP Product Fabrication and Surface demand from the oil & gas and other resources sectors.
As a result, 1 Technology were both affected as the commercial rationale for oil General Industrial revenues fell by 3% at constant exchange rates 1 field projects remained difficult at current crude oil prices.
While 8% increase at actual exchange rates.
crude oil prices closed 2016 at their highest levels in over two years, they remain at less than half the prices seen through most of 2011 to 2014.
It is too early to tell whether investment will pick up in the oil & gas sector in the near term.
Like-for-like year-on-year revenue growth rates exclude acquisitions, closed sites and the impact of the disposal of businesses.
14 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2016 25229.04 9 March 2017 5:13 PM PROOF 5 post self editing
