Strategy and objectives Our strategy and objectives Our strategy and objectives Our strategy and objectives Bodycotes objective is to create superior shareholder returns through the provision of Bodycotes objective is to create superior shareholder returns through the provision of selected thermal processing services that are highly valued by our customers, giving full regard to a safe Bodycotes objective is to create superior shareholder returns through the provision of selected thermal processing services that are highly valued by our customers, giving full regard to a safe working environment for our employees and with minimal environmental impact.
selected thermal processing services that are highly valued by our customers, giving full regard to a safe working environment for our employees and with minimal environmental impact.
working environment for our employees and with minimal environmental impact.
Serving the aerospace, defence Serving the automotive and Serving the aerospace, defence Serving the automotive and and energy markets, with a general industrial markets and energy markets, with a general industrial markets focused network of globally through a regionally organised Serving the aerospace, defence Serving the automotive and focused network of globally through a regionally organised coordinated facilities, attuned to business, catering to these and energy markets, with a general industrial markets coordinated facilities, attuned to business, catering to these these customers specic needs customers specic local needs focused network of globally through a regionally organised these customers specic needs customers specic local needs and requirements.
coordinated facilities, attuned to business, catering to these and requirements.
these customers specic needs customers specic local needs and requirements.
Our strategy Our strategy Our strategy is based on these is based on these is based on these fundamentals fundamentals fundamentals Capitalising on our Specialist Capitalising on our Specialist Expanding with our customers Technologies to provide our Expanding with our customers to rapid growth countries with Technologies to provide our customers with the ability to Capitalising on our Specialist to rapid growth countries with an emphasis on Eastern Europe, customers with the ability to Expanding with our customers create innovative, differentiated Technologies to provide our an emphasis on Eastern Europe, create innovative, differentiated Mexico and China.
to rapid growth countries with products.
customers with the ability to Mexico and China.
an emphasis on Eastern Europe, create innovative, differentiated Mexico and China.
Achieving the highest levels of Achieving the highest levels of customer service in terms of customer service in terms of quality, delivery, reliability and Achieving the highest levels of quality, delivery, reliability and technical problem solving.
customer service in terms of technical problem solving.
quality, delivery, reliability and technical problem solving.
The core values underpinning everything we do The core values underpinning everything we do The core values underpinning everything we do Honesty and T ransparency Respect and Responsibility Creating Value Honesty and T ransparency Respect and Responsibility Creating Value We are honest and act with We manage our business with Creating value is the very essence Honesty and T ransparency Respect and Responsibility Creating Value We are honest and act with We manage our business with Creating value is the very essence integrity.
This is not something we respect, applying an ethical of our business and needs to be integrity.
This is not something we respect, applying an ethical of our business and needs to be We are honest and act with We manage our business with Creating value is the very essence take for granted.
Bodycote lives by approach to our dealings with the focus of our endeavours.
This is not something we respect, applying an ethical of our business and needs to be a culture of honest and transparent those with whom we interact.
create value for our customers, a culture of honest and transparent those with whom we interact.
create value for our customers, take for granted.
We behaviour, which is at the core of We believe in taking ownership our employees and our behaviour, which is at the core of We believe in taking ownership our employees and our a culture of honest and transparent those with whom we interact.
create value for our customers, all our business relationships.
for, and being mindful of the impact shareholders.
behaviour, which is at the core of We believe in taking ownership our employees and our of, our actions.
Our progress measured - KPIs for further details see page 9 Our progress measured - KPIs for further details see page 9 Our progress measured - KPIs for further details see page 9 Return on capital employed Return on sales Accident frequency Return on capital employed Return on sales Accident frequency Headline earnings per share Headline operating cash ow Carbon footprint Headline earnings per share Headline operating cash ow Carbon footprint Return on capital employed Return on sales Accident frequency Headline earnings per share Headline operating cash ow Carbon footprint 07 Stock code: BOY www.
com 25229.04 9 March 2017 5:13 PM PROOF 5 post self editing Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
