Business model Provider of essential services to engineering manufacturers Classical Heat Treatment Specialist Technologies Working to very exacting quality Virtually every type of metal component, Bodycotes Specialist Technologies refer specifications, heat treatment uses whatever its application, has received some to a group of processes which require precisely controlled furnaces to process form of processing before its introduction to very specialist expertise and technology.
a huge variety of metals and alloys, service to enable it to perform to the required These technologies, some of which are improving their material properties.
proprietary, offer unique solutions for a variety of applications.
Bodycotes Classical Heat Treatments describe a group of mature heat treatment processes and includes metal joining technologies which are used to join and assemble parts.
The global leader Customer focus Global network Transferable know-how Bodycote is focused on continual Bodycotes global network of 189 The global Bodycote network provides improvement of our quality of service and market-focused facilities see pages 12 unique opportunities for the transfer of takes an active role in finding solutions and 13 in 23 countries brings economies knowledge and skills, and the transfer of to technical issues and promoting mutual of scale, particularly for logistics and technology.
business development with our customers.
This makes With some of the best metallurgists, Bodycotes processing inherently more Bodycote seeks to secure service-specific engineers and technicians in the industry, efficient than customers in-house arrangements with our customers which Bodycote is ideally placed to provide operations see page 32 and competitors, provide protection from supply disruption solutions for customers, whatever their thereby enhancing our competitive by leveraging Bodycotes unique facility market or wherever in the world they position in the sub-contract market.
The capital intensive nature of Bodycotes Bodycotes scale enables continuous yet business also provides significant barriers focused investment, both in the latest to entry.
The scope of Bodycotes network processes and in the most efficient and enables us to specialise more effectively environmentally friendly equipment.
than competitors at individual locations and provides comprehensive back-up for our customers.
The supplier of choice Service Quality Expertise Bodycote has become the supplier of Bodycotes quality management systems, Bodycotes extensive facilities and choice for many of the worlds most validated by major engineering OEMs, expertise mean that projects can extend respected and innovative engineering have been developed to meet the beyond customers in-house capabilities, companies by providing highly efficient, requirements of international and national combining identification and provision of cost-effective services to the highest accrediting bodies.
All Bodycote facilities technical solutions which address quality standards through strategic hold industry and customer approvals in-service specification and deliver investment in people and the latest appropriate to the services they offer and value-adding material properties.
technology, equipment and quality the markets they serve.
Our own enhancements and systems.
improvement of standard processes has led to Bodycote offering a range of proprietary processes which far outperform their standard counterparts.
Creating value For customers For Bodycote For investors Value-adding services.
Mutually beneficial customer Financially stable and sustainable relationships.
Global supplier which can meet multiple processing needs.
Wide customer base means Bodycote is Good growth drivers.
not reliant on any one customer.
Access to entire Bodycote knowledge Superior return on investment.
Ideally positioned to promote growth Strong margins and cash flow.
in emerging markets and selected Cost and environmental benefits versus technologies.
08 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2016 25229.04 9 March 2017 5:13 PM PROOF 5 post self editing
