Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS Stewart Gilliland Age 59 Jonathan Prentis Age: 54 Mark Chilton Age: 53 Non-Executive Chairman Group Finance Director Company Secretary First appointed: December 2010 First appointed: June 2007 First appointed: June 2007 Mark acts as Company Secretary and Stewart is currently Senior Independent Jonathan qualified as a chartered General Counsel to the Group and was Director of Mitchells & Butlers plc and a accountant with Deloitte.
He was appointed to his present role in June Non-Executive Director of C&C Group appointed as Group Finance Director of 2007.
Mark qualified as a solicitor in plc and Curious Drinks Ltd.
Mark was appointed as Company director of Nature's Way Foods Ltd. Jonathan was Finance Director of Group Secretary of Booker in 2006.
Previously, Logistics within The Big Food Group plc.
he was Head of Legal at the Big Food Stewart was formerly Chief Executive of Prior to 2003, he was with TDG plc.
Prior to that, he was at The Muller Dairies UK and Ireland and has Greenalls Group Plc.
held senior roles with leading consumer facing companies, including Whitbread and Interbrew.
Charles Wilson Age 50 Guy Farrant Age: 54 Lord Bilimoria CBE, DL Age: 54 Chief Executive Chief Operating Officer Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director First appointed: June 2007 First appointed: October 2010 First appointed: December 2007 Charles started his career in 1986 with Guy is the Groups Chief Operating Officer.
Procter & Gamble following which he Guy has a wealth of food experience Karan Bilimoria is the founder of Cobra Beer, was a consultant with OC&C Strategy having worked in the food industry for 30 Chairman of the Cobra Beer Partnership Consultants and a Director of Abberton years rising to be Director of Food and, Limited a joint venture between Molson Associates.
In 1998 he became an latterly, Operations and Retail Director at Coors Brewing Company UK Ltd and Executive Director of Booker Group plc Marks and Spencer Plc.
Bilimoria Holdings Ltd, and Chairman of which merged with Iceland plc in 2000.
In Molson Coors Cobra India a joint venture 2001 he became an Executive Director of between Cobra Indian Beer Pvt.
Ltd and Arcadia Group plc and in 2004 he became Molson Coors Brewing Company.
Karan an Executive Director of Marks and is an independent Crossbench Peer in the Spencer Plc.
In 2005 he was appointed House of Lords.
as Chief Executive of Booker.
He qualified as a chartered accountant with Ernst & Young and graduated in law from the University of Cambridge.
He is an honorary fellow of Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge.
20 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Helena Andreas Age: 41 Karen Jones CBE, Age: 59 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director and Chairman of Remuneration First appointed: November 2012 Committee Helena was appointed as Head of Group First appointed: March 2009 Marketing and Communications for Nordea Bank in 2014.
Formerly she was Karen is a founder and Chairman of Food Group Head of Retail & Distribution at and Fuel Ltd, a hospitality company.
also a Non-Executive Director of Cofra AG, Corbin and King Ltd, Firmenich International Prior to joining Vodafone Helena held senior and Chairman of Hawksmoor Ltd. She is positions in marketing and operations at also on the Board of RNTE Royal National Tesco Group plc and previously was a Theatre Enterprises Board.
Helena holds an MBA from INSEAD.
Karen was formerly CEO of Spirit Group Ltd, a private equity-backed 2,000 strong pub and restaurant group.
Prior to Spirit, Karen founded, grew and floated The Pelican Group plc, owner of a number of restaurant chains including Caf Rouge.
Karen was awarded a CBE in 2006 for services to hospitality, and an honorary doctorate from the University of East Anglia in July 2013.
Andrew Cripps Age: 58 Gary Hughes Age: 54 Non-Executive Director and Non-Executive Director Chairman of Audit Committee First appointed: December 2015 First appointed: December 2007 Gary is a senior member of the Operational Andrew is currently Non-Executive Deputy Excellence team at Apax Partners, the Chairman of Swedish Match AB.
He is global private equity firm, where he also Senior Independent Director and also sits on the boards of two portfolio Chairman of the Audit Committee of companies, Smart Technologies Inc and Boparan Holdings Limited and of Stock General Healthcare Group Limited.
In Spirits Group plc, and a Non-Executive addition to this, Gary is a Non-Executive Director of Howden Joinery Group plc.
Director of Premier Farnell plc, Majid Al Futtaim Retail LLP, SECC Limited and the Andrew spent twenty years with Rothmans Scottish Football Association.
International and British American Tobacco Garys previous roles include Chief plc.
He read Economics at the University Financial Officer of Gala Coral Group, of Cambridge prior to qualifying as a Chief Executive Officer of the largest chartered accountant with KPMG.
operating division of United Business Media plc and Group Finance Director of Emap plc.
Gary was formerly Chairman of the Audit Committee at J Sainsbury plc.
Gary qualified as a chartered accountant with Ernst & Whinney, now Ernst & Young.
