Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report for the 52 week period ended 25 March 2016.
The UKLAs Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules also require the Company to make certain disclosures, some of which have been included in other appropriate sections of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The following are incorporated into the Directors Report by reference: Future Developments in the Business 47 Corporate Governance Report 2226 Employment policy and employee involvement 10 Directors responsibility statements 63 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 11 Financial instruments 8789 The Strategic Report can be found on pages 1 to 17 and is otherwise that occurs as a result of a takeover bid other than incorporated by reference and deemed to form part of this with Charles Wilson, in that in the event of a change of control report.
The Strategic Report includes information on the of the Company, Charles Wilson has the right to terminate principal risks and uncertainties facing the business.
his employment on 30 days notice and to receive a payment equal to his gross salary for his contractual notice period.
Dividends Directors The Directors have recommended a final dividend of 4.03 pence per ordinary share.
If approved by shareholders at the The names of those persons serving as Directors of the Annual General Meeting on 6 July 2016, this final dividend Company during the year are set out below.
The Directors held will be payable on 8 July 2016 to shareholders on the register office throughout the period unless otherwise stated.
of members at the close of business on 10 June 2016.
An interim dividend of 0.57 pence per share was paid on Charles Wilson Jonathan Prentis a 27 November 2015.
Mark Aylwin Guy Farrant d b Bryn Satherley Richard Rose If the final dividend is approved by shareholders, dividends Lord Bilimoria Helena Andreas for the year will total 4.60 pence per ordinary share 2015: Andrew Cripps Stewart Gilliland c 3.66 pence.
Karen Jones Gary Hughes a Resigned 1 April 2015 Return of Capital b Resigned 8 July 2015 The Company is proposing to implement a capital return to c Appointed 3 December 2015 shareholders of 3.20 pence per ordinary share at a cost of d Resigned 1 April 2016 approximately 57m based on the issued share capital of the Company at the date of this report.
It is proposed that this Biographical details of the current Directors are set out in the is achieved by the issue of a new class of B Shares which section headed Directors and Officers on pages 20 and 21. shareholders will be able to redeem for cash.
Appointment and Retirement of Directors Interests of Directors in Contracts Subject to applicable law, from time to time the Board may During the period, no Director had any material interest in any appoint any person to be a director.
Under the Articles, any significant contract to which the Company or any subsidiary such director shall hold office only until the next AGM and shall was a party.
then be eligible for election.
The Articles require that at each AGM at least one-third of the Board should retire as directors Changes of Control by rotation, however, in accordance with the recommendations All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors will retire relating to a change of control.
Outstanding options and and other than Lord Bilimoria who will be stepping down as a awards normally vest and become exercisable on a change Director with effect from the conclusion of the 2016 AGM offer of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance themselves for re-election at the 2016 AGM.
The Company is not a party to any other significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate Directors and Officers Liability Insurance upon a change of control following a takeover bid other than The Company maintains appropriate directors and officers its bank facility agreement, which provides that on a change liability insurance in respect of itself and its Directors and of control the lender shall not be obliged to fund a utilisation Officers.
The Directors may also be indemnified in accordance except for a rollover loan and, if it so requires, may cancel with the Companys Articles of Association and to the maximum its commitment and declare its participation in all outstanding extent permitted by law, although no such indemnities are utilisations immediately due and payable.
Further the Company currently in place.
The insurance does not, and any indemnities is not party to any agreement with the Directors or employees if granted would not, provide cover where the relevant Director providing for compensation for loss of office or employment or Officer has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
whether through resignation, purported redundancy or 18 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Share Capital Ethical Code As at 25 March 2016, the Companys share capital consisted Details of the Groups Ethical Code can be found at of 1,772,837,070 issued and fully paid Ordinary Shares with a www.
nominal value of 1 pence per share and 1,520,361 Redeemable Preference Shares with a nominal value of 3.5 pence per Political Donations share.
The rights and obligations attaching to these shares The Company did not make any political donations or incur any are contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
Each political expenditure during the year.
Ordinary Share carries the right to one vote on a poll, and to attend and speak at a general meeting of the Company, to Disability appoint proxies to exercise full voting rights and to participate in The Group is an equal opportunities employer.
Applications any distribution of income or capital.
There are no restrictions on for employment and promotion of disabled persons are transfer or limitations on the holding of the Ordinary Shares or the treated on the same basis as those from other applicants.
Redeemable Preference Shares, nor are there any requirements The Groups policy is to provide opportunities for the training, for prior approval for their transfer.
The Redeemable Preference career development and promotion of disabled persons and Shares carry no rights save for the right of redemption in to seek to continue the employment of, and to arrange training accordance with the Articles of Association.
for, employees who have become disabled during the period when they were employed by the Group.
The Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the provisions of relevant legislation, the Articles Amendment of Articles of Association of Association and any directions given by the Company in The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended general meeting, including those in relation to the issue and by special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
At each Annual General Meeting, the shareholders are requested to renew the Directors powers to allot securities in the Company up to the value specified in the Disclosure of Information to Auditor notice of meeting and to renew the Directors powers to allot Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval securities without the application of pre-emption rights up to of this Directors Report confirms that, so far as he or she the value specified in the notice of meeting in accordance with is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Articles of Association.
the Companys Auditor is unaware and that he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a At the Annual General Meeting held in 2015, the Company Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit was granted authority by shareholders to purchase up to information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is 175.6 million Ordinary Shares, representing less than 10% of aware of that information.
the Companys ordinary share capital as at 28 May 2015.
No Ordinary Shares were purchased pursuant to this authority Auditor during the year.
In accordance with current best practice, the As more fully described in the Audit Committee report, the Company will seek to renew this authority at the forthcoming Board decided to put the Companys external audit out for Annual General Meeting within the limits set out in the notice tender this year and following that process concluded that of that meeting.
KPMG LLP 'KPMG' should be re-appointed as the Companys statutory auditor for the year ending 24 March 2017, and that Substantial Interests PwC should be appointed as the Company's External Auditor The Company has been notified under the Disclosure and for the year ending 30 March 2018.
Transparency Rules of the following interests in the voting rights attaching to the Companys issued share capital as at By Order of the Board.
Lansdowne Partners International 8.07% Mark Chilton Ameriprise Financial Inc 7.53% Company Secretary Charles Wilson 6.11% Blackrock Inc 5.01% Schroders plc 4.94% Prudential plc 4.91% AXA Investment Managers S. A.
