Our technologies Classical Heat T reatment Specialist T echnologies Virtually every type of metal component, whatever its application, Bodycotes Specialist Technologies refer to a group of processes has received some form of processing before its introduction which require very specialist expertise and technology.
In some cases, to service to enable it to perform to the required standard and they are proprietary technologies which have undergone extensive last longer.
Working to very exacting quality specifications, heat development and offer unique solutions for a variety of applications.
treatment uses precisely controlled furnaces to process a huge Hot Isostatic Pressing Services variety of metals and alloys, improving their material properties.
Impact resistance and fatigue properties are extremely sensitive to Bodycotes Classical Heat Treatments describe a group of mature small amounts of porosity.
Through the simultaneous application of heat processes such as nitriding, carburising, annealing, tempering and HIP and pressure, the HIP process eliminates internal porosity, improving many more that are used to achieve the desired properties.
fatigue strength, tensile ductility and fracture toughness.
Below are a few examples of material properties obtained by heat treatment: Hot Isostatic Pressing Product Fabrication This method combines the HIP process with design and production What is it?
The ability of a material to resist deformation, expertise to create a component from metal powder.
The flexibility HIP PF scratching and indentation under force.
of the HIP PF process means that combinations of materials can Why is it important?
Improving a materials hardness through be used to give desired properties, enabling metallic compositions heat treatment allows it to resist various types of wear.
that are difficult or impossible to forge or cast.
Specialty Stainless Steel Processes Steel is often chosen for its inherent corrosion resistance, but often requires hardening.
Standard heat treatments will harden the steel, but can negatively 3 S P What is it?
The ability of a material to absorb energy and 3 impact the corrosion resistance.
S P technology uniquely hardens stainless plastically deform without fracture.
steel, nickel-based alloys and cobalt-chromium alloys improving mechanical Why is it important?
Heat treatment can be used to strengthen and wear properties without adversely affecting corrosion resistance.
the material and help improve its resistance to impact.
Low Pressure Carburising A case hardening process used to obtain a hardened surface and tough core, giving increased wear resistance and fatigue life, with LPC minimal risk of treatment distortion.
LPC is a clean process, carried What is it?
The stress level at which component failure occurs out under vacuum, and is an  treatment.
when subjected to repeated stress cycles.
Part failure due to fatigue can have catastrophic consequences, particularly if the part is safety Corr-l-Dur critical.
Through heat treatment, a materials fatigue strength is A proprietary thermochemical treatment for the simultaneous improvement improved.
of corrosion and wear resistance through the generation of a nitride-oxide CiD combination layer.
Corr-I-Dur is an  alternative to the use of hard chromium, electroless nickel and other galvanic coatings.
The measure of a materials ability to resist high temperature deformation.
Surface T echnology Why is it important?
Some metals and alloys must operate ST incorporates specialised plasma spray, High Velocity Oxygen Fuel at temperatures close to their melting point.
Heat treatment HVOF and thermo-chemically formed coatings to improve wear enables them to perform at higher temperatures with little or no ST resistance, hardness and durability, and is able to surface engineer movement.
components designed to operate in the most demanding of industrial applications.
The ability of a material to deform without breaking.
Ion Implantation Why is it important?
In order to form or shape a complex This unique surface treatment uses macro level ion beams to improve component good ductility is required.
Heat treatment is used to the friction coefficient, adhesive wear and surface hardness: ideally 2 I P soften the material which makes it easy to work as part of the for temperature sensitive materials such as thin metal parts and manufacturing process.
10 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2016 25229.04 9 March 2017 5:13 PM PROOF 5 post self editing Creep Fatigue Ductility Toughness Hardness resistance strength
