Directors report The directors have pleasure in submitting their annual report for Annual General Meeting the year ended 31 December 2016.
Notice of the 2017 Annual General Meeting to be held on Tuesday, 2 May 2017 is set out on pages 132 to 135.
Members Other disclosures made in the Annual Report wishing to vote should return forms of proxy to the Companys The Company is required to disclose certain information in its Registrar not less than 48 hours, excluding non-working days, directors report which the directors have chosen to disclose before the time for holding the meeting.
elsewhere in the Annual Report and is incorporated by A resolution to renew the Groups Save As You Earn Share reference.
Details of where this information can be found are Option Scheme is included in the notice of the Annual General set out below: Meeting and full details of the proposed changes which are Subject Pages incorporated here by reference can be found in the explanatory notes on pages 136 to 137.
Likely future developments in the business 12 to 15 Important events since the year end 130 The directors believe that all the resolutions to be considered at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of Going concern statement 30 the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The directors Directors interests 74 unanimously recommend that all shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as the directors intend to do in respect of their Employee involvement employment of disabled persons 35 own shares in the Company.
Greenhouse gas emissions 40 to 41 Directors Corporate governance report 51 to 57 Details of the directors are shown on pages 48 to 49.
Directors' remuneration 68 to 80 Nigel Keen was appointed as an independent non-executive Subsidiaries and associated undertakings 125 director on 15 November 2016.
Research and development David Ritchie resigned as Chief Executive and as a director on 9 January 2017.
We continue to undertake research and development to improve the processes, materials and products used in the In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all the construction of our developments and to enhance the energy directors will retire at the 2017 Annual General Meeting and, efficiency of our range of homes.
being eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment.
Disclosure of information under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R Details of directors pay, pension rights, service contracts and directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are There is no further information to be disclosed in accordance included in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages with Listing Rule 9.8.
Dividends Directors indemnities An interim dividend of 15.0p 2015: 13.7p net per share was During the financial year and as at the date of this report, paid on 18 November 2016.
The Board proposes to pay, subject indemnities were in force under which the Company has to shareholder approval at the 2017 Annual General Meeting, agreed to indemnify the directors, to the extent permitted by a final dividend of 30.0p 2015: final dividend of 26.3p net law and the Companys Articles of Association, in respect of per share in respect of the 2016 financial year on 19 May 2017 all losses arising out of, or in connection with, the execution to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 24 of their powers, duties and responsibilities, as directors of the March 2017.
On this basis, the total dividend for 2016 will be Company or any of its subsidiaries.
The dividend reinvestment plan gives shareholders the David Ritchie was a director of Bovis Homes Pension Scheme opportunity to reinvest dividends.
Trustee Limited the Pension Trustee until 9 January 2017.
The Companys subsidiary, Bovis Homes Limited, has granted a qualifying pension scheme indemnity to the directors of the Pension Trustee to the extent permitted by law in respect of all losses arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as directors of the Pension Trustee.
88 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance Shareholders are entitled to attend, speak and vote at general Powers of the directors meetings of the Company, to appoint one or more proxies and, if Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, UK legislation they are corporations, to appoint corporate representatives.
and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board, which may exercise all the On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company every powers of the Company.
The directors have been authorised to shareholder present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has allot and issue ordinary shares and to make market purchases of one vote and on a poll every shareholder present in person or by the Companys ordinary shares and these powers may be exercised proxy and entitled to vote has one vote for every ordinary share under authority of resolutions of the Company passed at its Annual held.
Further details regarding voting, including the deadlines for General Meeting.
The rules in relation to the appointment and voting, at the Annual General Meeting can be found in the notes replacement of directors are set out in the Companys Articles to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting at the back of this of Association.
No shareholder is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to attend or vote either personally or Articles of Association by proxy at a general meeting or to exercise any other shareholder Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles of rights if he or any person with an interest in shares has been sent a Association, they may only be amended by a special resolution of notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and has failed the Companys shareholders at a general meeting.
to supply the Company with the requisite information within the prescribed period.
Share capital Shareholders may receive a dividend and on a liquidation may share The Company has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
in the assets of the Company.
None of the ordinary shares of the As at 20 February 2017, its share capital comprised 134,522,340 Company, including those held by the Companys share schemes, fully paid Ordinary Shares of 50 pence each.
At the Companys carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
2016 AGM, the directors were authorised to: Employees participating in the Bovis Homes Group Share Incentive allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for, or Plan may direct the trustee to exercise voting rights on their behalf convert, any security into shares up to an aggregate nominal at any general meeting but are not required to do so.
amount of 22,374,300: The instrument of transfer of a certificated share may be in any allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 44,748,601 usual form or in any other form which the Board may approve.
for the purpose of a rights issue: and The Board may refuse to register any instrument of transfer of a certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal make market purchases up to 13,438,018 shares in the Company does not prevent dealings in shares in the Company from taking representing approximately 10% of the Companys issued share place on an open and proper basis.
Certain employees and officers capital at the time.
of the Company must conform to the Companys share dealing rules: these restrict the ability to deal in the Companys shares at Shareholders will be asked to renew similar authorities at the certain times and require permission to deal.
The Board may also refuse to register a transfer of a certificated During the year the Company allotted 142,679 shares in connection share unless the instrument of transfer: i is lodged, duly stamped with the exercise of options under the Companys employee if stampable, at the registered office of the Company or any share plans.
The Employee Benefit Trust did not purchase any other place decided by the Board accompanied by the certificate shares during the year.
for the share to which it relates and such other evidence as the The Company has not held any shares in treasury during the period Board may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor under review.
to make the transfer: ii is in respect of only one class of shares: and iii is in favour of not more than four transferees.
Transfers of All issued shares are fully paid and free from any restrictions on uncertificated shares must be carried out using the relevant system their transfer, except where required by law, such as insider trading and the Board can refuse to register a transfer of an uncertificated rules.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys share in accordance with the regulations governing the operation ordinary shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, of the relevant system and with UK legislation.
There are no other copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK limitations on the holding of ordinary shares in the Company and or by writing to the Group Company Secretary.
the Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 89 Directors report Substantial shareholdings As at 31 December 2016, the following interests of 3% or more in the Companys issued share capital had been notified to the Company: % of voting rights of % direct % indirect % financial Total number of the issued Ordinary shares of 50p each holding holding instruments shares held share capital Standard Life Investments Holdings - 7.10 - 9,544,517 7.10 Dimensional Fund Advisors LP - 5.00 6,723,676 5.00 Prudential plc group of companies - 4.80 0.09 6,576,735 4.89 Norges Bank 3.98 - - 5,356,208 3.98 Legal & General Group Plc 3.00 - - 4,047,987 3.00 Between 1 January and 20 February 2017, the following interests of 3% or more in the Companys issued share capital were notified to the Company: % of voting rights of 20 February 2017 % direct % indirect % financial Total number of the issued Ordinary shares of 50p each holding holding instruments shares held share capital Standard Life Investment Holdings - 5.00 - - 5.00 Takeover directive Auditors On a change of control, provisions in the Groups syndicated Each person who is a director at the date of approval of this banking facility agreements described in note 4.3 to the report confirms that: accounts would allow lenders to withdraw the facility.
so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit All of the Groups share schemes contain provisions relating information of which the Companys auditors are to a change of control.
Under these provisions, a change unaware: and of control would be a vesting event, allowing exercise of each director has taken all the steps that he she ought to outstanding options and awards, subject to satisfaction of have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of performance conditions, as required.
any relevant audit information and to establish that the There are a number of commercial contracts that could alter Companys auditors are aware of that information.
in the event of a change of control.
None is considered to be This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in material in terms of their potential impact on the Group in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the this event.
Financial risk management Following an audit tender process conducted at the end Details of financial risk management and exposure to credit of 2014,  LLP were appointed as liquidity risks are included in note 4.6 to the accounts.
In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, resolutions concerning the Political donations re-appointment of  LLP and their No political donations were made during the year ended remuneration will be placed before the 2017 Annual 31 December 2016 2015: nil.
The Group has a policy of General Meeting.
not making donations to political parties or incurring.
90 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on Statement of directors responsibilities pages 48 to 49 of the Annual Report confirm that, to the best of The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the their knowledge: Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared Group: and the Group and Parent company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted the Strategic Report contained in the Annual report includes a by the European Union.
Under company law the directors must not fair review of the development and performance of the business approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they and the position of the Group, together with a description of the give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Company and of the profit or loss of the Group and the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: By Order of the Board select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: M T D Palmer make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable Group Company Secretary and prudent: 20 February 2017 state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union Bovis Homes Group PLC have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed Registered number 306718 and explained in the financial statements: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess a Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 91 Winchester Village Winchester 92 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance Bovis Homes Group PLC | 93
