Our strategy Fit for the future Our industry is changing at a pace not seen in Shift to gas and decades.
All forms of energy fossil fuels and advantaged oil in the renewables are becoming more abundant and less upstream costly.
Through new technologies, energy will be produced more efficiently and in new ways, helping to meet the expected rise in demand.
And the world is working towards a lower carbon future.
We are evolving our strategy allowing us to be Invest in new large-scale gas competitive in a time when prices, policy, technology projects, pursue quality oil projects and customer preferences are changing.
in core basins and seek out new opportunities in selected regions.
Our strategic priorities help us to deliver heat, light and mobility solutions for a changing world.
How we do this Around 75% of our planned start-ups by 2021 are in gas projects.
A ll of our planned oil start-ups out to 2021 are lower cost or around our existing basins.
Maximize recovery, manage decline and extend the life of our existing oil and gas fields.
Optimize our portfolio by making investments and divestments to deliver long-term value, with the potential to start increasing earnings or cash flow within a short time frame.
We renewed our interest in the Abu Dhabi 2016 activities ADCO onshore concession and signed a letter of intent for the future development of the  field boosting our lower-cost oil production for decades to come.
We also made deals to expand our gas exposure in China, Egypt, Indonesia, Mauritania and Senegal, and Oman.
Read more in Upstream on page 24.
14 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 Strategic report strategy Market-led growth Venturing and Modernizing the in the downstream low carbon across whole group multiple fronts Build competitively advantaged Pursue new ventures and Simplify and modernize so we businesses in manufacturing partnerships to meet rapidly evolving can continue to compete and and expand our marketing technology, consumer and policy seize new opportunities with our businesses.
trends, and develop cross-business partners and stakeholders in a solutions to create new opportunities changing world.
or strengthen our existing relationships.
Strengthen the competitiveness Optimize and grow our Simplify our organizational of our refineries and renewables activities.
Partner with start-ups to broaden Introduce digital solutions to Grow our fuels marketing and our options and use our ability to enhance our productivity and lubricants businesses in existing bring successful technologies to services for our customers.
Maximize value from our assets Create new fuels, lubricants and Help customers offset their through our oil, gas, power and petrochemicals offers to meet the personal and business emissions renewables trading activities.
evolving needs of our customers through renewables generation or Transform how it feels to work and partners.
for BP motivating our people to Develop and prove new business Deepen our understanding of perform at their best.
models through partnerships with future energy, technology and Strive for ways to continue vehicle manufacturers and others.
climate change trends through improving the safety and reliability collaboration with academic and of our operations.
We released BP fuels with ACTIVE We established a presence in Chinas fast We are using cloud-based platforms for technology, designed to fight engine dirt developing emissions trading market, rapid analysis and decision making with and protect against it building up.
Now striking the largest deal yet.
And we are state-of-the-art visualization and predictive sold in 13 countries, this was our largest partnering with Fulcrum BioEnergy a tools.
We are introducing digital apps in fuel launch in a decade.
BP announced a company that produces lower carbon jet our retail and aviation businesses that can strategic partnership with one of Australias fuel from household waste to help them improve customer service and convenience.
largest supermarket retailers Woolworths to bring biojet to the market at scale.
Our new fleet of underwater robots are acquire, rebrand and operate their fuel and improving how we monitor the ocean a convenience sites.
And we have expanded our global business services organization, with plans to open our 10th BP centre in late 2017.
Read more in Downstream on page 30.
Read about our activities in Using Read more in Group performance technology on page 12 and on page 21. a Alternative energy on page 38.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 15 The foundations for strong performance Safe and reliable operations, a balanced portfolio and a focus on returns provide the platform for growth which is critical to the successful delivery of our strategy.
These build on our group business model: having the right people, partnerships, processes and technology in place to deliver value across all our activities.
Safe, reliable and efficient execution Distinctive portfolio with optionality Operational excellence is essential to our success.
We benefit from having upstream, downstream and Good safety leads to reliable operation of our assets, alternative energy businesses challenges in one part of greater efficiency and ultimately better financial results.
the group can create opportunities in another.
Around the Our operating management system promotes world, we are investing in upstream projects expected a continuous improvement and systematic ways of to deliver operating cash margins 35% better than 2015 working.
And, we are using technology to produce levels.
We are driving sustainable competitiveness in our energy more safely and efficiently.
downstream business, with a focus on customers, cost efficiency and margin capture.
Our well-established oil and gas trading function can generate value by providing the link between our Operating reliability and availability businesses and third parties.
And our equity interest in Rosneft gives us access to one of the largest and 100% lowest-cost hydrocarbon resource bases in the world.
Disciplined growth 94.8% 95% 95% 93% Refining 92% 16 availability 1 million start-ups under Upstream construction operated plant production of additional 88% reliability barrels of oil equivalent per day expected 2012 2016 by 2021 Personal and process safety performance 2021 2016 100% Marketing and customer focus Retail convenience partnerships Down 40% M&S Simply Food Lubricants REWE to go Castrol EDGE Pick n Pay Down 49% Castrol GTX Fuels Castrol MAGNATEC BP Process safety events Arco Aral Recordable injury Air BP 0 frequency More than 50% of downstream profits are from marketing activities.
2012 2016 16 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 Strategic report strategy Focused on delivering competitive returns In 2014 we set out our financial framework in response We have now updated and extended the framework out to the sharp decline in the oil price.
We expect our strong balance sheet to be able underpins our commitment to sustain the dividend for our to deal with any near-term volatility.
We have been meeting those expectations aim to increase operating cash flow from our planned each year and even reaching our cash cost reduction upstream start-ups and growth in the downstream.
We also reduced our upstream and a constant capital frame we intend to grow sustainable downstream headcount by a total of 6,000 in 2016 a free cash flow and distributions to shareholders in the reduction of 17% since 2014. long term.
Principle 2016 achievement 2017 guidance Looking ahead 2018 to 2021 Our financial framework 2016 organic capital We expect organic capital We expect organic capital Optimize capital underpins our commitment expenditure was $16 billion expenditure of $15-17 billion.
expenditure of $15-17 billion expenditure after excluding the per year.
to sustain the dividend for consideration for the renewal of our shareholders.
10% of the Abu Dhabi ADCO onshore oil concession.
This was well below our original guidance of $17-19 billion.
We expect divestments of $2-3 billion of divestments Make selective $4.5-5.5 billion.
as a result of active portfolio divestments This was within the expected management.
guidance of $3-5 billion for the year.
2016 payments totalled We expect $4.5-5.5 billion Around $2 billion in 2018 and Payments related to the $6.9 billion, reflecting faster of cash payments.
moving to annual payments of just Gulf of Mexico oil spill resolution of outstanding over $1 billion from 2019 onwards.
Gearing at the end of 2016 Within the 20-30% band.
around gearing This was within our target range of 20-30%.
We are aiming to exceed 10% Group ROACE by 2021 at real oil prices around $55 barrel.
a Includes $0.6 billion for the sale of 20% from our shareholding in Castrol India Limited.
For the year ended 31 December $ billion Balancing our sources and uses of cash 2016 We aim for our operating cash flow excluding Sources payments related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill Uses to cover our dividend payments and organic 5 10 15 20 25 30 capital expenditure.
2015 Sources Uses Nearest GAAP equivalent measures 5 10 15 20 25 30 Additions to non-current assets: $21 billion.
Sources Uses Ratio of gross debt to gross debt plus equity: 37.6%.
Operating cash ow rest of group Capital investment investing activities Numerator: Profit attributable to BP shareholders $115 million: Disposal proceeds investing activities Dividends paid Denominator: Average capital employed $153 billion.
Operating cash ow Gulf of Mexico oil spill See Glossary.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 17
