Directors remuneration report Features of 2017 policy The remuneration policy proposed for 2017 is based on As a result, we are proposing some fundamental a detailed review of pay and an extensive programme changes to simplify the structure and reduce the level of shareholder engagement following the 2016 AGM.
of pay for our 2017 policy onwards.
Safety Clearer link between pay and strategy The 2014 policy used safety measures in all three of its performance BP set out an update of its strategy in February 2017.
The foundations for elements: the annual bonus, deferred shares and performance shares.
strong performance are safe and reliable operations, a balanced portfolio A number of shareholders considered that this placed too much reward and a focus on returns.
Our strategic priorities include: focus on safety measures.
The new policy retains tier 1 process safety events and recordable injury frequency as measures for the annual bonus.
There are no longer safety Shift to gas and Market-led measures for performance shares, however the committee will advantaged oil in growth in the incorporate the groups longer-term safety and environmental performance the upstream downstream as an underpin when evaluating outcomes for performance share awards.
This will include consideration of a number of measures, including LOPC and input from the safety, ethics and environment assurance committee Venturing and low Modernizing the SEEAC to inform the exercise of the committees discretion.
carbon across whole group multiple fronts This ensures that BPs safety performance in the short and long term remains a significant consideration in remuneration.
Climate change Shareholders have been clear that they wish to see remuneration In 2015 the board supported a shareholder resolution which sought measures that are relevant to BPs strategy and long-term disclosure around BPs evolving approach to KPIs and executive performance and which are genuinely stretching.
incentives, in the context of the transition to a low carbon economy, We are putting in place a balanced set of measures to enable a including the role played by the relative reserves replacement ratio RRR.
rounded assessment of performance against our strategy.
Weightings The committee believes that our new strategic priorities support a lower for each of the measures may vary over time.
These include the shift towards gas in our portfolio and the growth of lower carbon activities including venturing, renewable trading and alternative energy.
Annual bonus Performance shares The new policy provides an explicit link to our strategic priorities as a longer-term measure.
The committee believes that the relative RRR Measures reflect safety, Measures focus on financial measure does not fit with the groups strategic focus on value over reliable operations and financial returns over the longer term volume.
and progress against the The environmental underpin for performance shares will include strategic priorities.
consideration of issues around carbon and climate change.
Remuneration in the wider group The culture of long-term stewardship is reinforced by the requirement for Some shareholders have asked about the relationship between executive our senior leadership to own shares in BP over the long term.
director pay with the wider BP employee base.
The committee has considered this relationship in a number of ways: Shareholder involvement in the new policy Any percentage increase in executive directors salaries will not The new policy reflects the outcome of an intense period of engagement exceed the wider employee population.
with shareholders beginning in May 2016 and running through to this Pension plans for the current executive directors have been scrutinized years AGM.
There has been extensive work by the remuneration by the committee.
The committee is satisfied that these plans should committee and the board.
The committee chair has held 68 meetings or remain in place on the terms set out in the report, on the basis that calls and the committee has met 13 times since the 2016 AGM.
they are open to broader groups of employees in the same home The committee has sought to address a number of matters raised during country and any discretion e. g. payment in lieu of pension is also applicable to wider groups of employees below executive level.
The ratio between GCE and employee pay, see page 96.
Simplication and transparency Many shareholders said they found our 2014 policy too complicated.
Discretion Discretion and judgement remain features of the new policy and the In response the committee has simplified the structure by removing the committee has a clear understanding of the views of shareholders in matching share element of the deferred annual bonus.
We have also respect of their use.
reduced the number of measures used to determine the vesting of performance shares and have eliminated any duplication of measures between annual and long-term plans.
We have simplified the formula used to determine the payment of the annual bonus.
Outperformance on every measure is now required to achieve maximum payment, aligning executive directors with the wider professional and managerial employee population.
More information In addition to this simplification, to improve transparency we will disclose Our strategy the threshold and outperformance levels that determine the vesting of up Page 14 to eighty per cent of the available performance shares for 2017 at the Implementation of 2017 policy beginning of the performance period.
Page 87 2017 proposed policy Page 101 86 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016
