Relevant skills and experience Career Dr Brian Gilvary has spent his entire career with BP.
His broad Paul Anderson was formerly chief executive at BHP Billiton and experience across the group has given him a deep insight into BPs Duke Energy, where he also served as chairman of the board.
This knowledge has been invaluable as BP has previously been chief executive officer and managing director of BHP implemented its strategy to transform into a value not volume based Limited and then BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc, he rejoined business and adapt to a low oil price environment.
these latter two boards in 2006 as a non-executive director, retiring in January 2010.
Previously he served as a non-executive director of BAE His strong understanding of finance and trading has been vital in Systems PLC and on a number of boards in the US and Australia, and adjusting capital structures and operational costs while ensuring was also chief executive officer of Pan Energy Corp. the group continues to be capable of meeting new opportunities going forward.
Relevant skills and experience Paul Anderson has spent his career in the energy industry working with Brian Gilvarys performance has been evaluated by the group chief global organizations, and brings the skills of an experienced chairman executive and considered by the chairmans committee.
and chief executive officer to the board.
His specific experience of driving safety-related cultural change throughout a business has Nils Andersen been invaluable during his tenure as chair of the safety, ethics and environment assurance committee from 2012 to 2016, and he remains a Independent non-executive director valuable member of the committee.
Tenure Pauls experience of business in the US and its regulatory environment Appointed 31 October 2016 is a great asset to the geopolitical committee.
Board and committee activities Member of the audit and chairmans committees Alan Boeckmann Outside interests Independent non-executive director Non-executive director of Unilever Plc and Unilever NV Chairman of Dansk Supermarked Group A S Tenure Appointed 24 July 2014 Age 58 Nationality Danish Board and committee activities Chair of the safety, ethics and environment assurance committee: Career member of the remuneration, nomination and chairmans committees Nils Andersen was group chief executive of A. P. Mller-Mrsk from 2007 to June 2016.
Prior to this he was executive vice president Outside interests of Carlsberg A S and Carlsberg Breweries A S from 1999 to 2001, Non-executive director of Sempra Energy becoming president and chief executive officer from 2001 to 2007.
Non-executive director of Archer Daniels Midland Previous roles include non-executive director of Inditex S. A. and Age 68 Nationality American William Demant A S. He has also served as managing director of Union Cervecera, Hannen Brauerei and chief executive officer of the drinks C areer division of the Hero Group.
Alan Boeckmann retired as non-executive chairman of Fluor Corporation Nils received his graduate degree from the University of Aarhus.
in February 2012, ending a 35-year career with the company.
Between 2002 and 2011 he held the post of chairman and chief executive officer, Relevant skills and experience having previously been president and chief operating officer from 2001 Nils Andersen has extensive experience in consumer goods, retail and to 2002.
His tenure with the company included responsibility for global logistics, and leading global corporations with integrated operations operations.
The skills and knowledge gained in these roles make him an ideal addition for the board given his experience in marketing, brand As chairman and chief executive officer, he refocused the company on and reputation issues.
His specialist logistics awareness also aligns engineering, procurement, construction and maintenance services.
His leadership in earlier roles was notable After graduating from the University of Arizona with a degree in for the transformation of businesses through focused portfolios, leaner electrical engineering, he joined Fluor in 1974 as an engineer and organizations and increasing competitiveness, as well as increasing worked in a variety of domestic and international locations, including transparency and communication with stakeholders.
Nils economics and broad financial background make him well suited Alan was previously a non-executive director of BHP Billiton and the to his role on the audit committee.
Burlington Santa Fe Corporation, and has served on the boards of the American Petroleum Institute, the National Petroleum Council, Paul Anderson the Eisenhower Medical Center and the advisory board of Southern Independent non-executive director Methodist Universitys Cox School of Business.
Tenure He led the formation of the World Economic Forums Partnering Appointed 1 February 2010 Against Corruption initiative in 2004.
Board and committee activities Relevant skills and experience Member of the safety, ethics and environment assurance, geopolitical Alan Boeckmann has worked in a wide range of industries including and chairmans committees engineering, construction, chemicals and in the energy sector.
In his senior roles he directed the focus of global corporations towards Outside interests the advanced technology needed to remain competitive in response No external appointments to the growth of the internet, e-commerce and the globalization Age 72 Nationality American of the workforce.
At the same time he actively promoted fairness, transparency, accountability and responsibility in business dealings at a time when many corporations were struggling with these issues.
54 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016
