Prepare the annual report to shareholders to show how the policy has Remuneration committee been implemented, so far as it relates to the chairman and the executive directors.
Approve the principles of any equity plan that requires shareholder approval.
Approve the terms of the remuneration including pension and termination arrangements of the executive team as proposed by the group chief executive.
Approve changes to the design of remuneration, as proposed by the group chief executive, for the group leaders of the company.
Monitor implementation of remuneration for group leaders to ensure alignment and proportionality.
Engage such independent consultants or other advisers as the committee may from time to time deem necessary, at the expense of the company.
Members After a comprehensive review of our directors remuneration and extensive Ann Dowling Member since July 2012 and shareholder engagement, we are chair since May 2015 presenting a clearer, simpler policy for Alan Boeckmann Member since May 2015 shareholder approval.
Antony Burgmans Member from May 2009 to April 2016 and chair from May 2011 to May 2015 Ian Davis Member since July 2010 Chairs introduction Andrew Shilston Member since May 2015 I am pleased to report on the work of the committee in 2016.
This has been a challenging year following the loss of the vote on our remuneration report at the 2016 AGM.
Since then our work has focused Antony Burgmans stood down from the committee upon his retirement on engaging with shareholders, reflecting on their views, developing from the board in April 2016. a new remuneration policy for the board, and on determining pay Carl-Henric Svanberg and Bob Dudley attend meetings of the outcomes for 2016.
Proposals for our new policy are set out in the committee except for matters relating to their own remuneration.
Directors remuneration report on pages 101-110.
The policy will be put Bob Dudley is consulted on the remuneration of other executive forward for approval by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
directors and the executive team.
Both executive directors are consulted The committees membership and detailed activities over the year are on matters relating to the groups performance.
contained in this part of the annual report.
The group human resources director normally attends meetings and Professor Dame Ann Dowling other executives may attend where necessary.
The committee consults Committee chair other board committees on the groups performance and on issues relating to the exercise of judgement or discretion.
Meetings and attendance Role of the committee The committee met 11 times during the year: twice before the AGM The role of the committee is to determine and recommend to the board and on nine occasions since.
All directors attended each meeting that the remuneration policy for the chairman and executive directors.
In they were eligible to attend, either in person or by telephone, with the determining the policy the committee takes into account various factors, following exceptions: including structuring the policy to promote the long-term success of the Antony Burgmans did not attend the meeting on 17 March due to a company and linking reward and business performance.
conflict with an external meeting.
Key responsibilities Andrew Shilston did not attend the meeting on 21 June, scheduled at late notice, due to a prior commitment.
The committee undertakes its tasks in accordance with applicable regulations, including those made from time to time under the Companies Act 2006, the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Activities during the year UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules in relation to the remuneration of In the months before the AGM, the committee focused on the directors of quoted companies.
This involved reviewing directors salaries and the groups performance outcome which in turn determined outcomes for Determine the policy for the chairman and the executive directors the the annual bonus and the Executive Directors Incentive Plan EDIP.
policy for inclusion in the remuneration policy for all directors.
Review and determine the terms of engagement, remuneration and Following the negative vote on the Directors' remuneration report termination of employment of the chairman and the executive DRR, the chairman and the chair of the remuneration committee directors as appropriate and in accordance with the policy, and be made a commitment at the 2016 AGM to be responsive to shareholder responsible for compliance with all remuneration issues relating to the feedback and to formulate a new policy for 2017. chairman and the executive directors.
76 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 Corporate governance In all its discussions the committee has focused on the overall quantum For the remainder of 2016 and into early 2017, the committee has of executive director remuneration and has sought to reflect the views of focused on developing a new policy and then determining pay shareholders and the broader societal context in its decisions.
outcomes for 2016 the final year of the 2014 policy.
It examined the circumstances around the adverse vote and considered feedback from the engagement with shareholders.
Shareholder engagement There has been substantial engagement with shareholders during the Committee focus after the AGM year.
This has been carried out primarily by the chair of the committee, A detailed work plan for the committee was agreed for the year.
with additional dialogue by the chairman and the company secretary.
The committee chair spoke to a number of the companys larger Engagement by the committee chair was aimed at understanding shareholders shortly after the AGM and began a structured shareholder shareholders views on the companys 2014 policy, testing proposals engagement programme in the UK and US.
and seeking support for the new policy to be put to shareholders at the The committee decided that a new remuneration adviser should be 2017 AGM.
Meetings with proxy voting agencies have also taken place.
appointed to assist with its work.
After a competitive tender process In total, the remuneration committee chair has held 68 meetings or calls Deloitte was appointed and has been working with the committee since with investors and proxy advisers in the period from May 2016 to the May 2016.
These meetings were conducted to understand concerns, The committee, over the series of meetings: test strategic direction and present a refined policy.
Analysed the structure and operation of remuneration and compared it Committee evaluation with prevailing and emerging best practice.
An internally facilitated evaluation was undertaken in 2016 to examine Considered a broad range of options in discussion with shareholders the committees performance during the year.
The evaluation concluded before distilling to two choices for full shareholder consultation.
that the committee had conducted an effective review of a wide range Conducted a detailed review of the number, use and combination of of options when considering the new policy and was addressing performance measures to assess how they could be simplified while effectively the balance of commercial and societal constraints.
also supporting the business strategy.
Focus areas for 2017 included maintaining oversight of stakeholder Considered the quantum of incentives in the context of securing fair and investor views on remuneration, staying up to date with external and commercial outcomes relative to senior colleagues.
developments and best practice, while managing the challenge of the Reviewed scenarios to improve alignment of remuneration outcomes transition between the 2014 and 2017 remuneration policies.
Conducted a final review of the proposed policy to ensure that it would continue to promote the companys long-term business strategy.
The committee has also considered the implications of the transition from the 2014 to the 2017 policies, in particular relating to share grants and pension.
It also reviewed potential outcomes for 2016 at the end of the year.
How did we develop the new policy?
Remuneration policy review 1 2 3 4 5 Collate feedback Design and test Develop proposal Finalize policy Implement Present developing Present final proposal Listen Test outlines and seek support at AGM proposal 17 May 2017 Shareholder dialogue throughout the whole process Spring 2016 Summer 2016 Autumn winter 2016 AGM 2017 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 77
