Strategic report performance We monitor the increasing number of regulations pertaining to Ethical conduct freshwater withdrawals and water discharge quality where we operate.
Our code of conduct defines our commitment to high ethical This has led to investments in our wastewater treatment plants at our standards.
refineries in Germany and the US.
com water for information about our approach to water.
Air quality We put measures in place to manage our air emissions, in line with Safety regulations and guidelines designed to protect the environment and the health of local communities.
Respect For example, our Whiting refinery is one of the largest refineries in the US, with the potential to have a significant impact on local air quality.
We Excellence have reduced our air emissions there by more than 50% over the past five years by minimizing the amount of gas flared and emissions from process equipment.
We monitor sulphur dioxide, hydrogen sulphide, Courage benzene and other pollutants at the periphery of the refinery and make this data available on the refinerys website.
One Team Unconventional gas and hydraulic fracturing Some stakeholders have raised concerns about the potential environmental and community impacts of hydraulic fracturing during Our values represent the qualities and actions we wish to see in BP, unconventional gas development.
BP seeks to apply responsible well they guide the way we do business and the decisions we make.
We design practices to mitigate these risks.
For example, our wells are use these values as part of our recruitment, promotion and individual designed, constructed, operated and decommissioned to prevent gas performance assessment processes.
and hydraulic fracturing fluids entering underground aquifers, such as drinking water sources.
com values for more information.
We list the chemicals we use in the fracturing process in material safety data sheets at each site.
We also submit data on chemicals used at The BP code of conduct our hydraulically fractured wells in the US, to the extent allowed by our Our code of conduct is based on our values and clarifies the principles suppliers, who own the chemical formulas, at fracfocus.
org or other and expectations for how we work at BP.
It applies to all BP employees state-designated websites.
We are working to minimize air pollutant and GHG emissions, such as Employees, contractors or other third parties who have a question methane, at our operating sites.
At our Khazzan site in Oman we have about our code of conduct or see something they feel is potentially built a central processing facility that reduces the need for processing unsafe, unethical or harmful can discuss these with their managers, equipment at each individual well site, which can be additional sources supporting teams, works councils where relevant or through OpenTalk, of methane emissions in gas production.
In the US we use a process a confidential helpline operated by an independent company.
called green completions at our gas operations.
This process captures A total of 956 people contacted OpenTalk with concerns or enquiries in natural gas that would otherwise be flared or vented during the 2016 2015 1,158, 2014 1,114.
The most common concerns related to completion and commissioning of wells.
the people section of the code.
This includes treating people fairly, with See bp.
com unconventionalgas for information about our approach to dignity and giving everyone equal opportunity: creating a respectful, unconventional gas and hydraulic fracturing.
harassment-free workplace: and protecting privacy and confidentiality.
We take steps to identify and correct areas of non-conformance and take disciplinary action where appropriate.
In 2016 our businesses dismissed 109 employees for non-conformance with our code of conduct or unethical behaviour 2015 132, 2014 157.
This excludes dismissals of staff employed at our retail service stations.
com codeofconduct for more information.
Caption: Safety checks at Cherry Point refinery, US.
Anti-bribery and corruption Bribery and corruption are significant risks in the oil and gas industry.
We have a responsibility to our employees, our shareholders and to the countries and communities in which we do business to be ethical and lawful in all our work.
Our code of conduct explicitly prohibits engaging in bribery or corruption in any form.
Our group-wide anti-bribery and corruption policy applies to all BP-operated businesses.
The policy governs areas such as the inclusion of appropriate clauses in contracts, risk assessments and training.
We provide training to those employees for whom we believe it is most relevant, for example, depending on the nature or location of their role or in response to specific incidents.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 45
