Corporate governance Career Carl-Henric Svanberg Bob Dudley became group chief executive on 1 October 2010.
Chairman Bob joined Amoco Corporation in 1979, working in a variety of engineering Tenure and commercial posts.
Between 1994 and 1997 he worked on corporate Appointed 1 September 2009 development in Russia.
In 1997 he became general manager for strategy for Amoco and in 1999, following the merger between BP and Amoco, Board and committee activities was appointed to a similar role in BP.
Chair of the nomination and chairmans committees: attends the safety, ethics and environment assurance, remuneration and geopolitical Between 1999 and 2000 he was executive assistant to the group committees chief executive subsequently becoming group vice president for BPs renewables and alternative energy activities.
In 2002 he became group Outside interests vice president responsible for BPs upstream businesses in Russia, the Chairman of AB Volvo Caspian region, Angola, Algeria and Egypt.
Age 64 Nationality Swedish From 2003 to 2008 he was president and chief executive officer of TNK-BP.
On his return to BP in 2009 he was appointed to the BP board and Career oversaw the groups activities in the Americas and Asia.
Between 23 June Carl-Henric Svanberg became chairman of the BP board on 1 January and 30 September 2010, he served as the president and chief executive 2010. officer of BPs Gulf Coast Restoration Organization in the US.
He was He spent his early career at Asea Brown Boveri and the Securitas Group, appointed a director of Rosneft in March 2013 following BPs acquisition before moving to the Assa Abloy Group as president and chief executive of a stake in Rosneft.
Relevant skills and experience From 2003 until December 2009, he was president and chief executive Bob Dudley has spent his whole career in the oil and gas industry.
During officer of Ericsson, also serving as the chairman of Sony Ericsson his tenure as group chief executive, Bob has transformed BP into a safer, Mobile Communications AB.
He was a non-executive director of stronger and simpler business.
This approach, governed by a consistent Ericsson between 2009 and 2012.
He was appointed chairman and set of values, has guided BP to a position of greater resilience, enabling it to a member of the board of AB Volvo in April 2012. continue delivering results in an uncertain economic environment.
Bob has demonstrated excellent leadership and vision throughout this process and He is a member of the External Advisory Board of the Earth Institute at continues to develop the groups strategy to adapt to new challenges ahead.
Columbia University and a member of the Advisory Board of Harvard Bob Dudleys performance has been considered and evaluated by the Kennedy School.
He is also the recipient of the King of Swedens medal chairmans committee.
for his contribution to Swedish industry.
Relevant skills and experience Carl-Henric Svanberg is a highly experienced leader of global Dr Brian Gilvary corporations.
He has served as chief executive officer and chairman Chief financial officer to several high profile businesses, leading them through both periods Tenure of growth and restructuring.
These experiences bring not only a deep Appointed 1 January 2012 understanding of international strategic and commercial issues, but the skills to co-ordinate the diverse range of knowledge and perspectives Outside interests Non-executive director of LAir Liquide provided by the board.
He therefore enables the board to present clear Non-executive director of the Navy Board and united leadership on behalf of shareholders.
Member of the 100 Group Committee Carl-Henrics performance has been evaluated by the chairmans Visiting professor at Manchester University committee, led by Andrew Shilston.
GB Age Group triathlete Age 55 Nationality British Bob Dudley Group chief executive Career Tenure Dr Brian Gilvary was appointed chief financial officer in January 2012.
Appointed to the board 6 April 2009 The role includes responsibility for tax, planning, treasury, mergers and Outside interests acquisitions, investor relations and audit.
Non-executive director of Rosneft Member of the Tsinghua Management University Advisory Board, He joined BP in 1986 after obtaining a PhD in mathematics from the Beijing, China University of Manchester.
Following a variety of roles in Upstream, Member of the BritishAmerican Business International Advisory Board Downstream and trading in Europe and the US, he became Downstreams Member of the US Business Council chief financial officer and commercial director from 2002 to 2005.
From Member of the US Business Roundtable 2005 until 2009 he was chief executive of the integrated supply and trading Member of the UAE UK CEO Forum function, BPs commodity trading arm.
In 2010 he was appointed deputy Member of the Emirates Foundation Board of Trustees group chief financial officer with responsibility for the finance function.
Member of the World Economic Forum WEF International He was a director of TNK-BP over two periods, from 2003 to 2005 and Business Council from 2010 until the sale of the business and acquisition of Rosneft equity Chair of the WEF Oil and Gas Climate Initiative in 2013.
Member of the Russian Geographical Society Board of Trustees Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering Brian is also accountable for integrated supply and trading, global business Age 61 Nationality American and British services, information technology activities, procurement and shipping.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 53
