Sustainability We aim to create long-term value for our shareholders, partners and society by helping to meet growing energy demand in a safe and responsible way.
In summary Our 2016 sustainability focus Safety Local These sustainability issues are the ones that environmental Climate change could impact our business the most and that impacts are of greatest interest to our stakeholders.
Value to society Ethical conduct Human rights Our people Process safety events Safety number of incidents Safety is one of our values and our number one 400 priority.
Our stated aim is to have no accidents, no harm to people and no damage to the environment.
300 The fundamentals of how we deliver safe and reliable 200 operations remain unchanged in a lower oil price environment.
We are working to continuously improve 100 personal and process safety and operational risk management across BP, with our group-wide operating 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 management system at its core.
Our approach builds Tier 1 Tier 2 Loss of primary containment on our experience, including learning from incidents, See bp.
com sustainability operations audits, annual risk reviews and sharing for case studies, country lessons learned with our industry peers.
Recordable injury frequency reports and an interactive workforce incidents per 200,000 hours worked tool for health, safety In 2016 BP reported three workforce fatalities.
contractor died following a leg injury sustained at our 0.8 biofuels business in Brazil and two contractors died in 0.6 a pipeline construction incident in Oman.
We deeply regret the loss of these lives and continue to focus our 0.4 efforts on eliminating the risk of injuries and fatalities in our work.
0.2 Process safety 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Major accidents or spills can result in serious harm to Workforce 0.35 0.31 0.31 0.24 0.21 people and the environment, which is why process Employees 0.26 0.25 0.27 0.20 0.19 Contractors 0.43 0.36 0.34 0.28 0.22 safety is so important.
Process safety means designing a American Petroleum Institute US benchmark our facilities to appropriate standards and using robust a International Association of Oil & Gas Producers benchmark engineering principles.
It also underlines the importance a API and OGP 2016 data reports are not available until May 2017. of having capable people and rigorous operating and maintenance practices.
Main image: Mad Dog platform in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
Inset image: Two of our wind farms achieved seven years without a recordable injury in 2016.
40 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 Strategic report performance 2016 2015 2014 Tier 1 process safety events 16 20 28 Tier 2 process safety events 84 83 95 Loss of primary containment a number of incidents 275 235 286 b Oil spills number 149 146 156 Oil spills contained 91 91 93 Oil spills reaching land and water 58 55 63 Oil spilled volume thousand litres 677 432 400 Oil unrecovered thousand litres 311 142 155 a Does not include non-hazardous releases.
b Number of spills greater than or equal to one barrel 159 litres, 42 US gallons.
To track our safety performance we use industry metrics, such as the American Petroleum Institute recommended practice 754 and the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers recommended practice 456.
These include tier 1 process safety events, which are losses of primary containment of greater consequence such as causing harm to a member of the workforce, costly damage to equipment Caption: Using technology to monitor or exceeding defined quantities.
Tier 2 events are those of lesser conditions on board our Thunder Horse platform in the Gulf of Mexico.
The overall number of process safety events decreased in 2016, continuing the downward trend of the past five years.
Another metric that tracks unplanned or uncontrolled releases of our Managing safety products from pipes, containers or vehicles is loss of primary containment BP-operated businesses are responsible for identifying and managing LOPC.
This is a BP metric that includes events within our operational operating risks and bringing together people with the right skills and boundary, excluding releases of non-hazardous substances such as competencies to address them.
They are required to carry out water.
We saw an increase of LOPCs in 2016, partly due to harsher winter self-verification and are also subject to independent scrutiny and operating conditions in our unconventional gas operations in the US.
Our safety and operational risk team works alongside We have seen improvements in our process safety performance BP-operated businesses to provide oversight and technical guidance, over the past five years.
For example, at our Rotterdam refinery the while our group audit team visits sites on a risk-prioritized basis, number of tier 2 events has reduced from 12 in 2012 to just one in 2016. including third-party drilling rigs, to check how they are managing risks.
Alongside this, the refinerys availability has increased, with 2016 its Each business segment has a safety and operational risk committee, best year in over a decade.
We see examples of this right across our chaired by the business head, to oversee the management of safety and operations we believe this shows that the rigour needed to produce operational risk in their respective areas of the business.
In addition, the safe operations tends also to produce reliable operations.
group operations risk committee facilitates the group chief executives Personal safety oversight of safety and operational risk management across BP.
All members of our workforce have the responsibility and the authority to The boards safety, ethics and environment assurance committee stop unsafe work.
Our golden rules of safety guide our workers on staying SEEAC receives updates from the group chief executive and the head safe while performing tasks with the potential to cause most harm.
The of safety and operational risk on the management of the highest priority rules are aligned with our operating management system and focus on risks.
SEEAC also receives updates on BPs process and personal safety areas such as working at heights, lifting operations and driving safety.
performance, and the monitoring of major incidents and near misses 2016 2015 2014 across the group.
See How we manage risk on page 47 and SEEACs c Recordable injury frequency 0.21 0.24 0.31 report on page 74.
Day away from work case Operating management system c d frequency 0.051 0.061 0.081 BPs OMS is a group-wide framework designed to help us manage e Severe vehicle accident rate 0.05 0.11 0.13 risks and drive performance improvements in BP-operated businesses.
It brings together BP requirements on health, safety, security, the d Incidents that resulted in an injury where a person is unable to work for a day shift or more.
environment, social responsibility and operational reliability, as well e This figure is based on our new definition which aligns with industry practice.
We estimate as related issues such as maintenance, contractor relations and that based on our previous definition, the rate would have been around 0.09%.
organizational learning, into a common management system.
We monitor and report on key workforce personal safety metrics and We review and amend our group requirements within OMS from time include both employees and contractors in our data.
to time to reflect BPs priorities and experience.
Any variations in the We measure our workforce recordable injury frequency, which is the application of OMS in order to meet local regulations or circumstances number of reported work-related incidents that result in a fatality or are subject to a governance process.
We also measure our day away from OMS also helps us improve the quality of our activities.
All businesses work case frequency, which is the number of incidents per 200,000 covered by OMS undertake an annual performance improvement cycle hours worked that resulted in an injury where a person is unable to work and assess alignment with the applicable requirements of the OMS for a day or shift or more.
Recently acquired operations need to transition to OMS.
See Our recordable injury frequency and our day away from work rates have page 42 for information about contractors and joint arrangements.
This continues a pattern of improvement in personal safety over a number of years, which is encouraging.
However we know we must maintain our efforts to continue improving safety in our operations.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 41 Technology Working with contractors and partners New technologies are helping us increase the amount and quality of data With more than half the hours worked in BP carried out by contractors, we gather from our operations and speed up our analysis, allowing us to our ability to be a safe operator depends in part on the capability and act more quickly.
For example, we are piloting software that identifies performance of those who help us carry out our work.
We seek to set early warning signs of potential performance problems by gathering clear and consistent expectations of our contractors.
Our standard machinery and plant data, analysing it and bringing it all to a single model contracts include health, safety, security, human rights and screen so engineers can more quickly troubleshoot and resolve potential environmental requirements.
Bridging documents are necessary in issues.
See page 12 for more information.
some cases to define how our safety management system and those of our contractors co-exist to manage risk on a site.
We are also testing magnetic crawler robots to inspect the pipelines that connect our deepwater wells with our platforms in the Gulf of Mexico.
We expect and encourage our contractors and their employees The robots use lasers to identify corrosion or damage.
This can provide to act in a way that is consistent with our code of conduct and we us with earlier warnings of potential safety issues.
take appropriate actions where we believe they have not met our expectations or their contractual obligations.
Our OMS includes requirements and practices for working with contractors.
Emergency preparedness and response The scale and spread of BPs operations means we must be prepared to Our partners in joint arrangements respond to a range of possible disruptions and emergency events.
We In joint arrangements where we are the operator, our OMS, code of maintain disaster recovery, crisis and business continuity management conduct and other policies apply.
We aim to report on all aspects of plans and work to build day-to-day response capabilities to support local our business where we are the operator as we directly manage the management of incidents.
Security Where we are not the operator, our OMS is available as a reference BP monitors for hostile actions that could cause harm to our people point for BP businesses when engaging with operators and or disrupt our operations.
We assess risk on an ongoing basis in those co-venturers.
We monitor performance and how risk is managed in our areas that are affected by political and social unrest, terrorism, armed joint arrangements, whether we are the operator or not.
For example, in conflict or criminal activity.
Our central security team provides guidance Canada we have 50% ownership of the Sunrise oil sands project but it and support to our businesses through a network of regional security is operated by another company.
We benchmark the operators safety, advisers.
financial and environmental performance against our expectations.
And BP representatives on the ventures governance committee Oil spill response are responsible for confirming that activities are consistent with our Our requirements for oil spill preparedness and response planning investment requirements and code of conduct.
incorporate what we have learned over many years of operations.
We take steps to improve our ability to respond to spills.
For example, we We have a group framework to assess BPs exposure related to safety, used satellite technology to enhance our response in the UK North Sea operational and bribery and corruption risk from our participation in nonin 2016. operated joint arrangements.
Cyber security Cyber attacks present a risk to the security of our information, IT systems and operations.
We maintain a range of defences to help prevent and respond to this threat, including a 24-hour monitoring centre in the US and employee cyber awareness programmes.
Process safety and ethics monitors Two independent monitors an ethics monitor and a process safety monitor were appointed under the terms of the plea agreement that BP reached with the US government in 2012, following the Deepwater Horizon accident in 2010.
The ethics monitor was also appointed under the terms of an administrative agreement reached with the US Environmental Protection Agency in 2014.
Under the terms of both agreements, we are taking additional actions to further enhance ethics and compliance across BP and the safety of our drilling operations in the Gulf of Mexico.
The agreements have terms of five years and we are working Caption: Monitoring activities closely with the monitors who will review ongoing progress until the at our office in Cairo, Egypt.
42 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016
