At KPMG International he held a number of senior Professor Dame Ann Dowling positions including global chairman, banking and global chairman, Independent non-executive director financial services.
Tenure He served for six years as a member of the Financial Services Appointed 3 February 2012 Practitioner Panel and in 2013 was the president of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Board and committee activities Chair of the remuneration committee: member of the safety, ethics Relevant skills and experience and environment assurance, nomination and chairmans committees Over the course of his career, Brendan Nelson has completed a wide variety of audit, regulatory and due-diligence engagements.
He played Outside interests a significant role in the development of the professions approach to President of the Royal Academy of Engineering the audit of banks in the UK with particular emphasis on establishing Deputy vice-chancellor and professor of Mechanical Engineering auditing standards.
He continues to contribute in his role as a member at the University of Cambridge Member of the Prime Ministers Council for Science and Technology of the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
Non-executive director of the Department for Business, Energy and This wide experience makes him ideally suited to chair the audit Industrial Strategy BEIS committee and to act as its financial expert and he brings related input Age 64 Nationality British from his role as the chair of the audit committee of a major bank.
His specialism in the financial services industry allows him to contribute insight into the challenges faced by global businesses by regulatory Career frameworks.
Dame Ann Dowling is a deputy vice-chancellor at the University of Cambridge where she was appointed a professor of mechanical Paula Rosput Reynolds engineering in the department of engineering in 1993.
She was head Independent non-executive director of the department of engineering at the University from 2009 to 2014.
Her research is in fluid mechanics, acoustics and combustion, and she Tenure has held visiting posts at MIT and at Caltech.
She chairs BPs technical Appointed 14 May 2015 advisory committee.
Board and committee activities Dame Ann is a fellow of the Royal Society and the Royal Academy of Member of the audit and chairmans committees Engineering and a foreign associate of the US National Academy of Outside interests Engineering and the French Academy of Sciences.
She has honorary Non-executive director of BAE Systems Ltd degrees from fifteen universities, including the University of Oxford, Imperial Non-executive director of TransCanada Corporation College London and the KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm.
Non-executive director of CBRE Group She was elected President of the Royal Academy of Engineering Age 60 Nationality American in September 2014 and in December 2015 was appointed to the Order of Merit.
Career Relevant skills and experience Paula Rosput Reynolds is the former chairman, president and chief Dame Ann is an internationally respected leader in engineering research executive officer of Safeco Corporation, a Fortune 500 property and and the practical application of new technology in industry.
Her casualty insurance company that was acquired by Liberty Mutual contribution in these fields has been widely recognized by universities Insurance Group in 2008.
She also served as Vice Chair and Chief around the world.
Her academic background provides balance to the Restructuring Officer for American International Group AIG for a board and brings a different perspective to the SEEAC and nomination period after the US government became the financial sponsor from committee.
Dame Ann became chair of the remuneration committee in 2015 and Previously, Paula was an executive in the energy industry.
She was worked tirelessly over the past year to understand key issues with a chairman, president and chief executive officer of AGL Resources Inc. large number of major shareholders and their advisers.
an operator of natural gas infrastructure in the US, now a subsidiary of Southern Company.
Prior to this, she led a subsidiary of Duke Energy Brendan Nelson Corporation that was a merchant operator of electricity generation.
Independent non-executive director She commenced her energy career at PG&E Corp.
Tenure Paula was awarded the National Association of Corporate Directors US Appointed 8 November 2010 Lifetime Achievement Award in 2014.
Board and committee activities Relevant skills and experience Chair of the audit committee: member of the chairmans committee Paula Rosput Reynolds has had a long career leading global companies in the energy and financial sectors.
Her financial background makes her Outside interests ideally suited to serve on the audit committee.
Non-executive director and chairman of the group audit committee of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Her experience with international and US companies, including several Member of the Financial Reporting Review Panel restructuring processes and mergers, gives her insight into strategic and regulatory issues, which is an asset to the board.
Age 67 Nationality British Career Brendan Nelson is a chartered accountant.
He was made a partner of KPMG in 1984.
He served as a member of the UK board of KPMG from 2000 to 2006, subsequently being appointed vice chairman until his 56 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016
