Shareholder engagement The chairman and members of the executive team met with SRIs as Institutional investors part of BPs annual SRI meeting in November.
The meeting examined The company operates an active investor relations programme and the a number of operational and strategic issues, including how the board board receives feedback on shareholder views through results of an looks at risk and strategy, the groups approach to operational risk, anonymous investor audit and reports from management and those context for the sector and BP in terms of oil price and energy supply and directors who meet with shareholders each year.
In 2016 there was an demand, operating and energy performance in the Upstream, and BPs enhanced programme of engagement by the chairman and the chair of response to the shareholder resolution.
the remuneration committee following the AGM.
This is detailed in the remuneration committee report on page 76.
com investors for investor and strategy presentations, including the groups financial results and information on the work of the board Senior management regularly meets with institutional investors and its committees.
through roadshows, group and one-to-one meetings, events for socially responsible investors SRIs and oil and gas sector conferences Private investors throughout the year.
BP held a further event for private investors in conjunction with the UK In March the chairman and all board committee chairs held an annual Shareholders Association UKSA in 2016.
The chairman and head of investor event.
This meeting enabled BPs largest shareholders to hear investor relations made presentations on BPs annual results, strategy about the work of the board and its committees and for NEDs to engage and the work of the board.
The shareholders asked questions on BPs with investors.
AGM Voting levels increased slightly in 2016 to 64.28% of issued share capital, including votes cast as withheld, compared to 62.28% in 2015 Shareholder engagement cycle 2016 and 63.13% in 2014.
All resolutions were passed at the meeting with the exception of the non-binding vote to receive the directors remuneration BP Energy Outlook presentation Q1 report.
Each year the board receives a report after the AGM giving a Fourth quarter results breakdown of the votes and investor feedback on their voting decisions Investor roadshows with the group chief to inform the board on any issues arising.
executive and chief financial officer UK Corporate Governance Code compliance Chairman and board committee chairs meeting BP complied throughout 2016 with the provisions of the UK Corporate UKSA private shareholders meeting Governance Code except in the following aspects: Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change IIGCC meeting B.
3.2 Letters of appointment do not set out fixed-time commitments since the schedule of board and committee meetings is subject SRI roadshow following the launch of the BP to change according to the demands of business and other Sustainability Report 2015, continuing into Q2 events.
Our letters of appointment set a general guide of a time commitment between 30-40 days per year.
All directors are Annual general meeting expected to demonstrate their commitment to the work of the Q2 board on an ongoing basis.
This is reviewed by the nomination First quarter results committee in recommending candidates for annual re-election.
Meetings with members of the Church D. 2.2 T he remuneration of the chairman is not set by the remuneration Investors Group and Charities Responsible committee.
Instead the chairmans remuneration is reviewed Investment Network by the remuneration committee which makes a recommendation Upstream field trip to Baku, Azerbaijan to the board as a whole for final approval, within the limits set by BP Statistical Review of World Energy launch shareholders.
This wider process enables all board members to IIGCC meeting discuss and approve the chairmans remuneration, rather than solely the members of the remuneration committee.
Second quarter results Q3 Investor roadshows with the group International advisory board chief executive BPs international advisory board IAB advises the chairman, group chief executive and the board on geopolitical and strategic issues relating Third quarter results Q4 to the company.
This group meets once or twice a year and between SRI annual meeting meetings IAB members remain available to provide advice and counsel when needed.
IIGCC meeting The IAB is chaired by BPs previous chairman, Peter Sutherland.
Its membership in 2016 comprised Lord Patten of Barnes, Josh Bolten, President Romano Prodi, Dr Ernesto Zedillo and Dr Javier Solana.
More information The chairman and chief executive attend meetings of the IAB.
Issues discussed in 2016 included the global economy and in particular the Engagement on remuneration continued effects of Brexit on the rest of the world, developments in political and throughout the year See pages 76 and 80. economic reform in China, the political situation in Latin America and Turkey and the 2016 US election.
68 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016
