Corporate governance Committee reports Role of the committee Audit committee The committee monitors the effectiveness of the groups financial reporting, systems of internal control and risk management and the integrity of the groups external and internal audit processes.
Key responsibilities Monitoring and obtaining assurance that the management or mitigation of financial risks is appropriately addressed by the group chief executive and that the system of internal control is designed and implemented effectively in support of the limits imposed by the board executive limitations as set out in the BP board governance principles.
Reviewing financial statements and other financial disclosures and monitoring compliance with relevant legal and listing requirements.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the group audit function, BPs internal financial controls and systems of internal control and risk management.
Overseeing the appointment, remuneration, independence and The committee has focused on the financial performance of the external auditor and the integrity of the audit performance of the group in a challenging process as a whole, including the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services to BP.
external environment over the year.
Reviewing the systems in place to enable those who work for BP to raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other issues and for those matters to be investigated.
Chairmans introduction Members The committee has focused on the financial performance of the group in a challenging external environment over the year.
Issues considered Brendan Nelson Member since November included the impact of weak commodity prices on oil and gas 2010: chair since April 2011 accounting judgements and asset carrying values and how changes in key long-term price assumptions impacted investment appraisals.
Nils Andersen Member since October 2016 A significant activity of the committee in 2016 was the tender of the Phuthuma Nhleko Member from February 2011 to external audit.
I believe the tender process was thorough, open and April 2016 transparent and I was pleased that the governance arrangements put in Paula Reynolds Member since May 2015 place enabled the committee to make a decision based on high quality proposals put forward by all the firms involved.
Subject to approval by Andrew Shilston Member since February 2012 shareholders, we look forward to working with Deloitte as our new auditor from 2018.
We thank EY for their strong professional standards Brendan Nelson is chair of the audit committee.
He was formerly and all they have done to provide assurance to the board during their vice chairman of KPMG and president of the Institute of Chartered time as BPs auditor.
Currently he is chairman of the group audit Phuthuma Nhleko retired from the committee in April 2016.
He brought committee of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc and a member thoughtfulness and challenge to the debate in the committee and I thank of the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
The board is satisfied that him for his contribution during his tenure.
I welcome Nils Andersen who Mr Nelson is the audit committee member with recent and relevant joined the committee in October 2016 and has commercial experience financial experience as outlined in the UK Corporate Governance Code from a career in energy, shipping and consumer goods.
I believe that and competence in accounting and auditing as required by the FCAs the deep and varied experience of the committee members gives Corporate Governance Rules in DTR7.
It considers that the committee perspective and insight to our discussions with management.
as a whole has an appropriate and experienced blend of commercial, financial and audit expertise to assess the issues it is required to Brendan Nelson address, as well as competence in the oil and gas sector.
The board also Committee chair determined that the audit committee meets the independence criteria provisions of Rule 10A-3 of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that Mr Nelson may be regarded as an audit committee financial expert as defined in Item 16A of Form 20-F.
Meetings and attendance There were 14 committee meetings in 2016, of which five were carried out by teleconference.
All directors attended every meeting during the period in which they were committee members.
Regular attendees at the committee meetings include the chief financial officer, group controller, chief accounting officer, group head of audit and external auditor.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 69
