The changing world of energy The global energy landscape is changing.
Traditional centres of demand are being overtaken by fast-growing emerging markets.
The energy mix is shifting, driven by technological improvements and environmental concerns.
In summary World economy anticipated to almost double in next 20 years.
World demand for energy expected to grow by around 30%.
Market gradually readjusting, as both supply and demand respond to lower oil prices.
Diverse mix of fuels and technologies needed to meet demand and climate change concerns.
Lower oil price environment Growing demand for energy Oil prices have been substantially lower since 2014, Affordable energy is essential for economic prosperity.
The market is gradually Energy provides heat and light for homes, fuel for readjusting, as both demand and supply respond to lower transportation and power for industry.
However, the high level of oil inventories suggests objects from plastics to fabrics are derived from oil.
this adjustment is likely to take some time.
We expect world demand for energy to increase by In line with our refreshed strategy, we test our around 30% between 2015 and 2035 largely driven by investments against a range of oil and gas prices to check rising incomes in emerging economies.
The extent of this their profitability over the long term.
We take into account increase is being curbed by gains in energy efficiency, current price levels and our long-term outlook.
as there is greater attention around the world on using energy more sustainably.
Importantly, the break-even price of many of our investments is going down as BP and industry suppliers Energy mix is shifting reduce costs to meet market conditions.
New technologies and consumer preferences for low carbon energy are leading to changes in the fuel mix, Energy consumption by region resulting in a gradual decarbonization.
Renewables are billion tonnes of oil equivalent the fastest-growing energy source.
They are expected to 2035 increase at around 7% a year and account for 40% of the growth in power generation over the next two decades.
2015 Renewables currently contribute around 3% of total global energy demand, and we estimate that, as a result of rapid improvements in their competitiveness, they will 1995 contribute around 10% by 2035.
0 3 6 9 12 15 18 Over the same period, we think oil and natural gas are likely to continue to play a significant part in meeting Other OECD Other non-OECD European Union US China India demand for energy.
They currently account for around 56% of total energy consumption.
By 2035 we think oil will have around a 29% share, with annual growth slowing down over this period.
Meanwhile we believe the share of gas will go up slightly to 25% of global energy, placing it ahead of coal and not far behind oil.
Main image: Sherbino wind farm BP is gearing up to meet this shifting demand by in Pecos County, Texas.
increasing its gas and renewables activities.
Inset image: Service station in Chippenham, UK, selling our latest fuels with ACTIVE technology.
8 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 Strategic report overview Advances in technology Emerging greenhouse gas policy and regulation Emerging technologies such as improved batteries, solar conversion, electricity storage and autonomous Governments are putting in place taxes, carbon trading vehicles are accelerating the energy transition.
For schemes and other measures to limit greenhouse gas example, the base case scenario in our Energy Outlook GHG emissions.
We expect around two-thirds of BPs suggests that the use of electric vehicles will grow BP Energy Outlook provides direct emissions will be in countries subject to emissions our projections of future energy almost one hundred-fold by 2035.
That means that about and carbon policies by 2020. trends and factors that could 6% of the cars on the road would be electric, with a affect them out to 2035.
To help anticipate greater regulatory requirements for reduction in total oil demand of around one million barrels GHG emissions, we factor a carbon cost into our own See bp.
However, a faster mobility revolution including investment decisions and engineering designs for large car sharing, ride pooling, autonomous vehicles and new projects and those for which emissions costs electric cars could reduce oil demand by several times would be a material part of the project.
countries, this is currently $40 per tonne of carbon Our Technology Outlook shows how technology can play dioxide equivalent, and we also stress test at a carbon a major role in meeting the energy challenge by widening price of $80 per tonne.
energy resource choices, transforming the power sector, Our carbon cost, along with energy efficiency improving transport efficiency and helping to address considerations, encourages projects to be set up in See bp.
com technologyoutlook climate concerns out to 2050. a way that will have lower GHG emissions.
We prioritize certain new technologies for in-depth analysis based on their fit with our strategy and how soon and likely we think they are to break through More information technological and commercial barriers.
We also invest Challenging global energy markets in start-up companies to understand and participate in Page 20 these potentially transformational technologies.
com sustainability for performance data, case studies and information on our approach to managing our sustainability impacts.
A changing energy mix a Change in CO emissions Energy consumption billion tonnes of oil equivalent 2 from 2015 2035 Even faster transition 32% 2035 Faster transition 12% 2035 Base case 13% 2015 Actual energy mix 0 3 6 9 12 15 18 a The sum of the fuel shares may not equal 100% due to rounding.
Oil Gas Coal Renewables Hydro Nuclear Energy outlook Base case Faster transition Even faster transition The three scenarios reflect This scenario outlines our This scenario sees carbon prices This scenario matches the path different assumptions about the view of the most likely path for in leading economies rise to of the International Energy pace of the energy transition energy to 2035.
The growing $100 tonne by 2035 and policy Agencys 450 scenario, due to factors such as policy and world economy will require interventions encourage more which aims to limit the global consumer behaviour.
more energy but consumption rapid efficiency gains and fuel temperature rise to 2C.
will increase less quickly than in switching.
