Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Implementation of 2017 policy Salary and benets The committee noted that salary increases for UK and US based Salary increases over the last five years employees across the group were generally between 3-4%.
Bob Dudley Dr Brian Gilvary Bob Dudley has informed the committee that he does not intend to 2017 Nil 2017 3.75% accept a salary increase for 2017 and therefore his salary will remain 2016 2016 Nil Nil unchanged.
His salary has not been increased since 1 July 2014.
2015 Nil 2015 Nil Following the AGM, Dr Brian Gilvarys salary will be increased by 3.75%, which does not exceed increases within the broader employee 2014 3.0% 2014 3.0% population.
This increase reflects the changes made to his role in 2016 2013 2.8% 2013 2.9% when he took on additional responsibilities for BPs trading and shipping functions.
Salary with Benefits for 2017 will remain broadly unchanged from prior years.
effect from AGM Increase Bob Dudley $1,854,000 Nil Dr Brian Gilvary 759,000 3.75% Annual bonus For 2017, the bonus measures will focus on three areas: safety, In order to provide a fair assessment of underlying performance, reliable operations and financial performance.
changes in plan conditions including oil and gas prices and refining margins are considered when reviewing financial outcomes.
This approach is intended to provide a balanced assessment of how the business has performed over the course of the year against stated Awards will be subject to malus and clawback provisions as set out in objectives.
Targets are aligned with the annual plan and strategic the policy.
and operational priorities for the year.
The maximum bonus opportunity is 225% of salary for a bonus The safety element has been simplified to focus on measures that are scorecard of 2.0 out of 2.0.
As noted in the policy, the bonus payable for robust and can be readily benchmarked against sector peers.
In addition, performance which meets the annual plan i. e. a bonus scorecard of 1.0 the measures linked to reliable operations also require execution of good out of a maximum of 2.0 has been reduced by 25% to half of maximum.
For any bonus earned, 50% will be delivered in cash and 50% must Although the detail of the targets is currently commercially sensitive, be deferred into shares that will vest after three years.
the committee intends to continue to provide retrospective disclosure The committee retains overall discretion to review outcomes in the following the year end.
Measures for 2017 annual bonus Element 1 Safety 2 Reliable operations 3 Financial performance 20% 30% 50% Measures Metric weighting Measures Metric weighting Measures Metric weighting include for 2017 include for 2017 include for 2017 Recordable injury 10% Upstream operating 15% Operating cash flow excluding 20% frequency efficiency Gulf of Mexico oil spill payments Tier 1 process safety events 10% Downstream refining 15% Underlying replacement 20% availability Solomon Associates cost profit operational availability Upstream unit production costs 10% BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 87 Directors remuneration report implementation of 2017 policy Performance shares The measures for 2017 performance share awards now focus on Future growth shareholder value, capital discipline and future growth.
Measures for the strategic element are aligned with the companys longterm strategy, positioning the portfolio for resilience and future growth.
Shareholder value We will be following the implementation of our strategy through the four The total shareholder return TSR element will continue to be measured measures relating to the strategic priorities set out below.
The on a relative basis against the oil majors: Chevron, ExxonMobil, Shell and committee has also sought input from the board regarding the specific Total.
The committee has reviewed the current comparator group and measures.
believes that it remains appropriate as it is used for benchmarking across a range of activities in other parts of the group.
There will be no vesting Details of the strategic priorities targets determining 20% of the of this element if BPs TSR is positioned below third place in the group.
performance shares available are commercially sensitive and are not included in this report.
However, the committee intends to provide Capital discipline detailed retrospective disclosure after the end of the performance Return on average capital employed ROACE will be calculated by period so that shareholders can understand the basis of payment.
dividing the underlying replacement cost profit after adding back net interest by average capital employed excluding cash and goodwill.
This assessment will be based on the final year of the three-year period.
Targets for TSR and ROACE measures for 2017 determining 80% of the performance shares available are set out below at the start of the assessment period.
Measures for 2017 performance shares Element a b 1 Relative TSR versus oil majors 2 Return on average capital employed 3 Strategic progress 50% 30% 20% Threshold 25% of element 0% of element Shift to gas and advantaged oil in the vesting Third out of five 6% return on average capital employed upstream Market led growth in the Maximum 100% of element 100% of element downstream vesting First place 11% return on average capital employed Venturing and low carbon across multiple fronts Gas, power and renewables trading and marketing growth a Nil vesting for fourth and fifth place.
Vesting of 80% for second place.
There will be straight-line vesting for performance between the threshold and maximum vesting level.
Adjustments may be required in certain circumstances e. g. to reflect changes in accounting standards.
Operation of the performance share plan Performance will be measured over three years, with any vested shares Prior to approving vesting outcomes the committee will additionally take being subject to a mandatory holding period for a further three years.
into account the broader performance of the business including absolute Awards will be subject to malus and clawback provisions as set out in TSR performance, together with safety and environmental factors over the policy.
The maximum opportunity for share awards will be 500% of salary for Bob Dudley and 450% of salary for Dr Brian Gilvary.
This represents a significant reduction from the previous long-term variable pay opportunity delivered via awards of performance and matching shares on the deferred annual bonus of 700% of salary for Bob Dudley and 550% of salary for Dr Brian Gilvary.
88 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 Corporate governance Directors remuneration report implementation of 2017 policy Retirement benets Bob Dudley and Dr Brian Gilvary participate in the pension arrangements which are available to wider groups of employees in the US and UK, as set out below.
Bob Dudley Dr Brian Gilvary Dr Brian Gilvary participates in a UK final salary pension plan, the BP Bob Dudley is provided with pension benefits and retirement savings Pension Scheme BPPS, in respect of service prior to 1 April 2011.
The through a combination of tax-qualified and non-qualified benefit plans, BPPS provides a pension of one sixtieth of final base salary for each year consistent with applicable US tax regulations.
of service, up to a maximum of two thirds of final base salary, and a The BP supplemental executive retirement benefit plan SERB is a dependants benefit of two thirds of the members pension.
non-qualified pension plan which provides a pension of 1.3% of final average earnings as defined in plan rules for each year of service, less Since 1 April 2011, Dr Brian Gilvary has, along with some other benefits paid under all other BP US tax-qualified and non-qualified participants in the BPPS, elected to receive a cash supplement in lieu of pension plans.
Final average earnings include base salary, cash bonus future service pension accrual in the BPPS.
In 2016 Dr Brian Gilvary and bonus deferred into a share award under the deferred element of received a cash supplement of 35% of base salary.
It has been agreed the EDIP.
Service, including service with TNK-BP, is limited to 37 years.
for all participants who have elected to receive a cash supplement, Bob Dudley completed 37 years of service in September 2016 and including Dr Brian Gilvary, that a transition will take effect from April therefore will not receive any further service accrual under these 2021 when the level of cash supplement will progressively reduce to arrangements.
There will be no additional payment in lieu of any further 15% of base salary by 2024. service accrual.
Pension benefits in excess of the individual lifetime allowance set by The benefit payable under the SERB is unreduced at age 60 or above.
legislation are provided to Dr Brian Gilvary via an unapproved, unfunded pension arrangement provided directly by the company.
Bob Dudley is also a member of other tax-qualified and non-qualified pension plans.
However, the benefits from those plans are offset against The rules of the BPPS were amended in 2006 to introduce a normal the SERB benefit and so his benefit entitlement is determined by his retirement age of 65, but in common with other BPPS participants in participation in the SERB.
service on 30 November 2006, Dr Brian Gilvary has a normal retirement age of 60.
The BP Employee Savings Plan ESP is a US tax-qualified section If Dr Brian Gilvary were to retire between age 55 and 60, then subject 401 k plan to which both Bob Dudley and BP contribute.
BP matches to the consent of the committee, he would be entitled to an immediate contributions by Bob Dudley 1:1 up to 7% of eligible pay up to an IRS pension, with a reduction currently 3% for each year before normal limit.
The BP Excess Compensation Savings Plan ECSP is a nonretirement age in respect of the benefit that relates to service since qualified retirement savings plan under which BP provides a notional 1 December 2006 and no reduction in respect of the remainder of his match in respect of eligible pay that exceeds the IRS limit.
with other participants, Bob Dudley does not contribute to the ESCP.
From 2017 onwards, for the purposes of both plans, eligible pay for Bob Irrespective of this, on leaving in circumstances of total incapacity, Dudley is base salary only.
an immediate unreduced pension would be payable as from his Under both tax-qualified and non-qualified savings plans, Bob Dudley leaving date.
is entitled to make investment elections, involving an investment in the relevant fund in the case of the ESP and a notional investment the return on which would be delivered by BP under its unfunded commitment in the case of the ECSP.
Benefits payable under non-qualified plans are unfunded and therefore paid from corporate assets.
Benefits are generally paid as a lump sum, with any pension benefit being converted to a lump sum equivalent.
Shareholding requirements Both executive directors meet the share ownership requirements of five times salary.
It is expected that Bob Dudley and Dr Brian Gilvary will maintain a shareholding of at least 250% of salary for two years following retirement.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 89
