In 2016 Ian Davis joined the committee, Antony Burgmans and Geopolitical committee Phuthuma Nhleko left the committee on retirement from the board, and Sir John Sawers became the new chair.
Carl-Henric Svanberg and Bob Dudley attend all committee meetings and the executive vice president, regions and the vice-president, government and political affairs attend as required.
Meetings and attendance The committee met three times during the year.
All directors attended each meeting that they were eligible to attend.
Activities during the year The committee developed the work it had started in 2015 by considering issues that affect all BPs key geographies, for example the continuing low oil price and BPs investment approach.
The implications of the UK referendum on Brexit and the US presidential election were discussed at each meeting.
Chairmans introduction The committee considered the impact of geopolitical events on BPs I am pleased to report on the work of the geopolitical committee interests in the Middle East and in Egypt, Russia and Turkey.
I thank Antony Burgmans for his work as chair of this committee in the first part of the year.
Committee evaluation Sir John Sawers The committee held its first review at the end of 2016, focusing on Committee chair its processes and effectiveness.
The review was undertaken through a questionnaire, with the committee discussing the output of the evaluation in a private session at its February 2017 meeting.
Role of the committee The review concluded that while the committee was still evolving in The committee monitors the companys identification and management terms of coverage and content, it had performed effectively.
Areas of of geopolitical risk.
focus for 2017 included gaining greater insight and advice from advisers with direct political experience and placing emphasis on those regions Key responsibilities and topics that would most impact BPs business or reputation as a way of helping to ease time pressure on the committees agenda.
Monitor the companys identification and management of major and correlated geopolitical risk and consider reputational as well as financial consequences: Major geopolitical risks are those brought about by social, economic or political events that occur in countries where BP has material investments that can be jeopardized.
Correlated geopolitical risks are those brought about by social, economic or political events that occur in countries where BP may or may not have a presence but that can lead to global political instability.
Review the companys activities in the context of political and economic developments on a regional basis and advise the board on these elements in its consideration of BPs strategy and the annual plan.
Members John Sawers Member since September 2015 and chair since April 2016 Paul Anderson Member since September 2015 Frank Bowman Member since September 2015 Antony Burgmans Chair from September 2015 to April 2016 Cynthia Carroll Member since September 2015 Ian Davis Member since September 2016 Phuthuma Nhleko Member from September 2015 to April 2016 Andrew Shilston Member since September 2015 78 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016
