Corporate governance Corporate governance He has served as a non-executive director on the board of Cairn Sir John Sawers Energy plc where he chaired the audit committee.
Independent non-executive director Relevant skills and experience Tenure Andrew Shilston is a highly knowledgeable director with wide Appointed 14 May 2015 experience in the oil and gas, energy and engineering industries.
He has held several positions as a chief financial officer from Board and committee activities which he brings detailed knowledge and skills to the audit and Chair of the geopolitical committee: member of the safety, ethics and remuneration committees.
environment assurance, nomination and chairmans committees His deep understanding of commercial issues has assisted the board Outside interests in its work in overseeing the groups strategy and his global expertise Chairman and partner of Macro Advisory Partners LLP across several sectors is an asset to the geopolitical committee.
Visiting professor at Kings College London Governor of the Ditchley Foundation As senior independent director he oversaw the evaluation of the Age 61 Nationality British chairman.
Career David Jackson John Sawers spent 36 years in public service in the UK working on Company secretary foreign policy, international security and intelligence.
Tenure John was Chief of the Secret Intelligence Service, MI6, from 2009 to Appointed 2003 2014, a period of international upheaval and growing security threats as well as closer public scrutiny of the intelligence agencies.
Prior to that, the bulk of his career was in diplomacy, representing the British David Jackson, a solicitor, is a director of BP Pension Trustees Limited.
government around the world and leading negotiations at the UN, in the European Union and in the G8.
He was the UK ambassador to the United Nations 2007-09, political director and main board member of the Foreign Office 2003-07, special representative in Iraq 2003, ambassador to Egypt 2001-03 and foreign policy advisor to the Prime Minister 1999-2001.
Earlier in his career, he was posted to Washington, South Africa, Syria and Yemen.
John is now chairman of Macro Advisory Partners, a firm that advises clients on the intersection of policy, politics and markets.
Relevant skills and experience Sir John Sawers deep experience of international political and commercial matters is an asset to the board in navigating the complex issues faced by a modern global company.
Sir John brings a unique perspective and broad experience which makes him ideal to lead the geopolitical committee.
His knowledge and skills related to analysing and negotiating on a worldwide basis are invaluable to both the board and the SEEAC.
Andrew Shilston Independent non-executive director Tenure Appointed 1 January 2012 Board and committee activities Senior independent director and member of the audit, remuneration, geopolitical, nomination and chairmans committees Outside interests Chairman of Morgan Advanced Materials plc Non-executive director of Circle Holdings plc Age 61 Nationality British Career Andrew Shilston trained as a chartered accountant before joining BP as a management accountant.
He subsequently joined Abbott Laboratories before moving to Enterprise Oil plc in 1984 at the time of flotation.
In 1989 he became treasurer of Enterprise Oil and was appointed finance director in 1993.
In 2003, after the sale of Enterprise Oil to Shell in 2002, he became finance director of Rolls-Royce plc until his retirement in The ages of the board are December 2011. correct as at 6 April 2017.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 57
