Our Tropical site achieved the Bonsucro certification for Alternative energy sustainability, legal compliance and production processes for the fourth consecutive year.
BP has the largest operated renewables We produced 733 million litres of ethanol equivalent and generated business among our oil and gas peers.
562GWh of power for Brazils national grid.
Renewables will play an increasingly important role in a lower carbon We continue to invest in the development and commercialization of future.
They are projected to grow seven times faster than all other biobutanol, in conjunction with our partner, DuPont.
Compared with energy types combined.
Today, they account for around 3% of global other biofuels, biobutanol has the potential to be blended with fuels energy demand, excluding large-scale hydroelectricity.
in higher proportions and be easier to transport, store and manage.
BP has been producing renewable energy for more than a decade.
We are also investigating a number of chemical applications for this Our strategy is to invest where we can build commercially viable advanced biofuel.
With a focus on biofuels and wind, we have the largest operated renewables business among our oil and gas peers.
Wind This means that we are directly managing these businesses from BP is among the top wind energy producers in the US.
At manufacturing biofuels from sugar cane feedstock to generating and 31 December 2016, we directly operated 14 wind farms across distributing wind energy.
eight US states, while holding an interest in a separate facility in We are also evaluating other areas where we can grow our involvement Hawaii.
Our net generating capacity from this portfolio, based in lower carbon opportunities, particularly where they may play a role in on our financial stake was 1,452MW of electricity.
complementing existing businesses such as natural gas.
Our net share of US wind generation for 2016 was 4,389GWh.
Find out about the actions we are taking to address climate change BP also runs one wind farm at our refinery sites in the Netherlands, including low carbon venturing on pages 12 and 43. operating on a much smaller scale and managed by our Downstream segment, with 22.5MW of generating capacity.
Biofuels business model and strategy Safety remains our number one priority and a number of sites Biofuels can help reduce emissions from transportation, the fourth achieved safety milestones in 2016.
For example, Silver Star and largest source of greenhouse gas GHG emissions today.
They can Titan both achieved seven years without a recordable injury, and be used in existing cars and infrastructure without major changes.
Fowler 1 and 3 have received awards from Vestas a leading wind BP is working to produce biofuels that are low cost, low carbon, turbine manufacturer for best overall balanced scorecard which scalable and competitive without subsidies.
includes metrics for safety and availability.
Our main activity is in Brazil where we operate three bioethanol sites with a combined nameplate capacity of 10 million tonnes per year.
We also export power made from sugar cane waste to the local grid.
We use our expertise and technology capabilities to drive continuing improvements in operational efficiency.
Our strategy is enabled by: Safe and reliable operations continuing to drive improvements in personal, process and transport safety.
Competitive sourcing concentrating our efforts in Brazil, which has one of the most cost-competitive biofuel feedstocks currently available in the world.
Low carbon producing bioethanol supported by low carbon power generated from burning sugar cane waste.
These processes reduce life cycle GHG emissions by around 70% compared with gasoline.
Domestic and international markets selling bioethanol domestically in Brazil and also to international markets such as the US and Europe through our integrated supply and trading function.
Caption: Producing biofuels from sugar cane at our Tropical site in Brazil.
com renewables or our Sustainability Report.
38 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 Strategic report performance Caption: Our British Merchant LNG tanker was built in 2003 and measures 279 metres in length.
Shipping BPs shipping and chartering activities help to ensure the safe transportation of our hydrocarbon products using a combination of BPoperated, time-chartered and spot-chartered vessels.
At 31 December 2016, BP had four vessels supporting operations in Alaska, and 46 BPoperated and 28 time-chartered vessels for our international oil and gas shipping operations.
In 2016 13 new oil tankers were delivered into the BP-operated fleet, a further 13 are expected in 2017, and six technically advanced LNG tankers are on order and planned for delivery into the BPoperated fleet between 2018 and 2019.
As part of our fleet rejuvenation programme, the new ships will all be equipped with new technologies that help improve their safety, efficiency and emissions.
For example tankers and product carriers are built with extra-long stroke engines that reduce fuel consumption with fewer revolutions per minute.
And within the fleet certain ships have low enough sulphur dioxide emissions to enable us to trade in parts of the world with the most stringent regulations.
All vessels conducting BP shipping activities are required to meet BP approved health, safety, security and environmental standards.
Treasury Treasury manages the financing of the group centrally, with responsibility for managing the groups debt profile, share buyback programmes and dividend payments, while ensuring liquidity is sufficient to meet group requirements.
It also manages key financial risks including interest rate, foreign exchange, pension funding and investment, and financial institution credit risk.
From locations in the UK, US and Singapore, treasury provides the interface between BP and the international financial markets and supports the financing of BPs projects around the world.
Treasury trades foreign exchange and interest-rate products in the financial markets, hedging group exposures and generating incremental value through optimizing and managing cash flows and the short-term investment of operational cash balances.
Trading activities are underpinned by the compliance, control and risk management infrastructure common to all BP trading activities.
For further information, see Financial statements Note 28.
Insurance The group generally restricts its purchase of insurance to situations where this is required for legal or contractual reasons.
Some risks are insured with third parties and reinsured by group insurance companies.
This approach is reviewed on a regular basis or if specific circumstances require such a review.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 39
