Directors remuneration report Letter from the remuneration committee chair After a thorough review and extensive shareholder engagement, we believe the new policy is simpler, transparent and has strategic focus.
Professor Dame Ann Dowling Chair of the remuneration committee Dear shareholder, We are proposing to make a number of significant Last years AGM remuneration vote was a clear changes to our remuneration policy for 2017 which will message about how we manage executive pay.
make it simpler, better align pay and performance, and We made a commitment to respond in a constructive lead to a reduced maximum award for the group chief way and have taken a comprehensive look at executive GCE and the chief financial officer CFO.
remuneration of our executive directors.
Although we are still working under our 2014 policy, We have held extensive dialogue with many of our we have used some of the principles from our new largest shareholders as well as representative bodies policy in making our decisions for pay in 2016.
We have beginning in May 2016 and running through to this considered the formulaic results and outcomes for years AGM.
We have listened and sought to respond shareholders and then exercised downward discretion to their concerns.
I would like to thank all those who to reach our final decisions.
took part in the process for their time and insight.
It is clear that shareholders and other stakeholders would As a result in a year of good performance and like our remuneration policy to be simpler, more progress Bob Dudleys total single figure for 2016 has transparent, and to lead to reduced levels of reward.
been reduced by some 40% compared to last year.
There is also a wish to see the committee make greater use of discretion.
Future remuneration policy BP is a global company with a global management The proposed remuneration policy is designed to team, competing for talent in a demanding ensure a clear link between delivery of BPs strategy environment.
The companys ability to attract and and pay.
retain the high-calibre executives required to lead this Over the past year, there has been much debate complex business is important for shareholders.
We in the UK regarding pay models.
We appointed new are mindful of this and have tried to balance these independent advisers and approached our review commercial pressures with the wider social context with an open mind.
We explored a number of different when determining executive pay.
Key outcomes for 2016 Bob Dudley total pay A year of progress Total single gure in and performance 2016 for Bob Dudley is for the company.
$13.8m $11.6m Committee discretion Maximum opportunity reduced pay by for 2017 and beyond $2.2 million.
2016 2016 2015 Formulaic Outcome after outcome committee discretion 80 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 Corporate governance Directors remuneration report overview remuneration structures before focusing on two Policy features for further consideration restricted shares and In addition, the following features of the new policy performance shares.
We consulted with shareholders support the groups long-term strategic priorities, and the board has reaffirmed its view that performance which are in the interests of all stakeholders: shares rather than restricted shares remain the A simplified performance assessment providing a clear appropriate structure at the current time as they align link between the delivery of BPs strategy, outcomes pay outcomes with long-term performance.
Key changes An annual bonus that rewards safety, reliable operations and financial performance during the year From 2017, we propose a simplified approach with a based on the annual plan.
significant reduction in overall remuneration levels.
For long-term performance share awards, performance We will operate only two incentive plans will be tested and shares will vest after three years, but a short-term annual bonus and a long-term awards will not be released until the end of a further performance share plan.
three-year period a six-year period in total.
This The maximum annual bonus will only be earned where lengthy period reinforces the executives stewardship stretch performance is delivered on every measure.
The level of bonus paid for an on-target score will be Target ranges for total shareholder return TSR and reduced by 25%.
return on average capital employed ROACE will be disclosed at the start of the performance period.
For The bonus performance scale for executive directors 2017 awards, these determine eighty per cent of the will be the same as the wider professional and available performance shares.
The remainder of the performance shares will be based The proportion of annual bonus that must be deferred on strategic measures, including alignment with the into shares will be increased from 33% to 50%.
companys progress towards a lower carbon transition Deferred shares will no longer be matched with over the longer term.
Where appropriate, the committee will exercise The maximum longer-term incentives for the GCE its discretion in determining outcomes, which will be reduced from seven times salary previously will include a broader consideration of outcomes granted as matching shares on the deferred annual for shareholders, safety and environmental bonus and performance shares to a maximum of five performance.
Stronger malus and clawback provisions.
Minimum shareholding requirements of five times base salary will be maintained, and a significant portion of the new package will continue to be linked to performance and delivered in BP shares.
It is expected that Bob Dudley and Dr Brian Gilvary will maintain a shareholding of at least 250% of salary for two years following retirement.
How we responded to shareholders in developing our new policy 1 2 3 4 Simplification Reduced package Link to strategy Stewardship versus 2014 policy Simpler package fixed Maximum opportunity for Clearer link between Five times salary pay, bonus and long-term long-term incentives has strategy and incentive shareholding shares.
from seven times to five Removal of matching Review of measures for Post-retirement times salary for the GCE.
TSR and ROACE targets environment remain disclosed in advance.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 81 Directors remuneration report overview the award, reflecting the wider performance of the Performance and pay for 2016 business and outcomes for shareholders over Our full year results were good in the context of the three-year period.
tough conditions: however the board recognizes the opportunity for further improvement.
We have made A portion of the annual bonuses for 2013 was deferred and a corresponding matching award made in 2014. considerable progress over the year on a number of the Vesting required satisfactory safety and environmental measures by which we judge our performance.
We have sustainability performance over the three years from executed our projects safely and more efficiently.
The committee was satisfied that this have driven down costs and made careful judgements condition had been met and these awards have vested about the best use of capital.
The board has worked with Bob Dudley and the From September 2016 Bob Dudley had no further executive team on BPs strategic direction.
This has service accrual under the defined benefit pension been a significant step forward in defining BPs pathway arrangements.
The year closed with the announcement of a number of major additions to our In a year of good performance and progress, the total portfolio, all aimed at contributing to returns over both the single figure for Bob Dudley in 2016 is $11.6 million, 40% short and the longer term.
All of this has been reflected in an improved share price In addition to the above, the executive directors have during the year and good returns for shareholders.
voluntarily agreed the extension of vesting periods for certain legacy share awards as a transitional approach to the new policy.
2016 outcomes We determined executive pay for 2016 and have Conclusion exercised downward discretion in coming to our final decision.
I believe that the board has responded positively to the events of 2016 and has taken significant action.
In this, The annual bonus for 2016 was based on a combination we have worked collaboratively with Bob Dudley and of safety and value based measures.
Overall performance has been good: however the The committee believes that the decisions on the threshold performance for loss of primary containment 2016 outcomes represent a balance between BPs LOPC was not met, partly due to harsher winter performance and shareholder outcomes over the operating conditions in our unconventional gas relevant periods.
I have consulted widely with shareholders and listened The committee exercised discretion and applied some of to and sought to act on their concerns, and have been the principles of our new policy early.
As a result, a bonus of 81% of maximum based on the previous formulaic sensitive to developments in the society in which we outcome was reduced to 61% of the maximum.
We believe that the new policy is simpler, transparent and has strategic focus.
For performance shares awarded in 2014, vesting will be determined by a combination of relative TSR, financial, safety and operational performance assessed over the three years from 2014 to 2016.
Again the committee has exercised discretion to Professor Dame Ann Dowling reduce the vesting outcome, which is expected Chair of the remuneration committee to be 40% of the maximum award.
This discretion 6 April 2017 was applied to the operating cash flow element of How did we determine 2016 outcomes?
1 2 3 4 Assess Review outcomes Align with Apply discretion performance with board employees committees Checked performance Sought views from the Considered outcomes Used judgement to against safety and value audit and safety, ethics in relation to BPs group reflect the broader measures.
and environmental leaders and the broader market environment assurance committees comparator group of and outcomes for Reviewed the measures More information to ensure a thorough US and UK employees shareholders.
in professional and Single gure table managerial roles.
Page 90 Annual bonus scorecard Page 92 2014-2016 performance shares scorecard Page 93 82 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016
