Executive team As at 6 April 2017 Tufan Erginbilgic Andy Hopwood Chief executive, Downstream Executive vice-president, chief operating officer, Executive team tenure strategy and regions, Upstream Appointed 1 October 2014 Executive team tenure Outside interests Appointed 1 November 2010 Independent non-executive director of GKN plc Outside interests Member of the Turkish-British No external appointments Chamber of Commerce & Age 59 Nationality British Industry Board of Directors Age 57 Nationality British and Turkish Career Andy Hopwood is responsible for BPs upstream strategy, portfolio and Career leadership of its global regional presidents.
Tufan Erginbilgic was appointed chief executive, Downstream on Andy joined BP in 1980, spending his first 10 years in operations in 1 October 2014. the North Sea, Wytch Farm and Indonesia.
In 1989 Andy joined the Prior to this, Tufan was the chief operating officer of the fuels business, corporate planning team formulating BPs upstream strategy and accountable for BPs fuels value chains worldwide, the global fuels subsequent portfolio rationalization.
Andy held commercial leadership businesses and the refining, sales and commercial optimization positions in Mexico and Venezuela before becoming the Upstreams functions for fuels.
Tufan joined Mobil in 1990 and BP in 1997 and has planning manager.
held a wide variety of roles in refining and marketing in Turkey, various Following the BP-Amoco merger, Andy spent time leading BPs European countries and the UK.
businesses in Azerbaijan, Trinidad & Tobago and onshore North In 2004 he became head of the European fuels business.
In 2009 he joined the Upstream executive team as head of leadership of BPs lubricant business in 2006 before moving to head the portfolio and technology and in 2010 was appointed executive vice group chief executives office.
In 2009 he became chief operating officer president, exploration and production.
for the eastern hemisphere fuels value chains and lubricants businesses.
Bernard Looney Bob Fryar Chief executive, Upstream Executive vice president, Executive team tenure safety and operational risk Appointed 1 November 2010 Executive team tenure Outside interests Appointed 1 October 2010 Fellow of the Royal Academy Outside interests of Engineering No external appointments Member of the Stanford University Graduate School of Age 53 Nationality American Business Advisory Council Member of the Society of Career Petroleum Engineers Industry Bob Fryar is responsible for strengthening safety, operational risk Advisory Council management and the systematic management of operations across Fellow of the Energy Institute the BP group.
He is group head of safety and operational risk, with Age 46 Nationality Irish accountability for group-level disciplines including engineering, health, safety, security, remediation management and the environment.
In this Career capacity, he looks after the group-wide operating management system Bernard Looney is responsible for the Upstream segment which implementation and capability programmes.
consists of exploration, development and production.
Bob has over 30 years experience in the oil and gas industry, having Bernard joined BP in 1991 as a drilling engineer, working in the North joined Amoco Production Company in 1985.
Between 2010 and Sea, Vietnam and the Gulf of Mexico.
In 2005 he became senior vice 2013, Bob was executive vice president of the production division, president for BP Alaska before becoming head of the group chief accountable for safe and compliant exploration and production executives office in 2007. operations and stewardship of resources across all regions.
In 2009 he became the managing director of BPs North Sea business Prior to this, Bob was chief executive of BP Angola and also held several in the UK and Norway.
At the same time, Bernard became a member management positions in Trinidad, including chief operating officer for of the Oil & Gas UK Board.
He became executive vice president, Atlantic LNG and vice president of operations.
Bob has also served in a developments, in October 2010, and in February 2013 became chief variety of engineering and management positions in onshore US and the operating officer, production, serving in the role until April 2016. deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
58 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 Corporate governance Corporate governance The executive team represents the principal executive leadership of the BP group.
Its members include BPs executive directors Bob Dudley and Dr Brian Gilvary whose biographies appear on pages 53-54 and the senior management listed on these pages.
The ages of the executive team are correct as at 6 April 2017.
Lamar McKay Dev Sanyal Chief executive, alternative Deputy group chief executive energy and executive vice Executive team tenure president, regions Appointed 16 June 2008 Executive team tenure Outside interests Appointed 1 January 2012 No external appointments Outside interests Age 58 Nationality American Independent non-executive director of Man Group plc Member of the Accenture Global Career Energy Board Lamar McKay is accountable for group strategy and long-term planning, Member of the Board of safety and operational risk and group technology.
In addition to supporting Advisors of the Fletcher School the group chief executive, he also focuses on various corporate of Law and Diplomacy governance activities including ethics and compliance.
Age 51 Nationality British and Indian Lamar started his career in 1980 with Amoco and held a range of technical and leadership roles.
Career During 1998 to 2000, he worked on the BP-Amoco merger and served as Dev Sanyal is responsible for alternative energy and for the Europe and head of strategy and planning for the exploration and production business.
Asia regions and functionally for risk management, government and In 2000 he became business unit leader for the central North Sea.
In 2001 political affairs, economics and policy.
he became chief of staff for exploration and production, and subsequently Dev joined BP in 1989 and has held a variety of international roles in for BPs deputy group chief executive.
Lamar became group vice London, Athens, Istanbul, Vienna and Dubai.
He was general manager, president, Russia and Kazakhstan in 2003.
He served as a member of the Former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, prior to being appointed chief board of directors of TNK-BP between February 2004 and May 2007. executive, BP Eastern Mediterranean Fuels in 1999.
In 2007 he was appointed executive vice president, BP America.
In 2008 In November 2003 he was appointed chief executive officer of Air he became executive vice president, special projects where he led BPs BP International and in June 2006 was appointed head of the group efforts to restructure the governance framework for TNK-BP.
He was appointed group vice president and Lamar was appointed chairman and president of BP America, serving as group treasurer in 2007.
During this period, he was also chairman of BPs chief representative in the US.
In January 2013, he became chief BP Investment Management Ltd and was accountable for the groups executive, Upstream, responsible for exploration, development and aluminium interests.
Until April 2016, Dev was executive vice president, production, serving in the role until April 2016. strategy and regions.
Eric Nitcher Helmut Schuster Group general counsel Executive vice president, Executive team tenure group human resources Appointed 1 January 2017 Executive team tenure Outside interests Appointed 1 March 2011 No external appointments Outside interests Non-executive director of Ivoclar Age 54 Nationality American Vivadent AG, Germany Age 56 Nationality Austrian Career Eric Nitcher is responsible for legal matters across the BP group.
Career Eric began his career in the late 1980s working as a litigation and Helmut Schuster became group human resources HR director regulatory lawyer in Wichita, Kansas.
He joined Amoco in 1990 and in March 2011.
In this role he is accountable for the BP human over the years has held a wide variety of roles, both within and resources function.
He completed his post graduate diploma in international relations and his In 2000, Eric moved to London to work in the mergers and acquisitions PhD in economics at the University of Vienna and then began his career legal team where he played a key role in the formation of the Russian working for Henkel in a marketing capacity.
Since joining BP in 1989 joint venture TNK-BP.
Eric returned to Houston in 2007 where he Helmut has held a number of leadership roles.
He has worked in BP in served as special counsel and chief of staff to BP Americas the US, UK and continental Europe and within most parts of refining, chairman and president.
marketing, trading and gas and power.
Most recently he played a leading role in the settlement of the Before taking on his current role, his portfolio of responsibilities as vice Deepwater Horizon government claims and resolution of most of the president, HR included the refining and marketing segment of BP and remaining private claims being litigated in New Orleans.
That role saw him leading the people agenda for roughly 60,000 people across the globe that included businesses such as petrochemicals, fuels value chains, lubricants and functional experts across the group.
He is also a non-executive director of BP Europa SE.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 59 Executive management teams Upstream Pictured from left to right Standing, from left to right James Dupree Kerry Dryburgh Murray Auchincloss Chief operating officer, developments Head of human resources Chief financial officer and technology Tony Brock Nigel Jones Andy Hopwood Head of safety and operational risk Associate general counsel Chief operating officer, strategy Bernard Looney and regions Chief executive Downstream Standing, from left to right Mike OSullivan Alan Haywood Tufan Erginbilgic Chief financial officer Chief executive officer, integrated supply Chief executive and trading effective 1 January 2017 Mandhir Singh Guy Moeyens Chief operating officer, lubricants Doug Sparkman Chief operating officer, fuels, Europe Chief operating officer, fuels, and Southern Africa Paul Reed North America Chief executive officer, integrated supply Evelyn Gardiner and trading to 31 December 2016 Head of human resources Rita Grifn Andy Holmes Seated, from left to right Chief operating officer, petrochemicals Chief operating officer, fuels Angela Strank ASPAC and Air BP Eva Bishop Head of technology Associate general counsel 60 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 Corporate governance Corporate governance Alternative energy Pictured from left to right David Anderson Laura Folse Chief financial officer Chief executive officer, wind Catherine Green Nick Wayth Human resources director Chief development officer Mario Lindenhayn Joan Wales Chief executive officer, biofuels Head of safety and operational risk Dev Sanyal Chief executive Functional leaders Pictured from left to right Pictured from left to right David Jardine Ashok Pillai Jessica Mitchell Dominic Emery Group head of audit Vice president, group reward Group head of investor relations Vice president, group strategic planning Susan Dio Peter Henshaw Chief executive officer, shipping Group head of communications and external affairs Pictured from left to right Pictured from left to right David Eyton Kate Thomson Eric Nitcher Robert Lawson Group head of technology Group treasurer Group general counsel Global head of mergers and acquisitions Richard Hookway Rahul Saxena Jan Lyons Chief operating officer of global Group ethics and compliance Group head of tax Lucy Knight business services and information officer Human resources vice president, technology and systems corporate business activities and functions BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 61
