Corporate governance Corporate governance This experience as a chairman and chief executive makes Alan ideal to Career lead the SEEAC and brings added value to both the remuneration and Cynthia began her career as a petroleum geologist with Amoco nomination committees.
Production company in Denver, Colorado, after completing a masters degree in geology.
In 1989 she joined Alcan Aluminum Company of Canada and ran a packaging company, led a global bauxite, alumina Admiral Frank Bowman and speciality chemicals business and later was president and chief Independent non-executive director executive officer of the Primary Metal Group, responsible for operations in more than 20 countries.
In 2007 she became chief executive of Anglo Tenure American plc, the global mining group, operating in 45 countries with Appointed 8 November 2010 150,000 employees, and was chairman of fide Beers s. a. and Anglo Board and committee activities Platinum Limited.
She stepped down from these roles in April 2013.
Member of the safety, ethics and environment assurance, geopolitical Relevant skills and experience and chairmans committees Cynthia Carroll is an experienced former chief executive who has spent Outside interests all of her career in the extractive industries.
Her leadership experience, President of Strategic Decisions, LLC related to enhancing safety in the mining industry, brings a strong Director of Morgan Stanley Mutual Funds contribution to the work of the SEEAC, as does her understanding of Director of Naval and Nuclear Technologies, LLP business strategy in an industry with a long capital return cycle.
Age 72 Nationality American Her experience of leading large complex global businesses which require a high level of interaction with governments, the media and other Career stakeholders is an asset to both the board and the geopolitical committee.
Frank L Bowman served for more than 38 years in the US Navy, rising to the rank of Admiral.
He commanded the nuclear submarine USS City of Ian Davis Corpus Christi and the submarine tender USS Holland.
After promotion Independent non-executive director to flag officer, he served on the joint staff as director of political-military affairs and as the chief of naval personnel.
He served over eight years Tenure as director of the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program where he was Appointed 2 April 2010 responsible for the operations of more than 100 reactors aboard the US Board and committee activities navys aircraft carriers and submarines.
He holds two masters degrees Member of the remuneration, geopolitical, nomination and chairmans in engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
committees After his retirement as an Admiral in 2004, he was president and chief Outside interests executive officer of the Nuclear Energy Institute until 2008.
He served Chairman of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc on the BP Independent Safety Review Panel and was a member of the Non-executive director of Majid Al Futtaim Holding LLC BP America External Advisory Council.
He was appointed Honorary Non-executive director of Johnson & Johnson, Inc. Knight Commander of the British Empire in 2005.
He was elected to the Non-executive director of Teach for All US National Academy of Engineering in 2009.
Age 66 Nationality British Frank is a member of the US CNA military advisory board and has participated in studies of climate change and its impact on national Career security, and on future global energy solutions and water scarcity.
Ian Davis is senior partner emeritus of McKinsey & Company.
He was a Additionally he was co-chair of a National Academies study investigating partner at McKinsey for 31 years until 2010 and served as chairman and the implications of climate change for naval forces.
Relevant skills and experience Ian has a MA in Politics, Philosophy and Economics from Balliol College, Frank Bowmans exemplary safety record in running the US Navys University of Oxford.
nuclear submarine program indicates his deep understanding of process safety and its implementation in a widely dispersed workforce.
Combined Relevant skills and experience with his specific knowledge of BPs safety goals from his work on the Ian Davis brings significant financial and strategic experience to the BP Independent Safety Review Panel, and his special interest in climate board.
He has worked with and advised global organizations and change, he brings a unique perspective to the board and the SEEAC.
companies in a wide variety of sectors including oil and gas and the public sector.
This enables him to draw on knowledge of diverse issues In addition, Franks experience of the US and global political and and outcomes to assist the board and, in particular, the remuneration regulatory systems is a valuable asset to the geopolitical committee.
He led the boards oversight of the response in the Gulf and chaired the Cynthia Carroll Gulf of Mexico committee from its formation until it was stood down Independent non-executive director in 2016.
His previous role in the Cabinet Office gives him a unique Tenure perspective on government affairs which is an asset to both the board Appointed 6 June 2007 and the geopolitical committee.
Board and committee activities Member of the safety, ethics and environment assurance, geopolitical and chairmans committees Outside interests Chair of Vedanta Resources Holding Ltd Non-executive director of Hitachi Ltd Advisory board member of America Securities LLC Age 60 Nationality American BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 55
