How we run our business From the deep sea to the desert, Enabling our business model from rigs to retail, we deliver energy products and services to people Safe and reliable operations Talented people around the world.
We provide We strive to create and maintain a safe We work to attract, motivate, develop and customers with fuel for transport, operating culture where safety is front and retain the best talent the world offers our energy for heat and light, lubricants centre.
This is not only safer for people performance and ability to thrive globally to keep engines moving and the and the environment it also improves the depends on it.
petrochemicals products used to reliability of our assets.
make everyday items as diverse as See Safety on page 40.
See People on page 46. paints, clothes and packaging.
Our diverse portfolio is balanced across businesses, resource types and geographies.
Having upstream and downstream Finding oil and gas businesses, along with well-established trading capabilities, helps to mitigate the impact of lower oil and gas prices.
Our geographic reach gives us access to growing markets and new resources, as well as diversifying exposure to geopolitical events.
Our role in society The energy we produce helps to support economic growth and improve quality of life for millions of people.
We strive to be a world-class operator, a responsible corporate citizen and a good employer.
We believe that the societies and communities we work in should benefit from our presence.
In supplying energy we contribute to economies around the world by employing local staff, helping to develop national and local suppliers, and through the Developing and extracting oil and gas taxes we pay to governments.
Additionally, we aim to create meaningful and sustainable impacts in those communities through our Creating shareholder value social investments.
projects gives us choice about which we Finding oil and gas $11.2bn pursue see page 28.
New access allows us to renew our portfolio, employee wages and benefits We also seek to grow or extend the life of discover additional resources and replenish existing fields and are using new business our development options.
We focus our models to increase value.
Our US Lower 48 exploration activities in the areas that are onshore business and Aker BP in Norway see $2.2bn competitive in the portfolio.
We develop and page 26 are two examples of how weve used use technology to reduce costs and risks.
taxes paid to governments innovative new business models in response to comprising income and the competitive environment.
production taxes Developing and extracting oil and gas Transporting and trading We create value by seeking to progress We move oil and gas through pipelines and $7.5bn hydrocarbon resources and turn them into by ship, truck and rail.
We also trade a variety total dividends distributed to BP proved reserves, or sell them on if they do not of products including oil, natural gas, liquefied shareholders fit with our strategic priorities.
We develop natural gas, power and currencies.
Our traders and produce the resources that meet our complete around 550,000 transactions and return threshold, which we then sell to the serve more than 12,000 customers across market or distribute to our downstream some 140 countries in a year.
Our upstream pipeline of future bp.
com sustainability 10 10 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 Strategic report Strategic report ov overview Technology, innovation and venturing Partnerships and collaboration Governance and oversight New technologies are enabling us to produce We aim to build enduring relationships Our risk management systems and policy energy safely and more efficiently.
We with governments, customers, partners, provide a consistent and clear framework selectively research and invest in areas with suppliers and communities in the countries for managing and reporting risks.
The board the potential to add greatest value to our where we operate.
regularly reviews how we identify, evaluate business now and in the future.
See Using technology on page 12.
See How we manage risk on page 47.
Transporting and trading Manufacturing Marketing fuels and products Generating renewable energy We use our market intelligence to analyse Our lubricants business has premium one of the worlds most sustainable and supply and demand for commodities across brands and access to growth markets.
It advantaged feedstocks to produce both our global network.
This helps us deliver also leverages technology and customer low carbon ethanol and low carbon power.
what the market needs, when it needs it, relationships, all of which we believe gives We provide renewable power through identify the best markets for BPs crude us competitive advantage.
We serve our significant interests in onshore wind oil, source optimal raw materials for our automotive, industrial, marine and energy energy in the US.
We develop and deploy refineries and provide competitive supply markets across the world.
technology in our wind business to drive for our marketing businesses.
And in petrochemicals our proprietary efficiency and capacity.
technology solutions deliver leading cost Manufacturing and marketing positions compared to our competitors.
In addition to our own petrochemicals plants, fuels and products we work with partners and license our We produce refined petroleum products at technology to third parties.
our refineries and supply distinctive fuel and convenience retail services to consumers.
More information Generating renewable energy Our advantaged infrastructure, logistics Upstream We have the largest operated renewables network and key partnerships help us to have Page 24 business among our oil and gas peers.
We differentiated fuels businesses and deliver Downstream operate a biofuels business in Brazil, using compelling customer offers.
Page 30 Alternative energy Page 38 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 11 11 Using technology Developments in technology will shape and influence the way we identify, extract, convert, store and ultimately consume energy in the future.
Our approach is not about trying to do everything, but to focus on the areas that have the greatest potential value to our business now !
We focus our activities on: Piloting in the Detecting early managing safety and operational risk Gulf of Mexico warning signs capturing business value competitively differentiating BP from others.
When a facility is unexpectedly identifies early warning signs of The right technology is central to the safety and reliability of our out of action, production revenues potential performance problems.
This covers everything from assessment and management are lost and costs rise from It gathers machinery and plant of technical risk to maximizing our businesses efficiency and unscheduled maintenance.
But data, analyses it and brings it all to performance.
It helps us to grow value through innovation, acquisition plant operations advisor, a new a single screen so that engineers of competitive new capabilities and application of best practice.
digital solution we are developing can troubleshoot quickly and in collaboration with GE Oil & resolve potential issues.
We are In Upstream, this technology investment also supports business Gas, will help our engineers now piloting the system at an strategy by focusing on increased recovery and gaining new access.
respond to issues in real time, offshore operating hub in the Gulf And in Downstream we develop and apply technology that enhances reducing unplanned downtime of Mexico.
operational integrity, boosts conversion efficiency or reduces CO 2 and improving the reliability of emissions in some of our operations and provides high-performance operational facilities.
The system products for our customers.
We have scientists and technologists at seven major technology centres in the US, UK and Germany.
BP and its subsidiaries hold with existing technology.
In more than 3,800 granted patents and pending patent applications partnership with Rosneft and throughout the world.
In 2016 we invested $400 million in research Schlumbergers WesternGeco, and development 2015 $418 million, 2014 $663 million.
The we are developing innovative 30% reduction was largely due to halting major conversion technology technologies to improve our faster programmes in Downstream and biofuels.
surveys with faster, betterquality data, captured at a lower Around the world, BP engineers are now using the big data Argus cost with less risk.
Our project platform to make critical decisions about wells, reservoirs and fields Improving seismic has the potential to expand with state-of-the-art analytical tools that draw on historical and the industrys ability to image technology real-time data points.
With these new capabilities, well-sensor data the subsurface, especially in is being made available to engineers and operators within seconds Seismic data helps us see into challenging land environments for monitoring, analysis and value optimization.
reservoir rock and detect where across the world and it also BP is partnering with others to understand and develop solutions for hydrocarbon potential may lie.
offers environmental and safety the future including sustainable mobility, carbon management, power Achieving high-quality images benefits when working in and storage, bio-products and digital energy.
in difficult terrains is costly and extreme climates and areas that needs many people in the field are difficult to access.
Academic institutions Corporate venture capital Keeping todays Internal technology, including partnerships engines running and research and and acquisitions development People are increasingly choosing to Strategic alliances and joint ventures live in cities, so roads have become Protecting engines for much busier meaning repetitive Licensing 20 years stopping, waiting and starting again.
In fact, independent global research shows that drivers spend DUALOCK contains molecules that up to a third of urban journeys idling lock together to form a powerful Our long-term research is vital to BPs capacity to adapt and grow.
and slowly, but permanently, layer of engine protection.
Weve For example, the BP Institute for Multiphase Flow at the University of this wears away critical engine been helping to protect engines Cambridge has examined a range of complex and challenging problems parts.
Thats why weve launched worldwide against warm-up wear associated with the flow of matter for the past 15 years.
Our research new engine oils containing for 20 years.
Now our unique into rock and fluid interactions has led to significant developments in our latest patented molecules, DUALOCK technology builds on the use of low salinity water to improve oil recovery from our fields.
designed for the needs of todays that by reducing both warm-up and engines.
Castrol MAGNATEC with stop-start wear by up to 50%.
com technology 12 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 Strategic report overview Working smarter optimized monitoring and analysis for 99.5% of We have been reshaping our our wells see page 12, our people are helping portfolio for some years, with a to make a positive difference to our operations.
focus on achieving operational In the Upstream we also launched excellence to grow margins.
a modernization and transformation programme to find ways to improve flexibility, We seek to get more from our existing embrace digitization and drive capital and assets and capture value from each dollar operational performance.
We encourage everyone at BP series of online events to allow employees to find and implement smarter ways of to offer ideas on how we can simplify and working, without compromising safety.
improve many of our processes and From small and simple ideas to large-scale ways of working.
deployment of tools like Argus, which has Less data, more know-how A lot for less Before beginning seismic acquisition in the Each year we buy an annual supply of shallow water area around the Absheron caustic soda for use at Cherry Point refinery.
Peninsula in the Azerbaijani Caspian Sea, To help achieve competitive pricing for this a subsea hazard identification survey was product we introduced a fair and transparent needed.
This process required a lot of data reverse auction where sellers compete collection for analysis and processing to obtain our business.
Compared with causing a backlog that was costing time and the standard purchase prices offered to money.
We assessed this and discovered time us, the auction generated savings of more was being wasted gathering and analysing than $250,000 for this one commodity in a data, regardless of height from the seabed, challenging supply market.
We now aim to when we only needed to identify targets use reverse auctions more widely in markets with heights greater than half a metre.
By where the level of competition lends itself to reassessing the surveys scope with the this approach.
contractor and establishing a new process to only capture what was needed, we saved around $750,000.
Improving competitiveness In the UK we have historically supplied fuels to our retail sites using our own in-house transportation fleet.
After a strategic review to continue to improve competitiveness, we transferred all our UK secondary transport activities including scheduling, dispatching and delivery operations to Hoyer a leading large-scale logistics service provider.
This change further strengthens our business by giving us access to a cost-effective and flexible service from a professional international haulier with a reliable safety track record.
Getting onboard savings Lightening the load To access a rig in Trinidad, operators used As part of our review of rental equipment complex scaffolding that took around 11 at the PSVM development in Angola, we days to set up.
By replacing this with a removed a number of items like tool boxes, fixed-structure platform we decreased gas racks and welding machines that were set up time by nine days and reduced risk being held on the vessel but not used.
This of joint failure by removing scaffolding has already delivered equipment savings of connections.
This has made significant $750,000 in 2016 and eliminated man hours savings in rig costs and is already being required for maintaining and inspecting the reused to achieve further savings at other equipment.
We are now looking for similar facilities in Trinidad.
opportunities to review excess equipment and inventories elsewhere.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 13 13
