Board activity in 2016 Role of the board The board is responsible for the overall conduct of the groups business.
The directors have duties under both UK company law and BPs Articles of Association.
The primary tasks of the board include: Active consideration and direction of Monitoring of BPs Ensuring that the principal risks and Board and executive 1 long-term strategy and approval performance against the uncertainties to BP are identified and that management of the annual plan.
systems of risk management and control succession.
Strategy Performance and monitoring In 2016 the board worked The board reviewed the BP The board reviews financial and Quarterly and full-year results with the executive team to Energy Outlook, updated in operational performance at each Shareholder distributions.
understand the potential January 2017, which looks at meeting.
It receives regular updates The board reviews the quarterly evolution of the markets in long-term energy trends and on the groups performance for the and full-year results, including which the company operates.
It develops projections for world year across a range of metrics as the shareholder distribution also considered the implications energy markets over the next well as the latest view on expected policy.
Both the 2015 and 2016 of a transition to a low carbon two decades.
full-year delivery against external economy.
annual reports were assessed scorecard measures.
Updates are Following the approval of the in terms of the directors At its September meeting Consent Decree order by the also given on various components obligations and appropriate the board spent two days US court, the Gulf of Mexico of value delivery for BPs business.
discussing with the executive committee was stood down at Regular reports presented to the team their proposals for the the end of the first quarter of board include: The board monitors employee strategic direction of the group 2016.
Updates on the remaining opinion via an annual pulse Chief executives report in the short, medium and longer proceedings are being given survey which includes Group performance report term.
directly to the board or other measurement of how the BP committees as appropriate.
Group financial outlook values are incorporated into The board discusses progress in Effectiveness of investment delivering these strategic aims on Finally, the board has had regular daily culture around our global review a regular basis.
discussions on the development operations.
During the year, the board has monitored the companys Succession performance against the annual plan for 2016 and also set the The board, in conjunction with Antony Burgmans and Phuthuma terms for the annual plan in 2017. the nomination and chairmans Nhleko, both non-executive directors, retired from the board at committees, reviews succession Risk the AGM on 14 April 2016. plans for executive and nonSir John Sawers took the chair executive directors on a regular The board, either directly or through Group risks reviewed by the board of the geopolitical committee basis.
The board needs to its committees, regularly reviews during 2016 included: following Antony Burgmans ensure that potential candidates the processes whereby risks are financial resilience which retirement.
are identified and evaluated as identified, evaluated and managed.
examines how the group is Alan Boeckmann took the current directors reach the end able to respond to a volatile oil Activities include: chair of the SEEAC, succeeding of their recommended term of and gas price environment assessing the effectiveness of Paul Anderson who served as office, including in the event cybersecurity with the audit the groups system of internal chair for four years.
of a director needing to leave committee and SEEAC control and risk management Mr Anderson continues as a unexpectedly.
reviewing elements of member of the committee.
identification and allocation of cybersecurity risk in their work The board employs executive risks to the board and Ian Davis joined the geopolitical over the year.
search firms when it concludes monitoring committees the committee further to the that this is an effective way of audit, SEEA and geopolitical departure of Antony Burgmans These remain unchanged for 2017. finding suitable candidates.
committees for 2016, and and Phuthuma Nhleko.
The group risks allocated to the In 2016 we appointed Russell confirmation of the schedule At the start of the year, Paul committees for review over the Reynolds Associates to assist for oversight.
Anderson and Brendan Nelson year are outlined in the reports of in the search for non-executive stepped down from the the committees on pages 69-79. directors.
nomination committee and Alan Boeckmann and Nils Andersen joined the board Further information on BPs Sir John Sawers joined.
in October 2016 as a nonsystem of risk management is Cynthia Carroll and Andrew executive director.
He is a outlined in How we manage risk Shilston will be standing down member of the audit on page 47.
Information about from the board at the 2017 committee and the chairmans BPs system of internal control is AGM.
The board is proposing Melody Meyer for election as a director at the 2017 AGM.
64 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 Corporate governance Skills and expertise In order to carry out its duties on behalf of the shareholders, the board needs to manage its overall membership and continuously maintain its knowledge and expertise to benefit the business.
It does this through four activity sets: Succession planning to Diversity including skills, Training including Evaluation ensure future diversity experience, gender, ethnicity site visits and induction and balance and tenure of new directors Background and diversity Director Background Diversity Oil & gas Engineering Financial Safety Brand Regulatory Female Non Tenure extractives technology expertise marketing government UK US years energy reputation affairs 1 Nils Andersen 7 Paul Anderson 3 Alan Boeckmann 6 Frank Bowman 10 Cynthia Carroll 7 Ian Davis 5 Ann Dowling 6 Brendan Nelson 2 Paula Rosput Reynolds 2 John Sawers 5 Andrew Shilston 8 Carl-Henric Svanberg The board is satisfied that there is no compromise to the independence Diversity of, and nothing to give rise to conflicts of interest for, those directors BP recognizes the importance of diversity, including gender, at the board who serve together as directors on the boards of other entities or and all levels of the group.
We are committed to increasing diversity who hold other external appointments.
The nomination committee across our operations and have a wide range of activities to support the keeps the other interests of the NEDs under review to ensure that the development and promotion of talented individuals, regardless of gender effectiveness of the board is not compromised.
The board operates a policy that aims to promote diversity in its Appointment and time commitment composition.
Under this policy, director appointments are evaluated The chairman and NEDs have letters of appointment.
There is no term against the existing balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the limit on a directors service, as BP proposes all directors for annual board, with directors asked to be mindful of diversity, inclusiveness and re-election by shareholders a practice followed since 2004. meritocracy considerations when examining nominations to the board.
Implementation of this policy is monitored through agreed metrics.
While the chairmans appointment letter sets out the time commitment During its annual evaluation, the board considered diversity as part of the expected of him, letters of appointment for NEDs do not set a fixedreview of its performance and effectiveness.
time commitment, but instead set a general guide of between 30-40 days per year.
The time required of directors may fluctuate depending New diversity targets have been suggested by the Hampton-Alexander on demands of BP business and other events.
They are expected to review in November 2016, to increase female representation on boards, allocate sufficient time to BP to perform their duties effectively and executive committees and in the executive team direct reports by 2020. make themselves available for all regular and ad hoc meetings.
At the end of 2016, there were three female directors 2015 3, 2014 2 on our board of 14.
Our nomination committee actively considers Executive directors are permitted to take up one external board diversity in seeking potential candidates for appointment to the board.
appointment, subject to the agreement of the chairman.
Fees received for an external appointment may be retained by the executive director and are reported in the annual report on remuneration see page 97.
Independence Neither the chairman nor the senior independent director are employed Non-executive directors NEDs are expected to be independent as an executive of the group.
in character and judgement and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with exercising that judgement.
It is the boards view that all NEDs, with the exception of the chairman, are independent.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 65 Activity following prior year audit Training and induction An external evaluation was carried out at the end of 2015.
Following a To help develop an understanding of BPs business, the board continues selection process led by the senior independent director, Bvalco was to build its knowledge through briefings and field visits.
In 2016 the engaged as the external evaluator.
board received training on ethics and compliance and digital innovation.
The evaluation tested key areas of the boards work including: NEDs are expected to visit at least one business per year as part of their learning programme.
In 2016 the board visited operations in Baku participation in the development of strategy and Azerbaijan, and members of the SEEAC and other directors visited succession and composition operations in Alaska, Colorado and Belgium.
oversight of business performance, risk and governance processes.
Newly appointed NEDs follow a structured induction process.
This The effectiveness of the committees in alleviating the boards overall includes one-to-one meetings with management and the external oversight was also tested to establish whether this added value for auditors and also covers the board committees that they join.
Results of the board evaluation and feedback from these interviews were Director induction programme discussed by the board at its meeting in January 2016, with the results of the chairmans evaluation discussed by the chairmans committee.
Key conclusions of the evaluation included: It was helpful to meet a Ensuring an effective strategy process that focused on the long term wide range of company and which acknowledged the important role of the board in this process.
Continued focus on succession for the board.
Building on the collaborative and inclusive environment to try and put Nils Andersen more of the monitoring tasks into the committees to allow more time Non-executive director for broader discussions at the board.
Further steps should be taken to ensure that where appropriate all directors can access information and attend external visits for those Nils Andersen, appointed in 2016, followed a tailored committees of which they were not members.
induction process, also covering the audit committee 2016 evaluation that he joined.
The programme of topics included: The evaluation was undertaken through a questionnaire facilitated by an external consultant Lintstock and individual interviews between the Safety and operational risk Board and governance chairman and each director.
The results of the evaluation and feedback BPs board governance model, S&OR, BPs operating from the interviews were collectively discussed by the board at its directors duties, interests and management system OMS meeting in February 2017, with the results of the chairmans evaluation potential conflicts.
and environmental discussed by the chairmans committee.
performance Business introduction Research and technology The evaluation concluded that the board felt its work and performance BPs business Legal.
during the year had been positive.
There had been an effective process Upstream exploration, to develop a refreshed strategy, and board discussions remained open development, production, Audit committee specic and constructive.
overview of our operations Upstream and downstream Downstream refining, finance Actions arising from the evaluation in 2017 included: marketing and lubricants Tax Focus on implementing the strategy, in particular the opportunities Strategy and planning Oil and gas reserves relating to the transition to a lower carbon economy.
BPs performance relative accounting to its competitors.
Controls, accounting and Continued emphasis on improving operational excellence.
reporting Functional input Further examination of the financial performance of the business, in External auditors and internal Human resources particular capital allocation and returns.
audit Ethics and compliance Treasury and trading.
Obtaining a better understanding of the groups ability to effectively deliver the strategy, including technology, digital and big data.
Bringing wider perspectives into the board room and gaining deeper Board evaluation insight into shareholder views.
BP undertakes an annual review of the board, its committees and individual directors.
The chairmans performance is evaluated by the chairmans committee and his evaluation is led by the senior independent director.
The evaluation operates on a three-year cycle, with one externally led evaluation followed by two subsequent years of internal evaluations carried out using a questionnaire prepared by an external facilitator.
66 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 Corporate governance Field visits Non-executive directors are expected to visit at least one business per year, as part of their learning programme.
In 2016 the board visited operations in Baku, Azerbaijan, and members of the SEEAC and other directors visited operations in Alaska, Colorado and Belgium.
The board met local management during each visit, and after each one, the board or appropriate committee was briefed on the impressions gained by the directors during the visit.
Lower 48, US Members of the SEEAC visited operations in Durango, Colorado in October.
The visit was hosted by leadership of the Lower 48 business and included detailed reviews of production efficiency, operational management and safety and risk Geel, Belgium mitigation.
Members saw the Florida gas Members of the SEEAC and other directors plant and a number of well sites visited the petrochemicals plant in Geel, Belgium and a produced water storage and in December.
They were shown key areas of the injection facility.
plant, in particular the paraxylene manufacturing There was a particular emphasis on the facility.
The visit also involved meetings with way in which the Lower 48 business site leadership, and a review of safety-related is promoting safety through digital incidents and trends.
The outreach programme information sharing of incidents and with the surrounding community was also leadership communications.
Alaska, US Members of the SEEAC and other directors visited Anchorage and the North Slope in August.
The visit to the North Slope included reviews of operations and flow stations as well as the central gas facility.
They also visited pipelines and other critical infrastructure.
Directors met local business and political leaders in Anchorage, as well as local BP leadership and other staff.
Subsequent installation and Baku, Azerbaijan commissioning will take place at the field.
The board visited the fabrication site for Shah Deniz Stage 2 topsides in Baku in May.
Board Board members also met with site leadership members were given a tour of the topsides and were given a detailed update on the Shah for the Shah Deniz Bravo production platform Deniz Stage 2 project as a whole.
and the quarters and utilities platform.
They reviewed progress of construction and discussed the safety record at the site in particular the fact that more than 17 million safe man hours had been worked.
They were informed that almost 90% of the workforce is Azerbaijani.
The jackets for the platform are being constructed separately in Azerbaijan with a projected sail away in the BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 67
