Strategic report performance Greenhouse gas emissions Climate change We report on direct and indirect GHG emissions on a carbon dioxideWorking with others, BP can help drive the transition to a lower equivalent CO e basis.
Direct emissions include CO and methane 2 2 carbon future.
from the combustion of fuel and the operation of facilities, and indirect emissions include those resulting from the purchase of electricity, heat, Calling for a price on carbon steam or cooling.
BP believes that carbon pricing by governments is the most Our approach to reporting GHG emissions broadly follows the comprehensive and economically efficient policy to limit GHG IPIECA API IOGP Petroleum Industry Guidelines for Reporting GHG emissions.
We assess how potential carbon policy could affect our Emissions.
We calculate emissions based on the fuel consumption businesses now and in the future.
and fuel properties for major sources rather than the use of generic To help anticipate greater regulatory requirements for GHG emission factors.
We do not include nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, emissions, we factor a carbon price into our own investment perfluorocarbons and sulphur hexafluoride as they are not material and it decisions and engineering designs for large new projects and those is not practical to collect this data.
for which emissions costs would be a material part of the project.
In industrialized countries, this is currently $40 per tonne of CO ab 2 Greenhouse gas emissions equivalent and we also stress test at a carbon price of $80 per tonne.
MteCO equivalent 2 55 Supplying natural gas 1.5 50.1 0.3 49.0 -0.3 Around half of BPs upstream portfolio is currently natural gas, which 50 -0.4 produces about half as much GHG emissions as coal when burned to generate power.
We have several new big gas projects coming 45 onstream in the next few years including Khazzan in Oman, West Nile Delta and Zohr in Egypt, Juniper in Trinidad and the Southern Gas Corridor from the Caspian Sea to Europe.
Providing renewable energy BP invests in renewable energy where we can build commercially viable businesses at scale.
With a focus on biofuels and wind, we have a This is based on BPs equity share basis excluding BPs share of Rosneft.
b A minor adjustment has been made from the reported 2015 figure of 48.9. the largest operated renewables business among our oil and gas peers.
Our direct GHG emissions are impacted year-on-year by changes in our Pursuing efficient operations portfolio and operations.
For example, emissions can increase when We are focusing on ways to reduce our GHG emissions.
This includes we start up new projects or when we bring operations back online after looking to improve the energy efficiency of our operations and planned maintenance.
Both of these activities are essential for the safe reducing flaring and methane emissions.
performance and growth of BPs portfolio.
In 2016, the increase in our direct GHG emissions was primarily due to operational changes that Investing in start-ups and innovation include the start-up activities of the Sunrise oil sands project in Canada and the LNG plant in Angola.
And one of our US refineries restarted Over the past decade, we have invested in start-up companies to operations following a planned shutdown for maintenance.
Around a help accelerate development and commercial viability of certain quarter of the increase is due to changes in how we calculate emissions.
As at 31 December 2016, we had invested around $300 million in emerging technology companies around half of these This increase has been partially offset by our real sustainable investments focus on low carbon solutions.
reductions these are actions taken by our businesses to permanently reduce their GHG emissions in areas such as flaring, methane and Helping customers reduce their emissions energy efficiency.
We began tracking this in 2002, and the running total BP provides an increasing number of lower carbon, energy-efficient by the end of 2016 exceeded 9.1Mte.
and high-performance products to help our customers reduce their Greenhouse gas emissions MteCO e 2 carbon footprint from Castrol lubricants with lower viscosity, which 2016 2015 2014 helps manufacturers improve the efficiency of their vehicles to a Operational control PTAir PTA with around a 30% lower carbon footprint than average b Direct emissions 51.4 51.2 54.1 European production.
Indirect emissions 6.2 7.0 7.5 c We are collaborating with others to help address this global challenge.
BP equity share d e As one example, the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative currently chaired Direct emissions 50.1 49.0 48.7 by our chief executive Bob Dudley brings together 10 oil and gas Indirect emissions 6.2 6.9 6.8 companies working to reduce the GHG emissions from our industrys a Operational control data comprises 100% of emissions from activities that are operated by operations and the use of our products.
BP, going beyond the IPIECA guidelines by including emissions from certain other activities such as contracted drilling activities.
com climatechange for more information.
b A minor adjustment has been made from the reported 2015 figure of 51.4. c BP equity share comprises our share of BPs consolidated entities and equity-accounted entities, other than BPs share of Rosneft.
d A minor adjustment has been made from the reported 2015 figure of 48.9. e A minor adjustment has been made from the reported 2014 figure of 48.6.
The ratio of our total GHG emissions reported on an operational control basis to gross production was 0.24teCO e te production in 2016 2015 2 0.24teCO e te, 2014 0.25teCO e te.
Gross production comprises 2 2 upstream production, refining throughput and petrochemicals produced.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 43 2015 direct GHG Acquisitions Divestments Operational changes Real sustainable reductions 2016 direct GHG
