Understanding Our Market Challenges and opportunities Increasing Changing An ageing consumer consumer Society population freedom demands People are having to A larger number The introduction Clients are Market drivers become increasingly ofpeople are ofnew pension increasingly requiring self-reliant regarding approaching or freedom rules and outcome-oriented their financial futures, entering periods other changes have solutions that enable seeking solutions oflong retirement increased complexity them to fulfil their that suit them in whomay have and more people are personal ambitions areas including benefitedfrom seeking advice.
rather than focusing retirement provision generous pensions solely on investment and planning for and rising house performance.
To be known for A growing number of To be recognised as More people are Opportunities for providing an people require an providing high-quality seeking advice-led, Brewin Dolphin integrated set of advice-led solution advice that enables goal oriented services that help toprotect and grow people to extract the propositions rather meet an individuals their substantial greatest possible than pure investment full set of financial personal wealth.
planning and pensions and investment needs.
Our response Our advice-led Our advice offers We ensure We build and proposition tailored solutions to throughrecruitment sustainlong-term supportslong-term meet these needs.
and development relationships relationships and that our people are withclients that enables us to help ofan industry-leading enable us to clients fulfil their quality and expertise, understand and long-term goals.
so they are able respond totheir toadvise on changing needs.
18 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The financial services marketplace never stands still, driven by societal, economic, legislative and technological change.
Here we identify some of the most powerful forces at play, the opportunities they represent and how we are responding to them.
Low interest Regulatory Competitive Technological rates change environment The advice gap change Within the continuing Increasing regulatory Our industry remains The FCA encourages Increasing numbers environment of change withinthe fragmented and innovation to meet ofpeople wish to use exceptionally low investment and continues to see new the needs of digital channels to interest rates, wealth management entrants as well as customers failing engage when, where peoplerequire more sector results in withdrawals from toaccess advice and how they choose.
guidance on how highercosts of some competitors.
for cost, trust and togain an adequate compliance across knowledge reasons.
return from their the industry.
Growing numbers To capitalise People are looking To introduce new To provide clients of people require on our scale to for consistent and ways of meeting with arange of easy-toadvice to be able efficiently absorb trusted advisersto the needs of more use communication togenerate sufficient the increased costs build long-term people.
channelsthat match returns within their of compliance.
and complement our emphasis on faceto-face relationships.
Our outcome Our scale means To leverage our We focus on In 2016, we oriented advice-led thatwe are able to reputationas a innovationto introduced several solutions allow absorb the costs of long-standing wealth developbetter technological ustoadapt to regulatory change manager to attract waysof serving improvements clientsneeds in within our operating a growing number clientsthrough including automated changing external model and allocate of clients.
client self-service on ourBrewin Portfolio Service.
We arecontinuing to develop arange ofdigital channels acrossour business.
