Our Business Today A scalable platform for growth Our rich heritage and reputation for trust, integrityand service alongside our regional presence provides a strong platform from which we can grow our business.
Who we are Founded in 1762, Brewin Dolphin is a  UK wealth manager.
We are listed on the London Stock Exchange, and are a member of the FTSE 250 Index.
We take an integrated, adviceledapproach to protecting and growing our clients wealth by combining our experience 1,583 and expertise in financial planning and investment management.
Our success is built employees upon our belief in the importance of long-term client relationships and our commitment to a highly personalised and high-quality service.
28 Who our clients are Funds offices PI Direct private individuals 19.2bn Private individuals via PI 7.5bn intermediaries CO Corporates 2.6bn CH Charities 3.1bn 1 Total core funds 32.4bn 1 Discretionary and execution only funds.
14 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Our services The table below outlines the servicesprovided by the Group.
Core services Available to Wealth Management PI Integrated approach to protecting and growing wealth that combines both Financial Planning and Investment Management.
Investment Management PI PI CH CO Designed for clients who want to benefit from a personal focus on their investment portfolio but do not require financial planning.
Financial Planning PI This service helps address our clients wider financial planning needs including advice on investment, protection or retirement requirements.
Managed Portfolio Service MPS PI This service is provided for financial advisers who offer a suite of risk rated model portfolios designed for their clients who do not require, or for whom it is not cost effective, to have a personalised solution.
Brewin Portfolio Service BPS PI A cost effective service for clients with smaller sums to invest who do not need advice.
It combines the investment expertise of Brewin Dolphin with the freedom for individuals who are happy making their own risk decisions and investment choices.
It gives access to six risk rated portfolioswhich areprimarily invested in passive funds.
Execution Only PI CH CO Custody, trade execution and settlement servicesfor clients who have no need for advice and prefer to make their own investment decisions.
This service is limited and we no longer provide it on a standalone basis to new clients.
Non-core services Advisory PI CH CO The service provided is either Advisory Managed, where we provide advice on both the structure of theportfolioand the individual investments within it, or Dealing with Advice where advice is provided ona transactional basis only.
We no longer offer this service for new clients, other than on an exceptionalbasis.
