Our Strategy From strengthening to expanding Objectives What we said we would do Introduce multiple new initiatives to achieve or exceed 5% Revenue growth grow the business 1 annual net inflows target.
in both absolute and market share Develop new marketing and promotional ideas to attract terms, by increasing the number of new clients.
clients and the proportion of their wealth that we manage Develop strategic national relationships with selected intermediaries.
Work on understanding the views of clients.
Launch Professional Services proposition to support direct private client growth.
Implement enhanced portfolio management systems.
Improved efficiency maintain 2 an efficient operating model enabling investment, developing productivity and sustaining competitive pricing Evaluate opportunities for further investment in the business.
Capital sufficiency maintain 3 sufficient capital to maximise opportunities and cover risks Maintain the current dividend policy with a target pay out ratio Dividend growth grow our 4 of 60% to 80% of adjusted diluted EPS.
dividend in line with earnings 28 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Our vision is to become the UKs leading provider of personalised wealth and investment management services, delivering rewarding careers and sustainable shareholder returns.
2016 progress Future focus Achieved 2.7 billiongross inflowsinto our core business, Further new services targeting range of discrete segments, including 0.9 billion gross inflows from intermediaries and based on client and intermediary research.
0.5 billion of funds into our model portfolios.
Net inflows of Continued investment in client-facing new hires.
4.4% were impacted by theeffects of prior yearrestructuring.
Actively developour already strongintermediary relationships.
Developed the business development capabilities of our people Further training in business development capabilities for through focused training initiatives and acted to enhance our people.
Continued investment in technology to ease accessibility Invested in high quality hires.
Launched thefirst professional services propositions.
Ran content-led and event-based marketing campaigns supporting our needs-based proposition.
Upgraded portfoliomanagement and order management Investing in technology and process improvement to increase systems to reduce time spent on administration and maximise efficiency and reduce costs.
Roll out of new system for our financial planning business and implementation of new HR and financial reporting systems.
Increased instances of straight through processing in internal systems andsimplified reconciliations by restructuring custody and settlement arrangements.
Automation of unit trust settlement to increase efficiency.
Capital sufficiency maintained to enable investment Continue to maintain capital at a level  opportunities and provide comfort during periods in emerging opportunities from a position of strength.
Dividend pay out ratio of 77% of adjusted diluted EPS.
Continue policy of target payment of 60% to 80% of adjusted diluted EPS to ensure we grow our dividend in line with earnings.
For more information see our Key Performance Indicators on page 30 and our Principal Risks on page 33. brewin.
