STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Other Statutory Information Index to principal Directors Report and Listing Rule disclosures Relevant information required to be disclosed in the Directors Report and as set out in Listing Rule 9.8.
4 R information to be included in the Annual Report and Accounts may be found in the following sections: Information Section in Annual Report Pages Business Review Strategic Report 22-27, 30-32 and 38-45 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Strategic Report 33-37 Disclosure information to auditor Other Statutory Information 98 Directors in office during the year Corporate Governance Report 57 Dividend recommendation for the year Chairmans Statement 21 Directors indemnities Other Statutory Information 95 Corporate responsibility Strategic Report 46-49 Greenhouse gas emissions Other Statutory Information 97 Financial instruments risk management Notes to the financial statements 148-155 objectives and policies Future developments of the Company Strategic Report 22-27 Employment policies and employee Strategic Report 46 involvement Structure of share capital, including Other Statutory Information 96 restrictions on the transfer of securities, voting rights and significant shareholders Rules governing the appointments of Corporate Governance Report 58 Directors Powers of Directors Corporate Governance Report 55 Rules governing changes to the Articles of Other Statutory Information 96 Association Shareholder waiver of dividends Note 29 of the financial statements 146 The above information is incorporated by reference and together with the information on pages 95 and 99 forms the Directors Report in accordance with section 415 of the Companies Act 2006.
Strategic Report The Strategic Report is set out on pages 12 to 49 and was approved by the Board on 29 November 2016.
It is signed on behalf of the Board by David Nicol, Chief Executive.
Cautionary statement The review of the business and its future development in the Annual Report has been prepared solely to provide additional information to shareholders to assess the Groups strategies and the potential for these strategies to succeed.
It should not be relied on by any other party for any other purpose.
The review contains forward looking statements which are made by the Directors in good faith based on information available to them up to the time of the approval of these reports and should be treated with caution due to inherent uncertainties associated with such statements.
The Directors, in preparing the Strategic Report, have complied with s417 of the Companies Act 2006.
Directors indemnities The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors during the period and these remain in force at the date of this report.
co. uk 95 Other Statutory Information continued Share capital Details of the Companys authorised and issued share capital, together with details of the movements therein, are set out in note29 to the financial statements.
This includes the rights and obligations attaching to shares and restrictions on the transfer of shares.
The Company has one class of Ordinary Shares which carry no right to fixed income.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Employee share plans Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 33.
Shares held by Computershare Trustees Limited abstain from voting.
Under the rules of the Groups Share Incentive Plan BDSIP, shares are held in trust for participants by Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited the Trustee.
Voting rights are exercised by the Trustee on receipt of the participants instructions: if no such instruction is received by the Trustee then no vote is registered.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are either fully or nil paid.
The Company has over the last three-year period, issued a total of 1.70% of its issued share capital of Ordinary Shares in relation to the acquisition of businesses and client relationships.
Articles of Association The Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
Substantial shareholdings As at 30 September 2016, the Company had received notifications in accordance with the FCAs Disclosures and Transparency Rule 5.1.
2 of the following interests of 3% or more in the voting rights of the Company.
Shareholder Date of notification Number of voting rights % of voting rights Royal London Asset Management 06 07 2016 16,824,793 5.95 Aberforth Partners 18 07 2016 14,390,759 5.08 Blackrock Inc. 22 07 2014 Below 5% Below 5 FIL Limited 25 04 2016 14,092,698 4.97 FIL Investment International 06 12 2012 12,477,394 4.47 Aviva plc and its subsidiaries 14 12 2015 10,296,674 3.64 Henderson Group plc 29 01 2016 9,181,046 3.24 Legal & General 28 11 2008 8,563,901 3.07 Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at 11.30 am on 3 February 2017 at Haberdashers Hall, 18 West Smithfield, London EC1A 9HQ.
The Notice of Meeting will be posted to shareholders in January 2017.
Purchase of own shares At the AGM on 5 February 2016, shareholders approved a resolution for the Company to make purchases of its own shares to a maximum of 10% of its issued Ordinary Shares.
This resolution remains valid until the conclusion of the next AGM in 2017.
As at 29 November 2016 the Directors had not used this authority.
Employees The average number of persons, including Directors, employed by the Group and their remuneration, are set out in note7 to the financial statements.
Other information about the Groups employee engagement, diversity and inclusion policiesis set out on pages 46 and 47.
96 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Greenhouse Gas Emissions GHG The Group recognises its impact on the environment and strives to minimise it.
As a financial services provider, our main environmental focus is on our network of offices and employee travel.
This is the third year the Group has reported as a quoted company under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
Global GHG emissions for the period ended 30 September 2016 Emissions from: Tonnes of CO e 2015 16 Tonnes of CO e 2014 15 2 2 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 327 236 Electricity purchased for own use 2,030 2,258 Fugitive emissions refrigerant losses 8.80 Mobile combustion business travel from leased assets 20 3.97 Companys chosen intensity measurement: Emissions per full time employee 1.5 1.5 Methodology and additional information The table on this page reports the Groups annual GHG emissions from sources which fall within the consolidated financial statements.
Included are most of the emission sources that the Group has responsibility for but some emission sources have been omitted based on a lack of data and materiality.
Details of the emissions which have been omitted are given in the Emission sources not reported section below.
The Group has gathered energy use data natural gas and electricity, refrigerants use as well as business travel mileage and has applied emission factors from the July 2015 update to the Defra impact profile.
This year, we have moved from consumed electricity togenerated electricity emission factors included in the Defra library and this has resulted in some discrepancies between figures in thecurrent reporting year and the comparison year.
We did not undertake any replacements of our Direct Expansion system this year, hence the refrigerant losses are zero.
We have improved the way we collect data for our leased assets and have increased our accuracy in reporting, differentiating by car size and fuel type.
This has resulted in some discrepancy between the current year mobile combustion figure and the comparison year, but will give us a more accurate basis for monitoring and reporting in future years.
Emission sources not reported This section of the report details the emission sources that the Group has not reported on and the reasons for their exclusions.
Onlyaminority of the buildings the Group operates directly makes use of gas and this has been included in emissions from combustion offuel.
It has not been possible to determine separate heat steam usageas the Group mostly occupies premises under shared occupancy and these costs are included inservice charges.
Data quality Our data for electricity as well as gas consumption comes from two main sources: consumption bills from suppliers reports from property agents exact data : and our approximations based on exact data estimated data.
The Group has used estimated data in some cases due to the lack of complete data for electricity consumption.
The section below details the approach the Group has taken to complete these data gaps: Where buildings had incomplete electricity consumption figures for certain months over the current reporting period, a conservative approach for estimating this data was chosen.
The methodology used was to apply a daily consumption figure calculated by using themonth in the dataset with the highest electricity consumption to the months that had missing data.
In cases where no electricity data was held, the methodology was calculated using the buildings with exact and complete data tocalculate average electricity consumption per square metre for each month in the current reporting period.
The monthly average consumption per square metre was used to estimate the monthly electricity consumption of buildings with no electricity data, based onindividual floor areas.
In cases where gas consumption data for the current reporting period was unavailable, the previous years data was used as anapproximation.
co. uk 97 Other Statutory Information continued Auditor Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Annual Report confirms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and the Director has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Approved for and on behalf of the Board Louise Meads Company Secretary Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Company Number: 2685806 29 November 2016 98 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC
