Nomination Committee Report We continued to focus on succession planning and talent development programmes in 2016 and actively monitored the succession planning processes in place across the Group.
Simon Miller Chairman of the Nomination Committee appointed as the Senior Independent Director following the Chairmans overview AGM in February 2017.
The Committee also noted that all the The Committee continued to focus on succession planning and remaining Non-Executive Directors were appointed within a talent development programmes in 2016 and actively monitored relatively short time period and that succession planning for the the succession planning processes in place across the Group.
Board will need to address this issue.
We believe these programmes will provide the foundation of a strong talent pipeline in the years to come.
You can read more We conducted a review of the remaining Non-Executive Directors, about the key achievements in this area in the Chief Executive's which included a skills matrix to identify whether there were any Review.
Five new appointments were made to the Executive gaps to address in light of Angela Knights departure.
Committee during the year and all were sourced internally.
The Board and Executive Committee have already benefited from Role and responsibilities of the their input and perspective on how we can continue to improve Nomination Committee our services, to deliver more value to clients and to drive growth Reviews the composition of the Board and Board Committees across the Group.
to ensure that they are properly constituted and balanced in terms of skills, experience and diversity.
Stephen Ford stepped down from the Board in January 2016 as part of the reorganisation of our executive management.
Conducts succession planning for the Board and ensures that This change was considered by the Board as a whole, rather there are effective plans in place for the wider than by the Nomination Committee in the first instance.
Formally assesses each Directors skills and experience, both Angela Knight has served as a Director for nine years and has to identify any skills gaps that need to be addressed through announced her intention not to stand for re-election at the AGM Board changes and to assist with succession planning.
We recommended to the Board that Kath Cates be Manages the search process for new Directors, recommending appointments to the Board.
60 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Committee composition The Committee comprises the Board Chairman and independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Chief Executive is a standing attendee, except when matters relating to his own appointment are discussed.
Committee members Other Committees Standing attendees R Simon Miller Chairman Remuneration Chief Executive A Angela Knight Audit Committee Group Human Resources Director A Caroline Taylor Audit Committee R Remuneration Committee R Paul Wilson Remuneration Committee Chairman RK Board Risk Committee David Nicol was a member of the Committee until 3 November 2015.
Committee attendance during the year Committee meetings Attendance Members March June October Simon Miller 100% Angela Knight 100% Caroline Taylor 100% Paul Wilson 100% As discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report, we made five Independence and re-election to the Board internal appointments to the Executive Committee during the year.
During 2015, we formally considered the continuing appointment It is disappointing that none of these appointments were female of Angela Knight, the Senior Independent Director, who was but weexpect that the considerable work being implemented appointed in July 2007.
This included considering whether there throughout the Group under our leadership development and was any evidence that her independence had been impaired by diversity programmes will support a more diverse talent pipeline in the length of her service on the Board.
We concluded that it was the years to come.
Following the five new appointments, the in shareholders interests that she remained on the Board and Executive Committee now has 10% female representation.
that there was no evidence to indicate that her independence had been impaired.
All other Non-Executive Directors have Succession planning served terms of less than six years and are considered to be We continued to develop and monitor succession plans both at independent.
All Directors, with the exception of Angela Knight, Board and at senior management levels during 2016.
The Group will be standing for re-election at the 2017 AGM.
You can find Human Resources Director is a standing attendee at Nomination biographical information on each of our Directors on pages 52 Committee meetings.
He has presented the Committee with to 53. details of the Group-wide succession planning and development programmes for senior management.
Potential successors Diversity have been identified for senior management positions, and Brewin Dolphin has established a Diversity and Inclusion Non-Executive Directors meet with key individuals as part Committee.
A number of initiatives were in operation during the of their office visits.
year to encourage wider diversity throughout the Group, including the Women @ Brewin network, which aims to provide guidance The Committee continues to be satisfied that adequate and support to help the development of female talent at all levels succession planning is in place for the Board and senior of the organisation.
You can read more about this programme on executives.
This will remain a key focus in 2017. page 47.
Considering the benefits of diversity on the Board in all aspects, Simon Miller including gender, is an important part of the search for new Board Chairman of the Nomination Committee candidates.
Currently, three of our eight Directors are female 37%.
Whenever possible, we will ensure each time a Director is 29 November 2016 recruited that at least one of the shortlisted candidates is female.
co. uk 61 Board Risk Committee Report The ability to identify, monitor and managerisks is a key requirement of all successful businesses.
Kath Cates Chairman of the Board Risk Committee We have focused our deep dive reviews on the Group's key risks Chairmans overview such as investment governance, people, internal processes, The ability to identify, monitor and manage risks is a key IT, information security and the operating model to assess and requirement of all successful businesses, particularly those challenge controls.
operating in the financial sector.
To do this effectively, businesses need to understand their key risks, their appetite for risk taking We have also received updates on changes in legislation and the and the mitigating factors they can use to limit downsides.
economic environment, with particular reference to Brexit and its The Board of Brewin Dolphin has delegated this area to the impact on the business.
The Board does, however, retain ultimate Angela Knight stepped down from her role as a member of responsibility for setting the Groups risk appetite and for ensuring theCommittee during the year.
I would like to thank her for her that our system of internal control and risk management is significant contribution to the Committee over the past few years.
The Committee has reviewed management information on key The Committee will continue during 2017 to examine key risks risks to the business.
We havealso provided oversight to ensure which are relevant to the Groups strategic objectives.
that the Groups approved risk appetite remains appropriate and During 2016, the metrics used in management information that risk tolerance is set to the appropriate level.
reviewed by the Committee were enhanced.
This means that itisnow possible for further challengeof the key risks identified bythe Groups Risk Management Framework, including client money, conduct risk and investment governance.
Key riskshave beenmapped against the Groups strategy at a series of workshops heldduring the year.
62 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Role and responsibilities The Committee provides oversight of the Risk Management Framework to assist the Board with its responsibilities for ensuring the integrity of the Groups internal control and risk management systems.
It does this through: Overseeing the Groups risk management infrastructure Overseeing and supporting the Group Risk and Compliance relatingto all the material risk areas the business faces, Director in ensuring there is adequate resource and an including business and strategic risk, financial risk, operational appropriate level of independence.
risk, conduct risk, regulatory compliance risk, criminality risk Helping the Board manage risks associated with the Groups and investment risk.
strategy, in particular being vigilant and alert to changes in the Helping the Board establish appropriate levels of risk appetite external risk environment.
Reporting on its proceedings to the Board and, wherever Having oversight of how the risk culture is monitored and relevant, to the Audit Committee.
Identifying issues where it considers actions or improvements Measuring and monitoring the Groups exposure to material are needed and making recommendations on the steps to risks and ensuring appropriate mitigation is in place to be taken.
Committee composition The Committee is made up of independent Non-Executive Directors.
There is always a cross-membership with the Audit andRemuneration Committees to help ensure that agendas are aligned and key information is appropriately shared across theBoard Committees.
Committee members Other Committees Standing attendees A Kath Cates Chairman Audit Committee Chief Executive A Ian Dewar Audit Committee Chairman Finance Director R Remuneration Committee Chief Operating Officer R Paul Wilson Remuneration Committee Chairman Co-Head of Private Clients N Nomination Committee Group Risk & Compliance Director Committee attendance during the year Committee meetings Attendance Members Oct Nov Jan Apr July Kath Cates 100% Ian Dewar 100% Paul Wilson 100% Angela Knight n a n a 100% Based on the meetings entitled to attend.
co. uk 63 Board Risk Committee Report continued Committee activities during the year Risk Management and Investment Regulatory change and Key risks Governance Frameworks economic environment Reviewed and approved the risk Reviewed and challenged Reviewed regulatory risks and appetite statements and tolerance keycomponents of the discussed the specific for key risks.
RiskManagement management actions identified to Ensured these remain relevant Framework, including: address or mitigate issues that and appropriate.
risk evaluation matrices Monitored emerging risks to Received regular updates on risk appetite evaluate whether they should be regulatory changes and assessed identified as new key risks.
risk policies what implications they have for Undertook deep dives into the risk scenarios the Group.
Groups keyrisks such as stress testing Assessed how changes in the investment governance, people, the ICAAP process.
economic environment may internal processes, IT, information impact the Group.
Monitored the implementation of securityand the operating model the Investment Governance to assess and challenge controls.
For more information see our Framework and challenged its Market Environment on page 18.
For more information see our effectiveness to provide assurance Principal Risks on page 33. that client portfolios are managed in accordance with their individual investment mandates.
Internal Capital Adequacy Reporting Training Assessment Process ICAAP Received regular reports from the Undertook a range of training Reviewed, challenged and Group Risk & Compliance initiatives in the risk area, including: approved key components of Director covering: operational risk modelling the ICAAP: regulatory engagement senior managers and the risk appetite statements risk appetite statement certification regime operational risk scenarios key operational risk findings trends in the ICAAP process stress testing compliance monitoring activities cyber risk reverse stress testing.
risk metrics and tolerances Market Abuse Regulation.
Held a joint meeting with the Audit regulatory developments Committee to review and progress against plans challenge the ICAAP prior to and resources recommendation to the Board.
64 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION How we spent our time Performance evaluation The Committee conducts a performance evaluation every year, distributing a questionnaire for anonymous completion to all 29% Key Risks Committee members and those executives who are regularly 18% Risk invited to attend the Committees meetings.
The results are Management and Investment discussed by the Committee and are used to help form the Governance Frameworks following years forward-looking agenda.
18% ICAAP 14% Training Risks and uncertainties 12% Reporting 9% Regulatory change The Groups principal risks are initially assessed and reviewed by and economic environment the Risk Management Committee, an executive committee which implements the Risk Management Framework and monitors risk performance.
The principal risks are subsequently reviewed by the Board Risk Committee and then proposed to the Board for Joint sessions with the Audit Committee.
You can read about the Groups principal risks and uncertainties, together with the key mitigants and controls, on pages 33 to 37.
Kath Cates Chairman of the Board Risk Committee 29 November 2016 brewin.
co. uk 65 Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee fulfils a vital role on behalf of the Board in monitoring the quality of our external reporting and audit as well as assessing the effectiveness of internal controls.
Ian Dewar Chairman of the Audit Committee was appointed as internal auditor for the Group, replacing Chairmans overview  LLP PwC.
The Committee approved The Audit Committee fulfils a vital role on behalf of the Board in the annual internal audit plan at the start of the year and has assessing the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls.
The received regular reports on progress made since.
We will focus on actions the Committee has taken over the past year have enabled developing this relationship further in 2017.
I would like to thank us to enhance our effectiveness in fulfilling this function.
PwC for their contribution to the Committee during their time as We are responsible for reviewing reports to the Board on the internal auditor over the previous two years.
Groups financial reporting, its systems of internal control and the The Committee also conducted a rigorous review of the independence and effectiveness of the internal and external effectiveness of the external auditor, Deloitte LLP.
Weparticularly focus on the Groups annual and has replaced Oliver Grundy as our audit partner.
We half-year financial statements and the areas of significant areconscious both of the Code requirements relating to tender of management judgement used in preparing these.
external audit, and that we have previously stated that we would The FRC's Audit Quality Review team selected to review the engage in a tender process during the previous partners rotation.
audit of the 2015 Brewin Dolphin financial statements as part of Having carried out a careful review, the Committee has concluded their 2015 annual inspection of audit firms.
I received a copy of that it is now appropriate to holda formal external audit tender the findings of the Audit Quality Review team AQRT and met during the course of Robert Topley's five-year term.
We are with members of the team.
Following the review, an action plan satisfied that the external auditor continues to provide an was agreed with Deloitte LLP in respect of the 2016 audit and effective audit.
certain additional procedures were performed and concluded In addition to myself, the current members of the Audit satisfactorily in respect of the audit of the Company's 2015 Committee are Kath Cates Board Risk Committee Chairman, financial statements.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the Angela Knight and Caroline Taylor.
As Angela will be retiring at the findings of the review have been appropriately addressed by Companys forthcoming AGM, she will also be stepping down as Deloitte LLP.
I would like to personally thank her The role of the Groups internal auditor was subject to a robust for her contribution and wish her well for the future.
appraisal process during the year, and in January 2016 BDO LLP 66 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Role and responsibilities The Committee helps the Board meet its responsibilities for the integrity of the Groups financial reporting, including the effectiveness of its internal financial control system, and for monitoring the effectiveness and objectivity of the internal and external auditors.
It does this through: Monitoring the integrity of the Groups Annual Report and Maintaining and reviewing the policy on engaging the external Accounts and any formal announcement relating to the Groups auditor to supply non-audit services: this involves taking into financial performance.
Also reviewing significant financial account specific relevant guidance on the matter.
reporting judgements that these contain, prior to Monitoring the work of the Groups Internal Audit function and recommending them to the Board for approval.
Reviewing the framework and effectiveness of the Groups Reviewing the Groups procedures for handling allegations from system of internal financial controls.
whistleblowers and for detecting fraud.
Making recommendations to the Board on the appointment or Reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups reappointment of the external auditor and on the approval of its anti-money laundering AML systems and controls.
remuneration and terms of engagement.
Reviewing Group operational risk reports to ensure that risks Reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence which could lead to poor or unfair client outcomes are and objectivity, and the effectiveness of the audit process.
Committee composition The Committee comprises only independent Non-Executive Directors.
There is always a cross-membership with the Board Risk Committee, to help ensure that agendas are aligned and key information is shared appropriately across the Board Committees.
Committee members Other Committees Standing attendees R Ian Dewar Chairman Remuneration Committee Chief Executive RK Board Risk Committee Finance Director RK Kath Cates Board Risk Committee Chairman Group Risk & Compliance Director R Caroline Taylor Remuneration Committee Internal auditors N Nomination Committee External auditors as appropriate N Angela Knight Nomination Committee Ian Dewar is the member of the Committee considered to have recent and relevant financial experience as he is a Chartered Accountant and was a partner at KPMG until 2012.
Other members of the Committee have extensive experience of the financial services sector.
Committee attendance during the year Committee Meetings Attendance Members Oct Nov Jan Apr July Ian Dewar 100% Kath Cates 100% Caroline Taylor 100% Angela Knight 100% brewin.
co. uk 67 Audit Committee Report continued Committee activities during the year Financial reporting External auditor Internal audit Reviewed the Annual Report and Assessed the effectiveness of Reviewed, considered and agreed Accounts, Interim Management theinternal auditor.
the scope and methodology of the Statements, the Half-Yearly Report audit work to be undertaken by Appointed a new internal auditor.
Reviewed and approved the new Received a report from Agreed the terms of engagement internal audit plan for the year.
management on the controls and fees to be paid to the Reviewed reports from Internal overthe preparation of the Annual external auditor for the audit Audit, including management Financial Statements, the key of the 30 September 2016 responses to the findings of the judgements and accounting Annual Report and Accounts.
policies followed in their preparation.
Assessed the independence and Reviewed how issues identified Received a report from the external objectivity of the external auditor.
foraction, whether arising from auditor on the Financial Statements, Reviewed the policy relating to internal audit reports or from including the significant audit risks, non-audit services provided by internal control processes, areas of audit focus and the theexternal auditor and approved areidentified, progressed and reasonableness of the significant non-audit services in accordance reported: this ensures there is management judgements used with the policy.
aneffective framework for the inpreparing the accounts.
management of issues within Received updates in legislative Reviewed a letter of the Group.
changes regarding audit recommendation from the requirements.
external auditor for improving Engaged with the external auditor the systems of internal financial and the Financial Reporting Council control based upon their audit regarding the AQRT review of the work for the financial year.
Reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls and disclosures on this matter made in the Annual Report and Accounts.
Control environment Internal Capital Adequacy Reviewed the Annual Report to Assessment Process ICAAP ensure that, taken as a whole, it is Reviewed year-end reports fair, balanced and understandable Reviewed the ICAAP jointly providing assurance on the and that it provides the necessary withthe Board Risk Committee.
effectiveness and robustness information for shareholders to Afterreview and challenge of the ofthe Groups system of assess the Groups performance, ICAAPand its key components, internal controls.
its business model and strategy recommended its approval to see more on page 73. the Board.
Reviewed the Groups going concern assumption and Viability Statement.
Received updates on changes tolegislation regarding financial reporting.
68 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Money laundering Deep dives Other Reviewed the formal report from As part of a cycle of deep dives Reviewed its terms of reference the Groups Money Laundering wereviewed systems and controls inconjunction with the Board Risk Reporting Officer on the operation inrelation to client assets and Committee to ensure clarity and effectiveness of systems completeness and accuracy oftheir respective roles and andcontrols relating to antiofrevenue recognition.
responsibilities: recommended moneylaundering AML and revised terms of reference to the Client assets reviewedreports from theprevention of financial crime.
the CF10a the individual responsible for oversight and the operational Received updates on EU reform effectiveness of the systems and to the tendering process and controls that are designed to attended training held by the achieve compliance with the FCAs Board Risk Committee and Technology Client Assets Sourcebook rules, the Board.
Received a report from the a reasonable assurance report on Reported to the Board on Headof Information Technology client assets produced by Deloitte, proceedings at all meetings, on progress with the programme and guidance around changing identifying any actions or to strengthen the IT Risk CASS rules.
improvements needed and Management Framework Completeness and accuracy of making recommendations on andaddress themes arising revenue recognition a report was the steps to be taken.
frominternal audit and received from management on the Reviewed the Group's operationalrisk reviews.
controls operating over valuation proceduresfor handling ofclient funds on which fees are allegations from whistleblowers calculated and the application of and approved a revised policy.
thepricing arrangements agreed Training held with the Board witheach client.
We concluded RiskCommittee and at thatthe controls were sufficient Board meetings.
andoperating as intended and all fees due had been charged to clients at the appropriate rates and the revenue recognised by the Group in its financial statements was accurate and complete in all material respects.
How we spent our time Performance evaluation The Committee conducts a performance evaluation every year, distributing a 40% Financial questionnaire for anonymous completion to all Committee members and those Reporting executives who are regularly invited to attend the Committees meetings.
The results 21% Internal Audit and The Control are discussed by the Committee and are used to help form the following years Environment 12% ICAAP forward-looking agenda.
11% External Auditor 5% Deep dives Ian Dewar met regularly during the year with the Board Chairman, Finance Director, 4% Money Laundering Chief Executive, Head of Internal Audit and the external audit partner to review the 4% Technology 3% Other Groups governance processes and discuss the effectiveness of the internal and external audit functions.
co. uk 69 Audit Committee Report continued Key sources of  to the financial statements We reviewed the key sources of estimation uncertaintyset out below in relation to the Group Accounts and disclosures see note 4 for the year ended 30 September 2016.
These issues were discussed with management at various stages during 2015 16 and during the preparation and conclusion of the Accounts.
Having reviewed the presentations and reports from management, we are satisfied that the Accounts appropriately address the critical judgements and key estimates, in respect ofboth the amounts reported and the disclosures made.
We discussed these issues with the auditors during the audit planning process and at the conclusion of the year-end audit.
We are satisfied thatour conclusions are in line with those drawn by the auditors in relation to these issues.
Issue Key considerations Role of the Committee Conclusion Goodwill and client Impairment review of goodwill We satisfied ourselves on the We concluded that the assumptions relationships andclient relationships, including valuation assumptions used in the and judgements used in determining valuation assumptions used in the calculation of the fair value of the the carrying value of goodwill and see note 4. b. i calculation of the fair value of the cash-generating units.
We also client relationships were appropriate relevant cash-generating units.
considered the paper prepared by and reasonable.
management on the average client Determination of the useful tenure and useful economic life economic life of client relationships, expectations.
which establishes the quantum ofthe amortisation expense.
Assumptions Determination of the actuarial We considered managements We concluded that the assumptions underlying the assumptions such as discount paperwhich explained the and judgements usedin determining calculation of rate, the life expectancy of assumptions used in the the defined benefit pension scheme thedefined schememembers and the calculation, the resulting impact liability were appropriate and benefitpension inflationrate usedwhen onthe deficitand the movement reasonable.
schemeliability calculatingthe defined benefit inthe deficit during the period.
see note 4. b. ii pension schemeliability.
Likelihood of Determining the likelihood We considered managements We concluded that the assumptions meetingperformance of meeting the performance paper explaining the assumptions used when calculating the expense conditions for the conditions which impact the for the likelihood of meeting the were appropriate and reasonable.
Long Term Incentive quantum of the expense in performance conditions.
Plan see note 4. b. iii the period.
Assumptions Appropriate application of We reviewed managements We concluded that the provisions underlying the accounting standards and paper explaining the assumptions were appropriate and complete for estimation of underlying recognition principles.
and calculation methodologies obligations that existed at the year provisions relating applied indetermining provisions.
We also found that there had Determining the best estimate to onerous leases This included ensuring that the been no new information following ofthelikely cash flows and see note 4. b. iv provision represented present the year end that would result in an otherassumptions.
obligations arising from adjustment to the provision.
We satisfied ourselvesthat theprocedures performed by management to identify the requirement forprovisions were robust and comprehensive.
70 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION External auditor The Audit Committee is responsible for developing, implementing and monitoring the Groups policy on external audit.
The policy sets out the categories of any pre-approved non-audit services which the external auditor is authorised to undertake.
It also provides an approval process for the provision of any other non-audit services.
This policy is available to view on the Investor Relations section ofthe Groups website, under the Board Committees subsection.
The Board generally only uses the auditor for audit and related activities.
If there is a business case to use the external auditor to provide non-audit services, prior permission is required from the Committee.
In such an instance, the Committee will review the proposal to ensure that it will not impact the auditors objectivity and independence.
The majority of tax advisory and similar work iscarried out by another major accountancy firm.
An analysis of the auditors remuneration is provided in note 9 to the financial statements.
The Committee assesses the effectiveness of the external auditor on an annual basis, taking account of the following factors: Factor Assessment The role of management That information provided by management to the external auditor is timely and correct, that it has proper supporting papers and that accounting systems and internal controls work effectively.
The audit partner The extent to which the partner demonstrates a strong understanding of the business, the industry and the challenges faced by the business.
The length of time the partner acts as the lead engagement partner.
The audit team The extent to which the audit team understands the business and industry and is properly resourced and experienced.
The audit approach That the audit approach is discussed with management, targets the significant issues early, is communicated properly, is appropriate for the business and industry and includes an appropriate level of materiality.
The communications and That management and the Committee are kept appropriately informed as the audit formal reporting by the auditor progresses and that the formal report is appropriate and contains all relevant material matters.
The independence and objectivity That the auditor complies with the Financial Reporting Councils ethical standards, has the of the auditor required degree of objectivity including their arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest, and that the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditor does not compromise independence.
co. uk 71 Audit Committee Report continued External auditor continued Deloitte have appointed a new audit partner following a review of the effectiveness of the external auditor and a formal interview process.
The Committee is satisfied that Deloitte LLP has conducted an effective audit for the 2015 16 financial year.
The Committee has therefore recommended to the Board that Deloitte be reappointed at the 2017 AGM.
The Committee has considered the Competition and Markets Authority CMA and EU requirements for mandatory tendering and rotation of the audit firm.
As previously stated, the Committee had previously intended to initiate a re-tendering process during 2017 18 in line with the previous audit partner's rotation.
However, as we have changed the audit partner during the year, we do not believe that a re-tendering process would be beneficial during 2017 18.
The current intention is therefore to re-tender prior to the end of the new audit partners five year term.
This will be kept under review and the Committee will use its regular reviews of auditor effectiveness to assess the most appropriate time for re-tendering during that period.
The Committee has considered the likelihood of the external auditor withdrawing from the market and has noted that there are no contractual obligations to restrict the choice of replacement external auditor.
The external auditor meets privately with the Committee at least twice a year without senior executive management being present andregularly with the Audit Committee Chairman.
Internal audit Towards the end of 2015, the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit was assessed including a review of alternative providers, theexperience and expertise of the individuals working on the Brewin Dolphin account and the quality of reporting to the Committee.
Following this, BDO was appointed as internal auditor from January 2016 onwards.
The Committee approves an internal audit plan at the start of the financial year and then receives quarterly reports on all internal audits.
The plan is reviewed every six months to ensure itcontinues to give good coverage of the Groups key risks.
The Committee then critically appraises the internal auditors processes to determine the effectiveness of the audit undertaken.
72 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Fair, balanced and understandable Report and Accounts The Committee has performed a review of the Groups Annual Report and Accounts to ensure that it is fair, balanced and understandable.
What is meant by these terms, and the questions that the Committee considers as part of this review, are shown below: Term: Fair Description: Questions: Not exhibiting any bias.
Is the whole story being presented?
Have any sensitive material areas been omitted?
Performed according to the rules.
Term: Balanced Description Questions: Even-handed.
Is there a good level of consistency between the front and back sections of the Annual Report?
Taking account of all sides on their merits without prejudice or Does the reader get the same message from favouritism.
reading the two sections independently?
Are the key judgements referred to in the narrative reports and the significant issues reported in the Audit Committee Report consistent with the disclosures of key estimates and uncertainties and critical judgements set outin the financial statements?
Term: Understandable Description: Questions: Having a meaning or nature that Is there a clear and cohesive framework for canbe understood.
Able to be accepted as normal.
Is the report written in accessible language?
Are the messages clearly drawn out?
As well as a focused review as part of the process for producing the Annual Report and Accounts, ensuring that this standard is met involves a continuous assessment of the financial reporting issues affecting the Group throughout the year.
This report has been prepared in compliance with the CMA Order in relation to mandatory audit tendering and the responsibilities of the Audit Committee.
Ian Dewar Chairman of the Audit Committee 29 November 2016 brewin.
