Realising ambitions By helping clients to realise their financial ambitions, we can realise our own ambitions to grow the business and deliver sustainable returns for shareholders.
co. uk 1 Our talented and knowledgeable people are delivering the right services and expertise across the country to help clients reach their goals.
Our eight key enablers allow us to work with our clients to realise their ambitions: A focused strategy for growth Using technology to support relationships Investing in talent An evolving proposition based on trust Were always there for our clients Building long-term relationships Client-focused leadership A progressive business with a distinctive culture 2 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC A focused strategy for growth We continue to grow our core revenue by expanding the proportion of the wealth we manage for increasing numbers of clients.
Thats why we focus on giving our people the support and systems, confidence and capacity they need to increase both the value and number of our client relationships.
co. uk 3 Using technology to support relationships We are constantly seeking new ways to improve client and intermediary relationships.
Technology is increasingly underpinning the streamlined support that allows our advisers to spend more time with clients.
Were creating new portals, apps and communication channels to give clients and agents an expanding range of contact options to meet every requirement.
Investing in talent Providing high-quality advice andconsistently doing more for clientsis what drives our people toexcel.
So we enable them to be asgood as they can be, investing intheir learning and development.
By ensuring theyre highly engaged and well rewarded, we can rely on their commitment and expertise for the long term.
4 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC An evolving proposition based on trust Clients needs and ambitions evolve over time, influenced by changing circumstances and shifting economic trends.
Were there to track every change, drawing on our flexible business model, market-leading research and innovative culture to ensure our advice is constantly relevant and tailored to their needs.
Thats how we earn and preserve our clients trust.
co. uk 5 Were always there for our clients As many other companies withdraw from the advice market, our network of 28 offices across the UK, the Channel Islands and the Republic of Ireland makes it easy for clients and prospects to drop in for face-to-face meetings with our advisers.
Its how we build and sustain close relationships with individuals and communities.
6 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC brewin.
co. uk 7 Building long-term relationships Our approach revolves around creating sustainable valuethrough mutually rewarding relationships that deliver whatclients and shareholders are looking for.
Thats why wetake time to thoroughly understand every clients goals andambitions.
Only when we have a complete picture of whattheywant to achieve with their wealth are we ready toofferexpert tailored planning and advice.
8 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Client-focused leadership Our Executive Committee ensures that client needs are at the forefront of our business thinking.
By including client-facing specialists, who together represent all disciplines, we have shortened lines of communication to ensure our most seniorstrategic decision-makers are constantly focused onclient needs.
co. uk 9 A progressive business with a distinctive culture Our business has been evolving for over 250 years.
Built on trust and integrity, our culture helps us focus our collective skills and knowledgeon continually seeking to improve our services for ourclients.
As we advance and innovate, our valuesguide us in growing and protecting our clients wealth in a way that helps them achieve their ambitions.
10 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Creating value Our personalised approach to client service, combined with the expertise of our professionally qualified staff, enables us to create value, both for ourselves and our clients.
co. uk 11 1 2016 Highlights To read about the key performance indicators we use to measure our strategic progress turn to page 30.
2 These figures have been adjusted to exclude redundancy costs, FSCS levy rebate, onerous contracts, one-off migration costs, amortisation of client relationships and disposal of available-for-sale investment see page 42.
