Our Business Model Designed for growth Our business model is underpinned by our strategy, risk management framework and our high standards of corporate governance.
1 How we meet our clients needs We seek to employ and develop the best people throughout our network of local branches to help both our clients manage the financial complexities of life and financial intermediaries to fulfil their responsibilities to their clients.
Brewin advice Investment solutions Ourpeople take time toestablish strongclient relationships based We are an independently owned business with no in-house on a full understanding of individual circumstances.
This enables funds, which means we can look across a wide range of financial us to build a tailored financial solution.
products to choose the best and most appropriate options fromthe market place.
This may include our integrated wealth management service, just financial planning or just our investment solutions, depending on Our direct portfolios and our model portfolio services are client needs and how theyaccess our services.
underpinned by our award winning in-house research as well asour firm-wide asset allocation framework.
See page 15 for a full table 2 How our clients access our services of services we offer Direct Indirect Private Charities Intermediaries Individuals Corporates Brewin Wealth & Investment Management Managed Portfolio Service and Financial Planning Portfolio Service Risk rated model portfolios with Full advice either from a Actively managed risk rated model no advice for direct clients Brewin adviser or an external IFA portfolios for clients who receive advice Caters for all clients needs from an external IFA Full suite of solutions 16 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 3 How our business creates value for ourselves and our clients For Brewin Dolphin For Clients We earn income for services Clients with advice Clients without advice Intermediaries basedon the amount of funds We help clients to achieve their Our Brewin Portfolio Servicegives Both our discretionary wemanage, fees we charge for long-term goals by managing their clients a low-cost alternative to the investment management financial planning or the investment wealth for key stages in their life full wealth management service service and model portfolio business we transact on our such as retirement.
Every client is whilst enablingthem to still benefit service allowintermediaries clients behalf.
Our personalised different so we individually assess from the research and investment to effectively outsource the approach to client service their needs and develop expertise of Brewin Dolphin.
investment management of their combined with the expertise of personalised plans.
clients portfolios whilst retaining ourprofessionally qualified and The service is simple to access secure access to portfolio experienced staff demonstrates the We guide them through todays and each portfolio includes a valuations and having regular value of our services and helps us highly complex financial services diverse mix of investment funds close contact with us.
earn the trust of clients and create environment, helping them nurture chosen by our specialised teams loyal client relationships.
their wealth in the most tax-efficient to deliver a measured exposure Our national business development manner we can.
team and network of offices mean This creates value to the we can service advisers and their businessthrough the generation clients face-to-face across the UK.
ofnew leads via referrals and brand enhancement.
4 How this value is reinvested in the business to drive growth The value we creategenerates  to invest furtherin our business.
You can read more about our strategy on page 28.
5 Resources and relationships We rely on our resources and relationships in order to run our business.
We actively engage with our stakeholders throughout our business cycle: Employees Clients Investors Suppliers Regulator Our strength is in our We help to protect and grow We engage with our We actively engage with our We ensure a regular 1,583 people, both wealthfor ourclients and shareholders and potential suppliers at different stages dialogue with regulatory client-facing colleagues maintaining close personal investors at external of our business model, which bodies and can therefore and those who provide relationships with them is events such as AGMs ensures commitment and adapt to the changing support to them.
Wehave key to our business.
regulatory landscape and a strong commitment to identify where these developmentand we use changes can provide an initiatives like the employee opportunity for the business.
engagement survey to understand what is working well and what can be improved.
