Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic management Global market overview The global tobacco industry sells around 5,600 billion cigarettes each year and is valued at an estimated US$770 billion.
The market is also one of the most highly regulated in the world, with tobacco subject to extensive product and taxation requirements in nearly all countries and markets.
New tobacco and nicotine products aimed at reducing the risks associated with smoking conventional cigarettes are also being widely developed and commercialised.
The increasing variety of product platforms Illicit tobacco Product taxation in the Global tobacco market available to consumers make growth form of excise remains a significant source There are an estimated one billion adult predictions challenging, but NGPs are likely of revenue to the majority of governments smokers around the world, consuming some tocontinue to experience significant growth.
This can lead some to view the 5,600 billion cigarettes a year.
The value of the industry as a potential source of extra funds global tobacco market is estimated at some Key industry risks during difficult economic times.
US$770 billion, of which the global cigarette Regulation The tobacco industry is one of 1 market is valued at around US$700 billion.
It is estimated that governments collect the most highly regulated in the world, with 2 some US$269 billion in excise on the sale Outside of China, the four biggest tobacco manufacturers required to comply with a of tobacco.
However, sudden and steep manufacturers British American Tobacco, variety of different regulatory regimes across increases in tobacco excise taxes can lead to Imperial Brands, Japan Tobacco International the globe.
an increase intobacco trafficking, increasing and Philip Morris International account for Restrictions on the manufacture, sale, the likelihood of governments receiving less the vast majority of the total market.
marketing and packaging of tobacco revenue from excise.
While the tobacco industry is subject to an products are in place in nearly all countries The illegal market for tobacco products is array of global pressures and market volatility, and markets.
Such restrictions include the an increasing issue for governments and the overall value of the cigarette market introduction of plain packaging, productthe industry across the world.
It is estimated continues to grow.
This is despite overall specific regulation, graphic health warnings 1 to account for some 460 billion cigarettes cigarette volume continuing to decline yearon packs, tougher restrictions on smoking and deprives national treasuries of billions on-year.
in enclosed public places and bans on shops inlegitimate taxes.
displaying tobacco products at the point The tobacco industry also remains a of sale.
Efforts to tackle the issue of illicit tobacco substantial contributor to the economies of atindustry and government levels have seen many countries and the livelihoods of millions Much of the recent development in regulation some success in recent years.
However, the of people across the globe, both directly at a global level has been driven by the World relative punishments versus the profits for and indirectly.
Health Organization Framework Convention illegally selling tobacco products makes them on Tobacco Control FCTC, a global treaty an appealing prospect for criminals.
Global Next Generation concerning tobacco control.
The FCTC came Productsmarket into force in 2005 and contains provisions Further details of the industry risks outlined aimed at reducing tobacco consumption and in this section, and our response to them, While international tobacco manufacturers toxicity.
To date, the FCTC has been ratified are available in the Principal Group risk often use differing terminology, Next by 180 countries.
Generation Products NGPs can be broadly divided into two categories as follows: More recently, significant debate has see pages 2630 to learn more about beengenerated regarding the appropriate 1.
Vapour Products including e-cigarettes thePrincipal Group risk factors regulation of NGPs, including of the nicotine battery-powered electronic devices that liquids used in Vapour Products.
While this heat a solution to create a vapour which nascent category has grown in size and can be inhaled.
complexity in a relatively short period of time, 2.
Tobacco Heating Products devices a consensus framework for regulating and designed to work with specifically taxing it has yet to emerge.
engineered cartridges, containing tobacco, Litigation Litigation continues in a number to deliver a real tobacco taste and aroma.
of forms against the tobacco industry While still a nascent market, the global with the most common being third-party Vapour Products category is the largest of reimbursement cases, class actions and the two types and continues to grow at a individual lawsuits.
2015 estimates place a value Special factors that led to litigation in the of US$8 billion on the global market, with US and Canada are not typically replicated 29 million people estimated to be vaping 1 inother countries, which is why large volume across the world.
and high-value litigation has not spread to Today, Tobacco Heating Products are a much other parts of the globe.
smaller category but one that is growing The industry has a proven track record of quickly in Japan.
The category is expanding defending its rights and dealing with risks to other markets, with a limited number of such as these.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 07
