Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Review Other As an additional measure to indicate the Retirement benefit schemes Accounting developments impact of exchange rate movements on the The Groups subsidiaries operate around 170 The Group has prepared its annual consolidated Group results, adjusted diluted earnings per retirement benefit arrangements worldwide.
financial statements in accordance with IFRS, share is also shown at constant translation The majority of the scheme members belong as adopted by the EU.
to defined benefit schemes, most of which are There were no material changes to the funded externally and many are closed to new The Group includes organic measures of accounting standards applied in 2016 entrants.
The Group also operates a number volume, revenue and adjusted profit from fromthat applied in 2015. of defined contribution schemes.
operations to ensure a full understanding of Future changes applicable on the accounting the underlying operating performance of the The present total value of funded scheme standards that will be applied by the Group Group, before the impact of acquisitions.
liabilities as at 31 December 2016 was are set out in the Notes on the Accounts 7,155 million 2015: 5,956 million, The Group also prepares an alternative cash note 1 Accounting Policies.
However, the while unfunded scheme liabilities amounted flow, which includes a measure of free impact is not expected to be material to the to 476million 2015: 364 million.
cash flow to illustrate the cash flows before Groups results.
The schemes assets increased from transactions relating to borrowings.
A net 6,086 million in 2015 to 7,278 million in debt summary is also provided.
After excluding unrecognised scheme publishes gross turnover as an additional A description of the Groups business surpluses of 18 million 2015: 11 million, disclosure to indicate the impact of duty, activities, its financial position, cash flows, the overall net liability for all pension and excise and other taxes.
Due to the secondary liquidity position, facilities and borrowings health care schemes in Group subsidiaries listing of the ordinary shares of British position, together with the factors likely to amounted to 371 million at the end of 2016, American Tobacco p. l. c. on the JSE Limited affect its future development, performance compared to 245 million at the end of 2015.
JSE in South Africa, the Group is required and position, are set out in this Annual Report.
to present headline earnings per share and Contributions to the defined benefit schemes The key Group risk factors include analyses headline diluted earnings per share.
are determined after consultation with the of financial risk and the Groups approach respective trustees and actuaries of the Accounting policies to financial risk management.
Notes 20 and individual externally funded schemes, taking 23 in the Notes on the Accounts provide The application of the accounting standards into account regulatory environments.
further detail on the Groups borrowings and the accounting policies adopted by the andmanagement of financial risks.
Group are set out in the Group Manual of Non-GAAP measures Accounting Policies and Procedures GMAPP.
In the reporting of financial information, the The Group has, at the date of this report, GMAPP includes the Group instructions in Group uses certain measures that are not sufficient existing financing available for its respect of the accounting and reporting required under IFRS, the generally accepted estimated requirements for at least the next of business activities, such as revenue accounting principles GAAP under which the 12 months.
This, together with the proven recognition, asset valuations and impairment Group reports.
The Group believes that these ability to generate cash from trading activities, testing, adjusting items, the accrual of additional measures, which are used internally, the performance of the Groups Global obligations and the appraisal of contingent are useful to the users of the Financial Drive Brands, its leading market positions liabilities, which includes taxes and litigation.
Statements in helping them understand the in a number of countries and its broad Formal processes are in place whereby central underlying business performance.
geographical spread, as well as numerous management and end-market management contracts with established customers and The principal non-GAAP measures that confirm adherence to the principles and suppliers across different geographical areas the Group uses are adjusted profit from the procedures and to the completeness and industries, provides the Directors with operations and adjusted diluted earnings of reporting.
Central analyses and revision theconfidence that the Group is well placed per share, which are reconciled to profit of information is also done to ensure and to manage its business risks successfully in from operations and diluted earnings confirm adherence.
thecontext of current financial conditions and per share.
These measures remove the the general outlook in the global economy.
impact ofadjusting items from earnings.
Adjusting items are those that individually After reviewing the Groups annual budget, or, if similar in nature, in aggregate, plans and financing arrangements, the are relevant to an understanding of the Directors consider that the Group has Groupsunderlying financial performance.
adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future and that it is therefore The Management Board, as the chief appropriate to continue to adopt the going operating decision maker, reviews current and concern basis in preparing the Annual Report.
prior year segmental revenue and adjusted Foreign exchange rates profit from operations of subsidiaries and joint operations, and adjusted post-tax results of Average Closing associates and joint ventures, at constant rates 2016 2015 2016 2015 of exchange.
This allows comparison of the Groups results had they been translated at Australian dollar 1.824 2.036 1.707 2.026 the previous years average rates of exchange.
Brazilian real 4.740 5.101 4.022 5.831 The Group does not adjust for the normal Canadian dollar 1.795 1.954 1.657 2.047 transactional gains and losses in operations Euro 1.224 1.378 1.172 1.357 that are generated by exchange movements.
Indian rupee 91.022 98.070 83.864 97.508 However, for clarity, the Group also gives a figure for growth in adjusted operating Japanese yen 147.466 185.012 144.120 177.303 profitexcluding both transactional and Russian rouble 91.026 93.591 75.429 107.646 translational foreign exchange movements.
