Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic management Our business model What we do At the heart of our business Source is the manufacturing and marketing of superior What we do tobacco products and Next While the Group does not own tobacco farms Generation Products.
Our people or directly employ farmers, we buy more than 400,000 tonnes of tobacco each year for our and relationships Our sustainable approach tobacco products and Tobacco Heating Products.
to sourcing, production, The e-liquids used in our Vapour Products are We employ around 50,000 made from medical grade nicotine sourced from distribution and marketing people worldwide, with a high quality third-party manufacturers.
helps us to create value for workforce that is diverse What makes us different and multicultural.
awide group of stakeholders, We provide on-the-ground support and advice from farmers to consumers.
We have a devolved structure, to over 90,000 contracted farmers to help with each local company ensure consistency and quality of supply.
We use our uniquestrengths having responsibility for and employ our resources We work to enable prosperous its operations.
livelihoods forall farmers who supply and relationships to deliver We encourage a culture our tobacco leaf, investing over sustainable growth inearnings ofpersonal ownership 60 million each year to support them and value our employees for our shareholders.
through, among other initiatives, talents and abilities.
training and capacity building, and Their diverse perspectives improving productivity.
Our leaf operations are managed We also have excellent globally to ensure that the Group works relationships with a range of with reliable, efficient and responsible stakeholders, including farmers, farmers in our source countries.
We engage with regulators around the world to support see pages 1016 regulation that is based on robust evidence and thorough research, that respects legal rights and livelihoods, and delivers on the intended policy aims while recognising unintended consequences.
Market You can learn more about ourwork in What we do supporting farmers in We offer adult consumers a range our leaf supply chain at of products, including cigarettes, www.
com Fine Cut tobacco, Swedish-style welcometobat snus and Next Generation Products in a number of markets.
Our range see pages 1016 for of high-quality products covers all more information segments, from value-for-money to premium.
What makes us different Our successful portfolio of international, regional and local tobacco brands meets a broad array of adult consumer preferences wherever we operate, based onsound consumer insights.
Our international brand strategy focuses on our Global Drive Brands, which account for 49% of the cigarettes wesell and are asignificant driver of growth.
Our commitment to substantial investment in a range of Next Generation Products, including Vapour Products like e-cigarettes and Tobacco Heating Products, enables us to meet varied consumer needs in this emerging product category.
see pages 1016 08 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Produce What we do We manufacture high-quality products in stateof-the-art manufacturing facilities all over the Innovation world.
We also ensure that these products and the tobacco leaf we purchase are in the right place at We make significant the right time.
Our Next Generation Products are investments in research mainly manufactured in state-of-the-art thirdand development to deliver party factories.
We work to ensure that our costs innovations that satisfy or are globally competitive and that we use our anticipate consumer needs resources as effectively as possible.
and generate growth for the business.
This involves What makes us different cigarette innovations such as In 2016 we had 44 cigarette factories across the capsule products, additive-free globe.
These strategically placed factories enable products, slimmer products, us to maximise efficiency and ensure products tube filters and Reloc, our are where they need to be at the right time.
Our production facilities are designed to meet We also look outside the the needs of an agile and flexible supply chain, traditional cigarette market providing a world-class operational base that and research, develop and isfit for the future.
test Next Generation Products For our Next Generation Products, we expect such as Vapour Products our contract manufacturers to comply with the e-cigarettes and Tobacco same high standards that exist on our own sites.
Consumers We place adult consumers World-class at the heart of our business.
see pages 1016 science We invest in world-class research to understand changing consumer We have an extensive scientific needs and buying behaviour.
research programme in a This drives our leaf sourcing, broad spectrum of scientific product development, innovations, fields including molecular brands andtrade activities.
biology, toxicology and We aim to satisfy consumers with Distribute chemistry.
We have spent more arange of inspiring products across than US$1 billion on research the risk spectrum and address and development over the past What we do expectations about how weshould five years with a focus on We distribute our products around the globe market them.
products that could reduce the effectively and efficiently.
Around half of our risk associated with smoking global cigarette volume is sold by retailers, conventional cigarettes.
supplied through our direct distribution capability or exclusive distributors.
We continuously review We are transparent about our our route to market for combustible products science and publish details and Next Generation Products, including our of our research programmes relationships with wholesalers, distributors and on our dedicated website, logistics providers.
com, and the results of our studies in What makes us different peer-reviewed journals.
Our relationships with, and efficient distribution to, retailers worldwide ensures we can offer You can take a video tour the products our adult consumers wish to buy, inside our state-of-the-art where and when they want them.
plant biotechnology labsand meet some of the Our global footprint and direct distribution scientists behind the science capability enables new product innovations to at www.
com be distributed to markets quickly and efficiently.
welcometobat see pages 1016 for more information see pages 1016 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 09
