Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic management Delivering our strategy Dunhill: Volume decreased by 3.3% to Winning in combustibles 57 billion, with market share flat, driven Growth Group cigarette volume grew by 0.2% to mainly by industry declines in Malaysia and 665 billion.
Excluding acquisitions, volume Brazil, more than offsetting growth in South fell on an organic basis by 0.8%, against an Korea and the continued growth in Indonesia.
Our brands delivered further estimated industry decline of around 3.0%.
Kent: Volume in 2016 was 66 billion, up by Total tobacco volume was 0.1% higher growth in 2016 as we continued 1.0%, driven by Chile, Turkey, Japan and than 2015. toinvest in opportunities Russia.
The Groups cigarette market share in its Key inKeyMarkets and Next Lucky Strike: Market share grew 10 bps, with Markets continued to grow strongly, higher GenerationProducts.
volume of 36 billion, up 13.5%, with growth by over 50 bps.
This was principally driven by in Indonesia, Colombia, Egypt, France, Croatia our Global Drive Brands GDBs which grew Highlights during the year and Italy and more than offsetting lower volume by 7.5% and market share by 100 Group revenue grew by 6.9% at constant volume in Argentina and Russia.
Volume growth of the GDBs, including rates of exchange.
strategic brands together known as GDSBs, Pall Mall: Volume in 2016 was 92 billion, Price mix of over 6%, up from 5.9% was up 7.2%.
up 0.1% as growth in Venezuela, Poland, in 2015.
Iran, Mexico and Romania more than offset Group revenue was up by 6.9% at constant reductions in Pakistan and the migration Market share in Key Markets up by over rates of exchange, or by 12.6% at current to Rothmans in Italy.
rates, with the higher growth rate reflecting up10 bps.
the translational tailwind as a result of the Now the worlds largest vapour business relative weakness of sterling.
On an organic Rothmans: 2016 saw another year of outside of the US.
basis, Group revenue was up 5.3%.
exceptional growth, with Rothmans increasingvolume by 36.9% to 73 billion, Global Drive Brands driven by Russia, Ukraine, Italy, Nigeria, Our five leading brands our GDBs Turkeyand South Korea.
Market share are Dunhill, Kent, Lucky Strike, Pall Mall wasup70 bps.
They play a key role in our growth strategy and now account for 49% of all the cigarettes we sell, up from 32% in 2011.
Key performance indicators Reported revenue Revenue Global Drive and Strategic Brands at constant exchange rates GDSBs cigarette volume 14,751 14,008 346 13,104 323 13,104 1 4, 7 5 1 m 1 4, 0 0 8 m 346bn 12.6% 6.9% 7.2% 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Definition: Gross turnover net of duty, excise and Definition: Gross turnover net of duty, excise and other Definition: GDSB volume is calculated as the total other taxes.
taxes, translated at constant rates of exchange.
volumes of the five GDBs plus strategic brands sold by our subsidiaries.
Target: To grow revenue also known as Net Turnover or Target: To grow revenue also known as Net Turnover or NTO by 25% per year over the medium to long term.
NTO by 25% per year over the medium to long term.
Target: To increase our GDSBs share faster than the restofour portfolio.
KPI KPI Adjusted diluted earnings per share Adjusted diluted earnings per share Group share of Key Markets pence at constant rates pence 247.5 230.0 208.4 208.4 247.5p 230.0p 50 bps 18.8% 10.4% 2016 2015 2016 2015 Definition: This is our adjusted diluted earnings per share Definition: This is our adjusted diluted earnings per share Definition: This is our retail market share in the Groups EPS see note 7 in the Financial Statements.
EPS, translated at constant rates of exchange see note 7 KeyMarkets, which cover around 80%ofthevolumes in the Financial Statements.
Target: To grow adjusted diluted EPS at the rate of high Target: To grow adjusted diluted EPS at the rate of high Target: To continue to grow market share.
single figures per annum, on average, over the medium single figures per annum, on average, over the medium tolong term.
KPI KPI KPI 10 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements In consumer tests, Vype is outperforming its Premium products Next Generation Products nearest competitor and is seen as a trusted The Groups share of the premium segment In the last five years, the Group has and superior brand.
However, our premium volume fell invested over $1 billion in building our by 5.5% to 170 billion mainly due to declines The newest addition to our portfolio of Vapour Next Generation Products NGP business in Nigeria, Brazil, Malaysia, Pakistan and the Products is the Vype Pebble, which is asmall, and making available a range of inspiring GCC.
Good growth in premium volume highly portable device that is simple to use products that meet the preferences of was seen in Turkey, Russia, South Korea and delivers superior vaping performance.
Early consumer uptake of Vype Pebble has With the global NGP market estimated to be been encouraging and we are confident that Local and international brands worth some 15 billion by 2020 excluding it will see good growth in 2017.
Although experiencing a slow decline, our the US, we believe our strategy positions In 2017, we plan to launch our first Vype local and international brands continue the Group to capture a significant share of device using a radical new vaping technology to play an important role in delivering the this exciting market in the future and will developed in partnership with an independent Groups Strategy in several Key Markets, contribute substantially tofuture growth.
This replaces the current coil and including South Africa, Vietnam, Pakistan, Progress in Vapour Products wick system and will give better product Bangladesh and Japan.
performance and satisfaction to consumers.
Following geographic expansion in 2016, International brands down 9% include our leading Vapour Product, Vype, is now Vogue, Viceroy, Kool, Peter Stuyvesant, Progress in Tobacco Heating Products available in ten markets.
Benson & Hedges, State Express 555, Shuang In December 2016, we launched an advanced Xi and John Player Gold Leaf.
Local brands Based on our estimated share of the global yet intuitive Tobacco Heating Product called were down 4.4%.
vapour market outside the US, we are already glo in Sendai, Japan, which provides an the largest international company in the 1 experience similar to that of a cigarette but Innovations category, having successfully launched a with around 90% less toxicants.
Innovations are an important part of our portfolio of products in the five largest vapour strategy to provide consumers with a range Designed in the UK, the development of markets in Europe.
This includes leadership of exciting and differentiated products from glo involved over 100 experts across five positions in the UK and Poland.
continents including scientists, engineers, Since launching Vype in the UK in 2013, we designers, tobacco experts and toxicologists.
In 2016, growth across these products was now have six different Vype devices available The one unit, one button device is simple 12%, driven by the success of tube filters to consumers, as well as a variety of new and intuitive, with one single charge lasting and the slimmer formats across the GDB e-liquid flavours and nicotine strengths, more than 30 sessions based on back-toportfolio.
They now account for 29% of the including a nicotine-free option.
Groups total reported cigarettes volume, with In the UK, our category retail share, as Innovations as a share of Global Drive Brand Early indications are very encouraging, independently measured by AC Nielsen, volume now 54.2%.
with glo gaining 5.4% share in a leading has reached over 37% through the growth convenience store chain in Sendai after only Other Tobacco Products of Vype and the acquisition of Ten Motives.
Further roll-out and upgrades are Other Tobacco Products include cigar and We also have an estimated market share of scheduled for 2017 and beyond.
Fine Cut brands, including roll-your-own around 50% in Poland as well as category Additionally, our iFuse product blends vaping andmake-your-own.
retail share of over 7% in Germany, over 4% technology with tobacco, which is proving in France and over 2% in Italy.
We launched Our cigar brands include the hand-made popular in our test market in Romania.
In 2017, our first Vype retail concept store in Milan in premium Dunhill Signed Range.
we will continue to develop the platform.
2016, offering consumers a place to not only Other Tobacco Products volume fell by purchase devices and e-liquids but also learn 4.8% to 24 billion sticks equivalent due more about the product range.
to a reduction in Fine Cut volume in Western Europe.
Defined as any Group-manufactured cigarette containing non-standard features such as slims, capsules, Reloc or tubes.
Global Drive Brands GDBs cigarette Total shareholder return annual % FMCG group 1 January 2014 volume compound annual growth rate 20142016 to 31December 2016 324 The FMCG group comparison is based 301 on three months average values 324bn 16.1% Median BAT 7.5% 9.6% 16.1% 25 Definition: Total shareholder return TSR is measured 2016 2015 20 according to the return index calculated by Datastream, on the basis of all companies dividends being reinvested Definition: GDB volume is calculated as the total 15 in their shares.
The return is the percentage increase in volumes of the five GDBs.
eachcompanys index over a three-year period.
10 Target: To increase our GDBs share faster than the Target: The Group is focused on increasing shareholder 5 restofour portfolio.
value, which is measured using TSRcompared to a 0 fast-moving consumer goods FMCG peer group see page 52 for details.
The FMCG comparator group is reviewed annually toensure it remains Upper quartile .
KPI Lower quartile KPI British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 11 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic management Delivering our strategy continued The drive towards above-market aggregation Globalising operations and is not only expected to reduce cost through improving efficiency Productivity less duplication but also ensure the best Global systems and ways of working across expertise is exploited throughout the Group.
the Group are exploited to minimise our cost This is considered a key to succeeding base and maximise expertise.
Furthermore, We are driving towards a more when establishing global activities across by ensuring back-office activities are carried efficient and effective globally our combustible and Next Generation out most efficiently and effectively, the Products businesses.
integrated organisation by utilising end markets are free to focus their efforts global systems and ways of In Supply Chain, the Group is integrated on sales activities.
This drive to a globally globally such that the single view of future integrated enterprise is most apparent working.
This global integration demand ensures resources and investments in our Supply Chain, Human Resources, ensures lowest possible overheads, can be most efficiently prioritised.
Finance, Procurement and Information the most cost-effective and Technology functions.
This includes machinery investment so responsive supply chain and that that capital expenditure is targeted to the In line with this strategy, during 2016 the productivity opportunities are areas of the business with the greatest Group set up a Global Leaf Operations Centre fullyexploited.
This global view in Brazil, a Global supply planning centre in also improves our ability to react quickly Southampton and further expanded shared Highlights during the year insituations when speed to market will give services for Human Resources and Finance in us acompetitive advantage.
In all cases, these opportunities have been enabled by the Groups single global Continued strategic investments in new Globalising operations and improving SAP system.
machinery in 2016, supported by our global efficiency through the establishment of Global planning systems and integrated business Leaf Operations Centre in Brazil andGlobal The final markets, Croatia, Greece, Serbia and model, have ensured we deliver on time in supply planning centre in Southampton and Indonesia, came on line to our single system full in all our Key Markets at optimal cost, further expanded shared services for Human at the end of 2016.
Further opportunities to with speed and scale.
Resources and Finance in Romania.
exploit the Groups global integration are being planned through 2017 and beyond Continued optimisation of leaf growing Continued optimisation of leaf asexpertise embeds.
growing and manufacturing locations Key performance indicators In 2016, we continued to optimise our manufacturing footprint and at the end of the Adjusted profit from operations Cash generated from operations year had 44 cigarette factories in 42 countries.
atconstant exchange rates at constant rates 5,197 Factory closures included Porto Alegre in 2,918 4,992 2,405 Brazil, completed in 2016, with Malaysia and Germany announced and in progress.
5,197m 2,918m This is balanced against a new factory in Iran and Cuba together with the TDR acquisition 4.1% 21.3% that included the Kanfanar factory in Croatia.
Furthermore, factory expansions in Poland, 10% excl.
FII GLO receipt 2016 2015 Romania and Bangladesh show how our Definition: This is the adjusted profit from operations of Definition: Cash generated from operations is defined sourcing is responsive to increased local the Groups subsidiaries profit from operations at constant as the free cash flow excluding restructuring costs and volume and innovations demands while rates adjusted for the items shown as memorandum dividends and other appropriations from associates, remaining cost effective.
information on the Group Income Statement.
perthealternative cash flow on page 24.
We are continually looking to improve the Target: The Groups mediumto long-term target is Target: A specific target is set each year for the cash flow efficiency of all our supply chain with the togrow adjusted profit from operations on average from operations.
opportunities to improve our manufacturing by57% per year.
KPI KPI operations being a focus in 2016 continuing into 2017.
We are realising the benefits of our Business measures Integrated Work Systems, a programme that is designed to maximise equipment efficiency Operating cash flow conversion ratio Operating margin while ensuring we maintain high standards of product quality.
93 92 38.1 37.2 The improved equipment efficiency is delivering real benefit in reduced labour and 93% 37.2% maintenance costs and reduced waste.
It is further expected that capital expenditure can -90 bps be released to invest in further innovation.
2016 2015 2016 2015 Definition: This measures our operating cash flow see Definition: This is the percentage of adjusted profit from page 24 as aratio of adjusted operating profit.
Target: To convert between 85 and 95% of our adjusted Target: To increase operating margin by 50100 bps per operating profit to operating cash flow.
annum on average over the medium term.
KPI 12 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Record productivity savings Investing in leaders Winning By operating globally, exploiting our systems The long-term culture of the Group has been Organisation and driving for results, the Group delivered about developing talent from within, stretching record productivity savings in 2016. and supporting the high-performing managers who lead the delivery of our strategy.
This We enable growth by having These savings are returned to the business year, over 93% of our senior appointments for re-investment and to increase shareholder awinning organisation: were drawn from people already within the return.
The following examples show how byinvesting in our people: business moves that have helped deliver the Group considers all opportunities in the stronger and more diverse leadership teams byattracting the best: and by supply chain including Procurement, Logistics and succession plans.
enhancing the high performing and Leaf Supply: In 2016 we welcomed the first intake into leaders who inspire diverse teams Procurement One of the most notable our new global graduate programme of committed and engaged people initiatives in 2016 was the tender for the an accelerated 12-month initiative supply of print materials at a global level, in a fulfilling, rewarding and giving emerging talent early commercial which will deliver significant savings over responsible work environment.
responsibility and international experience, three years.
This is an example of how supported by collaborative, world-class global visibility of forward demand and Highlights during the year development.
The programme culminates product specifications in one system has Launched our new global graduate inthe global attendees from the 18 countries delivered benefit.
programme focused on developing the coming together in London to attend the International logistics Whether by commercial acumen of our junior talent.
newBAT Academy in 2017. road, air or sea, this is now organised Accelerated talent development and We continue to evolve the portfolio of and controlled centrally.
This facilitates attraction in growth markets and functional and leadership programmes which opportunities to negotiate globally with growth categories.
drive capability enhancement of our people.
third-party providers for us to benefit from An example from this year was the launch of our scale.
Furthermore, this maximises the Continued to increase the digital reach the CEO challenge a forum for teams of use of return shipments and economic order andengagement of our employer brand senior leaders to come together to engage quantities to ensure maximum efficiency while Bring your Difference.
the CEO and the Board on transformational maintaining the flexibility for fast response to change and breakthrough performance.
Leaf operations These are similarly Business measures managed globally to ensure that the Group works with reliable, efficient and responsible Group diversity Nationalities represented farmers in our source countries.
Our Global Leaf Pool operation aggregates demand to Total Male Female Total meet supply across all internationally traded Main Board 11 8 3 Main Board level 6 tobacco.
This approach balances the lowest Senior managers 206 182 24 Global headquarters 74 possible working capital investment while Total Group Management level globally 144 reducing any exposure to weak crops and employees 49,817 38,811 11,006 guaranteeing the best quality leaf to meet consumer demands.
While transactional foreign exchange rates Main Board Senior managers Employee engagement index had a material impact on our cost base 72 69 in 2016, by continuing to improve our 12 productivity in all areas of our supply chain 27 and elsewhere in the Group, we can increase 72% our profitability and continue to deliver returns to our shareholders today andinvest 73 88 in the future.
BAT FMCG BAT 72% Total Group employees FMCG comparator group 69% 22 Definition: Results from our Your Voice employee opinion survey, last carried out in 2014, enable us to calculate our employee engagement index a measure that reflects employee satisfaction, advocacy and pride inthe % Male organisation.
78 % Female Objective: To achieve a more positive score than the norm for FMCG companies in ourcomparator benchmark group.
Senior managers are defined here as the members of the Management Board excluding the Executive Directors and the directors of the Groups principal subsidiary undertakings.
The principal subsidiary undertakings, as set out in the Financial Statements, represented approximately 81% of the Groups employees and contributed around 80% of Group revenue andprofitfrom operations in 2016.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 13 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic management Delivering our strategy continued Attracting outstanding people Safe place to work Rewarding people When we do recruit externally, we actively We are committed to a safe working Reward is a key pillar in ensuring that we have seek those who will provide additional environment for all our employees the right people to drive the business forward.
knowledge and skills that will strengthen and contractors worldwide and have Reward is necessarily local and we strongly our teams and ultimately make us a stronger aGroup-wide goal of zero accidents.
support this through global frameworks business.
In 2016, we significantly enhanced to ensure leading edge policies, processes We focus on risk management and our internal capability to engage and recruit and technology are available to all markets.
assessments, employee training and those people who will help us win in growth Base pay rewards core competence relative awareness, and specific initiatives for high markets and growth segments.
to skills, experience and contribution to the risk areas of our business.
For example, Group, while annual bonuses, recognition We continued the digital growth of our to further integrate health and safety into schemes and ad hoc incentives provide the employer brand Bring your Difference manufacturing practices and procedures, right mix to ensure that high performance is across core social media channels, cementing we are implementing an internationally recognised and rewarded.
Further information the industry leadership of our talent brand recognised management system.
on the Groups Remuneration Policy for the on LinkedIn.
Nearly 70% of total accidents are in trade Executive Directors and the Non-Executive As competition for talented employees marketing and distribution TM&D, where Directors can be found on pages 4955. intensifies, people increasingly want to we have over 26,000 drivers out on the road We also offer our UK employees the chance work for businesses with a good corporate every day who are particularly vulnerable to to share in our success via our Sharesave reputation, so we are proud to have been road traffic accidents RTAs and robberies.
Scheme, Partnership Share Scheme and ranked among the top five employers in Our fleet and driver safety programme Share Reward Scheme, and operate several Europe by the Top Employer Institute in 2016, focuses on addressing these risks through: similar schemes for senior management in as well as receiving similar accolades in many enhanced global vehicle specifications and ourGroup companies.
of the countries in which we operate.
safety controls: driver training to improve Leadership for change skills and hazard perception: tool-kits and Growth through diversity practical guidance for management: security The world is changing fast.
The accelerated Diversity matters to the Group because it protocols and escorts in high-risk locations: pace of change for example, growth of makes good commercial sense having a efficient route-to-market planning: and new segments in our industry demands diverse workforce means we are better able tracking progress through quarterly business that our people are ambitious, courageous to understand and meet the needs of our reviews.
As a result, in 2016 we achieved a and resilient: that they learn quickly and are global consumers.
14% reduction in accidents in the TM&D area responsive to opportunities: and that they We are a diverse employer.
There are 144 of the business.
continue to drive and own results.
As our nationalities represented within our Group, organisation evolves, we continue to focus on Sadly, however, four contractors lost their and 36 within our executive cadre.
This year these traits and on what has served the Group lives three in armed robberies and one in we have female executives on all of our senior well through its history having a culture of a fall from height, and two employees died functional and geographical leadership teams.
passionate owners, having people who lead one in an RTA and one in a train accident.
and inspire each other for the journey ahead.
However, while we are pleased with the In addition, two members of the public lost progress we have made in terms of nationality their lives in accidents involving our vehicles.
In 2017, we will be running the Groups diversity, we recognise that more needs to be global employee survey.
Our last survey had a While this is a reduction in fatalities compared done regarding gender diversity and this area response rate of 93% 11 percentage points to 2015, any loss of life is a matter of will be a priority for us in 2017. higher than the average response rate for this enormous concern to us.
type of survey with the key Engagement We are focused on initiatives throughout We want to reduce the chances of similar Index score of 72% being 3% higher than the our organisation to drive ownership and events happening again.
As such, we carry FMCG comparator norm of 69% see chart accountability, build diverse talent pools out detailed reviews of all reported accidents on page 13. and create enablers, supported by an and fatalities to learn lessons and identify inclusive culture.
This survey conveys the pride which many where we can improve our approach to employees have in working for us and Our Women in Leadership programme helps ensure the health and safety of all our is demonstrable as we have continued support and accelerate career progression of employees and contractors.
to see employee turnover stay below female talent within the Group.
Equal opportunities for all the programme has reached 130 female managers representing all functions and major We are committed to providing equal You can learn more about our Global Graduate Programme at locations across the Group.
We have also opportunities to all employees.
com graduates developed new unconscious bias training, discriminate when making decisions on hiring, which is being rolled out to all management promotion or retirement on the grounds employees globally.
of race, colour, gender, age, social class, religion, smoking habits, sexual orientation, Our regions and markets also work to politics or disability, subject to the inherent progress the global diversity strategy through requirements of the role to be performed.
on-the-ground initiatives relevant for the local We are committed to providing training and culture and circumstances.
development for employees with disabilities.
14 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements We are now working on the development Harm reduction Next of new Marketing Principles for Tobacco Sustainability Generation Products Heating Products.
In the world of public health, harm reduction is about developing policies to try to minimise Sustainable Agriculture and the negative health impacts of a risky activity, Sustainability is a key pillar of Farmer Livelihoods SAFL without stopping it entirely.
our Group strategy and plays The farmers we work with are valued business For tobacco, harm reduction means partners, so we want them to feel secure and afundamental role in all aspects offering potentially less risky alternatives confident about their future and to be selfofour business.
to conventional cigarettes to smokers who sufficient and prosperous.
cannot, or choose not to, give up.
Our sustainability agenda was While our new Sustainable Tobacco developed through a detailed Read about our progress in NGPs Programme STP is an industry-wide, topon page 11 down compliance process, SAFL is our own materiality process that identified grassroots, bottom-up approach to enhancing the three key areas that have farmer livelihoods.
Supporting the development of regulation thegreatest significance to our We continue to take a lead in advocating Based on an internationally recognised business and our stakeholders.
for proportionate Next Generation Products framework, SAFL builds on many examples Harm reduction: We are committed regulation that has high standards for of good practice from across our leaf supply to researching, developing and consumer safety and product quality, while chain, providing us with the data and commercialising less risky alternatives encouraging innovation and availability to information we need to develop a more toregular cigarettes.
enable this important category to grow and globally consistent approach, improve deliver its harm reduction potential.
strategic decision-making and share best Sustainable agriculture and farmer practice for addressing common challenges livelihoods: We are committed to helping While Next Generation Products are generally indifferent countries.
enable prosperous livelihoods for all considered to be less risky than smoking, farmerswho supply our tobacco leaf.
nicotine is addictive and no product is 100% Our leaf operators conducted a baseline safe, so it is important to ensure they do data collection exercise in 2016 against a Corporate behaviour: We are committed not get into the hands of children and are defined set of indicators which covered a to operating to the highest standards of marketed in a responsible way.
wide range of areas such as farmer income, corporate conduct and transparency.
soil management and tackling child labour.
2016 was the first year in which our Vapour Read more about how we identified these We are now using the results to identify the Product Marketing Principles, aligned to the issuesat bat.
com materiality most material issues for farmers and their UK Committee of Advertising Practice Codes, communities and develop more effective were in operation.
Highlights during the year Launched our new Sustainable Agriculture and Farmer Livelihoods SAFL programme.
Business measures Piloted a new integrated human rights due Carbon dioxide equivalent CO e Group energy use 2 diligence system.
tonnes CO e per million cigarettes gigajoules per million cigarettes 2 equivalent produced 0.81 equivalent produced 9.92 0.79 9.75 47% reduction in carbon dioxide equivalent CO e emissions from our 2000 baseline.
2 0.81 9.92 47% lower than 16% lower than 2000 baseline 2007 baseline 2016 2015 2016 2015 Definition: We track Group CO e in tonnes per million Definition: We track Group energy use in gigajoules per 2 cigarettes equivalent tCO e MCE produced.
million cigarettes equivalent GJ MCE produced.
2 Sustainability reporting Target: To reduce Group CO e in tCO e MCE by 55% by Target: To reduce our energy use to 9.17 GJ MCE by 2025, 2 2 2025 and by 80% by 2050 against our 2000 baseline.
Water use Recycling cubic metres per million cigarettes percentage of waste recycled equivalent produced 92.8 3.56 92.6 3.43 3.43 92.6% 29% lower than 2007 baseline 2016 2015 2016 2015 Definition: We track Group water use in cubic metres per Definition: We track the total percentage of Group waste Find out more about our focus on 3 million cigarettes equivalent m MCE produced.
reused or recycled against total waste generated.
sustainability in our Sustainability Report 2016.
3 Objective: To reduce water use to 3.17 m MCE by 2025, Objective: To recycle 95% or more by 2025 in each year.
It is available onour corporate website 35% lower than our 2007 baseline.
com sustainability British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 15 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic management Delivering our strategy continued Safeguarding human rights Modern Slavery Act Corporate behaviour Our Human Rights Policy forms part of Forced labour, servitude, slavery and human Responsible marketing our Standards of Business Conduct SoBC trafficking Modern Slavery is a growing Conventional tobacco products pose serious and details our commitments to no child global issue and businesses have a clear role health risks, so it is vital that they are marketed labour or exploitation of labour, as well as to toplay in eliminating it from their operations responsibly wherever they are sold and do not respect freedom of association, to manage and supply chains.
Our first Modern Slavery get into the hands of children.
human rights risks and to understand Act statement details the steps we are taking All our marketing is governed by our local communities.
voluntary International Marketing Principles We support the UN Guiding Principles on Tackling the illegal tobacco trade IMP and we target 100% IMP compliance Business and Human Rights and recognise the The black market in tobacco involves criminal worldwide.
The IMP are our minimum increased expectations this places on businesses gangs selling counterfeit cigarettes, crossstandard and will be applied even when they and the wider supply chain.
As such, we are border smuggling and engaging in large-scale are stricter than local laws.
However, if local continuing to evolve and strengthen our tax evasion.
laws or other voluntary codes in markets are approach, including the roll-out in 2016 stricter than or override our IMP, then we will As an issue that harms our business, ofour new Supplier Code of Conduct.
abide by those laws or voluntary codes.
deprives governments of taxes and funds We make it clear to all of our contracted terrorism, we are working collaboratively In 2016, no incidents of IMP nonfarmers and suppliers that exploitative child with law enforcement and working closely compliance were identified through our labour and other human rights abuses will with international bodies such as the internal procedures.
There were, however, not be tolerated.
Compliance is monitored World Customs Organization, Europol and four external allegations made about our through the Sustainable Tobacco Programme the OECDDevelopment Task Force on marketing practices in relation to local which covers a range of human rights issues, Countering Illicit Trade.
tobacco control and advertising laws.
including child labour, forced labour, fair We conducted detailed investigations and To prevent our products becoming part of treatment and grievance mechanisms.
found no evidence of any wrongdoing.
this criminal trade, we have robust know We also provide farmer training and capacity your supplier and customer procedures to In addition to our strict IMP requirement to building to raise awareness of human rights make sure we do not do business with anyone only market our products to adult smokers, issues and run on-the-ground projects in found to be complicit in tobacco trafficking.
we expect youth smoking prevention YSP farming communities to address root causes, activities to be conducted in all our markets We have also introduced an automated such as rural poverty, in collaboration with where feasible and permitted.
In 2016, we system for tracking and tracing our products local partners.
as they move through the supply chain, as Human rights due diligence part of our agreement with the European Addressing allegations and incidents The effectiveness of, and compliance with, our Commissions Anti-Fraud Office.
By the end inour supply chain Policy commitments are monitored through of 2016, we successfully completed our With a global supply chain, issues can our human rights due diligence processes.
commitment in the agreement to have this sometimes occur.
In 2016, this has included implemented in 18 markets and 11 factories.
two reports from the NGOs Human Rights With the highest risks for human rights Watch and Swedwatch into our Indonesian abuses in our tobacco leaf supply chain, due Addressing environmental impacts and Bangladeshi leaf supply chains, as well diligence is conducted on 100% of our firstAs a major multinational, we have a as a complaint by the International Union tier leaf suppliers through the industry-wide responsibility to minimise our impact on the of Food Workers IUF to the UK National Sustainable Tobacco Programme.
This is not only the right thing Contact Point of the OECD, alleging human to do, it also makes sound business sense for For our 70,000 other first-tier suppliers, rights abuses in our US supply chain.
us to use raw materials, energy and water in we have been strengthening our existing asustainable way.
We take such allegations extremely seriously processes and better aligning them to the and are working to further investigate the UN Guiding Principles.
In 2016, we piloted a In 2016, we developed a new set of targets claims, engage with all relevant stakeholders, new integrated system focused on assessing to achieve by 2025.
We also continue to work and implement actions and joint solutions to suppliers human rights risk exposure and towards our long-term target to cut CO e 2 address any issues identified.
then prioritising the highest risk suppliers for emissions by 80% by 2050 and have so far self-assessments and on-site audits, followed achieved an 47% reduction from our 2000 Also in 2016, 39 people tragically lost by working together to implement corrective baseline see table on page 15.
We use the their lives in a fire at the factory of a thirdaction plans.
We are now conducting a Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard party packaging supplier in Bangladesh.
phased roll-out to all our suppliers worldwide.
to guide our CO e reporting methodology The Government of Bangladesh has 2 see table below, adopting an equity share been leading the compensation process We are also in the process of reviewing approach to defining, consolidating and and, working closely with them, we have our due diligence processes for our own reporting our Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 voluntarily agreed to contribute to their fund.
operations and plan to implement a CO e emissions.
With 44 factories in 42 countries, the majority Emissions of our direct impacts are in our manufacturing operations, so we have a number of initiatives 2016 2015 in this area, including investing in energyScope 1 CO e emissions tonnes 311,172 330,495 2 efficient technologies, switching to less Scope 2 CO e emissions tonnes 374,976 363,501 carbon-intensive fuels and water recycling 2 andrainwater harvesting.
Scope 3 CO e emissions tonnes 176,015 182,343 2 Total tonnes 862,163 876,339 Intensity per million cigarettes equivalent 0.81 0.79 16 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016
