Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic management Our vision and strategy Our strategy enables our business to deliver growth today, while continuing to invest in our future.
Combustible products remain at the core ofour business and will continue to provide us with opportunities for growth.
However, we also see substantial growth opportunities in the Next Generation Products category and are making significant progress in the commercialisation and development of a range of products which offer consumers potentially less risky alternatives to conventional cigarettes.
Our vision Our mission Strategic focus areas Worlds best at satisfying consumer Delivering our commitments The foundations upon which our moments in tobacco and beyond.
to society, while championing strategy is built have been in place informed consumer choice.
for many years, but we continue to refocus our activities in all four areas Satisfying consumer moments Champion informed consumer choice and constantly review our ways We believe that by being the worlds best We need to continue to ensure that our adult of working.
at satisfying consumer moments, we consumers are fully aware of the choices they will become the leader in our industry.
are making when they purchase our products.
Consumers are at the core of everything We recognise that we have a responsibility Growth page 10 we do and our success depends on to offer a range of products across the risk Developing brands, innovations and new addressing their evolving concerns, continuum but we will also defend peoples products to meet consumers evolving needs.
right to make an informed choice.
Tobacco and beyond Deliver our commitments to society Productivity page 12 The second part of our vision tobacco As society changes and priorities and Effectively deploying resources to increase and beyond recognises the strength of needs shift, we must be ready to meet new profitsand generatefunds for investment.
our traditional tobacco business and the challenges and take advantage of new opportunities we see in Next Generation opportunities.
We are a major international Winning Organisation page 13 Products.
This is a great potential business business and with this status comes Ensuring we have great people, great teams opportunity because consumers are looking responsibilities such as developing and and a great place to work.
for choices and product categories in which marketing less risky products, being open we are uniquely placed to succeed.
about the risks of all our products, supporting Sustainability page 15 agricultural communities in leaf-growing areas worldwide and minimising our impact on Ensuring a sustainable business that meets the environment.
Read about our industry page 7 Guiding Principles Our Guiding Principles provide clarity about what we stand for.
They form the core of our culture and guide how we deliver our strategy.
Enterprising Spirit Open Minded Freedom Through Strength from Diversity Responsibility We value enterprise from all of Our corporate culture is a great Our management population our employees across the world, strength of the business and one We give our people the comprises people from over 140 giving us a great breadth of ideas of the reasons we have been, and freedom to operate in their nations, giving us unique insights and viewpoints to enhance the will continue to be, successful.
local environment, providing into local markets and enhancing way we do business.
We have the We are forward-looking and them with the benefits of our our ability to compete across the confidence to passionately pursue anticipate consumer needs, scale but the ability to succeed world.
We respect and celebrate growth and new opportunities winning with innovative, highlocally.
We always strive to do each others differences and enjoy while accepting the considered quality products.
We listen to, the right thing, exercising our working together.
We harness entrepreneurial risk that comes and genuinely consider, other responsibility to society and other diversity of our people, cultures, with it.
We are bold and strive to perspectives and changing social stakeholders.
We use our freedom viewpoints, brands, markets overcome challenges.
We are open to to take decisions and act in the and ideas to strengthen our cornerstone of our success.
We value what makes each of us unique.
06 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016
