Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Overview Our global business Our heritage Our leading brands Our five Global Drive Brands Dunhill, Kent, Lucky Strike, Pall Mall British American Tobacco was founded in 1902 andRothmans play a key role in our growth strategy.
These leading and was first listed in 1912.
Today, we are one brands continued to drive volume and share growth in our markets of the top five companies listed on the London worldwide in 2016.
Stock Exchange by market capitalisation.
We also We have many other famous international and local brands including have a secondary listing on the Johannesburg Vogue, Viceroy, Kool, Peter Stuyvesant, Craven A, Benson & Hedges, Stock Exchange.
John Player Gold Leaf, State Express 555 and Shuang Xi.
Our key Next Generation Product brands include Vype, our range With factories in 42 countries and offices all ofVapour Products, and glo, our Tobacco Heating Product.
around the world, we have long played a significant role in the local communities where Dunhill we operate across the globe.
We are proud that Dunhills roots date back to 1907 we are frequently rated in many countries as whenDunhill Tobacco of London Limited was established on Gentlemens Row.
Volume More than a century later, Dunhill is our premium international brand, embodying -3.3% Traditional tobacco products are our core perfect taste, always.
However, we are also committed to Market share developing and selling potentially less risky alternatives to regular cigarettes.
These Next Flat Generation Products include Vapour Products, like e-cigarettes, and Tobacco Heating Products.
Kent Kent symbolises progress through Volume technology in the cigarette category and stands out as the most innovative and 1.0% forward-looking brand in the industry.
66bn 2015: 66bn It is a pioneering brand, whichhas led the Our products way since 1952.
Market share 10 bps Lucky Strike Based on its rich legacy dating back to 1871 when the brand was created Volume by its founder RA Patterson, Lucky Strike stands for the true and original 13.5% American cigarette.
Traditional tobacco products 36bn 2015: 32bn Our core tobacco product range includes cigarettes, Fine Cut Market share roll-your-own and make-your-own tobacco and Swedishstyle snus.
Using insights from our consumers, we continue to 10 bps develop high-quality products and market-leading innovations todifferentiateour brands.
Pall Mall Next Generation Products Pall Mall is the third biggest cigarette We also market and sell a range of innovative Next Generation Volume brand in the world.
For more than Products, the term we use to describe new types of tobacco and 115years, its core proposition has been nicotine products.
We are currently focusing on two distinct categories 0.1% centred on offering adult smokers round 92bn 2015: 92bn Vapour Products and Tobacco Heating Products which we believe the world a combination of value and high quality.
have the potential to be both significantly less risky than conventional Market share cigarettes and have widespread consumer appeal.
10 bps see pages 1011 to learn more Rothmans Rothmans is an iconic brand established in London in 1890.
A timeless classic Volume with high-quality standards, Rothmans 36.9% is finding increasing appeal among 73bn 2015: 52bn adult smokers worldwide thanks to acontemporary proposition.
Market share 70 bps 02 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016
