Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Governance Other corporate disclosures Strategic Report disclosures Section 414C 11 of the Companies Act 2006 allows the Board to include in the Strategic Report information that it considers to be of strategic importance that would otherwise need to be disclosed in the Directors Report.
The Board has chosen to take advantage of this provision and accordingly, the information set out below, which would otherwise be required to be contained in the Directors Report, has been included in the Strategic Report.
Information required in the Directors Report Section in the Strategic Report Certain risk information about the use of financial instruments.
Financial review An indication of likely future developments in the business of the Group.
Delivering our Strategy An indication of the activities of the Group in the field of research and development.
Our business model A statement describing the Groups policy regarding the hiring, continuing employment Delivering our strategy: Winning Organisation andtraining, career development and promotion of disabled persons.
Details of employee engagement: information, consultation, share scheme participation and Delivering our strategy: Winning Organisation theachievement of a common awareness of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group.
Disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions.
Delivering our strategy: Sustainability Listing Rules LRs disclosures For the purpose of LR 9.8.
4C R the applicable information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4 R Section in this Annual Report Section 12 shareholder waivers of dividends Remuneration report, page 75 and other corporate disclosures, page 78.
Section 13 shareholder waivers of future dividends Remuneration report, page 75 and other corporate disclosures, page 78.
Dividends Final dividend Year-Ended 31 December 2016 Details Recommended by the Board for approval by shareholders at AGM on 118.1p per ordinary share of 25p each 26 April 2017.
The Group reports in sterling: dividends are declared and payable in A rate of exchange of :R 16.32100 as at 21 February 2017 the sterling except for shareholders on the branch register in South Africa closing rate for that date as quoted on Bloomberg, results in an whose dividends are payable in rand.
equivalent final dividend of 1,927.51010 SA cents per ordinary share.
South Africa Dividends Tax information this is only of direct South Africa Dividends Tax at a rate of 15% equivalent to 289.12652 application to shareholders on the South Africa branch register.
SA cents per ordinary share will be withheld from the gross final Shareholders on the South Africa branch register should refer to dividend paid to shareholders on the South Africa branch register, Shareholder and contact information for the contact details of unless a shareholder qualifies for an exemption.
Computershare Investor Services Proprietary Limited, the Companys After Dividends Tax has been withheld, the net dividend will be registrar for the branch register.
1,638.38359 SA cents per ordinary share.
British American Tobacco p. l. c. is registered with the South African The final dividend is regarded as a foreign dividend for the purposes Revenue Service SARS with tax reference number 9378193172. of the South Africa Dividends Tax.
Key dates and the South Africa branch register In compliance with the requirements of the London Stock Exchange LSE and Strate, the electronic settlement and custody system used by the JSE Limited JSE, the following are the salient dates for the payment of the final dividend.
Event Date 2017 Preliminary announcement 23 February Last day to trade LDT cum-dividend JSE 14 March Shares commence trading ex-dividend JSE 15 March Shares commence trading ex-dividend LSE 16 March Record date JSE and LSE 17 March Payment date 4 May No removal requests in either direction permitted between the UK main register and the SouthAfrica branch register 23 February 17 March No transfers permitted between the UK main register and the South Africa branch register 15 March 17 March No shares to be dematerialised or rematerialised on the South Africa branch register 15 March 17 March Note: Further details of the total amounts of dividends paid in 2016 with 2015 comparatives are given in note 8 on the accounts.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 77 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Governance Other corporate disclosures continued Annual General Meeting 2017 Venue Milton Court Concert Hall, Silk Street, London EC2Y 9BH Date Wednesday 26 April 2017 Time 11:30am Notice Details of the business to be proposed at the meeting are contained in the Notice of AGM, which is made available to all shareholders and is published on www.
Voting The Company provides for the vote on each resolution to be by poll rather than by show of hands.
This provides for greater transparency and allows the votes of all shareholders to be counted, including those votes cast by proxy.
The voting results are announced on the same day on the London Stock Exchange and the Johannesburg Stock Exchange JSE through the Regulatory News Service RNS and the Stock Exchange News Service SENS respectively.
The voting results will also be made available on www.
Share capital Share capital 1 Ordinary shares of 25p each 31 Dec 2016 21 February 2017 Issued ordinary shares excluding treasury shares 1,864,373,918 1,864,374,894 Treasury shares 162,645,590 162,645,590 Total allotted and fully paid ordinary shares including treasury shares and shares owned by 2,027,019,508 2,027,020,484 employee share trusts Aggregate nominal value m 506.8 506.8 Note: 1.
The latest practicable date prior to the recommendation of the final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Significant shareholders At 31 December 2016, the following substantial interests 3% or more in the Companys ordinary share capital voting securities had been notified to the Company in accordance with Section 5.1.
2 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
As at 22 February 2017, the Company had not received notification either of any change in the interests below or that any other person holds 3% or more of its ordinary shares.
Number of % of issued 1 Name ordinary shares share capital BlackRock, Inc. 132,891,526 7.13 Reinet Investments S. C. A.
The latest percentage of issued share capital excludes treasury shares.
Renewal of authority for Company to purchase own shares Current authority to purchase shares this authority granted at the 2016 AGM will expire at the 2017 AGM: share buy-back programme was suspended with effect from 30 July 2014: fresh authority to purchase Companys ordinary shares in order that the appropriate mechanisms are in place to enable the share buy-back programme to be reinstated at any time: and authority would be exercised when, in the opinion of the Directors, the exercise of the authority would result in an increase in the Companys earnings per share and would be in the interest of its shareholders generally.
1 Proposed authority to purchase shares the minimum price that may be paid for such shares is 25p: and the maximum price is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market prices shown in the quotation for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share is contracted to be purchased.
Treasury shares in accordance with the Companys policy, any repurchased shares are expected to be held as treasury shares: at 31 December 2016 the number of treasury shares was 162,645,590 2015: 162,645,590 : no dividends are paid on treasury shares: treasury shares have no voting rights: and treasury shares may be resold at a later date.
Further details see the Notice of Annual General Meeting which is made available to all shareholders and is also published on www.
78 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Stock market listings British American Tobacco p. l. c. Stock exchange Details Registrar Transfer Office Premium listing London Stock Exchange LSE Share Code: BATS Main register: 31 Dec 2016: 1,769,948,816 main market since 8 September ISIN: GB0002875804 Computershare Investor Services plc ordinary shares being 86.21% of 1998 Bristol, UK issued share capital excluding treasury shares on main register.
Secondary listing JSE Limited JSE, South Africa Abbreviated name: BATS Branch register: since 28 October 2008 Trading code: BTI Computershare Investor Services 31 Dec 2016: 257,070,692 Proprietary Limited ordinary shares being 13.79% Johannesburg, South Africa of issued share capital excluding treasury shares on branch register.
American Depositary Receipts NYSE MKT Symbol: BTI Sponsor Depositary: ADRs Level II ADR programme CUSIP Number: 110448107 Citibank, N. A.
From 14 February 2017, each ADR New York, USA 31 Dec 2016: 32,075,503 ADRs The Company currently has represents one ordinaryshare.
outstanding, representing unlisted trading privileges for the Prior to that date each ADR 64,151,006 ordinary shares.
ADR programme and none of its represented two ordinary shares.
securities are listed on any United States securities exchange or registered pursuant to the securities laws of the United States: the Company is subject to neither the NYSE MKT listing standards nor the corporate governance rules under the 1 2 Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
The Board has chosen, in the interests of good governance, to make a voluntary statement explaining the principal differences and common areas between the Companys corporate governance practices and those that would be required if the Company were subject to those rules.
The statement is available at www.
In connection with the proposed merger with Reynolds American Inc. the Companys unlisted trading privileges will cease and its ordinary shares, represented by Level III ADRs, will be registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Change of control provisions as at 31 December 2016 Significant agreement Long-term incentive plans Revolving credit facility agreement dated 29 May 2014: the Company, The rules of the long-term incentive plans 2007 and 2016 the LTIPs.
A. T. International Finance p. l. c. British American Tobacco Holdings The Netherlands B. V. and B.
A. T. Netherlands Finance B. V. as Key provisions borrowers and, in the case of the Company, as a borrower and in the event of a change of control of the Company as a result of a guarantor and HSBC Bank plc as agent and certain financial takeover, reconstruction or winding-up of the Company not being institutions as lenders pursuant to which the lenders agreed to make an internal reorganisation, LTIP awards will become exercisable for available to the borrowers 3 billion for general corporate purposes a limited period based on the period of time that has elapsed since the Facility.
the date of the award and the achievement of the performance conditions at that date, unless the Remuneration Committee Key provisions determines this not to be appropriate in the circumstances: should a borrower other than the Company cease to be a direct or the rules of the LTIPs allow as an alternative to early release that indirect subsidiary of the Company, such borrower shall immediately participants may, if permitted, exchange their LTIP awards for new repay any outstanding advances made to it: awards of shares in the acquiring company on a comparable basis.
where there is a change of control in respect of the Company, the lenders can require all amounts outstanding under the Facility to be repaid.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 79 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Governance Other corporate disclosures continued Directors: interests and indemnities Contracts and letters of appointment details of Directors contracts and letters of appointment, remuneration and emoluments, and their interests in the Companys shares including share options and deferred shares asat31 December 2016 are given in the Remuneration Report: and no Director had any material interest in a contract of significance other than a service contract with the Company or any subsidiary company during the year.
Insurance appropriate cover provided in the event of legal action against the Companys Directors.
Indemnities provision of indemnities to Directors in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and to the maximum extent permitted by law: and as at the date of this report, such indemnities are in force covering any costs, charges, expenses or liabilities that they may incur in or about the execution of their duties to the Company or to any entity which is an associated company as defined in Section 256 of the Companies Act 2006, or as a result of duties performed by them on behalf of the Company or any such associated company.
Directors: information and advice Information: Board and committees receive papers for review in good time ahead of each meeting: Company Secretary ensures good information flow within the Board and its Committees, and between the Non-Executive Directors and senior management: and Company Secretary advises the Board on all governance matters.
Advice all Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary: procedure is in place for all Directors to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense if required: and each of the three principal Committees of the Board may obtain independent legal or other professional advice, at the Companys expense, and secure attendance at meetings of outsiders if needed.
Articles of Association The Company is incorporated under the name of British American Tobacco p. l. c. and is registered in England and Wales under registered number 3407696.
Under the Companies Act 2006, the Companys objects are unrestricted.
The following descriptions summarise certain provisions of the Companys current Articles of Association the Articles as adopted by special resolution at the AGM on 28 April 2010, applicable English law and the Companies Act 2006 the Companies Act.
This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Companies Act and the Articles, available on www.
Share capital structure Ordinary shares all of the Companys ordinary shares are fully paid no further contribution of capital may be required by the Company from the holders of such shares Alteration of share capital the Company by ordinary resolution may: consolidate and divide all or any of its shares into shares of a larger amount than its existing shares divide or sub-divide any of its shares into shares of smaller amount than its existing shares determine that, as between the shares resulting from such a sub-division, any of them may have any preference or advantage as compared with the others Alteration of share capital the Company, subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, may: reduce its share capital, its capital redemption reserve and any share premium account in any way purchase its own shares, including redeemable shares, and may hold such shares as treasury shares or cancel them Dividend rights shareholders may, by ordinary resolution, declare dividends but not in excess of the amount recommended by the Directors the Directors may pay interim dividends out of distributable profits no dividend shall be paid otherwise than out of the profits available for distribution as specified under the provisions of the Companies Act the Directors may, with the authority of an ordinary resolution of the shareholders, pay scrip dividends or satisfy the payment of a dividend bythe distribution of specific assets unclaimed dividends for a period of 12 years may be forfeited and cease to be owed by the Company specific provisions enable the Directors to elect to pay dividends by bank or electronic transfer only 80 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Share capital voting rights Voting at general meetings by a show of hands, unless a poll is demanded on a show of hands, every shareholder who is present in person at a general meeting has one vote regardless of the number of shares held by the shareholder every proxy appointed by a shareholder and present at a general meeting has one vote except that if the proxy has been duly appointed by more than one shareholder entitled to vote on the resolution and is instructed by one or more of those shareholders to vote for the resolution and by one or more others to vote against it, or is instructed by one or more of those shareholders to vote in one way and is given discretion as to how to vote by one or more others and wishes to use that discretion to vote in the other way he has one vote for and one vote against the resolution on a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for every share held by the shareholder a shareholder or his duly appointed proxy entitled to more than one vote need not use all his votes or cast all the votes he uses in the same way a poll may be demanded by any of the following: 1 the Chairman of the meeting: 2 the Directors: 3 not less than five shareholders having the right to vote at the meeting: 4 a shareholder or shareholders representing not less than one-tenth of the total voting rights of all shareholders having the right to vote atthe meeting excluding any voting rights attached to treasury shares : or 5 a shareholder or shareholders holding shares which confer a right to vote on the resolution at the meeting being shares on which an aggregate sum has been paid up equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all shares conferring that right excluding any voting rights attached to treasury shares Matters transacted at general meetings ordinary resolutions: can include resolutions for the appointment, reappointment and removal of Directors, the receiving of the Annual Report, the declaration of final dividends, the appointment and reappointment of the external auditor, the authority for the Company to purchase its own shares and the grant of authority to allot shares an ordinary resolution is passed when a simple majority of the votes cast at a meeting at which there is a quorum vote in favour of the resolution special resolutions can include resolutions amending the Companys Articles and resolutions relating to certain matters concerning a windingup of the Company a special resolution is passed when not less than three-quarters of the votes cast at a meeting at which there is a quorum vote in favour of the resolution quorum for a meeting of the Company: this is a minimum of two shareholders present in person or by proxy or by a duly authorised representative s of a corporation which is a shareholder and entitled to vote convening a meeting: the Company may specify a time not more than 48 hours before the time of the meeting excluding any part of a day that is not a working day by which a person must be entered on the register of members in order to have the right to attend or vote atthe meeting Share capital pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares holders of ordinary shares have no pre-emptive rights under the Articles the ability of the Directors to cause the Company to issue shares, securities convertible into shares or rights to shares, otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme, is restricted under the Companies Act, the Directors of a company are, with certain exceptions, unable to allot any equity securities without express authorisation, which may be contained in a companys articles of association or given by its shareholders in a general meeting, but which in either event cannot last for more than five years under the Companies Act, a company may also not allot shares for cash otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme without first making an offer to existing shareholders to allot such shares to them on the same or more favourable terms in proportion to their respective shareholdings, unless this requirement is waived by a special resolution of the shareholders Restrictions on transfers of shares Directors can, in their absolute discretion, refuse to register the transfer of a share in certificated form which is not fully paid, provided that such a refusal would not prevent dealings in shares in certificated form which are not fully paid from taking place on a proper basis The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a share in certificated form whether fully paid or not unless the instrument of transfer: 1 is lodged, duly stamped, and is deposited at the registered office of the Company or such other place as the Directors may appoint and is accompanied by a certificate for the shares to which it relates and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: 2 is in respect of only one class of share: and 3 is in favour of not more than four transferees for uncertificated shares, transfers shall be registered only in accordance with the terms of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 so that Directors may refuse to register a transfer which would require shares to be held jointly by more than four persons if the Directors refuse to register a share transfer, they must give the transferee notice of this refusal as soon as practicable and in any event within two months of the instrument of transfer being lodged with the Company British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 81 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Governance Other corporate disclosures continued Repurchase of shares subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the Company may purchase its own shares in accordance with the Companies Act any shares which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion ofthe purchase, thereby reducing the amount of the Companys issued share capital Directors Appointment and retirement a Board of Directors of not fewer than five Directors and not subject to any maximum unless otherwise determined by ordinary resolution of shareholders Directors and the Company by ordinary resolution may appoint a person who is willing to act as a Director the Articles govern minimum number of Directors who must be subject to retirement at each AGM and who may seek re-election notwithstanding the Articles, all of the Directors of the Company will be subject to re-election at the forthcoming AGM to be held on 26April2017 in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code fees for Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman are determined by the Directors but cannot currently exceed in aggregate an annual sumof 2,500,000, unless determined otherwise by ordinary resolution of the shareholders the remuneration of the Executive Directors is determined by the Remuneration Committee, which comprises independent  Disclosure of interests specific provisions apply to the regulation and management of the disclosure of Directors interests in transactions and any conflicts of interest that may occur in such situations including those which may arise as a result of the Directors office or employment or persons connected with him or her Meetings and voting the quorum for a meeting of Directors is two Directors the Directors may delegate any of their powers to a person or a committee the Articles place a general prohibition on a Director voting at a Board meeting on any matter in which he has an interest other than by virtue of his interest in shares in the Company specific provisions apply to a Directors ability to vote in relation to: the giving of guarantees: the provision of indemnities: insurance proposals: retirement benefits: and transactions or arrangements with a company in which the Director may have an interest Borrowing powers the Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or charge its undertaking, property, assets present and future and uncalled capital the Directors may also issue debentures, debenture stock and other securities The Strategic Report and the Directors Report comprised in this Annual Report have been approved and are signed by order of the Board by: Nicola Snook Secretary 22 February 2017 82 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016
