Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Our people Our geographic diversity With brands sold in over 200 markets, we have strong market positions in each of our four regions.
OurKeyMarkets, shown below, accountfor around 80% of both ourtotal volume and Group profit.
Provided the acquisition of Reynolds American Inc. Reynolds American proceeds, we will have a strong market position in the United States and our number ofprincipal associate companies will be reduced to one ITC Ltd inIndia.
We also have a joint operation, CTBAT, with China National Tobacco Corporation.
The Groups continuing success is only possible thanks to the nearly 50,000 talented people across the globe who work with farmers, in 55 44 our factories, in city offices and out on the road supporting retailers.
This total involvement in the whole tobacco supply chain from seed countries where cigarette factories to smoke and the passion for what we do is what sets us apart.
we are market leader in 42 countries Our products are made all over the world and it is essential to our continuing success that we employ a diverse range of people and cultures.
The international nature of our business is reflected in the nationalities of our people in 2016, 74nationalities wererepresented Key Markets at our London head office.
Americas Western Europe We are also proud to partner with over 90,000 contracted tobacco Argentina Colombia Belgium Netherlands farmers worldwide.
While we do not employ them directly, they Brazil Mexico Czech Republic Poland represent an important part of our business.
Canada Denmark Romania Chile France Spain see pages 1314 to learn more Germany Switzerland Italy United Kingdom see page 18 to learn more see page 18 to learn more Our sustainable approach Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa Asia-Pacific Algeria Morocco Australia Pakistan Egypt Nigeria Bangladesh Philippines GCC Russia Indonesia South Korea Japan Taiwan Iran South Africa Iraq Turkey Malaysia Vietnam Kazakhstan Ukraine New Zealand see page 19 to learn more see page 19 to learn more Our approach to sustainability is embodied in our Sustainability Agenda, which is about creating shared value for both our shareholders and our stakeholders in wider society.
It focuses onthethree key areas that have the greatest significance to ourbusiness and our stakeholders: Harm reduction: We are committed to researching, developing andcommercialising less risky alternatives to regular cigarettes.
Sustainable agriculture and farmer livelihoods: We are committed toworking to enable prosperous livelihoods for all farmers who supply our tobacco leaf.
Corporate behaviour: We are committed to operating to the higheststandards of corporate conduct and transparency.
see pages 1516 to learn more British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 03
