Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic management Regional review Americas Western Europe Adjusted profit, at current rates of exchange, was Adjusted profit, at current rates of exchange, grew by marginally ahead of prior year at 1,172 million as the 243 million to 1,389 million reflecting the relative reported results were impacted by the devaluation of weakness in sterling against the reporting currencies, the bolivar in Venezuela.
At constant rates, adjusted notably the euro.
At constant rates, adjusted profit was profit rose by 33 million, or 2.8%, driven by good higher by 7.8% 90 million or 6.9% on an organic performances from Canada, Chile, Venezuela and Peru, basis, with good performances in several markets more than offsetting lower profit in Brazil.
Cigarette including Germany, Romania, Italy and France.
Cigarette volume was down 8.8% to 113 billion, as higher volume was up by 6.7% to 120 billion, or 2.4% on volumein Mexico and Colombia was more than an organic basis, with growth in Poland and Romania offsetbydeclines in Brazil and Venezuela.
more than offsetting lower volume in the UK, Denmark and Germany.
Performance at constant rates of exchange Performance at constant rates of exchange Brazil Mexico Germany Denmark Lucky Strike grew market share, Volume was up, driven by Profit grew strongly driven by Volume, market share and profit gaining segment leadership, the continued growth in Pall pricing, with volume marginally were down due to down-trading with Dunhill growing within the Mall.
A delay in pricing led to lower.
Market share was flat as leading to the growth of the lowpremium segment.
a good performance by Lucky priced segment.
share fell, from an all-time high.
Strike was offset by declines in the Colombia Netherlands Lower consumer disposable local brands.
Fine Cut volume and Higher volume, an improvement Profit grew, driven by a lower cost income, higher VAT and excisemarket share fell due to increased in market share and good base.
Market share growth in Pall led price increases drove market price competition.
Vype was pricing were more than offset Mall and Lucky Strike was more contraction and higher illicit trade, launched nationally, growing to by the adverse impact of foreign than offset by a decline in Kent adversely impacting volume over 7% category retail market exchange on cost of sales, with and local brands, reducing total and profit.
Canada Switzerland Argentina Belgium Strong profit growth was Price discounting at retail led to Excise-led price increases drove Profit fell, driven by lower volume.
driven by good pricing and cost down-trading in the market, lower a decrease in the total market Market share fell as the decline reductions, which offset lower volume, a fall in market share and and a decline in volume.
in Kent more than offset the volume.
Market share fell, despite a decline in profit.
Market share was marginally continued growth in Lucky Strike.
France lower despite Rothmans growth United Kingdom Chile following launch.
Profit and volume were marginally A challenging pricing environment Pricing and an improvement higher.
Market share was up, led to a decline in market in mix led to higher profit.
driven by the continued growth in share, with profit flat as cost Total volume fell but market Lucky Strike.
share was up, driven by Kent Romania Total retail market share of following the successful migration Profit grew very strongly driven by the Next Generation Products from Belmont.
good pricing and higher volume.
business grew to nearly 40% Venezuela Excellent market share growth was driven by the continued growth Pricing, to offset currency driven by Pall Mall and Dunhill, of Vype and the acquisition of devaluation and inflation, led more than offsetting a decline Ten Motives.
Spain although, due to the reduction in Italy Profit was marginally higher, driven consumer disposable income, total Higher volume and pricing drove by cost savings.
Growth in Rothmans market share were stable.
market share was more than Poland offset by declines in the rest of the Market share grew strongly local portfolio with total market with volume higher due to the share down.
Vype distribution success of Pall Mall.
Vype Pebble was performance improved driven by launched and the first flagship the improved volume and pricing.
Croatia Balkans The integration of TDR is now substantially complete, with the migration to the GDB portfolio on track, driving an increase in total market share.
18 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa EEMEA Asia-Pacific Adjusted profit, at current rates of exchange, increased Adjusted profit, at current rates of exchange, was by 81 million to 1,289 million.
Good pricing across upby 161 million to 1,630 million as strong profit the region and strong profit growth in several markets performances in Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Vietnam was partly offset by the effect of currency devaluation, and South Korea were partly offset by lower profit in notably in Russia, Nigeria and Ukraine.
At constant rates Malaysia following a change in excise and the adverse of exchange, profit would have increased by 63million impact of foreign exchange on cost of sales in a number or 5.3%, or 4.3% on an organic basis.
Excluding of markets including Japan and New Zealand.
At constant acquisitions and the impact of adverse foreign exchange rates of exchange, adjusted profit grew 19 million movements on cost of sales, adjusted profit at constant or 1.3%.
Cigarette volume fell 0.9% to 196 billion, rates would have increased by 19%.
Cigarette volume asincreases in Bangladesh, Vietnam, South Korea and was 3.0% higher at 236 billion up 2.1% on an organic Indonesia, were offset by industry declines in Pakistan basis, as growth in a number of markets including and Malaysia.
Ukraine, Russia, Turkey and Algeria were partially offset bylower volume in South Africa and GCC.
Performance at constant rates of exchange Performance at constant rates of exchange Russia Ukraine Australia Pakistan Profit was significantly higher, Excellent volume and market Market share returned to growth, Profit increased significantly as a driven by good pricing and an share growth was driven by driven by Rothmans.
Pricing in result of pricing and cost savings.
increase in volume more than Rothmans.
Geopolitical instability the second half of the year was Market share grew, driven by offsetting the continuing adverse continued to impact the financial offset by lower volume due to Pall Mall.
Market contraction led impact of foreign exchange performance, with a significant themarket contraction and to lower volume as illicit trade on cost of sales.
Market share deterioration in currency and down-trading, leading to a increased significantly following continued to grow strongly, driven intense price competition leading reduction in profit.
by another excellent performance to a decline in profit.
Malaysia Vietnam by Rothmans with Kent premium Turkey Volume and profit were down Higher profit was driven by an segment share increasing.
Profit was up, driven by good as the tax-driven price increases increase in volume, pricing and South Africa pricing and higher volume.
led to a reduction in the total an enhanced mix.
Market share Volume fell, driven by downMarket share grew as the market and higher illicit trade.
was stable as State Express 555 trading to the low-priced segment excellent performance of Kent and Market share fell despite good continued to perform well in the and higher illicit trade.
growth in Peter Stuyvesant premium segment.
Pall Mall and Benson & Hedges all as Dunhill was impacted by Egypt South Korea grew market share although total down-trading.
An improvement in the financial Profit was up, driven by higher market share fell.
Profit was down Japan performance was driven by volume, including in Dunhill, due to lower volume and the higher volume, pricing and an Market share of combustibles grew, and productivity initiatives.
adverse transactional impact of enhanced mix.
Lower volume Market share fell despite good foreign exchange on cost of sales, andadverse foreign exchange growth in Rothmans.
Kazakhstan movements affecting cost of sales Indonesia GCC Rothmans drove an increase led to a reduction in profit.
glo, in volume and market share.
Volume and market share grew, Profit was flat as pricing and our Tobacco Heating Product, was Profit improved as pricing and driven by Dunhill and Lucky Strike, cost savings offset lower volume.
launched in December 2016, with higher volume more than offset with the enhanced mix and strong Market share fell as Dunhill encouraging initial results.
pricing leading to an improvement was impacted by downNew Zealand in financial performance.
trading following tax-driven Algeria Good pricing, an increase in price increases.
Philippines Strong volume growth and pricing market share and stable volume Nigeria drove profit up.
Market share was marginally were more than offset by the higher, driven by Pall Mall.
Volume growth and pricing were adverse impact of foreign Pricing and productivity offset by the adverse impact of exchange on cost of sales, initiatives more than offset foreign exchange on cost of sales, withprofit marginally lower.
a decline in volume, leading with profit in line with prior year.
Bangladesh to an improvement in Iran Volume, market share and profit financial performance.
Volume and profit were lower due continued to increase strongly.
to the retrospective application of an increase in excise.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 19
