08 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW OF STRATEGY AIM The Company is an investment trust.
Its investment objective is to achieve capital growth through a focused portfolio of mainly listed investments, particularly in companies whose shares stand at a discount to estimated underlying net asset value.
Investment Approach TOTAL RETURNS TO 30 SEPTEMBER 2016 The Companys assets are managed by Asset Value Investors Limited.
AVI aims to deliver superior returns while managing Company 1 Year risks and specialises in investment in securities that for a number % of reasons may be selling on anomalous valuations.
31.0 The Investment Manager has the flexibility to invest around the 10 Years world and is not constrained by any fixed geographic or sector % weightings, but does seek to maintain a concentrated yet diversified 82.0 portfolio.
No more than 10% of the Companys investments may be in unlisted securities.
AVIs investment philosophy is described in more detail on page 15 of the Annual Report and the Companys Benchmark 1 Year Investment Policy is set out on page 36.
MSCI All Country % World ex-US Index 28.0 Key Performance Indicators KPIs The Companys Board of Directors meets regularly and at each 10 Years meeting reviews performance against a number of key measures.
% 86.4 Net asset value total return The Directors regard the Companys net asset value total return as being the overall measure of value delivered to shareholders OTHER COMPARATORS over the long term.
Total return reflects both net asset value growth of the Company and also dividends paid to shareholders.
Morningstar Investment 1 Year Trust Global Index The Investment Managers investment style is such that performance % is likely to deviate materially from that of any broadly based equity 27.0 index.
The Board considers the most important comparator to be the MSCI All Country World ex-US Index, which was adopted as 10 Years the Companys benchmark from 1 October 2013.
The Company % will also continue to report performance against the MSCI All 122.8 Country World Index and the Morningstar Investment Trust Global Growth Index, which is a peer group index and was the Companys benchmark index until 30 September 2013.
MSCI All Country 1 Year World Index % A full description of performance and the investment portfolio is 31.3 contained in the Investment Review, commencing on page 15 of the Annual Report.
10 Years % The discount at which the Companys shares trade compared 132.0 with net asset value The Board believes that an important driver of an investment trusts discount or premium over the long term is investment performance.
MSCI All Country 1 Year However, there can be volatility in the discount or premium.
Therefore, ex-US Value Index % the Board seeks shareholder approval each year to buy back and 25.5 issue shares with a view to limiting the volatility of the share price discount or premium.
10 Years During the year under review, the discount has moved in a range from % 70.4 15.3% to 8.9% based on closing prices and, as at 30 September 2016, stood at 9.6%.
During the year under review, no new shares were issued and 8.4m shares were bought back and placed into treasury, adding an estimated 0.8% to net asset value per share to the benefit of continuing shareholders.
The shares were bought back at a weighted average discount of 12.5%.
09 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report 02 14 Investment Review 15 33 Governance 34 47 Financial Statements 48 79 Shareholder Information 80 IBC Value for money DISCOUNT The Board continues to be conscious of expenses and works hard to maintain a sensible balance between strong service and costs.
30 September 2016 30 September 2015 For the year ended 30 September 2016, the ongoing charges ratio % % 9.6 11.6 was 0.9%, unchanged from the prior year.
Principal Risks When considering the total return of the investments, the Board must also take account of the risk which has been taken in order to achieve ESTIMATED PERCENTAGE ADDED TO that return.
There are many ways of measuring investment risk, and NET ASSET VALUE PER SHARE FROM BUYBACKS the Board takes the view that understanding and managing risk is much more important than setting any numerical target.
The Board 2016 2015 looks at risk from many different angles, an overview of which is set out below.
It has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks % % 0.8 0.8 facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The Investment Manager presents reports on portfolio returns and a set of contribution and risk statistics at each Board meeting.
ONGOING CHARGES RATIO The objective of using these techniques is not to be prescriptive, but to understand levels of risk and how they have changed over 2016 2015 time.
The purpose of this focus on risk is to ensure that the returns earned are commensurate with the risks assumed.
The investment % % approach followed by the Investment Manager aims, over the long 0.9 0.9 term, to achieve returns in excess of those produced by the market.
Portfolio diversification Conventional wisdom holds that the most effective way of reducing risk is to hold a diversified portfolio of assets.
The Company typically now holds 30-40 positions.
The Investment Manager has reduced the number of positions over the past year, and this range could be considered a relatively concentrated and therefore risky portfolio.
It is important to note that, in line with its investment objective, the Companys holdings are mostly in stocks which are themselves owners of multiple underlying businesses.
Thus, the portfolio is much more diversified on a look-through basis than if it were invested in companies with a single line of business, for example.
For the same reason, the top 10 portfolio positions, representing 50.6% of total assets at the year end, are in practice highly diversified on a lookthrough basis.
This diversification is evident at country, sector and currency levels.
Investment strategy The Manager has a clear investment strategy, as set out on page 15.
There will be periods when this strategy underperforms in comparison to its benchmark and its peer group.
The Board monitors performance at each Board meeting, and reviews the investment process thoroughly at least annually.
10 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW OF STRATEGY Gearing POSITIONS THE COMPANY TYPICALLY HOLDS The Company is permitted to use gearing, and has had a 15m debenture in place for many years.
During the year, the Company also issued two tranches of fixed-rate, long-dated Loan Notes, 30-40 denominated in Sterling 30m and Euros 30m.
Taking account of the 15m debenture liability and the Loan Notes, TOP TEN INVESTMENTS REPRESENT the Companys debt-to-equity ratio as at 30 September 2016 was 8.4% 2015: 2.2%.
% 50.6 There is a degree of risk associated with gearing.
While gearing of total assets should enhance investment outperformance, it is likely to exacerbate any investment underperformance.
There are covenants attached to both the Loan Notes and the Debenture, which could be breached in extreme market conditions and could require early repayment, which could be expensive.
Total return results, when issued on the basis of debt being marked to estimated market value, are likely to be more volatile.
The value of the Euro tranche of the Loan Notes will fluctuate with currency movements, although it should be noted that the portfolio contains a significant amount of Euro denominated assets.
It is possible that the investment returns will not match the borrowing cost over time, and therefore the gearing will be dilutive.
The Board manages this risk by setting its fixed gearing at a prudent level.
It obtained the additional 20 year borrowing at a blended annualised rate of 3.79%, which the Board and AVI consider to be attractive over the long term.
The covenants are set at levels with substantial headroom.
The two significant covenants on the Loan Notes are that total indebtedness should not exceed 40% of net assets and net assets should not fall below 300m, whilst the Debenture specifies that borrowings shall not exceed 150% of adjusted capital and reserves.
Foreign exchange Foreign exchange risk is an integral part of a portfolio which is invested across a range of currencies.
This risk is managed by the Investment Manager mainly by way of portfolio diversification but the Investment Manager may, with Board approval, hedge currency risk.
Discount The shares of investment trusts frequently trade at a discount to their published net asset value.
The Board seeks to manage the risk of any widening of the discount by regularly reviewing the level of discount at which the Companys shares trade, and it will, if necessary and appropriate, limit any significant widening through measured buybacks of shares.
The value of the Companys shares will additionally be subject to the interaction of supply and demand, prevailing net asset values and the general perceptions of investors.
The share price will accordingly be subject to unpredictable fluctuations and the Company cannot guarantee that the share price will appreciate in value.
11 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report 02 14 Investment Review 15 33 Governance 34 47 Financial Statements 48 79 Shareholder Information 80 IBC Future Strategy Other risks Further risks which can impact on performance are a loss of key The Board and the Investment Manager have long believed in their focus on investment in high quality undervalued assets personnel especially within the investment management team : regulatory principally breaches of either UKLA Listing Rules, and that, over time, this style of investment has been well rewarded.
Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules or Section 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and failure of systems or controls.
The Companys overall future performance will, inter alia, be affected by: the Investment Managers decisions: investee In managing these risks, the Company reviews staffing and succession planning of the Investment Manager at least annually to ensure that companies earnings, dividends and asset values: and by stock market movements globally.
Stock markets are themselves there are adequate qualified staff capacity available, and in particular requires the Investment Manager to notify the Board promptly of affected by a number of factors, including: economic conditions: central bank and other policymakers decisions: political and any changes in senior staff.
The Company also reviews the relevant systems and controls, including their cyber-crime controls, at the regulatory issues: and currency movements.
Investment Manager and at other third party suppliers, including the Custodian and Administrator.
The Board monitors the risks inherent The Companys performance relative to its peer group and benchmark will depend on the Investment Managers ability to allocate the in the changing of a supplier, and also considers the risk controls at new suppliers.
Companys assets effectively, and manage its liquidity or gearing appropriately.
More specifically, the Companys performance will There were no material changes to the Companys risk profile be affected by the movements in the share prices of its investee companies in comparison to their own net asset values.
during the year, other than normal movements in market risk.
The overall strategy remains unchanged.
The principal financial risks are examined in more detail in note 16 to the financial statements on pages 62 to 68.
Environmental, Social and Governance Issues The Company recognises that social, human rights, community, governance and environmental issues can have an effect on some of its investee companies.
AVIs Stewardship Policy also recognises that the social and environmental consequences of corporate activity are important factors in determining the creation and maximisation of shareholder value over the long term.
The Company is an investment trust and so its own direct environmental impact is minimal.
The Company has no greenhouse gas emissions to report from its operations, nor does it have responsibility for any other emissions producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
The Company is an investment company and has no employees.
The Directors are satisfied that, to the best of their knowledge, the Companys principal suppliers, which are listed on the inside back cover of this report, comply with the provisions of the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015.
The Directors do not have service contracts.
There are five Directors, four male and one female.
Further information on the Boards policy on recruitment of new Directors is contained on page 41.
