18 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2016 INVESTMENT REVIEW INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW PORTFOLIO REVIEW Akers willingness to sell mature assets to replace them with AKER cheaper, more rapidly growing businesses should be applauded.
It is something that we have encouraged them to do over the past Description Total return on position FY16 GBP few years and we are surprised that the discount has remained so Norwegian Holding Company 134.9% wide.
We commented in the annual report last year that we saw Aker Weight in NAV at year-end Contribution GBP 7.3% 517bps as one of the survivors of the oil industry.
Not only is Aker surviving it is thriving.
The activity at Aker is a textbook example of the value Total return on position FY16 local Discount 90.0% 31% that engaged long-term owners can create throughout market cycles without having the short-term pressure from either redemptions Last year, Aker was our single largest detractor.
This year, it has been or index conscious shareholders.
our greatest contributor, and by a long way.
We have held Aker since mid-2008, first making an investment when the share price had fallen 40% from its peak with the discount widening substantially from a near premium to a high 30s discount.
We have added to our position every year since, including this financial year when we increased our position size by 22% at an average price of NOK 149.
Our high level of conviction about the company has allowed us to add opportunistically when Aker is most unloved and we have achieved an average buy price of NOK 154 and an average entry discount of some 44%.
The share price at year end was NOK 275.
Aker started the year as a 3.1% position on a 44% discount and, through a combination of NAV growth, discount contraction and additional purchases, ended the year with a 7.3% weight on a 31% discount.
The most significant in a series of transactions in 2016 came in the second week of June when Akers Exploration & Production company, DetNor, announced a merger with BP Norway to form Aker BP now 58% of Akers NAV.
The transaction is truly transformational and positions the combined company as a major producer on the Norwegian Continental Shelf.
The deal doubles production, brings forward by several years the commencement of dividend payments, strengthens the balance sheet and fully covers the funding of their major low cost asset, Johan Sverdrup all-in break-even cost of less than $25 per barrel.
In addition to this, a number of smaller transactions took place towards the end of the year.
First, we saw the sale of Akers 20 year old holding in offshore fishing company, Havfisk, which has appreciated in value by 610% over the past five years: second, an investment in Solstad Offshore which provides a platform for Aker to begin a consolidation of the offshore support vessel industry: and finally, a loan to Ocean Yield OCY, the ship chartering business, to allow further diversification and fide-risking of its portfolio.
Weighted returns adjusted for buys and sells over the year.
Figure is an estimate by the managers and sum of contributions will not equal quoted total return over the financial year.
19 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report 02 14 Investment Review 15 33 Governance 34 47 Financial Statements 48 79 Shareholder Information 80 IBC AKER ASA AKER BP Aker BP is a fully-fledged exploration and production company with exploration, For more information visit: development and production activities on the Norwegian Continental Shelf www.
Through the merger of Akers Det Norske and BPs Norwegian oil assets, it has become one of the largest independent oil companies in Europe.
Its first significant owner operator well, Ivar Aasen, is expected to start production in Q4 2016.
With the commencement of production at Ivar Aasen and the stability created through the merger, Aker BP now has the liquidity to meet the funding requirements for its flagship asset, Johan Sverdrup.
Aker BP has an 11.6% stake in the field and, with production scheduled to start in 2019, the field will likely become one of the top 5 largest discoveries ever made on the NCS.
Copyright Aker ASA Photography BP Norge 20 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2016 INVESTMENT REVIEW INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW PORTFOLIO REVIEW VIETNAM PHOENIX FUND SYMPHONY INTERNATIONAL Description Total return on position FY16 GBP Description Total return on position FY16 GBP Investment Company 39.5% London-listed Closed-End Fund 43.7% Weight in NAV at year-end Contribution GBP Weight in NAV at year-end Contribution GBP 5.1% 191bps 4.7% 185bps Total return on position FY16 local Discount Total return on position FY16 local Discount 21.1% 19% 24.3% 39% Our position in Vietnam Phoenix Fund is now in the final innings of Symphony International, the London-listed Asian consumer focused what has been a very successful investment in GBP 80% total closed-end fund, generated healthy returns over the year despite return, 30% IRR, yet we see scope for further upside given the ending the year on exactly the same discount to NAV on which it began current discount.
Your Company first invested in Vietnam Phoenix 39%.
This statistic, however, masks the positive impact of a $0.0625 Fund in July 2013.
Despite a successful track record, the companys distribution that equated to a near-9% yield on the undisturbed share shares languished on a near-40% discount due to an egregious fee price prior to the announcement.
The return of such a large sum at an structure, poor corporate governance, a conflicted board and the effective zero discount boosted returns, as did superior NAV growth absence of any discount control measures.
AVI have since accumulated an 18% stake in the company and, This is the third year in a row that Symphony has paid a substantial over the life of our holding, have removed the three management distribution, and should help counter the perception that management representatives from the board and had two of our nominees are oblivious to the very wide discount to NAV at which the companys appointed as directors.
The company has cancelled the 10% of its shares trade.
Over the course of our current financial year, we have shares held in treasury and begun a new buyback programme.
Most increased our shareholding in Symphony by almost a third to reflect significantly, we extracted a public commitment from the board that our high level of conviction and the compelling valuation.
the managers contract would not be extended on the same terms and to hold restructuring proposals to open-end the fund.
On the We still believe the companys shares to be mis-priced on a 39% last day of the financial year, these restructuring proposals were discount to NAV.
The current share price is covered 1.15 times by passed at the companys AGM with 92% of votes in favour.
cash and listed securities, with the 8% stake in Minor International a Thai-listed hotel and retail operator alone covering 83% of the All shareholders will receive a closed-end private equity run-off share share price.
We believe the listed assets are attractive, and see hidden class c. 1 3 of NAV, while the liquid assets c. 2 3 of NAV will be upside in the private holdings mainly real estate in Bangkok and split between an open-ended realisation class and an open-ended Malaysia.
Management has a good track record, and the long-term continuation class, depending on shareholder preferences.
The assets alignment of interests that results from their 15% stake and options in the open-ended realisation class will be liquidated over a 2-3 month is a clear positive.
In the meantime, Symphony pays an 8% dividend period and cash returned at NAV.
The fee structure on the private yield and there is a wind-up vote scheduled for late 2017 that will be equity vehicle ensures a strong alignment of interests between the triggered if the discount is wider than 35%.
We are also cognisant of manager and shareholders, and is well-designed to incentivise the the 83m management warrants expiring in 2018 that are worthless manager not only to achieve exits in a speedy fashion, but also to at the current share price but have an intrinsic value of $19m at NAV.
The managers acceptance of these terms is, in our We continue to engage constructively with management to explore view, a substantial vote of confidence in the unlisted assets and their additional ways to unlock the trapped value.
carrying values, which are also supported by a record of achieving significant uplifts upon exits.
Over the year, the companys NAV grew 28% as the cheap Vietnamese market performed strongly in the wake of continued strong economic growth and the introduction of measures to further open up the countrys capital markets.
The discount only narrowed modestly over the period, moving in from 20% to 19%, and represents a store of additional future returns.
On 30 September 2016, the company changed its name from DWS Vietnam Fund.
21 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report 02 14 Investment Review 15 33 Governance 34 47 Financial Statements 48 79 Shareholder Information 80 IBC SYMPHONY INTERNATIONAL MINOR INTERNATIONAL Minor International, which is listed on the Thailand Stock Exchange, is one For more information visit: of the largest hospitality and restaurant businesses in the Asia Pacific region.
com It owns 35 hotels and manages another 68 hotels and serviced suites comprising more than 12,800 rooms under prominent brands that include Anantara, Four Seasons, St. Regis, Marriott and Oaks, which provide Minor International with a presence in Australia, Indonesia, the Maldives, the Middle East, New Zealand, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Thailand and Vietnam.
Copyright Symphony International Photography AVANI Riverside Bangkok Hotel 22 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2016 INVESTMENT REVIEW INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW PORTFOLIO REVIEW Over the course of the year, the company improved operations as CONWERT identified, closing the discount to 6% on an increasing NAV as at the end of August NAV up 9.5% over our holding period.
At the beginning Description Total return on position FY16 GBP of September, Vonovia, Germanys largest listed residential landlord, Austrian-listed Property Company 52.4% made an offer for the company, which at the time of announcement Weight in NAV at year-end Contribution GBP 0.6% 184bps valued conwert at 17.58 per share in an all share transaction.
This equated to a premium of 7% to last reported NAV.
We had identified Total return on position FY16 local Discount 31.8% 2% Vonovia as a potential acquirer of conwert as an ex-Vonovia employee was appointed CEO of conwert in 2015.
Voting on the deal occurs towards the end of 2016 and, given the premium at which Vonovia ADLER trades versus NAV, we have sold some of our position at elevated Description Total return on position FY16 GBP levels.
Some of the proceeds have been used to add to our position German Property Company 24.5% in Adler, our other holding owning German residential assets.
Weight in NAV at year-end Contribution GBP 4.5% 107bps Adler is a highly geared company which traded at a 17% discount to Total return on position FY16 local Discount NAV as at our year end.
They own c. 50k residential units in Germany, 10.7% 18% in addition to a 26% stake in conwert.
While many market participants believed a rights issue would be required to reduce gearing, we were DIC confident management would use their stake in conwert to help reduce debt to a more palatable level.
They have agreed to tender Description Total return on position FY16 GBP their shares in conwert to Vonovia, and we would expect them to sell German Property Company 33.6% their Vonovia position in the early part of 2017.
A sale of this stake Weight in NAV at year-end Contribution GBP would reduce their Loan-to-Value ratio LTV to c. 60%, removing 3.31% 104bps the immediate need for a capital increase.
The companys aim is to Total return on position FY16 local Discount reduce their LTV to c. 55%, which they believe will attract interest from 14.8% 26% new investors who had shied away from the company on the grounds of its leverage.
Adler is now the only investable German residential We have had exposure to German residential assets since 2013 as company trading at a discount to NAV and we continue to have a we have found this asset class to be cheap, with reported values well dialogue with management regarding the best path to improve returns.
below replacement costs and ever-improving fundamentals helping drive NAVs higher.
Over the last financial year, we have continued this We also have exposure to German commercial property through theme with our holding in Adler Real Estate and a new investment in DIC.
This sector has been neglected over the last few years as the conwert Immobilien, an Austrian-listed company, with exposure to German residential market has stolen the limelight.
However, investor German residential assets.
interest is improving and we expect further M&A and corporate activity to increase the sectors weighting in the relevant indices.
DIC owns We initiated our investment in conwert, one of the few companies 1.8bn of commercial properties and has a further 1.4bn of assets in the sector not trading on a premium, in November 2015 at a 17% under management in joint ventures and co-investments.
They also discount to our estimated NAV.
own a 24.9% stake in WCM, another German commercial property owner.
The two companies are in discussions about how best to Through asset optimisation with the sale of non-German residential proceed and we would hope any transaction agreed would see the assets and refinancing its expensive loans, we believed the company, 26% discount to NAV at which DIC trades, narrow significantly.
under new leadership, would trade in line with its German peers at or above NAV.
We also believed the portfolio was valued conservatively when compared to peers and that we would see strong NAV growth.
The company, in our view, was a prime target for M&A activity in a sector which saw numerous corporate transactions in 2015.
23 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report 02 14 Investment Review 15 33 Governance 34 47 Financial Statements 48 79 Shareholder Information 80 IBC We have held a position in Investor since 2002, a period over which the family have compounded returns for themselves and us at an impressive 18.7% per annum compared to the MSCI All Country Worlds return of 8.5% per anum, both in Swedish Krona.
Look-through country exposure INVESTOR AB 2016 Description Total return on position FY16 GBP % Swedish Holding Company 29.3% United Kingdom 6.4 Weight in NAV at year-end Contribution GBP North America 19.3 6.0% 176bps Europe 36.7 Total return on position FY16 local Discount Asia 16.6 14.3% 24% Japan 9.1 Investor continues to create value for shareholders in the same Latin America, Africa manner in which it has done for the past 100 years, compounding & Emerging Europe 7.8 value through pragmatic active ownership.
We have held a position in Other 4.0 Investor since 2002, a period over which the family have compounded returns for themselves and us at an impressive 18.7% per annum Based on location of companies underlying assets.
compared to the MSCI All Country Worlds return of 8.5% per anum, both in Swedish Krona.
Equity portfolio value While Investors engaged attitude to portfolio investments remains by market capitalisation unchanged, they intend new investments to be made in private rather 2016 2015 than listed markets.
The portfolio is currently split 73% 27% between % % listed and unlisted holdings based on our valuations.
We frequently 1 billion 45.7 48.9 find unlisted assets held within holding company portfolios to be 1 billion 5 billion 39.8 26.0 sources of hidden value.
One such overlooked company in Investors 5 billion 10 billion 2.0 6.1 portfolio is health care business Mlnlycke, the world leader in wound 10 billion 12.5 18.8 care treatment and specialist in disposable surgical products.
The company has achieved an average EBITDA growth rate of 9% over the past six years and in the first half of 2016 recorded organic sales growth of 8%.
We have valued the business conservatively in our proprietary NAV model.
The prospect of Investor either selling or listing this business in the near term remains low and for this reason the market overlooks its true value.
But it is one of Investors crown jewels and whether or not there is an actual monetisation event in the near term, is largely irrelevant.
We believe it will continue to contribute Portfolio value by sector strongly to Investors NAV in coming years.
2016 2015 % % Over the year, Investors discount narrowed slightly while its NAV Investment Holding grew by 13%.
Investor is a best-in-class family controlled holding Companies 40.8 42.3 company, active and engaged with its listed companies and with a Investment Companies 41.2 38.6 record of value creation at its privately owned businesses.
Dividends Real Estate Companies 18.0 14.2 have grown at a compound rate of 11% over the last 10 years.
Conglomerates 3.6 A transaction in the unlisted portfolio that crystallises some of the Mining & Resources 1.2 hidden value would likely result in Investors discount narrowing quite substantially.
Until such a moment in time, we are happy to allow Investor and the family to compound our capital at attractive rates in a vehicle that incurs only 15bps of running costs per year.
24 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2016 INVESTMENT REVIEW INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW PORTFOLIO REVIEW PARGESA RIVERSTONE ENERGY Description Total return on position FY16 GBP Description Total return on position FY16 GBP Swiss Holding Company 35.8% London-listed Closed-End Fund 38.6% Weight in NAV at year-end Contribution GBP Weight in NAV at year-end Contribution GBP 4.7% 173bps 4.1% 138bps Total return on position FY16 local Discount Total return on position FY16 local Discount 16.3% 36% 38.6% 13% We completed our switch from GBL to Pargesa in September 2015 A new position was established in the first quarter of the financial year when Pargesas discount widened on both an absolute and relative in Riverstone Energy, a London-listed closed-end fund investing in basis to levels not seen for over a decade.
private equity opportunities in the oil & gas sector, at a 23% discount to NAV.
Riverstone Energy co-invests alongside Riverstones unlisted Pargesas sole asset is its stake in GBL, so the underlying assets private equity funds.
are identical: stakes in listed companies LafargeHolcim, Imerys, SGS, Adidas, Pernod-Ricard, Umicore, Engie and Ontex account for Our view was that with 40% of NAV in cash, the experienced substantially all of both companies NAVs.
We believe the divergence managers were particularly well-placed to take advantage of the low in discounts between GBL and Pargesa is a pricing anomaly that is oil price to acquire high-quality assets from distressed operators.
due to an overhang of stock from two exchangeable bonds issued by Hedges in place provided some cushion against the continuing oil BNP Paribas against Pargesa shares, maturing in September 2015 price slump on the invested portion of the assets.
Exchangeable bond holders have the right to convert before maturity and we saw larger than average volumes We held our nose to invest in the company as part of a placing of trading in the weeks preceding the bond maturing in late September shares at a discount to NAV, an action to which we are opposed on 2016.
Once this hangover of stock has been worked through, we principle.
After investing, we wrote to the Chairman advising him that expect normality to be restored and Pargesas discount to converge the company risked trading with a permanent corporate governance with GBLs.
Pargesas discount was 36% at year-end vs 23% for discount due to such actions.
We were pleased to see that the GBL, with the average spread between the two over the long run companys annual results released shortly afterwards contained being just 1% and with Pargesa having traded at some points on a statement from the board assuring shareholders that further more than a 15% premium to GBL.
equity raises at a discount would only occur under truly exceptional circumstances.
Of course, while the return from Pargesas discount reverting to its mean is attractive in its own right, we pursue a long-only strategy Two key changes in the companys portfolio occurred in the second and so we must have a constructive view on the underlying assets half of the year, one purchase and one sale.
The first, announced in to justify an investment.
Pargesa GBLs long-term track record under late July, saw Riverstone intervene in the IPO process for Permian the control of the Frre and Desmarais families has been impressive, Delaware Basin player Centennial Resource Development CRD and we are supportive of the measures taken by the current managing to acquire the company from its private equity owners.
Riverstone directors since their appointment in 2012 to shift the portfolio from then transferred the holding for shares in a listed entity Silver Run being a collection of fairly passive stakes in purely French businesses SRAQ managed by Godfather of Shale Mark Papa of EOG to a more pan-European portfolio with a clear active value-creating Resources fame.
Although their performance suffered during the initial transitionary period, the new strategy has borne fruit over the last By structuring the deal in this way, CRD began life under its new couple of years.
We have benefited from this, with Pargesas NAV management debt-free and with a substantial cash balance, and including dividends growing by 24% over the year.
has achieved a listing without any IPO discount being required.
For investors in Riverstone Energy, the added NAV transparency of having While we wait for our thesis regarding the discount to play out, we a listed holding is helpful at the margin, and SRAQs share price is have aligned ourselves with a long-term orientated family owner who already almost 60% higher than the price Riverstone Energy is paying we think will provide superior returns on our capital.
We like situations for its shares, which adds 5% to our estimated NAV after taxes and where time is our friend, not our enemy.
25 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report 02 14 Investment Review 15 33 Governance 34 47 Financial Statements 48 79 Shareholder Information 80 IBC August saw the first exit from the portfolio with the sale of Rock JPEL PRIVATE EQUITY Oil c. 25k acres in the Midland sub-basin in the Permian at a 55% uplift to carrying value and a 2.08x multiple on cost.
The sale added Description Total return on position FY16 GBP a further 3% to our estimated NAV after taxes and performance London-listed Closed-End Fund 29.2% fees.
Aside from the uplift, the deal was important for two reasons.
Weight in NAV at year-end Contribution GBP Firstly, the substantial uplift over carrying value validated Riverstones 4.9% 132bps valuations, about which there had been some we believe largely Total return on position FY16 local Discount 11.2% 26% mis-placed scepticism.
Secondly, it showed that returns are not entirely dependent on the oil price.
The capital invested in Rock Oil The listed private equity sector has been fertile ground for value was invested when the average oil price was $51 vs $42 at the time investors since the financial crisis.
Over-extended balance sheets in the sale agreement was signed.
While we believe Riverstone Energys terms of both leverage and commitments in several high-profile cases performance fee structure is flawed deal-by-deal rather than based led to forced sales, capital raisings and ballooning discounts across on NAV, this is mitigated somewhat by the requirement that the sector.
While discounts recovered from the highly distressed levels performance fees are reinvested in Riverstone Energy shares to be witnessed at the market nadir, they have remained persistently wide, acquired in the market.
Reinvestment of the performance fee from despite much of the sector now boasting robust balance sheets, low the sale of Rock Oil will add another 0.6% to Riverstones existing commitment levels, earnings growth greater than public markets, 5.9% stake in the company.
conservative valuation multiples, NAVs validated by uplifts on exits and strong NAV performance.
We still see Riverstone Energy as a compelling investment despite its rerating the managers have assembled a high-quality portfolio While we have generated excellent returns from a number of focused on low-cost basins with attractive IRR from drilling at investments in the sector over the last few years, our preference current spot prices, with the headline average oil in-price of $51 is for situations where we do not require the sector to once again for the portfolio rendered even more appealing by the collapse in oil find favour for us to benefit from discount narrowing in addition to service costs and also drilling & completion costs from technological NAV growth.
JPEL Private Equity is one such example.
Assets in the low-cost Permian basin account for 31% of the portfolio and so the company is well-placed to benefit from the The board of JPEL Private Equity had committed to a restructuring frenzy of M&A activity seen there over the last few months.
We believe in early-2016 that would have seen the assets split pro rata into two several key holdings are undervalued in the NAV relative to where pools: Continuation and Realisation, with the latter shares receiving comparable listed companies are trading and where transactions regular redemptions at NAV as exit proceeds are distributed.
are being struck in the market.
Since we acquired a position in the company, the Sterling NAV has grown by 26% 8% in USD and the Along with other large shareholders, we entered into discussions discount has reduced from 23% to 13%, to give a total return of 45%.
with the board and management prior to this restructuring.
It became apparent that the proposals were sub-optimal given the potential conflicts of interest related to potential future sales of fund interests in the secondary market amongst others, and so we were pleased when the board agreed to abandon the proposed dual share class structure, instead putting forward proposals that will see the whole portfolio move into realisation.
A run-off of the portfolio guarantees the discount will be eliminated over time and represents an attractive source of potential growth.
Crucially, we also like the portfolio and expect recent NAV growth to continue.
The portfolio is well-balanced between mature legacy funds and more recent secondary direct investments the former generate prodigious cash-flows 34% of opening value for the 2016 financial year that will now be distributed to shareholders under the new policy: the latter are largely high growth companies bought cheaply that have produced compelling NAV growth JPELs NAV was up 14% in the second half of our financial year.
26 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2016 INVESTMENT REVIEW INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW PORTFOLIO REVIEW JPEL DATAMARS Datamars SA is a leading supplier of animal identification systems including For more on info visit: pet and livestock and textile identification systems.
com Switzerland and operates globally.
Copyright JPEL Photography Getty Images representing Datamars 27 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report 02 14 Investment Review 15 33 Governance 34 47 Financial Statements 48 79 Shareholder Information 80 IBC TOP 30 LOOK-THROUGH HOLDINGS British Empire invests in holding companies and closed-end funds that in turn invest in listed and unlisted companies.
We show below the top 30 holdings on a look-through basis, i. e. the underlying companies to which we have exposure.
For example, British Empire owns a stake in Better Capital 2009, a London-listed private equity fund, that accounts for 3.7% of British Empires portfolio 4.0% of its NAV.
Better Capital 2009s largest holding is Gardner Aerospace, which accounts for 90% of its own NAV.
This translates to an effective exposure of British Empire to Gardner Aerospace of 3.6% of British Empires NAV.
Underlying Look-through Look-through holding Parent company look-through weight holding sector Athene Holding AP Alternative Assets 6.4% Insurance Aker BP Aker ASA 3.9% Oil & Gas Exploration & Production Gardner Aerospace Better Capital 2009 3.6% Aerospace & Defense Bureau Veritas Wendel 2.8% Professional Services Swire Properties Swire Pacific B 2.6% Real Estate Management & Development Minor International Symphony International Holdings 2.4% Hotels, Restaurants & Leisure Toyota Forklifts & Handling Equipment Toyota Industries 2.0% Capital Goods Zalando Kinnevik B 1.8% Retailing Toyota Motor Corp Toyota Industries 1.7% Automobiles & Components Ocean Yield Aker ASA 1.5% Diversified Ship Leasing Kakaku.
com Digital Garage 1.4% Internet Software & Services St Gobain Wendel 1.1% Building Products Millicom Kinnevik B 1.1% Wireless Telecommunication Services I. H. S Wendel 1.0% Wireless Communications Towers Atlas Copco A Investor AB A 1.0% Industrial Machinery Canadian Intl Oil Corp CIOC Riverstone Energy 0.9% Oil & Gas Exploration & Production LafargeHolcim Pargesa 0.9% Construction Materials ABB Investor AB A 0.9% Electrical Components & Equipment Indofood First Pacific 0.8% Packaged Foods & Meats Stahl Wendel 0.8% Speciality Chemicals Aker Solutions Aker ASA 0.8% Oil & Gas Equipment & Services Imerys Pargesa 0.8% Construction Materials Greenfeed Vietnam Phoenix Fund 0.8% Animal Feed Mlnlycke Investor AB A 0.8% Health Care Supplies Bollore Africa Logistics Bollore Group 0.8% Air Freight & Logistics SEB Investor AB A 0.8% Diversified Banks Centennial Resource Development Riverstone Energy 0.7% Oil & Gas Exploration & Production SGS Pargesa 0.7% Professional Services Adidas Pargesa 0.7% Apparel Vietnam Dairy Products Vietnam Phoenix Fund 0.6% Dairy Products 28 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2016 INVESTMENT REVIEW INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW PORTFOLIO REVIEW WENDEL JARDINE MATHESON STRATEGIC Description Total return on position FY16 GBP Description Total return on position FY16 GBP French Holding Company 19.2% Asian Holding Companies 15.4% 8.7% Weight in NAV at year-end Contribution GBP Weight in NAV at year-end Contribution GBP 6.0% 118bps 0% 0% 89bps 27bps Total return on position FY16 local Discount Total return on position FY16 local Discount 2.8% 33% 22.1% 4.4% 21% 37% Wendels share price performance over the year failed to reflect We sold out entirely from both our Jardine Matheson and Jardine both its solid 6% NAV growth in Euro terms and a series of material Strategic investments during the year.
The two companies own transactions in the portfolio.
As such, its discount ended the year at substantially the same assets, with Jardine Strategic historically 33%, wider than the 29% at which it began, but narrower than the trading on a wider discount to NAV than Jardine Matheson due to the 42% it traded on in February.
We took advantage of this weakness latters higher dividend yield and closer alignment with the controlling to almost double our holding.
Over the last 10 years, Strategic has traded on an average discount of 35% vs 27% for Jardine Matheson.
Since the One of the key criticisms levelled at Wendel has been their level of start of 2016, Jardine Mathesons discount narrowed dramatically gearing.
The management team, however, have taken great strides on what proved to be well-founded speculation of its inclusion in the this year to tackle this, with a nominal net debt reduction of 1.6bn to MSCI indices, moving from 21% at the start of the year to as narrow end the year at 1.9bn, and a LTV reduction of 16 percentage points as 6%.
We took this opportunity to sell our Jardine Matheson stake to 18% achieved over the first nine months of 2016.
We believe a over January and February at an average discount of 11.5%, which long-term LTV of around 20% is sustainable.
compares to the discount at 30 September 2016 of 21%.
There is also a negative perception surrounding the concentration of With the spread, at the time, between Jardine Matheson and Strategic Wendels portfolio, and a complaint that it is too static with excessive discounts at such abnormally wide levels, we kept the same asset exposure to Bureau Veritas and Saint Gobain.
While there was some exposure by using part of the proceeds to establish a position in merit to this given these two holdings accounted for 60% of the Strategic.
This position was not held for very long as the Brexit investment portfolio as at 30 September 2015, management have fallout provided ample opportunities to better place our capital.
shown their willingness to address this problem through the sale of 1.2bn of Saint Gobain shares.
The two stocks now account for 52% The Jardine companies have been a key part of our portfolio for over of the portfolio and Saint Gobains weight will decrease further upon 10 years now and over that holding period, our position in Jardine maturity of the exchangeable bond issued against 27% of Wendels Matheson recorded an IRR of 20%.
Despite this long relationship, current Saint Gobain position.
it is important not to become emotionally attached to companies and we will deploy capital where we see the best opportunities.
By focusing so narrowly on these two issues, it is our contention that the market overlooks the potential in the unlisted portfolio which accounts for more than half of Wendels NAV.
For example, IHS, the African mobile towers business, accounts for 30% of the unlisted portfolio and achieved a 220% EBIT growth rate in the first half of 2016, largely on the back of significant margin expansion.
Stahl, the speciality chemicals business, makes up 24% of the unlisted portfolio and achieved 24% EBITDA growth in the first half of 2016 on the back of greater synergies and a healthy 6.6% organic growth rate in sales.
We are conservative in our valuations for the unlisted positions and think there is potential for a 17% write-up in NAV solely on the back of less cautious valuations.
Wendel should benefit from a number of potential events e. g. an IPO of IHS in the coming years and further bolt-on M&A activity at security business AlliedUniversal.
We are confident that as these events occur, the discount will narrow.
In the meantime, we applaud the value being created in the unlisted portfolio and the actions management are taking to reposition the company and combat the discount.
We believe Wendels rating to be anomalous and have expressed our conviction through a large position in the company.
29 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report 02 14 Investment Review 15 33 Governance 34 47 Financial Statements 48 79 Shareholder Information 80 IBC The sales process for Gardner began earlier this year with advisors BETTER CAPITAL 2009 appointed in February.
The aerospace components sector has seen frenetic M&A activity over the last few years, led by buyers attracted by Description Total return on position FY16 GBP the sectors strong growth prospects and the preference of the aircraft London-listed Closed-End Fund 18.9% manufacturers for dealing with larger and better-financed suppliers.
Weight in NAV at year-end Contribution GBP 4.0% 88bps We see Gardner as being attractive to both trade and private equity buyers, and our analysis suggests a value for the business materially Total return on position FY16 local Discount 18.9% 17% in excess of its current carrying value.
We increased our shareholding in Better Capital 2009 almost threefold over the year as a reflection of our conviction in the value of Gardner Aerospace, by far the largest holding at 90% of Better Capitals NAV.
We first invested in Better Capital 2009 in December 2014 after a material and badly-communicated write-down in one of its previously strong-performing portfolio companies resulted in the evaporation of the premium rating previously enjoyed by the company.
Having traded at times in excess of a 20% premium, we were able to acquire stock on discounts exceeding 20%.
While our investment in Better Capital has generated a respectable 24% IRR over its life so far, we are optimistic on the prospects of further upside from here.
In keeping with Better Capitals turnaround strategy, Gardner Aerospace was acquired from its lending banks in 2010 who had seized control from Carlyle, its previous private equity owners.
Better Capital then invested heavily in the business to fund four bolt-on acquisitions, build out new factories, and to provide a working capital facility.
Gardner manufactures detailed metal components for the aerospace industry, predominantly for civil aircraft manufacturers.
At the time of Gardners purchase by Better Capital, Airbus was an immaterial part of revenues yet now represents c60% of Gardners total sales, with contracts for the A350, A380, A330, A330neo, A320, A320neo, and the A400 military plane.
Gardner is the 6th biggest supplier of metallic parts to Airbus, selling a huge number of essential parts which account for a very low portion of the total cost of an aircraft.
A key part of the turn-around strategy has been a focus on building low-cost production capacity - in addition to Gardners five sites in the UK and two in France, it also has two factories in Poland and one in India.
The business is protected by very high barriers to entry due to regulations and required site process approvals from the aircraft manufacturers, KINNEVIK ZALANDO and customer retention is exceptionally high.
Founded in 2008, Zalando is Europes leading online fashion platform, offering Gardner has been a successful investment for Better Capital, and is clothing, shoes and accessories for women, men and children with more than 1,500 global and local brands as well as private labels.
Zalando has an online now carried at 8.7x cost.
The sector in which Gardner operates has presence in 15 European markets and is tailored to country-specific customer far higher visibility on future sales than in many others, as revenue from preferences.
signed contracts is earned as and when aircraft deliveries are made.
The ramp up of production of the A350 has resulted in Gardners Copyright Kinnevik revenues and earnings increasing dramatically, and we expect this Photography Zalando SE growth to continue over the coming years.
The devaluation of Sterling in the wake of the UKs vote to leave the European Union is positive For more information visit: for Gardner, as its revenues are earned in US Dollars yet 55% of its www.
30 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2016 INVESTMENT REVIEW INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW PORTFOLIO REVIEW AP ALTERNATIVE ASSETS DOLPHIN CAPITAL Description Total return on position FY16 GBP Description Total return on position FY16 GBP London-listed Closed-End Fund 11.2% London-listed Property Company -61.7% Weight in NAV at year-end Contribution GBP Weight in NAV at year-end Contribution GBP 6.5% 78bps 0.4% -86bps Total return on position FY16 local Discount Total return on position FY16 local Discount 0.6% 44% -61.7% 78% AP Alternative Assets share price fell 11% from $35.8 to $32.0 over Dolphin Capital, the high end hotel and resort developer, was our the year despite a 12% increase in published NAV.
We more than largest detractor in another disappointing year for the company.
At the doubled our shareholding over the period by accumulating additional beginning of 2015, we added to our position in a heavily discounted shares at an average price of $28.6, resulting in a small gain in local fund raising of 75m as the company sought to shore up its cash currency on our overall position 0.6% in USD: 11.2% in GBP.
At the time we, along with other major shareholders, pushed for a dramatic reduction in the management fee, change in strategy to We have owned AP Alternative Assets, managed by private equity group focus on five core projects and for a change in board composition, all Apollo, since mid-2012, first acquiring stock at just $11 on a near-40% of which were implemented.
The money raised allowed the company discount when the company was much closer to its original form than it to continue operations until the beginning of 2017 assuming no further is today.
A typical bull-market launch, the company was established in asset sales.
2006 to co-invest alongside Apollos private equity and special situations funds.
We saw the shares as attractive due to the deep discount, the Disappointingly, we have seen very little in the form of sales since visibility on valuations due to a high proportion of the NAV being in then, and the share price has continued its downward trend as the listed securities, the exposure to a fast-growing life insurance company company approaches the moment when it will need fresh capital.
that accounted for 27% of the investment portfolio, and the managers unambiguous statement that they saw no more attractive investment While the investment has been very disappointing down 84% since than the companys own shares.
original purchase, some respite arrived at the end of September when the company announced a sale of their 49% stake in Aristo, a Cypriot Today, following a restructuring less than six months after we initiated villa developer, for 45m, alongside the arrangement of a 7.5m credit our position, AP Alternative Assets now owns just one asset, Athene facility which has been agreed in principle.
While the sale of Aristo Insurance, and we believe we are now approaching the end of what was at a large discount to carrying value, it extends the time horizon has to date been a highly profitable investment IRR of 32% in USD: the company has to initiate asset sales and restructurings with a view 39% in GBP.
Athene made its IPO filing in May 2016 and we expect to returning capital to shareholders.
The company has a continuation it to debut on the NY Stock Exchange before the end of this year, vote before the end of 2016, however in effect, the company is already market conditions permitting.
in realisation mode, as they look to sell assets down.
Founded by Apollo in 2009, Athene was set up to capitalise on dislocation and distress in the life insurance markets.
Expensive liabilities written in times of higher interest rates and increased regulatory burdens relating to capital requirements led to a wave of retrenchment across the sector and allowed Athene to buy blocks of long duration liabilities at low cost.
Today, Athene has grown to $70bn of invested assets up from $8.5bn at the time of our initial investment, and has compounded book value at 18% per annum over the last three years.
As a provider of fixed annuities, Athene can be looked at as essentially a spread lending business, earning the difference between the rate it pays out on the annuities it issues and the investment returns it earns on the premiums paid by policy-holders.
Its liabilities are significantly lower cost than peers, and importantly have a weighted average life of 7.5 years and are largely protected by early surrender charges, granting Athene the ability to earn an illiquidity premium on the assets in which it invests.
Athenes balance sheet is very strong, and its $1bn of excess capital and undrawn $1bn credit facility provide it with a war-chest to make further opportunistic acquisitions.
AP Alternative carries Athene at a valuation equating to a 1.2x pricebook multiple in their published NAV.
AP Alternatives share price Weighted returns adjusted for buys and sells over the year.
implies a valuation of less than 1x book for Athene.
Our analysis Figure is an estimate by the managers and sum of contributions will not equal suggests Athene should trade in excess of carrying value.
quoted total return over the financial year.
31 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report 02 14 Investment Review 15 33 Governance 34 47 Financial Statements 48 79 Shareholder Information 80 IBC HUDSONS BAY SAKS FIFTH AVENUE Saks Fifth Avenue, located on Fifth Avenue, Manhattan, New York City is the For more on info visit: flagship store of the American luxury department store chain, Saks.
com owned by The Hudsons Bay Company, the oldest commercial corporation in North America.
Hudsons Bay also owns the property from which Saks Fifth Avenue operates, therefore owning one of the most iconic pieces of real estate in New York.
Further Saks stores are being opened in Canada and Europe: its first Canadian store opened in Toronto in 2016.
Copyright Hudsons Bay Photography Hudsons Bay Company
