36 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2016 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements The Company generally invests on a long-only basis but may hedge for the year ended 30 September 2016. exposures through the use of derivative instruments and may also hedge its foreign currency exposures.
Status The Company is registered as a public limited company under the There are no geographic limits on exposure, as the Company invests Companies Acts and is an investment company under Section 833 wherever it considers that there are opportunities for capital growth.
Risk is spread by investing in a number of holdings, many of which themselves are diversified companies.
On 5 November 2015, the Companys name was changed by Board resolution from British Empire Securities and General Trust plc to British The Company will not invest in any holding that would represent more than Empire Trust plc.
15% of the value of its total investments at the time of investment.
The Company has been approved as an investment company under Potential investments falling within the scope of the Companys investment Sections 1158 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The Directors are objective will differ over the course of market cycles.
The number of holdings of the opinion, under advice, that the Company continues to conduct its in the portfolio will vary depending upon circumstances and opportunities affairs as an Approved Investment Trust under the Investment Trust within equity markets at any particular time.
The Company may gear its assets through borrowings which may vary The Company is a qualifying company for the purposes of Stocks substantially over time according to market conditions but which will & Shares ISAs.
not exceed twice the nominal capital and reserves of the Company.
The Companys Investment Manager is authorised as an AIFM by the FCA Gearing Levels under the AIFMD regulations.
The Company has provided disclosures on its The Companys formal Investment Policy, as disclosed above, permits a website, www.
co. uk, incorporating the requirements of the significant level of gearing, as do the Companys Articles of Association AIFMD regulations.
and the limits set under AIFMD see page 69.
Investment Objective, Policy and Restrictions In practice, while the Board will continue to monitor opportunities to secure The objective of the Company is to achieve capital growth through debt on attractive terms, it has no immediate plans to raise further longa focused portfolio of investments, particularly in companies whose term borrowings.
Under normal market conditions, it is expected that the shares stand at a discount to estimated underlying net asset value.
portfolio will be virtually fully invested, although net gearing levels may fluctuate depending on the value of the Companys assets and short-term Investments are principally in companies listed on recognised stock movements in liquidity.
exchanges in the UK and or overseas, which may include investment holding companies, investment trusts and other companies, the share prices of which As set out on page 10, the Companys debt-to-equity ratio as at are assessed to be below their estimated net asset value or intrinsic worth.
Long-term debt comprises 15m of Debenture Stock and two tranches of Loan Notes, one of 30m Although listed assets make up the bulk of the portfolio the Company may and the other 30m.
also invest in unlisted assets with the prior approval of the Board.
Results and Dividends Company profit for the year was 204,238,000, which included a profit of 18,747,000 attributable to revenue 2015: loss of 66,711,000, which included a profit of 16,268,000 attributable to revenue.
The profit for the year attributable to revenue has been applied as follows: Company 000 Current year revenue available for dividends 18,747 Interim dividend of 2.0p per Ordinary Share paid on 30 June 2016 2,591 Recommended final dividend payable on 6 January 2017 to shareholders on the Register as at 2 December 2016 ex dividend 1 December 2016 : Final dividend of 9.7p per Ordinary Share 12,057 Special dividend of 2.8p per Ordinary Share 3,480 18,128 Based on shares in circulation on 9 November 2016.
37 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report 02 14 Investment Review 15 33 Governance 34 47 Financial Statements 48 79 Shareholder Information 80 IBC Directors Management Arrangements The Directors of the Company are listed on pages 34 and 35.
All served Asset Value Investors Limited is the Companys appointed Alternative throughout the period under review.
Investment Fund Manager, and is engaged under the terms of an Investment Management Agreement IMA dated 17 July 2014.
The IMA In accordance with the recommendations of the AICs Code of Corporate is terminable by one years notice from either party, other than for cause.
Governance, all of the Directors of the Board will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and offer themselves for re-election.
The Investment Manager is entitled to a management fee of 0.70% of the net assets of the Company, calculated quarterly by reference As set out on page 41, the Board carries out an annual review of to the net assets at the preceding quarter end and paid monthly.
each Director and of the Board as a whole.
The Board considers that all Directors contribute effectively, possess the necessary skills and J. P. Morgan Europe Limited was appointed as Depositary under an experience and continue to demonstrate commitment to their roles as agreement with the Company and AVI dated 2 July 2014, and is paid a non-executive Directors of the Company.
Following the performance fee on a sliding scale between 0.5 basis points and 4 basis points based review, it was agreed that all Directors should stand for re-election, and on the assets of the Company.
The Depositary Agreement is terminable the re-election of each of the Directors is recommended by the Board.
on 90 calendar days notice from either party.
The beneficial interests of the current Directors and their connected JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, London Branch, has been persons in the securities of the Company as at 30 September 2016 appointed as the Companys Custodian under an agreement dated are set out in the Directors Remuneration Implementation Report 2 July 2014.
The agreement will continue for so long as the Depositary on page 76.
Agreement is in effect and will terminate automatically upon termination of the Depositary Agreement, unless the parties agree otherwise.
Nigel Rich is a director of Matheson & Co Ltd, a subsidiary of Jardine Matheson which was an investee company during the year.
Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited was appointed as corporate Company Secretary on 1 April 2014.
The current annual fee is 55,995, Subsidiary Company which is subject to an annual RPI increase.
The Agreement may be The Company owns one subsidiary, BEST Securities Limited, which terminated by either party on six months written notice.
was dormant in the year under review, and for this reason, together with the fact that the Company is an investment company, its results With the Boards consent, AVI has sub-contracted certain fund administration are not consolidated.
As at the year end, the subsidiary had assets services to Capita Asset Services.
The cost of these sub-contracted services amounting to 1.
As the subsidiary has been inactive for some time, is borne by AVI from its own resources and not by the Company.
application has been made to the Registrar of Companies for BEST Securities Limited to be voluntarily struck off.
Interests in Share Capital Information on the structure, rights and restrictions relating to share capital is given on page 33.
At 30 September 2016 and 9 November 2016, the following holdings representing more than 3% of the Companys voting rights had been reported to the Company: Number held at Percentage held at Percentage held at 30 September 2016 30 September 2016 9 November 2016 1607 Capital Partners, LLC 12,570,854 9.99 10.05 Alliance Trust Limited 7,712,108 6.13 6.20 Lazard Asset Management LLC 7,309,563 5.81 5.88 Halifax Share Dealing 6,969,219 5.54 5.61 Wells Capital Management, Inc. 6,731,609 5.35 5.42 Elliott Capital Advisors LP 6,483,204 5.15 5.22 Brewin Dolphin 4,566,993 3.63 3.67 Charles Stanley & Co Limited 4,393,859 3.49 3.53 Interest held in form of contract for difference over Ordinary Shares.
Subsequent to 30 September 2016, the Company was informed that the interest of 1607 Capital Partners LLC had decreased to 12,496,854 shares.
No other changes have been notified.
38 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2016 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Financial Risk Management Resolution 14 Authority to issue shares outside of pre-emption rights The principal financial risks and the Companys policies for managing The Directors seek to renew the authority to allot, other than on a prethese risks are set out in note 16 to the financial statements.
emptive basis, Ordinary Shares including the grant of rights to subscribe for, or to convert any securities into Ordinary Shares up to a maximum Greenhouse Gas Emissions of 6,215,233 Ordinary Shares, being approximately 5% of the Ordinary The Companys environmental statements are set out in the Strategic Shares excluding shares held in treasury in issue as at 9 November 2016, Report on page 11. and to transfer or sell Ordinary Shares held in treasury.
Auditor The Directors would only exercise this authority if they consider it to be Ernst & Young LLP had been Auditor to the Company since June 1993.
An advantageous to the Company.
The Directors do not currently intend audit tender has been carried out, and the Board, on the recommendation to issue shares or sell shares from treasury other than at or above the of the Audit Committee, is recommending that KPMG LLP be appointed as prevailing net asset value.
Further information about the tender process can be found in the Report of the Audit Committee on page 72.
As a result, Ernst & Young will Resolution 15 Share buy-back facility not be seeking re-appointment as Auditor at the Annual General Meeting At the Annual General Meeting held on 17 December 2015, the Directors and a copy of their statement of the circumstances of their ceasing to were authorised to make market purchases of up to 14.99% of the shares hold office is enclosed with this report.
A resolution to appoint KPMG LLP in circulation at the date of that meeting.
As at the date of this Report, as Auditor to the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual 8,561,053 shares have been bought back under this authority.
At the General Meeting and will be effective immediately following that meeting.
forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the Directors will seek to renew the authority for up to 14.99% of Ordinary Shares in issue excluding Special Business at the AGM shares held in treasury, representing 18,633,269 Ordinary Shares as The Notice of the AGM to be held on 20 December 2016 the Notice at 9 November 2016, to be bought back.
Purchases would be made in is set out on pages 80 to 83. accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act and Listing Rules.
The authority would expire 15 months after the date of the passing of the Resolution 12 Directors Remuneration Policy resolution or, if earlier, at the next AGM of the Company.
To receive and adopt the Directors Remuneration Policy as presented on pages 73 and 74.
Details of shares bought back during the year under review can be found in note 14 to the financial statements.
Resolution 13 Authority to allot shares The Directors seek to renew the general and unconditional authority Ordinary Shares bought back may be held in treasury for cancellation to allot up to 41,434,888 Ordinary Shares of 10p each, representing or sale at a future date rather than being cancelled upon purchase.
approximately one-third of the issued Ordinary Share capital excluding The Directors would not exercise the authority granted under this shares held in treasury.
The Directors would only exercise this authority Resolution unless they consider it to be in the best interests of if they considered it to be in the best interests of the Company generally.
This authority would expire 15 months after the date of the passing of the resolution or, if earlier, at the next AGM of the Company.
Details of the above resolutions are contained in the Notice.
As at 9 November 2016, 35,709,424 shares are held in treasury, Recommendation representing 22.3% of the issued share capital.
The Directors consider that all of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are in the best interests of the Company and its members as a whole.
The Directors unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of all of the resolutions, as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
39 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report 02 14 Investment Review 15 33 Governance 34 47 Financial Statements 48 79 Shareholder Information 80 IBC Corporate Governance The Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules Disclosure Rules of the UK Listing Authority require listed companies to disclose how they have applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the corporate governance code to which the issuer is subject.
The provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code UK Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in September 2014 are applicable for the year under review.
The related Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code issued by the AIC in February 2015 addresses all the principles set out in the UK Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are specific to investment trusts.
The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The FRC has confirmed that AIC member companies which report against the AIC Code and which follow the AIC Guide will meet the obligations in relation to the UK Code and associated disclosure requirements of the Disclosure Rules.
The AIC Code can be viewed at http: www.
co. uk sites default files uploads files .
The UK Code can be viewed at http: www.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code and the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Code provides shareholders with full details of the Companys Corporate Governance compliance.
Throughout the year ended 30 September 2016, the Company has complied with the provisions of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Code, except as set out below.
The UK Code includes provisions relating to the role of the Chief Executive, Executive Directors remuneration and the need for an internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the position of the Company, being an externally managed investment company.
In particular, all of the Companys day-to-day management and administrative functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no Executive Directors, employees or internal operations.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
40 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2016 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued The Principles of the AIC Code The AIC Code is made up of twenty-one principles split into three sections covering: The Board Board Meetings and the relationship with the Investment Manager Shareholder communications The Board AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 1.
The Chairman should be The Chairman, Strone Macpherson, was independent of the Investment Manager at the time of his appointment independent.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman, the Directors, the Investment Manager and the Companys other third party service providers.
The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role and is responsible for ensuring that all Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
A majority of the Board should The Board consists of five non-executive Directors, each of whom is independent of the Investment Manager.
be independent of the manager.
No member of the Board is a director of another investment company managed by the Companys Investment Manager, nor has any Board member been an employee of the Company, its Investment Manager or any of its service providers.
Steven Bates is the Senior Independent Director.
Strone Macpherson is Chairman of Close Brothers Group plc, the ultimate parent of Winterflood Securities Limited which is the Companys Corporate Broker and which is entitled to a retainer of 25,000 per annum, payable by the Company.
The retainer is offsettable against commissions earned from share buy-backs on behalf of the Company.
For the year to 30 September 2016, Winterflood Securities Limited earned commissions of 84,000, fully offsetting the retainer.
The Board has determined that this does not compromise Mr Macphersons independence.
Directors should be submitted All Directors submit themselves for annual re-election by shareholders.
for re-election at regular intervals.
Nomination for reThe individual performance of each Director standing for re-election is evaluated annually by the remaining election should not be assumed members of the Board and, if considered appropriate, a recommendation is made that shareholders vote but be based on disclosed in favour of their re-election at the AGM.
procedures and continued satisfactory performance.
The Board should have a policy The Board, meeting as the Nomination Committee, considers the structure of the Board and recognises the need on tenure, which is disclosed in for progressive refreshing of the Board.
The Board does not have a formal policy requiring that Directors should stand down after a fixed period.
It considers that a long association with the Company and experience of a number of investment cycles can be valuable to its deliberations and does not compromise a Directors independence.
Strone Macpherson has served as a Director for over 13 years and Steve Bates has now served for 10 years.
The remaining members of the Board have considered the length of their service and any impact that this might have on their continuing independence.
They have determined that both Mr Macpherson and Mr Bates continue to be demonstrably independent of the Investment Manager.
The Board is mindful of the need to refresh the Board periodically through the retirement and appointment of Directors.
Recruitment consultants have been retained to assist with that process.
The terms and conditions of the Directors appointments are set out in Letters of Appointment which are available for inspection on request at the registered office of the Company and at the AGM.
41 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report 02 14 Investment Review 15 33 Governance 34 47 Financial Statements 48 79 Shareholder Information 80 IBC AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 5.
There should be full disclosure All of the Directors are resident in the UK and their biographical details, set out on pages 34 and 35 of this of information about the Board.
Report, demonstrate the wide range of skills and experience that they bring to the Board.
Details of the Boards Committees and their composition are set out on page 46 of this Report.
The Audit Committee membership comprises all of the Directors, all of whom are considered to be independent.
The Chairman of the Company is a member of the Audit Committee, but does not chair it.
His membership of the Audit Committee is considered appropriate given the Chairmans extensive knowledge of the financial services industry.
The Board considers that, as it is comprised of non-executive Directors, it is not necessary to establish a separate Remuneration Committee.
Whilst the whole Board considers Directors remuneration, the Chairman will absent himself from the discussion on his remuneration.
The Board should aim to have The Nomination Committee conducts annually a skills audit to enable the Board to identify any skill shortages a balance of skills, experience, to be filled by new Directors.
length of service and knowledge of the company.
The experience of the current Directors is detailed in the biographies of the Directors, set out on pages 34 and 35 of this Report.
When considering new appointments, the Board reviews the skills of the Directors and seeks to add persons with complementary skills or who possess skills and experience which fill any gaps in the Boards knowledge or experience and who can devote sufficient time to the Company to carry out their duties effectively.
The Company is committed to ensuring that any vacancies arising are filled by the most qualified candidates and recognises the value of diversity in the composition of the Board.
When Board positions become available as a result of retirement or resignation, the Company will ensure that a diverse group of candidates is considered.
The Board should undertake The Board, meeting as the Nomination Committee, has a formal process to evaluate its own performance and a formal and rigorous annual that of its Chairman annually.
The Chairman leads the assessment which covers the functioning of the Board evaluation of its own performance as a whole, the effectiveness of the Board Committees and the independence of each Director.
Where necessary, and that of its committees and the Chairman discusses the responses with each Director individually.
The Chairman absents himself from individual directors.
the Boards review of his effectiveness as the Company Chairman, and this review is led by the Senior Independent Director.
During 2014, an independent review of the Board was undertaken by Boardroom Review, the results of which were considered by the Board.
The Board has agreed that an independent review of the Board will be commissioned regularly and a further review will be commissioned in 2017.
The Board is satisfied that the structure, mix of skills and operation of the Board continue to be effective and relevant for the Company.
42 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2016 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued The Board continued AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 8.
Directors remuneration The Board periodically reviews the fees paid to the Directors and compares these with the fees paid by the should reflect their duties, Companys peer group and the investment trust industry generally, taking into account the level of commitment responsibilities and the value and responsibility of each Board member.
Details of the remuneration arrangements for the Directors of the of their time spent.
Company can be found in the Directors Remuneration Implementation Report on pages 75 and 76 and in note 3 to the financial statements.
As all of the Directors are non-executive, the Board considers that it is acceptable for the Chairman of the Company to chair meetings when discussing Directors fees.
The Chairmans remuneration is determined by the Board in his absence.
The Board periodically takes advice from external independent advisers on Directors remuneration.
All Directors own shares in the Company.
No stock options or other performance-related elements have been awarded.
The Independent Directors The Nomination Committee is comprised of the whole Board which is made up entirely of Independent Directors should take the lead in the and, subject to there being no conflicts of interest, all members of the Committee are entitled to vote on appointment of new Directors candidates for the appointment of new Directors and on recommending for shareholders approval the and the process should be Directors seeking re-election at the AGM.
disclosed in the annual report.
Directors should be offered New appointees to the Board are provided with a full induction programme.
The programme covers the relevant training and induction.
Companys investment strategy, policies and practices.
The Directors are also given key information on the Companys regulatory and statutory requirements as they arise, including information on the role of the Board, matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference for the Board Committees, the Companys corporate governance practices and procedures and the latest financial information.
It is the Chairmans responsibility to ensure that the Directors have sufficient knowledge to fulfil their role and Directors are encouraged to participate in training courses where appropriate.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of a Company Secretary through its appointed representative which is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring good information flows between all parties.
The Chairman and the Board Principle 11 applies to the launch of new investment companies and is therefore not applicable to the Company.
should be brought into the process of structuring a new launch at an early stage.
43 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report 02 14 Investment Review 15 33 Governance 34 47 Financial Statements 48 79 Shareholder Information 80 IBC Board Meetings and the relationship with the Investment Manager AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 12.
Boards and managers should The Board meets regularly throughout the year and a representative of the Investment Manager is in attendance, operate in a supportive, cowhen appropriate, at each meeting and most Committee meetings.
The Chairman encourages open debate to operative and open environment.
foster a supportive and co-operative approach for all participants.
The primary focus at regular The Board has agreed a schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
This includes Board meetings should establishing the investment objectives, strategy and benchmarks, the permitted types or categories of investments, be a review of investment the markets in which transactions may be undertaken, the level of permitted gearing and borrowings, the amount performance and associated or proportion of the assets that may be invested in any category of investment or in any one investment, and the matters, such as gearing, asset Companys treasury and share buyback policies.
allocation, marketing investor relations, peer group information The Board, at its regular meetings, undertakes reviews of key investment and financial data, revenue projections and industry issues.
and expenses, analyses of asset allocation, transactions and performance comparisons, share price and net asset value performance, marketing and shareholder communication strategies, the risks associated with pursuing the investment strategy, peer group information and industry issues.
The Audit and Management Engagement Committees of the Board respectively review the Companys risk matrix and the performance and cost of the Companys third party service providers.
The Board has agreed arrangements under which the Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Boards should give sufficient The Board is responsible for strategy and has established a predetermined annual programme of agenda items attention to overall strategy.
under which it reviews the objectives and strategy for the Company at each meeting.
In addition to the regular Board meetings, the Board meets specifically on one additional day each year to focus on strategy and any other issues that require in-depth attention.
The Board should regularly The Management Engagement Committee meets at least once a year.
It reviews annually the performance of review both the performance of, the Investment Manager.
The Committee considers the quality, cost and remuneration method of the service and contractual arrangements provided by the Investment Manager against its contractual obligations and the Board receives regular reports on with, the manager or executives compliance with the Investment Restrictions which it has set.
It also considers the performance analysis provided of a self-managed company.
In view of the level of data available from independent service providers, and the appraisal undertaken by the Board, the Board does not consider an independent appraisal of the Investment Managers service to be necessary.
The Audit Committee reviews the Investment Managers compliance and control systems in operation insofar as they relate to the affairs of the Company and the Board undertakes periodic reviews of the arrangements with, and the services provided by, the Custodian, to ensure that the safeguarding of the Companys assets and security of the shareholders investment is being maintained.
44 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2016 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Board Meetings and the relationship with the Investment Manager continued AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 16.
The Board should agree policies The Investment Management Agreement between the Company and the Investment Manager sets out the limits with the manager covering key of the Investment Managers authority, beyond which Board approval is required.
The Board has also agreed operational issues.
investment guidelines with the Investment Manager, which are considered at each Board meeting.
Representatives of the Investment Manager attend each meeting of the Board to address questions on specific matters and to seek approval for specific transactions which the Investment Manager is required to refer to the Board, for example investing in unquoted investments.
In principle, the Board delegates investee company communication to the Investment Manager.
The Board has also delegated discretion to the Investment Manager to exercise voting powers on its behalf, other than for contentious or sensitive matters which are to be referred to the Board for consideration.
AVI is a signatory of the UK Stewardship Code issued by the FRC.
The Board has reviewed the Investment Managers Stewardship Policy, which includes its Corporate Governance and Voting Guidelines, and which is published on the Investment Managers website: www.
The Board recognises that appropriate environmental, social and governance policies are usually a reflection of good management and encourages AVI to consider this when evaluating investments.
Reports on commissions paid by the Investment Manager are submitted to the Board regularly.
Boards should monitor the The Board considers any imbalances in the supply of and the demand for the Companys shares in the market level of the share price discount and takes appropriate action when considered necessary.
or premium if any and, if desirable, take action to The Board considers the discount or premium to NAV of the Companys share price at each Board meeting and reduce it.
reviews the changes in the level of discount or premium and in the share price since the previous Board meeting and over the previous 12 months.
At each meeting the Board reviews reports from the Investment Managers marketing department on marketing and shareholder communication strategies.
It also considers their effectiveness as well as measures of investor sentiment and any recommendations on share buy-backs.
The Board should monitor and The Management Engagement Committee reviews, at least annually, the performance of all of the Companys evaluate other service providers.
third party service providers, including the level and structure of fees payable and the length of the notice period, to ensure that they remain competitive and in the best interests of shareholders, as well as reviewing service providers anti-bribery and corruption policies to address the provisions of the Bribery Act 2010, together with their policies on whistle-blowing and cyber-crime prevention.
The Audit Committee reviews reports from the principal service providers on compliance and the internal and financial control systems in operation and relevant independent audit reports thereon.
The Directors have carried out a review of the effectiveness of the Companys systems of internal control as they have operated over the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
Given the nature of the business, the Company is reliant on its service providers and their internal controls.
As set out in more detail in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 70 to 72, the Company has in place a system for assessing the adequacy of those controls.
There were no material matters arising from the review of the Companys controls that required further investigation and no significant failings or weakness were identified.
45 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report 02 14 Investment Review 15 33 Governance 34 47 Financial Statements 48 79 Shareholder Information 80 IBC Shareholder Communications AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 19.
The Board should regularly A detailed analysis of the substantial shareholders of the Company is provided to the Directors at each Board monitor the shareholder profile meeting.
Representatives of the Investment Manager regularly meet institutional shareholders and private client of the company and put in asset managers to discuss strategy and to understand their issues and concerns and, if applicable, to discuss place a system for canvassing corporate governance issues.
The results of such meetings are reported at the following Board meeting.
shareholder views and for communicating the Boards Regular reports on investor sentiment and industry issues from the Companys broker are submitted to the Board.
The Directors are available to meet shareholders.
Shareholders wishing to communicate with the Chairman, or any other member of the Board, may do so by writing to the Company, for the attention of the Company Secretary at the Registered Office.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM, where they are given the opportunity to question the Chairman, the Board and representatives of the Investment Manager.
The Investment Manager will make a presentation to shareholders covering the investment performance and strategy of the Company at the forthcoming AGM.
The Directors welcome the views of all shareholders and place considerable importance on communications with them.
The Board should normally All substantive communications regarding any major corporate issues are discussed by the Board taking take responsibility for, and have into account representations from the Investment Manager, the Auditor, legal advisers, broker and a direct involvement in, the Company Secretary.
content of communications regarding major corporate issues even if the manager is asked to act as spokesman.
The Board should ensure that The Board aims to provide shareholders with a full understanding of the Companys investment objective, policy shareholders are provided with and activities, its performance and the principal investment risks by means of informative Annual and Half Year sufficient information for them reports.
This is supplemented by the daily publication, through the London Stock Exchange, of the net asset to understand the risk reward value of the Companys shares and the publication by the Investment Manager of a monthly fact sheet.
balance to which they are exposed by holding the shares.
The Annual Report provides information on the Investment Managers investment performance, portfolio risk and operational and compliance issues.
Further details on the risk reward balance are set out in the Strategic Report under Principal Risks on pages 9 to 11, and in note 16 to the financial statements.
The Investment Portfolio is listed on page 14.
co. uk, is regularly updated with monthly factsheets and provides useful information about the Company including the Companys Financial Reports and Announcements.
46 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2016 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Board Committees Disclosure Committee The Board has agreed a schedule of matters specifically reserved for With the implementation of the Market Abuse Regulation MAR on decision by the full Board, subject to which the Board has delegated 3 July 2016, the Board agreed to form a Disclosure Committee, comprising specific duties to Committees of the Board which operate within written all Directors and chaired by Mr Macpherson, to ensure inside information is terms of reference.
Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited acts identified and disclosed, if necessary.
No meetings of the Committee were as Company Secretary to each Committee.
No persons other than the held during the year.
Committee members are entitled to attend Committee meetings unless formally invited by the Committee.
Copies of the terms of reference for Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy Board Committees are available from the Company Secretary and The Company has adopted an Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and on the Companys website.
has reviewed the statements regarding compliance with the Bribery Act 2010 by the Companys Investment Manager and key service providers.
Management Engagement Committee These statements are reviewed regularly by the Management Engagement The Management Engagement Committee meets at least once each year Committee.
and comprises the whole Board, being independent Directors.
The main functions of the Committee are to define the terms of the IMA, ensuring Statement of Directors Responsibilities that they follow good industry practice, are competitive and are in the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and best interests of shareholders.
The Committee monitors the Investment financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law Managers compliance with the terms of the IMA and the Investment and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial Managers performance.
Following a formal annual review, and bearing in statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to mind the long-term performance of the Company, the changes made by prepare financial statements in accordance with International Financial AVI over the past year and an encouraging performance during the year, Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS.
the Board concluded that, in its opinion, the continuing appointment of AVI, the Investment Manager, on the terms agreed, is in the interests Under Company law, the Directors must not approve the financial of its shareholders as a whole.
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit and loss of the The Committee also reviews the services and performance of the Company for that period.
Companys other third-party service providers.
A review of the Investment Manager and the other service providers undertaken during the year In preparing the financial statements the Directors are required to: concluded that the services provided to the Company were satisfactory select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently in and that the Agreements entered into with them were operating in the accordance with International Accounting Standard IAS 8 Accounting best interests of the shareholders.
Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors: make judgements and estimates which are reasonable and prudent: Nomination Committee state whether the financial statements have been prepared in The Nomination Committee comprises the whole Board and convenes compliance with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and to undertake the annual appraisal of the performance of the Board, its explained therein: Committees and the Directors and, if agreed, to propose the re-election provide additional disclosures where compliance with the specific of the Directors, each of whom will retire at the AGM.
It also meets to requirements of IFRS are considered to be insufficient to enable users to consider the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
Candidates for understand the impact of particular transactions, events and conditions nomination may be sourced from outside the Company using third party on the financial position and performance: and search and selection services as well as potential candidates known to prepare financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is Directors through their extensive knowledge of the industry.
inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Board has agreed to follow the recommendations of the AIC Code The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records Principle 3 that the Directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and to annual re-election by shareholders.
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply Audit Committee with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are The Audit Committee meets at least twice each year and comprises the also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence whole Board, being independent Directors.
All members of the Committee for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee has other irregularities.
set out a formal Report on pages 70 to 72 of the Annual Report.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with relevant laws and regulations, and for ensuring that the Annual Report includes information required by the Disclosure Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
47 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report 02 14 Investment Review 15 33 Governance 34 47 Financial Statements 48 79 Shareholder Information 80 IBC The financial statements of the Company are published on the Companys The Company has long-term debt of 15m which falls due for website at www.
The Directors are responsible for repayment in 2023 and 30m and 30m which both fall due for ensuring the maintenance and integrity of the information relating to the repayment in 2026.
This debt was covered some 13 times as at the end Company published on this website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom of September 2016 by the Companys total assets.
The Directors are governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may of the view that, subject to unforeseen circumstances, the Company differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
will have sufficient resources to meet the costs of annual interest and eventual repayment of principal on this debt.
Disclosure of information to the Auditor The Company has a large margin of safety over the covenants on The Directors who held office at the date of approval of the Report of the its debt.
Directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and each Director The Companys viability depends on the global economy and markets has taken all of the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to continuing to function.
The Directors do also consider the possibility of make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and establish a wide ranging collapse in corporate earnings and or the market value that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
To the latter point, it should be borne in mind that a significant proportion of the Companys expenses are in ad valorem Requirements of the Listing Rules investment management fees, which would naturally reduce if the market Listing Rule 9.8.
4 requires the Company to include specified information value of the Companys assets were to fall.
in a single identifiable section of the Annual Report or a cross reference table indicating where the information is set out.
The information required In order to maintain viability, the Company has a robust risk control under Listing Rule 9.8.
4 10 in relation to contracts of significance in framework which, following guidelines from the FRC, has the objectives of which a Director is or was materially interested, is set out on page 40. reducing the likelihood and impact of: poor judgement in decision-making: The Directors confirm that no additional disclosures are required in risk-taking that exceeds the levels agreed by the Board: human error: or relation to Listing Rule 9.8.
4. control processes being deliberately circumvented.
Going Concern Taking the above into account, and the potential impact of the principal The Directors have carefully reviewed the current financial resources and risks as set out on pages 9 to 11, the Directors have a reasonable the projected expenses of the Company for the next 12 months.
On the expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and basis of that review and as the majority of net assets are securities which meet its liabilities as they fall due for a period of three years from the date are traded on recognised stock exchanges, the Directors are satisfied of approval of this Annual Report.
that the Companys resources are adequate for continuing in business for the foreseeable future and that it is appropriate to prepare the financial Declaration statements on a going concern basis.
The Directors listed on pages 34 and 35, being the persons responsible, hereby confirm to the best of their knowledge: Viability that the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with The Directors consider viability as part of their continuing programme of applicable accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the monitoring risk.
The Directors consider three years to be a reasonable assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company: and time horizon to consider the continuing viability of the Company, reflecting the Strategic Report and the Investment Managers Review include a balance between a longer-term investment horizon and the inherent a fair review of the development and performance of the business shorter-term uncertainties within equity markets, although they do have and the position of the Company together with a description of the due regard to viability over the longer term and particularly to key points principal risks and uncertainties that the Company faces.
outside this time frame, such as the due date for the repayment of longterm debt.
The Company is an investment trust whose portfolio is invested In the opinion of the Board, the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a in readily realisable listed securities and with some short-term cash whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and it provides the information deposits.
The following facts support the Directors view of the viability necessary to assess the Companys position and performance, business of the Company: model and strategy.
In the year under review, expenses including finance costs and taxation were covered some 2 times by investment income.
By Order of the Board The Company has a liquid investment portfolio.
Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited Corporate Secretary 10 November 2016
