15 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report 02 14 Investment Review 15 33 Governance 34 47 Financial Statements 48 79 Shareholder Information 80 IBC INVESTMENT REVIEW INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW OVERVIEW OF AVIS INVESTMENT PHILOSOPHY 1 2 3 4 5 Invest in companies Identify good quality Look for catalysts to Focus on balance sheet Focus on bottom-up trading at discounts to underlying assets with narrow discounts.
appreciation potential at compelling valuations.
BRITISH EMPIRE IS MANAGED BY ASSET VALUE INVESTORS LIMITED The aim of AVI is to deliver superior investment returns while managing Focus on balance sheet strength.
AVI specialises in investing in securities that for a number of Debt works very well when markets are appreciating.
reasons may be selling on anomalous valuations.
However, debt can also destroy a lot of value when markets are falling and the business environment for a particular AVIs investment philosophy is to: company deteriorates.
We consider very carefully the balance sheet strength of the companies in which we invest.
Factors Invest in companies trading at discounts to net asset value.
which we look at include the actual quantum of debt relative 1 Our focus is to find listed companies that own assets such to the assets of the companies, the maturity profile of the as listed securities, property, cash and other businesses.
debt and the cashflows that the businesses generate.
We then estimate the value of all of those assets.
After deducting any liabilities such as debt or pension liabilities, Focus on bottom-up stock picking.
5 we arrive at an estimate of net asset value for that company.
We are not asset allocators attempting to invest a pool We will consider investing in companies where the discount of money across various asset classes.
We are equity between the current share price and our estimate of the investors focusing on a particular style of value investing.
value of that business is wide.
We do not hug benchmarks and we will not own a company just because it is in a benchmark.
We seek to Identify good quality underlying assets with appreciation invest in companies that meet the criteria described above.
There are many companies trading at discounts to net asset Our focus on buying high-quality businesses trading at wide value.
Our aim is to identify companies that own high-quality discounts to their net asset value has served us well over the long businesses where there is not only a wide discount, but also term.
There are periods of time, however, when our style is out of where we consider there to be a reasonable likelihood of favour and the types of companies in which we invest are ignored those assets appreciating in value.
This requires us to be patient and to remain true to our style, so that when other investors begin to appreciate Look for catalysts to narrow discounts.
the value in those companies, we are well placed to benefit.
3 Once we find a good quality business on an attractive valuation, In the short term, this means that there could be some volatility we then consider whether it is likely that the discount will in our returns.
However, we are confident that we own high-quality narrow.
Many companies trade at a discount for a reason and businesses, which are trading on cheap valuations.
if that reason persists, then the discount may persist.
Catalysts differ for the various types of company in which we invest.
For Members of the investment team at AVI invest their own money example, in the case of a closed-end fund, where we are a large in funds which they manage.
As at 30 September 2016, AVI, shareholder we can influence a board to pursue a strategy for its directors and staff owned approximately 947,931 2015: discount narrowing.
In the case of a family controlled company, 900,800 shares in British Empire Trust plc.
we would rely on the family to be the activist.
Our analysis would involve trying to understand the interests and objectives of the controlling shareholder, and whether our interests were aligned with theirs.
