12 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT TEN LARGEST EQUITY INVESTMENTS 1 2 AKER ASA AP ALTERNATIVE ASSETS The top ten equity investments make up 50.6% of total Nature of business Valuation Nature of business Valuation Investment Holding 61.0m Investment Company 54.6m assets, with underlying Company Discount % of total assets less Discount businesses spread % of total assets less -30.9% current liabilities -43.5% current liabilities 5.97% across a diverse range 6.67% of sectors and regions.
Aker ASA Aker traces it roots back to 1841, to a smithy Originally established to co-invest alongside Apollos with industrial ambitions on the banks of the Akerselva private equity funds, the company now owns just one river in Christiania Oslo.
For the past 175 years, Aker asset following a restructuring: a stake in unlisted has led the development of internationally focused, Athene Insurance.
Athene is a leading retirement knowledge-based industry in Norway.
Akers holdings services company that issues, reinsures and acquires are ownership interests in Aker BP, Aker Solutions, retirement savings products designed for the increasing Akastor, Kvaerner, Ocean Yield and Aker BioMarine.
number of individuals and institutions seeking to fund retirement needs, and has a particular focus on fixed Copyright Aker ASA indexed annuities.
Photography Getty Images representing Ocean Yield Photography Getty Images representing Athene Insurance View our investment platforms: www.
co. uk how-to-invest platforms 6 7 NB PRIVATE EQUITY PARTNERS INVESTMENT AB KINNEVIK B Nature of business Valuation Nature of business Valuation Investment Company 42.0m Investment Holding 41.3m Company % of total assets less Discount Discount current liabilities -22.5% % of total assets less -21.3% 4.60% current liabilities 4.52% A London and Euronext-listed closed-end fund investing Kinnevik is a Swedish holding company that focuses mostly in US-based private equity co-investments and on building digital consumer brands with investments debt.
The manager, Neuberger Berman, has $35bn of in unlisted and listed assets.
Investments are made private equity assets under management, ensuring a around four key areas: Communication, E-commerce steady flow of co-investment opportunities for the fund & Marketplaces, Entertainment and Financial Services.
and aiding their investments via the primary and secondary Copyright Investment AB Kinnevik B market in junior debt issued by private equity-backed Photography Millicom companies.
Photography Getty Images representing Patheon All discounts are estimated by AVI as at 30 September 2016.
13 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report 02 14 Investment Review 15 33 Governance 34 47 Financial Statements 48 79 Shareholder Information 80 IBC 3 4 5 WENDEL INVESTOR AB A VIETNAM PHOENIX FUND Nature of business Valuation Nature of business Valuation Nature of business Valuation Investment Holding 50.8m Investment Holding 50.6m Investment Company 42.2m Company Company Discount Discount % of total assets less Discount % of total assets less -32.5% % of total assets less -24.2% current liabilities -19.3% current liabilities current liabilities 4.61% 5.55% 5.54% Wendel is a French-listed holding company with A Swedish industrial holding company which owns An Irish-listed OTC-traded closed-end fund investing exposure to a diverse range of industrial sectors.
significant shareholdings in public multi-national in listed and unlisted Vietnamese companies.
Recently Major business lines include industrial certification companies and private companies.
Investor takes approved restructuring proposals will result in the listed and inspection services, building material production an active ownership role in its portfolio companies.
assets being placed into an open-ended vehicle and the and mobile telephone infrastructure through their private equity assets being spun-off into a stand-alone Copyright Investor AB A investments in Bureau Veritas, Saint-Gobain and IHS.
Photography ABB Ltd Copyright Wendel Photography Getty Images representing Vinamilk Photography Stahl On 30 September 2016, the company changed its name from DWS Vietnam Fund.
8 9 10 JPEL PRIVATE EQUITY SYMPHONY INTERNATIONAL PARGESA HOLDINGS Nature of business Nature of business Valuation Nature of business Valuation Valuation Investment Holding Investment Company 41.1m Investment Company 23.0m 39.4m Company % of total assets less Discount % of total assets less Discount Discount % of total assets less current liabilities -26.4% current liabilities -39.0% -36.2% current liabilities 4.49% 4.35% 4.30% Through Pargesas stake in GBL it holds interests JPEL Private Equity is a London-listed closed-end fund Symphony is a London-listed closed-end fund with in a number of listed companies.
The portfolio is investing in private equity investments primarily in the a focus on the Asian consumer.
The shares trade concentrated on a limited number of major holdings, US and Europe.
The portfolio is well-balanced between on a deep discount to the value of the investment with the aim of creating long-term value through mature legacy funds and more recent secondary direct portfolio, half of which is invested in fast-growing active ownership.
investments the former generate prodigious cashflows Minor International, a Thai-listed hotels and restaurants that will now be distributed to shareholders under the group with a global footprint.
Other exposures include Copyright Pargesa new realisation policy: the latter are largely high growth real estate and healthcare.
Photography Adidas Group companies bought at attractive valuations that have Copyright Symphony International Asia produced compelling NAV growth.
Photography Bread Talk Thailand Photography Getty Images representing Mr. Bults Inc.
