The Strategic Report 9 Delivering our strategy to the first stage of the recruitment process.
Were making progress Our executives may also receive long-term awards to reward the on improving diversity but we recognise that there is a lot more we creation of shareholder value.
The amount they ultimately receive need to do.
is determined by the groups performance over a three-year period.
Directors must retain incentive shares for a further two-year period.
Staying safe and well In line with our regulatory obligations, incentives for people in Were committed to having no avoidable health and safety Openreach are tied solely to a combination of personal contribution incidents.
The 11% reduction in the rate of lost time due to injury and Openreachs performance, rather than that of the wider group.
brings us to our lowest-ever level.
However, some of our activities are inherently hazardous and the risks, particularly in external We support our people by providing a range of retirement savings engineering, remain challenging to manage.
In the UK, our main defined benefit scheme is the BT Pension some localised and historic failures raised by the Health and Safety Scheme and our defined contribution scheme is the BT Retirement Executive.
Weve done a lot to mitigate the risks highlighted and we Saving Scheme.
You can read more about these on page 54. still compare well with industry benchmarks.
Sharing in success We havent done as well as we wanted on some indicators.
Our Almost 60% of our people take part in one or more of BTs sickness absence rate has risen by 5%, driven mainly by increasing savings-related share option plans saveshare, which operate levels of musculoskeletal and mental health conditions.
In August 2015, almost 13,000 people measured our peoples sense of wellbeing for some time and the in our 2010 saveshare plan were able to buy shares at 104p, long-term improvements weve seen have continued this year with representing an average gain of around 10,000 each.
The pattern of sickness absence and wellbeing varies across the group and is strongly linked to the level of change OUR NETWORKS AND PHYSICAL ASSETS taking place within a particular business area.
We see the best Our networks, platforms and IT systems are the foundations of the results where changes have been well managed with a style that products our customers rely on around the world.
takes account of peoples perceptions.
Were sharing best practice on managing change across the lines of business and through the Network platforms Academy.
Our global reach We continue to focus on early intervention when people are sick or Our global network provides service to 180 countries and is injured.
Our company-funded schemes helped get 91% of people supported by in-country networks and infrastructure.
Most of treated back into their role on full duties.
our network assets are in the UK and Continental Europe.
We continue to selectively expand the reach of our network to support Volunteering multinational companies in other regions.
And we use the expertise Our people can use up to three working days a year on we gain from protecting BTs own networks to help secure our volunteering activities.
As well as having a positive impact on customers networks.
society, our employee engagement survey see page 8 shows The scale and reach of our global multi-protocol label switching higher engagement levels from those who volunteer than from MPLS network is a key competitive differentiator.
This single those who dont.
IP-based network lets our customer-facing lines of business launch Some people choose to help charities with particular issues products and services quickly and cost-effectively, without having needing their expert input and knowledge.
Others use their to invest in dedicated infrastructure for each product.
energy and enthusiasm to make a practical difference in their local To help our multinational customers connect their sites we offer communities.
That includes helping our tech literacy programme virtual private network VPN services, which are integral to our and promoting traineeships.
VPNs provide the convenience and security This year over 27% of our people spent nearly 45,000 days of a private network, but over the public internet.
We use our volunteering their time to support charities and community groups MPLS network together with a combination of owned and leased around the world.
BT volunteers were involved in raising 8.5m for fibre connections to connect our points of presence PoPs around Children In Need and 2.9m for Sport Relief.
For the final connection into the customers premises, we either use our own circuits, or rent connections from telecoms The EE business shares our passion for making a difference.
It operators in that country.
We also have an extensive satellite supports several charities through volunteering such as Apps for network which provides customers with connectivity around the Good, in which young people use new technologies to design and world, including remote locations.
make products that can make a difference to their world, gaining confidence and skills at the same time.
Our combined contributions In-country networks will benefit good causes in the years ahead.
We have extensive networks in the UK, as well as in Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, the Republic of Ireland and Spain.
Pay and benefits We compare pay and benefits for our people with companies Our UK fixed-line network is one of our most valuable assets and of similar size and complexity to ensure our remuneration is our investment in fibre broadband is key to delivering modern, competitive.
We make sure that our salaries meet or exceed the superfast services to UK consumers.
To meet the demand from national minimum wage.
businesses, were continuing to expand the availability of Ethernet.
And when our customers are away from their home or office, they In the UK, most of our engineering and support people are paid on can use one of more than 5.6m BT Wi-fi hotspots.
terms and conditions negotiated through collective bargaining with our recognised trade unions, ensuring fair terms and conditions Our research shows that over the last five years, at peak times, data for all.
Our managers pay and any bonuses are determined traffic in the core network has grown by around 50% a year, and by a combination of business performance and their personal we expect growth to continue at this rate.
So were making sure contribution to the company.
that our core and access networks can cope with that demand.
10 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 As a result of buying EE, we now own the UKs largest mobile This year weve: network.
Well continue to invest in its coverage and capability, to delivered an integrated set of applications that we call Consumer.
consolidate its position as the biggest and fastest in the UK.
It is part of our focus on broadening and deepening our end of March 2016 outdoor coverage of the UK population was: customer relationships.
It means we have a much easier way for 2G over 99% our customers and contact centre agents to manage customer 3G over 98% accounts, and track orders and fault management.
It has resulted 4G over 96% in around 10,000 fewer calls to our contact centres each week: introduced View My Engineer to help reduce missed We also want to expand 4G geographic coverage.
A customer can use it to check details of 60% today and we plan to get this to 95% by 2020 with an scheduled engineer visits.
It provides engineer contact details, ambition to go even further.
indicates when the engineer is travelling to the appointment, Between BT and EE, we have a combined 120MHz of paired when the work has been started and when the work has been mobile spectrum.
This means we are able to offer speeds of up to done: and 90Mbps in areas served by our 4G network.
continued to innovate in our data centres improving their performance and removing older server technology.
For example We have access to over 18,500 basestation sites, via the Mobile this year we started to roll out storage virtualisation which helps Broadband Network Limited MBNL joint agreement between us store data more efficiently.
EEand Hutchison 3G UK see page 140.
Properties Progress this year We have around 7,000 properties in the UK and 1,730 across the This year weve: rest of the world.
The number of properties in the UK is higher than the 6,350 we had last year, mainly reflecting our acquisition of EE installed new, more cost-effective MPS network routers in all in January 2016.
Through this, weve added 635 properties, of 106 core exchanges in the UK: which around 560 are EE shops.
There are also around 40 former installed new Ethernet switches into 169 exchanges, so even shops EE is in the process of disposing of.
more businesses will have access to BT Ethernet services: continued to roll out the latest technology, such as content We lease the majority of our UK properties from Telereal Trillium, caching: so we can use network capacity better and speed up the part of the William Pears group.
We signed a sale and leaseback delivery of TV and Internet content: and arrangement with them in 2001.
88% of our UK properties are integrated the technology to allow BT Global Services to offer a operational sites housing fixed and mobile telecoms and broadband software-defined WAN service.
This lets enterprise customers use equipment.
The rest are retail outlets, offices, contact centres, different types of network together, and provide various services depots and data centres.
We also have our BT Sport TV studios in to their users seamlessly, as if over just one network.
Service platforms In the UK, weve been consolidating and disposing of surplus office We run a number of service platforms that combine our network space for several years and were working on further opportunities and IT resources to underpin many of the key products we offer.
to streamline our real estate.
We continue to reduce the size of the operational estate as new fibre-based technologies mean we can One such platform is BT Conferencing, which provides audio and dispose of buildings and make energy savings.
This year we brought video conferencing services to customers around the world.
Our our property management activities back into BT from Telereal audio conferencing service is called BT MeetMe and is available Trillium.
This will reduce costs by simplifying how we manage our with Dolby Voice for higher quality sound and a better user UK property portfolio.
Outside the UK, our offices in Gurgaon, Kolkata and Bengaluru in Our BT TV platform supports a growing number of customers and India are now home to our Central Business Services organisation.
were increasing the range of services it delivers.
We designed, This provides support to our lines of business.
As part of our developed and tested the new BT Ultra High Definition set-top box.
strategy of investing in high-growth regions, weve expanded our We also launched our BT Sport app.
It provides BT customers with offices in Budapest and Debrecen in Hungary so we can support functionality like goal replays, different camera angles and extra our global customers more effectively and efficiently.
facts all to enhance the viewing experience.
IT systems Our IT systems enable us to manage our processes, handle customer information and deliver our products and services.
Theyre critical to serving our customers and running our business.
For example, our customer management systems hold customer and billing information.
They include the technology that works with our online customer portals.
And the technology used when customers call a contact centre.
