The Strategic Report 37 Our lines of business Financial performance BT CONSUMER BT Consumer is the largest provider of consumer broadband 2016 2015 2014 Year ended 31 March m m m and fixed-voice in the UK.
We want to deepen our customer Revenue 3,130 3,145 3,213 relationships through selling broadband, TV, BT Sport channels and Underlying revenue excluding transit 0% 1 % 1 % mobile services to our customers.
Operating costs 2,054 2,104 2,211 We connect millions of households and people to information and EBITDA 1,076 1,041 1,002 entertainment, to friends and family, at home or on the move.
Depreciation and amortisation 198 180 197 Whether theyre banking on their laptop, watching movies through their YouView box, or tweeting on their smartphone, were making Operating profit 878 861 805 it fast, safe, reliable and easy.
Capital expenditure 138 187 127 We also offer a range of devices including telephones, baby Operating cash flow 819 874 799 monitors and set-top boxes through high street retailers.
And we Revenue was broadly flat 2014 15: 2% decline with underlying offer commercial services for businesses who want access to BT revenue excluding transit also flat 2014 15: 1% decline.
Sport or connectivity through BT Wi-fi.
SME & Corporate voice revenue decreased 2% 2014 15: 5% Through our award-winning second brand, Plusnet, we target with higher average revenue per user and higher uptake of price-conscious customers with fixed-line, broadband and VoIP services partly mitigating the continued fall in business line TV services.
The number of traditional lines declined 7%, but this Markets and customers was partly offset by a 62% increase in the number of IP lines.
The UK population consists of around 64m individuals and around SME & Corporate data and networking revenue increased 3% 27m households.
The telecoms market is very competitive with 2014 15: 2% with continued growth in fibre broadband and our more than ten fixed-line operators, seven major bundled product networking products.
Business fibre broadband net additions were suppliers and four mobile network operators.
Pay-TV is less up 17% year on year.
competitive with only four providers.
BT Irelands Most of our major competitors, including Virgin Media and TalkTalk, underlying revenue excluding transit was up 7%, with higher offer bundled services which include fixed-line, mobile, broadband equipment sales and data and call volumes in the Republic of and TV services.
Sky and Vodafone have both announced plans Ireland, and continued fibre broadband growth in Northern Ireland.
to offer all four services as well.
Foreign exchange movements had a 22m negative impact on BT Ireland revenue.
Home phone As at 30 September 2015 there were 25.9m fixed residential Operating costs were down 2% 2014 15: 5% and underlying phone lines in the UK, 2.5% above last year.
Our share of this operating costs excluding transit were also down 2% 2014 15: market declined to 37% from 38% the previous year as more 4%.
Depreciation and households chose to consolidate their services with one provider.
amortisation increased 10% 2014 15: 9% decrease mainly reflecting our investment last year in BT Fleet vehicles to support People are using their home phones less with call volumes Openreach.
This was a result of migration to mobile, voice over IP and instant messaging services.
Capital expenditure decreased 49m 2014 15: 60m increase reflecting our investment in BT Fleet vehicles last year.
Operating Broadband cash flow was 6% lower 2014 15: 9% higher reflecting the There were around 24.5m broadband connections in the UK as at timing of working capital movements.
Our broadband base among homes and small businesses is now 8.1m excluding EE, a market share of 33%.
Key priorities Following the April 2016 reorganisation we have a refreshed and Services requiring higher speeds and capacity, such as catch-up expanded focus on the business and public-sector markets in the TV and on-demand services from the BBC, Netflix and Amazon, UK and the Republic of Ireland.
Our future priorities include: are driving the take-up of fibre broadband.
Including Virgin Media there were 10.2m fibre broadband or cable lines as at successfully launching our new Business and Public Sector 31December 2015, more than 40% of all broadband lines.
See organisation including delivering efficiencies: page45 for more details on the broadband market.
introducing our full portfolio of fixed, mobile and IT services to existing BT customers and those acquired with EE: TV and content developing and integrating further our portfolio of products and The pay-TV market grew to 15.2m UK households at the end managed services: and of December 2015, up 3% compared with a year earlier.
BT TV continuing to improve the customer experience we provide.
Pay-TV services are available from a number of suppliers: We have also set ourselves some specific ambitions over the next three years: Sky satellite : Virgin Media cable : increase the number of revenue generating units by 15%: BT and EE Freeview with IP TV channels : or generate double-digit percentage revenue growth in IP voice, TalkTalk Freeview with IP TV channels.
mobile, networking and IT services: deliver a 20-point improvement in our net promoter score: and Customers who choose not to pay for their TV service mostly access become the market leader for customer service.
live TV channels through Freeview or Freesat.
The overall number of households without a pay-TV subscription declined to 10.9m at the end of December 2015.
And there are some homes that dont have a TV at all.
38 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 Over-the-top services continue to grow in popularity with BT TV 6.8m households subscribing to a service from Netflix, Amazon Our BT TV service is available exclusively to our broadband or Now TV.
Sky has had exclusivity over much of the UKs premium content We offer three packages: for many years.
We continue to pursue commercial, legal and regulatory avenues to obtain access to Skys sports channels Starter.
This is our entry-level offering.
With our YouView box, for our TV customers on a fair basis to increase competition and customers can pause and rewind live TV and receive up to 80 consumer choice.
Freeview TV channels: Entertainment Plus.
This package comes with a YouView Mobile box and access to Freeview and 27 pay-TV channels: and The UK mobile market is discussed in the EE section on page 40.
Our most complete package offers access to Freeview and 49 pay-TV channels and comes with Products and services an Ultra HD-ready YouView box.
We sell five main services: home phone, broadband, TV, mobile and our sports channels.
We offer a variety of packages to our Customers on our YouView platform can scroll back seven customers with a range of add-ons.
days for easy access to catch-up TV from BBC iPlayer, ITV Hub formerly ITV Player, All 4 and Demand 5.
Home phone All BT TV customers still in contract get access to our BT Sport We provide a range of products and calling plans, allowing channels and the AMC channel at no extra cost in standard customers to choose the best service for their household needs: definition.
Line Rental Saver gives customers a discount on their line In addition, BT TV customers can add extra channel packs and rental if they pay for a year upfront: other on-demand services such as BT Kids, Sky Sports 1 and Line Rental Plus comes with Call Barring and Choose to 2, Sky Movies and Netflix.
Customers can also rent or buy TV Refuse, and gives customers the choice of paying bills shows and films.
automatically by Direct Debit, or paying when they receive the bill: In July 2015, we launched the UKs first Ultra HD TV service Home Phone Saver offers line rental, inclusive calls and extra with content from BT Sport.
We later added Netflix Ultra HD.
calling features in one simple package at a discounted price: In February 2016 we upgraded our TV app on both Apple and BT Basic offers discounted line rental and inclusive calls to Android devices adding a new, dedicated kids on-demand and those on low incomes and in receipt of certain state benefits catch-up library, seven more channels and a wider collection of such as income support.
Were the only company to offer a premium entertainment catch-up content.
service like this: and Right Plan is a free service our customers can use to find out BT Sport whether they are on the right calling plan for the kinds of calls We provide live coverage of domestic and international sports they make.
All our home phone services come with weekend call bundles We offer BT Sport in SD, HD and Ultra HD formats and the and we provide call packages that let customers choose inclusive channels are available on BT TV, our BT Sport app, btsport.
com evening or anytime calls to fixed-lines, and discounted calls to and on the Sky Digital Satellite Platform.
We reward our broadband, TV and mobile customers with Were in the process of developing a free service aimed at discounted access to BT Sport on their preferred platform.
blocking the majority of nuisance calls made to our home phone We also have wholesale agreements for the distribution of BT customers.
Sport to Virgin Media TV customers, and in the Republic of Broadband Ireland with Setanta.
We offer two versions of broadband: an ADSL service, delivered BT Mobile completely over copper lines: and BT Infinity, our superfast We launched BT Mobile in March 2015, focusing initially on the broadband service, which uses fibre to deliver higher speeds and SIM-only part of the market.
All our plans come with access to 4G, unlimited use of BT We offer a range of options with different usage limits and Wi-fi, unlimited text messages and free access to BT Sport 1. speeds.
We provide three packages offering a variety of data and call In addition, our broadband customers can get: allowances.
discounted BT Sport, our collection of premium sports BT Mobile customers can keep track of their usage through the channels: BT Mobile app.
Customers can also use the app to buy various discounted BT Mobile, offering SIM-only mobile packages: bolt-ons including roaming bundles.
our suite of tools such as BT NetProtect Plus, to protect family members and devices from harmful websites and other BT Mobile uses EEs 4G network offering the best speeds and malware: coverage in the UK.
BT Wi-fi, offering free unlimited access to wi-fi hotspots in the UK and abroad: and BT Wi-fi BT Cloud, providing secure online storage and on-the-go We provide public wi-fi services to a growing number of access to data and photos.
partners, including Tesco, Barclays and Hilton.
Using our BT Wi-fi app, all BT Broadband and BT Mobile customers can seamlessly connect to wi-fi in these partner The Strategic Report 39 Our lines of business customers to do things like check their bill or track their broadband locations, as well as to the 5.6m BT Wi-fi hotspots in the UK usage.
The app has been downloaded more than 435,000 times and a further 13m internationally as part of our partnership and were continuing to regularly add more features.
Were replacing the systems in our customer service centres with We also offer a range of vouchers for non-BT customers to simpler ones which are built on web-based technologies and access the network.
re-use a version of our external website.
This should drive higher productivity and better customer satisfaction.
Performance in the year Revenue growth of 7% 2014 15: 7% has been driven by higher Right First Time, our overall measure of customer service, declined customer numbers in broadband and by our new BT Sport Europe 2.1% 2014 15: increased 1.9%.
While weve improved on our channel.
But our investments in these areas meant our EBITDA measure of how often a customer needs to contact us by 15% grew by only 1%.
year on year, we havent met our promises around delivering ontime for enough of our customers, partly reflecting problems from We increased our share of the DSL and fibre broadband market for wider industry demand for Openreach products.
Our measure has the seventh year in a row, had our best-ever take-up of TV, and our also been impacted by the widespread flooding in parts of the UK lowest line losses for more than eight years.
a Operating performance BT Mobile is our best performing Right First Time product with At 31 March 2016 we had 9.5m consumer fixed-lines 2014 15: both on-time delivery and on-time repair above 95%.
9.6m, with 9.4m active voice lines where a customer buys calls from us as well as paying for the line.
We lost 81,000 net active Transform our costs lines, compared with 203,000 last year.
Operating costs increased 9% reflecting the costs of the UEFA Champions League and UEFA Europa League rights and the growth We achieved 390,000 broadband net additions this year, 63% of in our customer base.
The increase was partly offset by our cost the DSL and fibre broadband market net additions.
This took our transformation activities.
overall market share to 41%, up from 40% a year ago.
We delivered savings this year by: Weve continued to grow our fibre base, and now have 3.9m fibre broadband customers including business lines, a 29% extending our fibre self-install programme across all fibre increase from last year.
48% of our retail broadband customers are products, including Plusnets, which further reduced the number now on fibre, compared with 39% last year.
of engineer visits and the associated cost: reducing customer equipment costs by negotiating better We achieved 330,000 BT TV net additions, our best-ever commercial terms with our suppliers: and performance, and now have 1.5m BT TV customers, up 28%.
improving our real-time network diagnostics, helping us to We grew the number of commercial premises taking BT Sport to more quickly find the right solution for customer faults, avoiding 27,000, including 30% of all UK pubs.
BT Sports average daily audience figures increased 45% year on year, from the start of the football season in August 2015 Invest for growth to the end of March 2016.
Almost all of the FA Premier League In the summer we launched our new BT Sport Pack, the home matches we showed this season reached over 1m viewers.
of European football, increasing the choice of content for our customers and increasing engagement with sports fans.
We also Our average revenue per user ARPU was 446, up 31 from launched an improved BT Sport app and Europes first Ultra HD last year, driven mainly by broadband, our new BT Sport Europe sports channel.
channel, BT Mobile and changes in our pricing.
In August we exclusively launched AMCs UK channel.
AMC is a Our BT Mobile base is now over 400,000 with over 40% of leading US TV network with a track record of producing successful our customers choosing one of our two higher-tier packages.
We also extended our deal with UKTV to include all ten of its channels as well as gaining access to the UKTV Play Deliver superior customer service service.
Weve made investments in 2015 16 that will improve customer experience in the future.
But we didnt make as much progress Weve added the UK rights to show all Australian home cricket as we would have liked, particularly on our Right First Time internationals, including the 2017 18 Ashes.
The five-year rights measure of customer service.
In March 2016 we answered 60% deal starts in 2016.
In addition, we extended the rights for of customer calls March 2015: 51% from within the UK, with a the FA Cup until 2021. commitment to increase this to 90% by March 2017.
We launched BT Mobile and our advertising is improving the This means a significant change for our people, who will be working perception of the service and is attracting subscribers.
more evenings and weekends which is often when customers want Financial performance to speak to us.
2016 2015 2014 Year ended 31 March m m m We gave our front-line agents over 770,000 hours of extra Revenue 4,598 4,285 4,019 training so that they can more effectively prevent and resolve Operating costs 3,561 3,254 3,186 customer problems.
EBITDA 1,037 1,031 833 Weve started to introduce a new way of working focused Depreciation and amortisation 206 218 219 on people taking ownership of resolving problems.
Customer satisfaction is improved where this has been introduced.
Operating profit 831 813 614 Weve invested in new and more convenient ways for customers Capital expenditure 206 207 211 to deal with us, such as the award-winning My BT app.
This allows Operating cash flow 762 813 472 a Data excludes EEs fixed-line and broadband business.
40 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 Revenue increased 7% 2014 15: 7% with a strong performance was transferred to Business and Public Sector, the wholesale across broadband and TV resulting from the launch of our operations were transferred to Wholesale and Ventures and the European football coverage.
mobile network was transferred as a distinct business unit into TSO.
Calls and lines revenue increased 2% 2014 15: 1%, reflecting Following the reorganisation, the consumer-facing parts of EE will the lowest level of line losses for over eight years, new pricing and remain as a distinct line of business providing postpay, prepaid and the launch of BT Mobile.
fixed broadband services primarily to consumers.
The EE line of business will also support the Emergency Services Network contract Broadband and TV revenue was up 17% 2014 15: 16% awarded to EE in December 2015. including the impact of the launch of our European football proposition, continued growth in broadband and our best-ever Markets and customers year for adding new TV customers.
The mobile market is very competitive, with over 85m a Other revenue decreased 10% 2014 15: 6% increase after connections, served by four mobile network operators and last year benefited from the successful launch of the BT8500 numerous mobile virtual network operators MVNOs.
Our main competitors are O2, Vodafone, Three, Tesco Mobile and Operating costs were up 9% 2014 15: 2%.
This reflected the Virgin Media.
Competition for customers is increased by third launch of our European football proposition including the sports party distributors selling mobile services on behalf of the mobile rights costs as well as the cost of launching the channels in August.
operators, from high street shops and online.
Excluding UEFA rights costs, operating costs increased 3%, mainly Around 93% of adults in the UK have a mobile phone, and 15% reflecting the growth in our customer base.
of adults live in mobile-only households.
Two-thirds of adults in the EBITDA increased 1% 2014 15: 24%.
UK use a smartphone, and over 54% of homes also have a tablet.
Increasingly, people are using their mobiles to access the internet, Depreciation and amortisation decreased 6% 2014 15: broadly listen to radio and watch TV.
According to Ofcom, 60% of mobile flat.
connections are on postpaid tariffs.
Capital expenditure was flat 2014 15: down 2%.
Operating By September 2015 total UK mobile call volumes were steady cash flow decreased 6% 2014 15: 72% increase reflecting at around 35bn minutes per quarter.
SMS and MMS messages unfavourable working capital movements relating to the timing were down 8% to 25bn messages per quarter on average.
Mobile of our sports rights and capital expenditure payments.
telephony services generated 3.8bn in retail revenues in the quarter to September 2015, down 1% year on year.
Key priorities Our future plans include: The market is subject to a number of existing and potential structural changes: continuing to transform our customer service with 90% of all calls being answered within the UK by March 2017: rapid adoption of 4G devices as 4G networks are deployed.
launching our new FA Premier League rights and Australian Nearly all handsets sold are therefore smartphones: cricket rights on BT Sport: growth of connected devices, including tablets: trialing and launching ultrafast broadband using Openreach significant growth in mobile data use: G. fast products: continued decline in the prepaid market as customers move to launching mobile handsets to unlock a new market opportunity postpaid tariffs: while creating synergies with EE: increased popularity of SIM-only tariffs.
Smartphones are introducing a new YouView user interface to drive better evolving at a slower pace so people are keeping their mobile engagement with our content: phones for longer: launching our breakthrough new service to help home phone regulatory pressure on the prices we charge customers and other customers avoid nuisance calls: and telecoms companies: increasing the number of revenue generating units by 2.5m the proposed takeover of O2 by CK Hutchison the owner of over the next three years.
Three, subject to regulatory approval: and Sky launching as an MVNO in 2016.
EE We acquired EE on 29 January 2016.
EE is the largest mobile Products and services network operator in the UK.
It provides mobile and fixed We provide mobile services in the UK, covering up to 99% of communications services to consumers, businesses, the public the population with 2G, 98% with 3G and over 96% with 4G sector and the wholesale market.
We also have an extensive wholesale segment, connecting MVNO customers and machine-to-machine devices.
EE came into the group as a separate line of business and that is Broadband services, fixed-voice and a TV service are also sold under how its reflected in this Annual Report.
In EE, we have over 30m the EE brand.
New customers join on the EE brand, though we still have a number of customers on legacy Postpaid Orange and T-Mobile tariffs.
We acquire and retain customers New consumer customers, and those who renew their contracts through our chain of about 560 shops, our website and contact with us, are put on 4G tariffs.
If the tariff includes a handset, centres, and through third parties, such as Dixons Carphone.
the contract is typically for 24 months.
The tariff will include a Our mobile network is the biggest and fastest in the UK and has bundle of monthly voice, SMS and data use.
Prices vary with the been independently recognised as the best overall network by size of the bundle, the device type and 4G speed.
The tariffs are RootMetrics in its latest report for the second half of 2015. split into three main groups: New organisational structure EE Regular gives access to standard 4G services, unlimited From 1 April 2016 we changed how the former EE business was texts and tiered bundles of voice and data use: organised to manage it better within the group.
The Strategic Report 41 Our lines of business Performance in the period EE Extra provides access to the double-speed 4G network, Revenue for the two months from 29 January 2016, when EE was has double the data allowances of EE Regular and includes acquired by the BT Group, to 31 March 2016 was 1,055m with European roaming and international calling benefits: and an EBITDA margin of 25%.
We had 30.6m total connections at the EE Complete which provides the benefits of EE Extra together end of the year and our 4G customer base reached 15.1m.
with the option to upgrade the handset every 12 months.
Operating performance Prepaid At 31 March 2016 we had 30.6m connections.
Prepaid customers buy a phone and then add a pay-as-you-go pack of 4G use.
The packs are split into three groups: Our postpay base grew by 54,000 to 15.4m, supported by a strong performance in the large business segment with new Everything packs for unlimited texts and tiered bundles of customers including Arriva Trains.
The prepay base continued to voice and data use over a 30-day period: decline, in line with industry trends, partly as customers move to Talk and text packs for tiered bundles of voice and text use postpay.
over 30 days: and Data packs ranging from 1GB to 4GB over seven to 30-day The machine-to-machine base grew 77,000 to 2.3m as the periods.
Internet of Things market starts to grow.
Prepaid customers are encouraged to buy packs on a regular Fixed broadband was up 11,000 to 951,000, supported by EE basis by rewarding three months of consecutive purchases with TV, in a competitive market.
extra data, voice or text use.
Our base of MVNO customers stood at 3.7m, up 28,000, as Business our MVNO partners continued to do well in the mobile market.
We also sell 4G mobile services to business customers: Small business plans up to 50 employees are for 12 or 24 Deliver superior customer service months, and most come with unlimited voice and text use.
Improving customer service is a key priority.
While we have made Options include the ability to share data allowances across a steady progress, there is still room for improvement, as shown by number of devices, access to double-speed 4G and inclusive the number of complaints our customers make to Ofcom.
In the period we accelerated work on projects across four key areas: Large businesses more than 50 employees and publicsector organisations can choose from a wide range of Call centres.
Transforming service for our customers, reducing standard and customisable plans.
Customers can bundle in complaints and customers propensity to call: tiered levels of mobile security.
If required, we also install Self service.
Increasing take-up of the My EE app and improving equipment to improve mobile coverage inside customer online service: premises.
We also offer an extensive range of fixed-line and Shops.
Improving service and providing more digital capabilities data services, including voice, private telephone network in store: and integration, leased lines and VPNs to provide customers with IT.
As part of our ambition to offer the best mobile customer service in the UK, weve started the Omnichannel initiative, to provide a Devices consistent experience for our customers, regardless of how they We offer a wide range of 4G mobile phones, tablets and mobile interact with us.
This will enable us to give customers better, more broadband devices.
Customers may also choose to bring their relevant offers, follow up on potential sales quickly and effectively own device and then connect using a SIM-only plan.
and support customers more proactively.
Wholesale Transform our costs Over 30 MVNOs, including Virgin Mobile, use our mobile Since EE was formed in 2010 it has gone through a process of network.
transformation as the legacy Orange and T-Mobile businesses were Were also active in the machine-to-machine M2M market, combined.
Weve removed duplication from the mobile network, with a tiered range of products.
shops and support functions to drive profitability.
We expect to continue to drive efficiencies as we integrate EEs business into the With Enterprise Messaging, our bulk messaging range of wider group and share our ideas, experience and methodology.
products, organisations can send large volumes of text messages to customers or employees.
Invest for growth We have the best mobile network in the UK, having been named Broadband and TV number one network by RootMetrics and recognised as the UKs We sell fixed-voice, broadband including superfast fibre fastest network by Speedtest.
To encourage take-up, our postpaid customers get larger data allowances if they also buy EE Weve made 4G voice calling more widely available, bringing it to broadband.
The increased network coverage and resilience required for the Emergency Services Network contract EE TV provides more than 70 free channels simultaneously on will also benefit consumer and business mobile customers.
up to four devices, and access to pay-TV channels.
The EE TV set-top box comes with one terabyte of memory and can be controlled from a mobile phone or tablet using the EE TV app.
