34 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 Key priorities UK Corporate Were focused on strengthening our position as a global leader.
This UK Corporate serves larger businesses typically 100 to 1,000 will be helped by the April 2016 reorganisation and the renewed employees, offering both standard and bespoke communications focus this provides for Global Services.
Our future priorities include: solutions and IT services.
strengthening the capabilities that underpin our Cloud of Clouds BT Fleet supplies BT and external customers with fleet strategy: our network performance, the systems delivering cloud management solutions.
Its one of the UKs leading providers services to our customers, and  solutions for of fleet maintenance and accident management services.
our customers: BT Business Solutions continuing to build deeper relationships with our major We provide IT services to UK customers through four specialist customers as their trusted partner: IT businesses: transforming our customer service through clearer insight into customer experiences, including the introduction of a Next Business Providing Generation Service Desk: continuing to drive down costs to become a more efficient BT IT Services IT hardware and networked IT solutions, organisation: managed and support services, and investing in the technologies which help our customers embrace consulting services.
the digital age: and further strengthening our defences against attempted cyberBT Business Direct IT and communications hardware and attacks and fraud, and supporting customers in their security software, including computing and challenges.
Weve also set ourselves some specific ambitions over the next BT Expedite Specialised IT services for the retail sector.
three years: Tikit Bespoke IT products and services for to grow our share of spending with our Global Accounts by 10%: legal and accountancy firms.
to achieve double-digit percentage annual growth rates in the revenue we generate in security, cloud unified communications and Cloud Compute: and BT Business Solutions typically targets organisations with 250 to increase our net promoter score by at least ten points.
We sell solutions and IT products primarily through the UK Corporate and UK SME channels.
We also sell to BT BUSINESS customers of BT Global Services and BT Wholesale.
BT Business BT Business sells communications and IT services in the UK and the Direct, BT Expedite and Tikit have their own direct sales functions.
We have around 900,000 customers and are leaders in fixed-voice, networking, cloud services and broadband.
BT Ireland In Northern Ireland were the largest provider of communications In BT Business were passionate about helping businesses of all sizes services for small and medium-sized enterprises SMEs and a succeed.
From household names and public-sector organisations leading supplier of networked IT services for public sector and right through to small businesses and start-ups, we help corporate customers.
organisations use the power of technology to change, compete and thrive.
In the Republic of Ireland we provide networked IT services for the public sector and large businesses and we provide wholesale Its not just business customers that rely on us.
We play a critical role services to other communications providers.
in society through our management of the 999 service in the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
And we keep the rest of BT Group on New organisational structure the road by managing and servicing the large fleet of BT vehicles.
From 1 April 2016 were creating a line of business called Business During 2015 16 we had four customer-facing divisions: and Public Sector.
This will consist of the existing BT Business organisation, along with the EE business division and some of BT UK SME Global Services UK corporate and public sector teams.
A number UK SME supplies small businesses, ranging from sole traders of our specialist businesses including BT Fleet, BT Redcare, BT through to more complex organisations including schools and Directories, BT Payphones and Tikit will move into the new colleges, with communication solutions and IT services.
We Wholesale and Ventures line of business.
serve our customers through a number of channels including As the new Business and Public Sector line of business, well: our network of 40 independent BT Local Business franchisees.
be a provider of communications and IT services to businesses We also have three specialist businesses and the public sector in the UK and the Republic of Ireland, serving over 1.2m customers: Business Providing offer the best fixed and mobile networks to provide seamless, converged business services: BT Redcare Fire and security alarm signalling services, have 12,000 people located across the UK and the Republic of surveillance networks and control room services.
Ireland dedicated to giving our customers the best experience: BT Directories Directory Enquiries, The Phone Book, website and services, operator services and call handling for generate revenue of around 5bn.
BT Payphones Public, private and managed payphone services.
