20 BT plc The Strategic Report 21 Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 Delivering our strategy Strategic and financial risks Link to strategy and Risk description Potential impact business model Whats changed over the last year?
How were mitigating the risks Growth in a competitive market Our markets are characterised by: If we dont grow our revenue profitably and sustainably, our cash Invest for growth Last year we did some big things as part of our growth strategy.
We: We stick to our strategy, which means: flows could be impacted.
This could limit our ability to invest in constant and rapid change: acquired EE: broadening and deepening our customer relationships: the business or pay dividends.
Trend: strong and new competition: won FA Premier League rights for the second time: delivering superior customer service: falling prices and in some markets falling revenues: launched our BT Sport Europe channel: and transforming our costs: and technology changes: deployed more of our fibre broadband network.
market and product convergence: Our competitors are beginning to react.
CK Hutchison wants to buy Telefnica If we do that, well grow our revenue profitably and sustainably.
customers moving between providers: and Europe plc O2 UK.
Virgin Media is expanding its network.
Sky is being more regulation to promote competition and cut wholesale prices.
Weve been investing in areas like fibre, TV and content, voice and mobility, UK aggressive in broadband.
Vodafone has entered the consumer home phone business markets, and our global corporate customers.
The market is going to get more difficult not only because of the programmes are still delivering savings.
We can also seek changes in regulation moves of our traditional competitors but also from players in neighbouring to make things fairer so we can compete harder in neighbouring markets, markets, as the dividing lines between industries keep blurring.
which will be better for our customers.
There are also regulatory risks that could threaten revenue growth particularly Ofcoms Business Connectivity Market Review and Wholesale Must Offer statement on pay-TV sports channels.
Communications industry regulation Regulation affects a lot of what we do.
Regulatory rules can affect our ability to compete effectively and Deliver superior There has been a lot of regulatory activity in different areas.
Our team of regulatory specialists include economists and accountants.
UK regulation has the biggest impact because customer service Weve summarised this in the Regulation section on page 14.
Together with legal experts and external advisers they continuously check In the UK, after market reviews, Ofcom can make us provide we have to supply wholesale access products on regulated terms.
Transform our costs for potential disputes with other CPs and look for opportunities to change wholesale services on specified terms.
Ofcom reviews the shape Alongside the standard cycle of market reviews, in March 2015 Ofcom regulatory rules.
They talk continually with regulators and other key influencers and size of that regulation every three years and can include Around 5.7bn of our revenue 3.3bn of which is to announced an overarching strategic review of the digital communications to understand the outlook and to make sure we make our positions clear.
Trend: controls on the price we charge for regulated products.
It can downstream parts of BT is from supplying wholesale services to market.
In February 2016 it set out its initial conclusions.
Some of these could investigate and enforce any regulatory rules in place and impose markets where Ofcom has found us to have significant market impact our operations, revenues and costs if theyre adopted, for example: We push for fair, proportionate, consistent and evidenced-based regulation fines on us if we dont comply.
Most of these revenues are from products with regulated everywhere we do business.
Whenever there are market reviews, charge strengthening Openreachs functional separation: prices which we also have to cut each year by a defined, realcontrols, and disputes or investigations we put forward evidence and analysis.
Ofcom also has powers to regulate the terms on which we keeping structural separation on the table: term percentage.
The regulatory controls usually last for three This helps us manage the risks around decisions in any particular year.
get supplied with certain services for instance, mobile call reducing regulation where its no longer required: and years and hold back revenues during that time.
termination and wholesale access to certain pay-TV channels.
relying on more end-to-end fibre-based competition.
We can appeal any regulatory decisions we think are wrong.
We can also raise Thiscan increase our costs and affects the scope of services Where other CPs ask Ofcom to sort out disputes with us, theres disputes or complain under the relevant regulatory framework or competition we canprovide to customers.
Ofcom can also sort out disputes a risk that Ofcom may set the prices we supply services at, and law where we have problems getting access to wholesale services like to between us and other communications providers about the or make us provide specific services.
In some circumstances, wholesale pay-TV channels or to other access networks.
termson which services are supplied.
Ofcom can adjust past prices and make us pay back CPs.
Outside the UK, general licensing requirements can make it Regulation outside the UK can hit our revenue too.
For example, tough for us to enter markets and compete.
Regulation will also overly-restrictive licensing requirements or ineffective regulation define the terms on which we can buy wholesale services from of access to other networks mean we might not be able to others.
Regulation can also define and control the terms of access to necessary regulated inputs, which raises our costs.
Pensions We have a large funding obligation to our main defined benefit Our contributions to the BTPS are next due to be reviewed at Transform our costs The last funding valuation of the BTPS, as at 30 June 2014, provided certainty The investment performance and liability experience are regularly reviewed pension scheme in the UK, the BT Pension Scheme BTPS or the triennial funding valuation as at 30 June 2017.
If theres an over what we need to pay until the next triennial valuation is concluded.
by both us and the Trustee of the BTPS.
We also consider the associated risks Invest for growth Scheme.
The BTPS faces similar risks to other defined benefit increase in the pension deficit, then we could have to increase and possible mitigations.
The assets of the BTPS are well diversified, softening Things like financial market conditions and expected future investment returns schemes.
Things like future low investment returns, high deficit payments into the Scheme.
That might affect our share the impact of sharp drops in the value of individual asset classes.
This helps us Trend: at the valuation date affect the funding position.
When considering expected inflation, longer life expectancy and regulatory changes may price and credit rating.
If our credit rating fell in future, it would maintain a reasonable balance of risk and return.
future returns, different factors are reviewed including yields or returns on all mean the BTPS becomes more of a financial burden.
cost us more to borrow money and we might not get such government bonds, which have dropped significantly since 30 June 2014.
If a Our financial strength and cash generation provide a level of protection flexible borrowing terms.
Higher deficit payments could mean lower future investment return is assumed at the next valuation our liabilities against the impact of changes in the funding position of the BTPS.
The less money available to invest, pay out as dividends or repay debt would go up, which may lead to bigger deficit payments.
funding liabilities also include a buffer against future negative experience, as as it matures.
legislation requires that liabilities are calculated on a prudent basis.
EE operates the EE Pension Scheme EEPS which has a defined benefit section that was closed to future benefit accrual in 2014.
The EEPS represents less than 2% of the groups retirement benefit obligation.
The latest funding valuation for the EEPS is being performed as at 31 December 2015.
Trend indicates managements perception of how the P re-mitigation risk is P re-mitigation risk Pre-mitigation risk is pre-mitigation risk has moved year on year increasing worsening is at a similar level lessening improving
