30 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 OUR LINES OF BUSINESS Our business is structured to best serve our customers responding EE and Consumer will address different parts of the consumer to their needs and delivering value to them.
market: Business and Public Sector will be able to better align its We have six customer-facing lines of business.
In this section we resources to improve customer service and delivery, and will describe each of them, the markets and customers they serve and adopt a more regional and forensic approach to serving the UK the products and services they sell.
We give examples of what public sector: and theyve been doing to broaden and deepen relationships with large international and global organisations will benefit from the their customers and we report on their operational and financial sharper focus on their needs that Global Services will be better performance in the year.
Looking ahead, we list their key priorities.
The lines of business are supported by BT TSO, our internal service In this Annual Report we are reporting against our organisational unit.
We describe its role and responsibilities and provide case structure as of 31 March 2016.
We will report in line with the new studies on two important work programmes.
structure from the first quarter of 2016 17.
HOW WE ARE ORGANISED BT GLOBAL SERVICES For most of the year we were organised around five customerWere a leading global business communications provider.
We facing lines of business BT Global Services, BTBusiness, BT help around 6,200 corporate and public-sector customers across Consumer, BT Wholesale and Openreach which were supported by 180 countries embrace the digital age, innovate and work more our internal service unit, BT Technology, Service & Operations BT efficiently.
Our acquisition of EE in January added a sixth line of business.
We help our customers use communications to create new ways of Management changes doing business.
We combine our global strengths in networks, IT In February 2016 Clive Selley became CEO of Openreach, replacing and innovation with our local presence, expertise and delivery.
Joe Garner who left the group.
Howard Watson, previously responsible for leading BTs global IT platforms, replaced Clive as During the year we were structured around four regional operations CEO of BT TSO.
In addition, in March 2016 Gerry McQuade, who providing specific solutions and expertise to ten key industry joined BT as part of the EE acquisition and was previously chief sectors: sales and marketing officer for EE Business, replaced Nigel Stagg as CEO of BT Wholesale.
Marc Allera, previously chief commercial UK Continental US and High-growth Europe Canada regions officer for EE, was appointed the new CEO of EE on completion of the acquisition.
Asia Pacific Middle East Financial overview and Africa BT Global Services is our largest line of business by revenue, Latin America generating 34% of the groups external revenue.
BT Consumer is the next largest, contributing 24%.
Financial Services Manufacturing Around 60% of Openreachs revenue is generated from other BT Public Sector Media and Business Services lines of business so its contribution to external group revenue is Automotive Retail and Consumer Goods the smallest, at 11%.
Total Openreach revenue is equivalent to Energy and Resources Technology and Telecoms 27% of group revenue.
It is the groups largest EBITDA contributor, Healthcare and Life Sciences Travel, Transport and Logistics generating 40% of the total, reflecting the return it earns on its extensive network assets.
But as a capital-intensive business, Openreach incurs costs relating to capital expenditure and New organisational structure depreciation, which are not reflected in this EBITDA contribution.
From April 2016, in line with the new BT organisational structure, well be able to focus more on our key areas of strength, serving BT Global Services EBITDA margins are below those of the other multinational companies and financial services organisations lines of business reflecting the type of business it does.
Thats headquartered in the UK and across the world.
As well as why, at 16%, its proportion of group EBITDA is below its overall continuing to serve the communications needs of major public and revenue contribution.
private-sector customers outside the UK.
People overview Markets and customers Over 30% of our people work in Openreach.
Many of them are Customers engineers, responsible for building, maintaining and upgrading We work for around 6,200 corporate and public-sector customers our networks.
Over 20% of our people are in BT TSO and group across 180 countries worldwide.
We have relationships with: functions, supporting all the customer-facing lines of business.
18% work in BT Global Services, with many supporting our 98% of FTSE100 companies: customers worldwide.
84% of Fortune 500 companies: 97% of Interbrands annual ranking of the 100 most valuable Internal reorganisation brands in the world: The acquisition of EE provided us with a chance to refresh our 95% of the worlds top banks: and organisational structure and this took effect on 1 April 2016. public sector organisations in 29 countries around the world.
We still have six lines of business.
Two will focus on businesses and We generate over two-thirds of our revenue from corporate the public sector one in the UK and Ireland and one globally customers.
Of these, financial institutions are our largest segment, two will serve consumers and two will provide wholesale services generating 18% of our revenue in the year.
They will all be supported by Technology, Service & Operations.
This change will allow us to better serve our different types of customers:
