BT plc 2 Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 THE STRATEGIC REPORT PURPOSE AND STRATEGY OVERVIEW Our success as a business depends on delivering value to all our British Telecommunications plc is the principal operating subsidiary customers.
We try to think ahead, to anticipate what they want of BT Group plc.
We are a wholly owned subsidiary of BT Group and to develop products, services and an overall experience that plc.
The BT Group plc Board has ultimate responsibility for the meet their needs, whether as individuals or as businesses.
management of the group and the Operating Committee of BT Our services are vital to our customers and their communities.
We Group plc is the key management committee.
It monitors the look for ways of using and developing those services to deliver groups financial, operational and customer service performance economic growth and wider societal benefits.
To bring our purpose and has cross-business oversight of BTs lines of business.
It also to life, weve set a number of challenging long-term ambitions reviews the groups key risks and considers the potential threats and that make a positive impact on the societies, communities and opportunities to the business.
environment we operate in page 18.
The Purpose and strategy, Delivering our strategy, Our lines of By creating value for our customers and society we grow our business and Group performance sections on pages 2 to 55 form business and reward our shareholders for their investment in us.
OUR GOAL We present the audited consolidated financial statements on Our goal is to deliver sustainable profitable revenue growth.
In previous years, we relied on cost transformation to offset OUR PURPOSE declining revenues, so that we could grow our cash flows and the Our purpose is to use the power of communications to make a value of our business.
This year, we grew our revenue, driven by the better world.
investments we have been making.
Were here to meet the needs of our customers, delivering the In the years ahead, we expect revenue growth, combined with experience, products and services that matter to them.
Millions continued transformation of our costs, to provide a platform for of individuals connect through us to their friends and family, and long-term and sustainable cash flow growth.
have huge amounts of information and entertainment at their fingertips.
The smallest companies, right through to multinational Well reinvest some of the cash we generate back into the business, corporations, use our services every day to conduct their business.
to enable us to grow over the long term.
And well Many public services rely on our technologies.
And in the UK, most also use it to give back to our shareholders and other stakeholders.
of the telecoms industry operates across our networks we help OUR STRATEGY more than 500 other communications providers to serve their Our strategy is founded on broadening and deepening our customers.
The diagram below shows our strategy in the year and how it supports our goal and purpose.
It sits at the centre of our business model.
For 2016 17 our strategy is evolving.
The three pillars remain broadly the same but with a wider focus on the overall customer experience rather than just on customer service.
And with our acquisition of EE our investment areas are more focused on having the best integrated network in the UK and being a fully converged service provider.
Our purpose To use the power of communications to make a better world Our goal A growing BT: to deliver sustainable profitable revenue growth Our strategy Broaden and deepen our customer relationships Deliversuperior Transform Invest for customer service our costs growth Mobility Leading TV and UK business Fibre and future global content markets voice companies Our culture A healthy organisation
