28 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 EE ACQUISITION RISKS Increased competition has led to a decline in the prices which EE Our acquisition of EE has introduced additional risks for BT beyond charges for its mobile services and is expected to lead to further those captured in our principal risks and uncertainties.
This year, declines in pricing in the future.
Competition could also lead to given the acquisition has only recently completed, weve set out a reduction in the rate at which we add new mobile customers, these risks separately.
As the EE risks become more embedded in a decrease in the size of our mobile market share and a decline our Enterprise Risk Management framework, well integrate the in the groups service revenue as customers choose to receive reporting of these risks into our review of our principal risks and telecommunications services or other competing services from uncertainties.
Also, theres a risk of increased customer churn as a result of the transition away from the legacy T-Mobile and Orange Risks related to the acquisition brands and any potential changes to the branding in future.
Churn Although a number of the risks EE faces are similar in nature to could also increase as a result of potential Ofcom changes to the those potentially impacting BT, there are also distinct risks that mobile switching regime in the UK.
An increase in churn rates could the group now faces that BT has not previously perceived to be adversely affect profitability because we would experience lower significant threats.
revenue and or additional selling costs to replace customers or recapture lost revenue.
This section outlines some of those new risks and uncertainties, but it is not exhaustive.
Delays in the deployment of new technologies Our operations will depend partly on the successful deployment of Realising acquisition synergies continuously evolving telecommunications technologies, including We are targeting significant synergies from the acquisition, handsets and network compatibility and components.
including operating cost savings and capital expenditure savings.
Integrating the respective businesses is also expected to give rise EE uses technologies from a number of vendors and incurs to further benefits.
These include fixed-mobile convergence, the significant capital expenditure deploying these technologies.
There ability to serve customers through a single, seamless platform can be no assurance that common standards and specifications will supported by a single IP network, and being able to offer BT be achieved, that there will be interoperability across networks, that products to EE customers and EE products to BT customers.
technologies will be developed according to anticipated schedules, that theyll perform according to expectations or that they will The groups success will depend, in part, on the effectiveness of achieve commercial acceptance.
The introduction of software the integration process and the ability to realise the anticipated and other network components may also be delayed.
The failure benefits and synergies from combining the businesses.
Some of of vendor performance or technology performance to meet our the potential challenges in integrating the businesses may not be expectations or the failure of a technology to achieve commercial known at this stage.
If these challenges cannot be overcome, for acceptance could result in additional capital expenditure, or a example because of unforeseen difficulties in implementing fixedreduction in profitability.
mobile convergence or a lack of customer demand for the offerings, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition will not be fully achieved.
Technology change and market acceptance We may not succeed in making customers sufficiently aware of Realisation of synergies will depend partly on the rapid and efficient existing and future services or in creating customer acceptance management and co-ordination of the activities of the groups of these services at the prices we would want to charge.
We may experience difficulties in integrating EE with we may not identify trends correctly, or may not be able to bring our existing businesses and may not realise, or it might take longer new services to market as quickly or price-competitively as our than expected to realise, certain or all of the perceived benefits competitors.
Theres also a risk that synergy benefits and growth opportunities from the acquisition may fail to materialise, These risks exist in the mobile telecommunications area or may be materially lower than have been estimated.
In addition, eg mobile data services and in non-mobile telecommunications the costs of generating these synergies may exceed expectations.
areas eg mobile payment services based on contactless technology Further, we may not achieve the revenue or profitability that justify where there is a risk that differences in the regulatory treatment of the original investment, which could result in material, non-cash different operators, based on their choice of technology, could put write-downs.
Failure to deliver the anticipated synergies and us at a competitive disadvantage.
business opportunities could have a material adverse effect on our Further, as a result of rapid technological progress and the businesses, financial conditions and results of operations, including trend towards technological convergence, new and established our ability to support our pension deficit, service our debt or to pay information and telecommunications technologies or products may dividends.
not only fail to complement one another but in some cases, may Competition in the mobile market even become a substitute for one another.
An example of this is the Competition in the UK mobile telecommunications market is risk that over-the-top services being those which are provided intense.
Competition results from, among other things, the by a third party to the end-user device develop substitutes for our existence of established mobile network operators, market entry of own products and services.
Another example is VoIP, a technology alternative and lower cost carriers such as mobile virtual network that is already established in the business customer market and operators, technology developments such as Voice over Internet which has now reached the consumer market.
The availability of Protocol VoIP, and the ability of other providers to bundle mobile handsets with VoIP functionality may adversely affect our mobile phone services with different products and content such pricing structures and market share in our mobile voice telephony as broadband and pay-TV.
In particular, technologies such as VoIP business.
If we dont appropriately anticipate the demand for new and so-called over-the-top platforms such as iMessage, Facetime, technologies, and adapt our strategies, service offering and cost Blackberry Messenger, WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger could structures accordingly, we may be unable to compete effectively, reduce voice and or text messaging traffic on mobile networks, which may have an adverse effect on our business and operations.
which could lead to significant price and revenue reductions.
The Strategic Report 29 Delivering our strategy Supplier and joint venture failure therefore could have an adverse effect on our future growth and the EE has a number of suppliers identified as critical.
EE is also party value of radio spectrum.
to a complex and critical network-sharing arrangement with Transmission of radio waves from mobile telephones, transmitters Hutchison 3G UK Limited.
The failure of this joint operation to fully and associated equipment support our interests and goals, or any material disruption to the Media reports have suggested that radio frequency emissions from operation of the EE network sharing arrangement, could cause wireless mobile devices and mobile telecommunications sites may cause significant harm to our business.
health issues, including cancer, and may interfere with some electronic As demand for smartphone and tablet products increases around medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers.
Research the world, there could be shortages in the volume of devices and studies are ongoing.
According to the World Health Organisations produced as a result of insufficient manufacturing capacity, the lack Fact Sheet Number 193, last reviewed in October 2014, there are of availability of internal components such as processors or major no known adverse effects on health from emissions at levels below supply chain disruptions.
This may result in delays in the supply internationally recognised health and safety standards.
However, we chain which in turn may have an adverse effect on our business and cannot provide assurance that research in the future will not establish operations.
links between radio frequency emissions and health risks.
Regulation and spectrum Whether or not research or studies conclude that there is a link Regulators, including Ofcom, set annual licence fees for spectrum between radio frequency emissions and health, popular concerns about bands used by EE for voice calls, and data services.
In future radio frequency emissions may discourage the use of wireless devices, spectrum auctions, the costs of acquiring spectrum could increase impairing our ability to retain customers and attract new customers, or we may be unsuccessful in our bids.
Any significant increases in and may result in restrictions on the location and operation of mobile spectrum pricing which apply to us could have a material adverse communications sites and the usage of our wireless technology.
These effect on our business and results of operations.
concerns could also lead to litigation against us.
Any restrictions on use or litigation could have an adverse effect on our business and EE has been found to have significant market power in some areas operations.
of wholesale call termination following market reviews and, as is the case for all MNOs, EEs wholesale mobile termination rates are therefore regulated by Ofcom.
The scope and form of the regulation is reviewed every three years.
EE is also subject to UK and European Union consumer-focused regulation in areas including: the international roaming services provided by EE: processes for consumer switching and nongeographic numbering call services.
This regulation may affect our market share, competitive position, future profitability andcash.
As technology and market dynamics develop and as the mobile business of EE is integrated into BT, a wider range of existing regulations will apply to us and a broader range of new and or modified regulations may be directed at us.
Network, licence and technology investment EE as well as the rest of BT to a lesser extent, has made substantial investments in the acquisition of licences and EE has invested in its mobile networks, including modernising its 2G network, the upgrade of its 3G network and the continued expansion of its 4G network.
We expect to continue to make significant investments in our mobile networks due to increased usage and the need to offer new services and greater functionality.
We may acquire new spectrum licences with licence conditions, which may include network coverage obligations or increased licence fees.
Accordingly, the rate of our capital expenditure and costs in future years could increase and exceed those expected or experienced to date.
There can be no assurance that new services will be introduced according to anticipated schedules or that the level of demand for new services will justify the cost of setting them up in particular, the cost of new spectrum licences and network infrastructure, for example, for 4G services and subsequent evolutions.
Failure or a delay in completing networks and launching new services, or increases in the associated costs, could have an adverse effect on our business and operations and could result in significant write downs of the value of network spectrum or other licences or other network-related investments.
If the current economic climate worsens, we may decide, or be required, to scale back capital expenditure.
A lasting reduction in capital expenditure levels below certain thresholds could affect our ability to invest in mobile telecommunications networks including additional spectrum, new technology and other BT businesses and
