42 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 Financial performance New organisational structure From 1 April 2016 were integrating BT Wholesale, EEs wholesale 2016 From 29 January to 31 March m team and some of BTs smaller business units into a new Wholesale External revenue 1,038 and Ventures line of business.
The smaller business units include BT Internal revenue 17 Directories and BT Fleet, together with the majority of BT Redcare, Total revenue 1,055 BT Payphones and Tikit.
Theyre all described on page 34.
The new organisational structure will give more visibility to these smaller Operating costs 794 but important enterprises while bringing together the wholesale EBITDA 261 businesses of BT and EE.
Depreciation and amortisation 176 Markets and customers Operating profit 85 We serve over 1,400 CPs, including: the major consumer brands Capital expenditure 111 Sky, TalkTalk and Virgin Media: the mobile operators, O2, Three Operating cash flow 310 and Vodafone: overseas CPs operating in the UK: and other service providers such as Daisy Group and KCOM Group.
We also provide Revenue for the two months since acquisition was 1,055m.
This specialist media and broadcast services to major organisations consisted of mobile service revenue of 913m, fixed and wholesale including the BBC, Channel 4, ITV, Sky, SoftBank Corp. and Star TV.
revenue of 89m and equipment sales of 53m.
Our main competitors are Virgin Media, TalkTalk and Vodafone.
This also includes revenue of 17m which is internal, reflecting The main trends in the wholesale market this year were the trading with other lines of business within the group.
Monthly continuing take-up of IP voice services and ever-stronger demand mobile ARPUs in the period were 26.7 for postpaid customers, for higher-bandwidth broadband networks.
3.9 for prepaid and 18.6 on a combined basis.
Voice services: moving to IP Operating costs were 794m giving EBITDA of 261m, a margin The number of calls made over traditional fixed networks fell by of 25%.
10% this year, as calls moved to mobile networks or to instant Capital expenditure was 111m as we extended 4G coverage to messaging and other IP-based alternatives.
And owners of these over 96% of the UK population.
Preparation for the Emergency networks were able to charge less to carry such calls, as a result Services Network contract continued in line with agreed milestones.
of price reductions imposed following Ofcoms last Narrowband Market Review.
Operating cash flow, which excludes interest and tax, was 310m benefiting from the timing of working capital.
As businesses opt to make and receive calls over IP they are increasingly buying newer voice services such as SIP-Trunking and Key priorities Hosted Voice.
According to the Cavell Group, in 2015 the number Over the coming year we plan to further integrate the new EE line of SIP Trunks which connect a businesss switchboard to its of business into the group, in line with the reorganisation that took IP voice service provider grew by 31%.
And users of Hosted IP effect from 1 April 2016, and begin to realise the revenue and cost Voice which eliminates the need for a switchboard altogether synergies associated with the acquisition.
We also plan to broaden grew by 30%.
and deepen our customer relationships by: Connectivity services: higher bandwidths improving the customer experience: This year average usage over our wholesale broadband circuits rose extending 4G coverage and aiming to remain the UKs best by 40%.
And 43% of all our broadband lines ordered this year quality mobile network: use higher-speed fibre technologies.
We expect this trend towards progressing the build phase of the Emergency Services Network higher-bandwidth broadband to continue.
contract, working closely with TSO: and launching a range of combined mobile, fixed-line and TV Products and services products.
BT Wholesales products and services either supplement CPs own capabilities or can be sold on to CPs own customers as they are.
BT WHOLESALE Where CPs need a more bespoke or comprehensive service, we We provide network products and services to Communications combine our products with other components to create managed Providers CPs operating in Great Britain.
We also offer services for solutions.
We do this by combining BTs core network and IT platforms Broadband with Openreachs access products.
We add our own expertise in We provide CPs with broadband connections between their core designing, building and supporting new products and bespoke network and their customers.
We can then offer a range of services that complement can serve 95% of premises with copper-based broadband our customers own capabilities.
This means we can share in their 2014 15: 92% and over 25m premises with fibre broadband.
Our older broadband network brings our total coverage to more than 99% of all premises.
Were structured around our customers: mobile and fixed network operators: resellers: and media organisations and broadcasters.
Our For CPs without their own network, we offer Managed largest customers are supported by dedicated client teams, while Broadband.
This includes the necessary connectivity and others are served by a desk-based sales force.
All are supported by internet access together with full end-to-end service expert product managers and customer service agents.
Outside Great Britain, BT serves CPs through BT Ireland and BT Ethernet Global Services.
BT remains Europes largest wholesale telecoms We supply CPs with Ethernet connections linking their core provider.
network to their customers business premises.
Ethernet The Strategic Report 43 Our lines of business services are continuing to replace Partial Private Circuits, a site, the site itself and end-to-end service management.
They legacy connectivity service which we also offer.
can help mobile operators improve their coverage in rural areas or provide more capacity in urban locations.
With Wholesale Ethernet, CPs can reach 82% of business premises over copper-based circuits 2014 15: 81% and more Performance in the year than 99% over fibre, at speeds of up to 10Gbps.
This year we Underlying revenue excluding transit rose by 1%, reversing the falls fully launched Wholesale Optical which extends those speeds to of the previous three years.
reflecting a changing volume and product mix across our product Our Managed Ethernet Access Service MEAS carries mobile portfolio.
voice and data traffic to and from mobile operators transmission We signed fewer orders this year but saw a substantial uplift masts, using a mix of copper, fibre and radio technologies.
in sales of our strategic growth products: Ethernet, Hosted Communications Services and IPX.
Customer satisfaction continued Media services to rise as a result of investments in self-service systems and tools.
Our long-established media network connects major locations around the world where broadcast or film content is created Operating performance or distributed.
In the UK it carries all of the nations digital This year we signed 1.5bn of orders.
This was down around terrestrial TV, as well as TV broadcasts from more than 150 400m on last years order intake, but up around 150m sports and news locations.
Local partners help us link TV excluding orders signed with EE, which is now part of BT.
We signed stations to major sports venues worldwide.
deals for a wide range of services, including: We also offer related media services such as content playout in Wholesale Hosted Centrex and SIP-Trunking for a large CP to which we send finished TV content off to be transmitted and resell, replacing their own platform: media file acceleration and security.
the supply and maintenance of vehicles to support the new Emergency Services Network contract within EE: Voice calls a national broadcast network for the BBC see below : CPs use our IP Exchange IPX platform to carry their customers MEAS circuits to connect a mobile operators new cell sites to its voice calls beyond the reach of their own voice network.
core network: IPX delivers calls between CPs networks, or to their final IPX for three major CPs and for a smaller IP voice specialist, destination, translating between the many different network enabling it to close its old voice network: and technologies that may be used along the way.
IPX is now used a video multiplexing solution for a major US-based media by over 150 CPs, including most of the UKs biggest operators.
As voice moves to IP, IPX is gradually replacing our equivalent We also signed up seven new channel partners to sell our Avaya products based on older Time Division Multiplexing TDM Cloud Solutions portfolio.
These products include Transit, Direct Conveyance IPX carried 26bn UK-originated voice minutes in the year, up 41%.
Several major CPs joined the platform, increasing the value of the For CPs without their own voice network, we offer BT Wholesale service to other users.
Calls which routes calls for them end to end.
The CP maintains The total number of broadband lines we provide on a wholesale the customer relationship through its own sales, customer basis grew for the first time in many years.
This reflected a service and billing operations.
slowdown in the LLU network rollout of large broadband providers as well as our own success in selling both fibre and copper Hosted communications broadband to smaller CPs.
Our Hosted Communications Services portfolio enables a CP to offer a range of services without having to develop, maintain The total number of wholesale Ethernet lines we provide grew too, and upgrade them itself.
by 23%, mainly as a result of targeted pricing initiatives, network expansion and migration from Partial Private Circuits.
We also Traditionally, businesses have made and received calls over connected more MEAS circuits.
Wholesale Hosted Centrex, a hosted voice service, moves the switchboard capability into BTs Despite fierce competition, the number of our SIP Trunks nearly network.
And Wholesale SIP-Trunking delivers the calls over doubled.
And the number of our Hosted Centrex users tripled, broadband.
When put together, the business no longer needs to driven in part by new pricing options.
house and maintain a switchboard or rent separate phone lines.
BBC In the same way, our Hosted Contact Centres replace the Weve been chosen by the BBC to provide its next generation systems and services usually needed to handle inbound or broadcast network in a deal worth more than 100m to BT.
outbound customer calls at scale.
In partnership with Avaya Inc. we offer Avaya Cloud Solutions, a hosted and fullyWere helping the BBC deliver considerable savings as well as paving integrated contact centre service with end-to-end service-level the way for future digital innovation.
Well enable them to move to agreements.
a new, state-of-the-art network, from April 2017.
Managed solutions The new network will be run by our Media & Broadcast team.
We combine our products with third-party components and our Itll be more efficient and flexible and better able to support BBC own professional services to create managed solutions that solve innovation.
And itll allow extra services and capacity to be added specific customer or industry problems.
for major events, such as a general election or the Olympics, more easily and at a lower cost than before.
For example, this year we implemented new small cell solutions at a number of mobile transmission sites.
These solutions can Matthew Postgate of the BBC said: This is an important step include the electronic equipment at a site, the network to the towards building an internet-fit BBC and will allow us to provide more interactive and personalised content in the future.
44 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 Deliver superior customer service Revenue was down 3% compared with an 11% decline last year.
Customer satisfaction rose to 85% in the fourth quarter, up from This included 82m or 51% less transit revenue than in the prior 80% for the same period last year.
It improved across all customer year.
But our Right First Time performance, which measures Our key measure, underlying revenue excluding transit, was up 1% our ability to deliver orders and repair faults on time, was down by compared with a decline of 7% last year.
This was as a result of the weather services and managed solutions, partly offset by a decline in our and systems outages mentioned on page 3. legacy products.
IP services revenue was up 25%, helped by 41% Initiatives in three main areas drove the improvement in customer higher IPX volumes and a 23% increase in Ethernet connections.
satisfaction: Managed solutions revenue grew 3% and accounted for 39% of total revenue, up from 37% last year.
We gave CPs new tools to help them improve the stability of broadband lines.
We also made it easier for them Calls, lines and circuits revenue fell 14%, mainly because of lower to identify problems in their customers own home wiring and volumes and customers switching to newer IP technologies.
CPs reported 7% fewer broadband faults as a result.
Broadband revenue was 12% lower, but this was an improvement And the reliability of our Ethernet circuits improved by 11% as on last years decline of 17%.
While migration to LLU continues new diagnostic tools meant we could identify and fix problems in to reduce the size of our copper broadband base, fibre broadband our network before CPs even noticed them.
volumes have increased, reflecting demand across the market.
We kept our CP customers better informed Following the Supreme Court judgment on ladder pricing in July on the progress of their orders and any faults.
This meant they 2014, we recognised around 15m of ladder pricing trading could keep their own customers more up to date.
Customer revenue this year 2014 15: around 30m.
This is in addition satisfaction in this area rose by six percentage points.
to revenue treated as a specific item relating to prior years, as The online experience.
We made it easier to do business with explained on page 82.
We do not expect to include any further us by adding new features to Business Zone, the online service trading revenue relating to ladder pricing in the income statement portal which we launched last year.
next year, because we stopped pricing on that basis in July 2015.
Improvements in both our resourcing and the delivery process Operating costs decreased 3%.
Underlying operating costs itself contributed to strong growth in our Ethernet base this year.
excluding transit increased 2%, with the cost of delivering more But delivering Ethernet circuits on time proved more challenging, IP services only partially offset by continuing cost transformation because a higher proportion needed new fibre or ducting activities.
EBITDA declined 3%, reflecting the one-off impact of lower ladder Transform our costs pricing revenues as well as the continuing migration to lowerThis year we focused our cost transformation activities on: margin IP services.
But this was an improvement on last years 9% decline.
Depreciation and amortisation was down 5% 2014 15: reducing selling, general and administrative costs, which were 9% and operating profit fell 2% 2014 15: 9%.
11% lower than last year: renegotiating our supplier contracts and reducing the number Capital expenditure was 16% lower than last year 2014 15: of suppliers we use: and 14%, driven by lower spend on sustaining our legacy voice rationalising legacy platforms and networks and removing under network, and as last year included some investment in efficiency utilised infrastructure.
Working capital was helped by better collections contributing to a 45% increase in operating cash flow.
Invest for growth New product launches included Media Move and Cloud Playout, Key priorities two new services for the media and broadcast industry.
We also Next year well be part of the new Wholesale and Ventures line of fully launched Wholesale Optical after a soft-launch last year business, as explained on page 30.
Our priorities will be: which offers high-bandwidth data connectivity.
We enabled integrating the various business units and their teams: Wholesale Hosted Centrex and Skype for Business to work together.
creating revenue and cost synergies, for example by selling EEs This means Skype users can get all the features of our Centrex mobile services to BT Wholesale customers: platform such as the ability to call people who are not on their continuing to improve customer experience, especially in corporate network.
Ethernet delivery: Wholesale Broadband Connect and Wholesale Ethernet are further expanding our Ethernet network, making it available from now available from more exchanges.
And we migrated our IPX more BT exchanges and more third-party datacentres: customers onto a new, larger platform.
increasing the number of customers using fibre rather than copper broadband: Financial performance 2016 2015 2014 further strengthening our defences against attempted cyberYear ended 31 March m m m attacks and fraud: and Revenue 2,086 2,157 2,422 continuing our cost transformation activities.
Underlying revenue excluding transit 1% 7 % 3 % Weve also set ourselves some specific ambitions within the next Operating costs 1,544 1,596 1,808 three years: EBITDA 542 561 614 to grow the number of Ethernet circuits we provide by 50%: Depreciation and amortisation 212 224 245 to increase the number of MVNO brands on 4G from less than Operating profit 330 337 369 5% to at least 80%: and Capital expenditure 177 210 244 to deliver all our products on time at least 95% of the time Operating cash flow 404 278 372 by the end of the period.
