30 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 OUR LINES OF BUSINESS Our business is structured to best serve our customers responding EE and Consumer will address different parts of the consumer to their needs and delivering value to them.
market: Business and Public Sector will be able to better align its We have six customer-facing lines of business.
In this section we resources to improve customer service and delivery, and will describe each of them, the markets and customers they serve and adopt a more regional and forensic approach to serving the UK the products and services they sell.
We give examples of what public sector: and theyve been doing to broaden and deepen relationships with large international and global organisations will benefit from the their customers and we report on their operational and financial sharper focus on their needs that Global Services will be better performance in the year.
Looking ahead, we list their key priorities.
The lines of business are supported by BT TSO, our internal service In this Annual Report we are reporting against our organisational unit.
We describe its role and responsibilities and provide case structure as of 31 March 2016.
We will report in line with the new studies on two important work programmes.
structure from the first quarter of 2016 17.
HOW WE ARE ORGANISED BT GLOBAL SERVICES For most of the year we were organised around five customerWere a leading global business communications provider.
We facing lines of business BT Global Services, BTBusiness, BT help around 6,200 corporate and public-sector customers across Consumer, BT Wholesale and Openreach which were supported by 180 countries embrace the digital age, innovate and work more our internal service unit, BT Technology, Service & Operations BT efficiently.
Our acquisition of EE in January added a sixth line of business.
We help our customers use communications to create new ways of Management changes doing business.
We combine our global strengths in networks, IT In February 2016 Clive Selley became CEO of Openreach, replacing and innovation with our local presence, expertise and delivery.
Joe Garner who left the group.
Howard Watson, previously responsible for leading BTs global IT platforms, replaced Clive as During the year we were structured around four regional operations CEO of BT TSO.
In addition, in March 2016 Gerry McQuade, who providing specific solutions and expertise to ten key industry joined BT as part of the EE acquisition and was previously chief sectors: sales and marketing officer for EE Business, replaced Nigel Stagg as CEO of BT Wholesale.
Marc Allera, previously chief commercial UK Continental US and High-growth Europe Canada regions officer for EE, was appointed the new CEO of EE on completion of the acquisition.
Asia Pacific Middle East Financial overview and Africa BT Global Services is our largest line of business by revenue, Latin America generating 34% of the groups external revenue.
BT Consumer is the next largest, contributing 24%.
Financial Services Manufacturing Around 60% of Openreachs revenue is generated from other BT Public Sector Media and Business Services lines of business so its contribution to external group revenue is Automotive Retail and Consumer Goods the smallest, at 11%.
Total Openreach revenue is equivalent to Energy and Resources Technology and Telecoms 27% of group revenue.
It is the groups largest EBITDA contributor, Healthcare and Life Sciences Travel, Transport and Logistics generating 40% of the total, reflecting the return it earns on its extensive network assets.
But as a capital-intensive business, Openreach incurs costs relating to capital expenditure and New organisational structure depreciation, which are not reflected in this EBITDA contribution.
From April 2016, in line with the new BT organisational structure, well be able to focus more on our key areas of strength, serving BT Global Services EBITDA margins are below those of the other multinational companies and financial services organisations lines of business reflecting the type of business it does.
Thats headquartered in the UK and across the world.
As well as why, at 16%, its proportion of group EBITDA is below its overall continuing to serve the communications needs of major public and revenue contribution.
private-sector customers outside the UK.
People overview Markets and customers Over 30% of our people work in Openreach.
Many of them are Customers engineers, responsible for building, maintaining and upgrading We work for around 6,200 corporate and public-sector customers our networks.
Over 20% of our people are in BT TSO and group across 180 countries worldwide.
We have relationships with: functions, supporting all the customer-facing lines of business.
18% work in BT Global Services, with many supporting our 98% of FTSE100 companies: customers worldwide.
84% of Fortune 500 companies: 97% of Interbrands annual ranking of the 100 most valuable Internal reorganisation brands in the world: The acquisition of EE provided us with a chance to refresh our 95% of the worlds top banks: and organisational structure and this took effect on 1 April 2016. public sector organisations in 29 countries around the world.
We still have six lines of business.
Two will focus on businesses and We generate over two-thirds of our revenue from corporate the public sector one in the UK and Ireland and one globally customers.
Of these, financial institutions are our largest segment, two will serve consumers and two will provide wholesale services generating 18% of our revenue in the year.
They will all be supported by Technology, Service & Operations.
This change will allow us to better serve our different types of customers: The Strategic Report 31 Our lines of business The public sector generated 19% of our revenue.
As a key Products and services supplier to the UK Government, were helping drive its digital We deliver value to our customers by combining a broad portfolio of transformation.
products and services with industry-specific solutions and consulting expertise.
Our network is at the heart of what we provide.
We have Around 11% of our revenue comes from providing a range of simple product categories organised around what our customers services to other telecoms companies.
These are: Our top 1,000 customers generate around 90% of our revenue.
BT Connect On average, our corporate customers typically spend less than Network services are at the core of our Cloud of Clouds strategy.
10% of their total IT and communications expenditure with us.
So we see an opportunity to grow our share of their spending by They connect our customers to their people, to their own broadening and deepening our relationship with them.
customers, to the cloud and to the world.
We offer a range of flexible, intelligent and secure IP, Ethernet and internet virtual Regions private network services, including direct connectivity to thirdThe UK is our largest region by revenue.
Financial institutions and party cloud services providers.
We deliver our network services government and healthcare customers are particularly important in across 180 countries over a range of access technologies this market.
including DSL, Ethernet and satellite.
We have a strong presence in Continental Europe, with national BT Assure networks and metropolitan fibre rings in most major countries, Cyber security is now firmly on the boardroom agenda for many including Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, the companies with cyber-attacks a daily occurrence.
We use the Republic of Ireland and Spain.
expertise we have from protecting BT to develop products and The US and Canada region is important because of the large services such as firewalls, web security, intrusion prevention and number of multinationals headquartered there.
However our threat monitoring to protect our customers.
biggest challenge in the US continues to be ineffective regulation of wholesale access to incumbent operator networks.
The US regulator BT One is currently analysing the market and were actively engaged in the People communicate using technology in many different process.
ways by phone, instant messaging, email, audio and video conferencing and data-sharing solutions, either at their desks The high-growth regions of Asia Pacific, the Middle East and or on mobile devices.
Businesses want these channels to be Africa AMEA and Latin America are increasingly important to our integrated and to work together easily and reliably.
Were helping multinationals expand into these areas and supporting local companies as they grow internationally.
We Our collaboration services help customers simplify their continue to invest in these markets by adding products and services communication channels and transform the way they interact and improving our network and IT infrastructure.
with their customers, colleagues, partners and suppliers.
And our mobile services help keep them in touch when they are on Key market trends the move.
Our main competitors are global telecoms companies such as AT&T, BT Contact Orange and Verizon.
We also compete against IT and business Our contact centre services help our customers build stronger process management companies, the latter particularly relationships with their customers.
We offer a number of ways in the UK public sector.
for them to communicate together, including email, web chat, The markets we operate in are competitive and we continue to face video, social media and the phone either via automated pricing pressure.
We expect organisations to focus on improving systems or dedicated advisers.
operational efficiency by using next generation IT services to cut costs, while expecting more for a lower price.
Our cloud contact solutions give companies more control over their costs, allowing them to change capacity in response to But some parts of the market are growing.
network traffic is increasing due to the number of applications that are moving from in-house models to external cloud-based services.
BT Compute Were investing in a new generation of cloud services to support Businesses want reliable but flexible IT platforms and services these areas.
for their applications, data storage and security.
We provide IT services across our global network from 48 data centres around Hybrid cloud, a mix of public and private cloud services, is fast the world, 22 of which are cloud-enabled.
Our services range becoming a key aspect of the market.
Gartner forecasts that cloud from traditional telehousing and colocation to the latest public, computing services will grow globally at a compound annual a private and hybrid cloud solutions, delivered in any combination growth rate of 32% from 20162019. our customers need.
In this hybrid environment, cyber security is the major concern for organisations.
Managed security services are expected to grow at BT Advise a compound annual growth rate of 14% a year globally over the We want to become a trusted adviser for all our customers.
team of more than 2,000 professional services people provides the connection between business strategy and technology.
By And unified communications as a service UCaaS delivered via the giving expert advice and then integrating and managing all cloud by third-party providers is forecast to grow at a compound essential business technologies, our customers can get the most c annual growth rate of 46% between 2014 and 2018. value from our services.
a Gartner, Forecast: IT Services, Worldwide, 2014-2020, 1Q16 Update March 2016. b Gartner, Forecast: Information Security, Worldwide, 2013-2019, 4Q15 Update February2016.
c IDC, Western Europe Unified Communications as a Service 2013 Market Analysis and 2014- 2018 Forecast September 2014.
32 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 Industry propositions Operating performance Our industry-specific solutions help customers overcome challenges We achieved a total order intake of 6.2bn.
While this was down unique to the environments they operate in.
For example: 4%, excluding contract renewals our order intake grew in the year, in line with our strategy to grow our share of our customers our Digital Consumer portfolio enables retailers to provide an network and IT spend.
Key deals with our top global customers online experience to shoppers in their physical stores: continue to make up a large part overall.
our Field Force Automation solutions provide workers with access to corporate applications, regardless of their location: and Contracts we won this year include: BT Industrial Wireless services provide mining and oil companies with connectivity to the coalface and wellhead for safer or more Customer Contract cost-efficient operations.
AIA Group Providing managed network and BT Connect security services covering 52 sites in 15 Performance in the year countries across Asia Pacific.
We have consolidated our position as a global leader for managed networked IT services.
ALS Providing a global managed network Weve improved our Right First Time performance and have BT Connect, comprising WAN services, internet extended our customer satisfaction measures to give clearer insight BT Assure access, cloud connectivity, network into customer experience.
But we continue to work on service acceleration and optimisation, as well as delivery as our loyalty surveys have shown a decline in customer managed security services.
satisfaction, which was largely driven by delays in providing Caixa Increasing the number of lottery outlets Ethernet circuits in the UK.
BT Connect that we will serve in Brazil from 14,000 We grew underlying revenue excluding transit in the high-growth to 18,000, using our network and regions of the world and Continental Europe.
But overall it declined, satellite connectivity.
driven by lower UK public-sector income and because a major Commerzbank Providing a global collaboration system customer in the US started to insource some services.
Despite this, BT One bringing together 49,000 users in 20 we grew our operating cash flow.
Analyst firms recognise us as a global leader in the market.
We were positioned as a Leader in Gartners 2016 Magic Quadrant for European Commission Delivering cloud services across 52 a Network Services, Global, for the 12th time.
We were also ranked BT One, major European institutions, agencies a Leader in IDCs MarketScape Worldwide Telecom Service Provider BT Compute and bodies.
Walgreens Boots Upgrading and expanding its IT Societal benefits Alliance BT Connect network in 20 countries.
We make a positive difference to communities.
In India weve Zurich Insurance Modernising and managing its been supporting Katha since 2001.
We helped it to establish the Group BT Connect communications infrastructure.
Katha Information Technology and E-commerce School KITES in the heart of Govindpuri, an impoverished area of Delhi.
Using an online resource based on Katha methods, the Katha Consortium Deliver superior customer service has now supported over 17,000 young people and educators, and Customer experience is at the heart of the way we do business.
We the I Love Reading programme has touched the lives of almost gather feedback from our customers through our global account 700,000 people.
management teams and by using third-party surveys.
Were also working with the Colombian government to bring And this year we extended the rollout of our Customer poorer areas of the country, including rural areas, online.
This Thermometer to more customers.
It takes a regular gauge of project will connect over 700 new Vive Digital kiosks across the customer experience using email to gain customer feedback at key country, allowing people in these areas to connect to the internet points of interaction.
and access e-learning and e-training services as well as a range of online public services.
The estimated social value of this work During the year we: is 1.8m a year.
improved the speed of service delivery for our main products by Were working with Milton Keynes Council to pilot smart parking 14%.
This will remain a key focus for us next year: at the main railway station to help offer a better experience to the continued to deliver network reliability across our core products: towns residents as well as reducing fuel use and vehicle emissions.
introduced pre-emptive, automated service management into our key networks.
This means we can identify issues and act on them before the customer feels any impact: and started to develop better tools to keep our customers informed of progress on major orders.
a Gartner, Magic Quadrant for Network Services, Global, Neil Rickard, Bjarne Munch, January 2016.
Thanks to these improvements, we increased our Right First Time Gartner footnote: Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research measure 2.3%, building on last years 8.6% increase.
publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation.
Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartners research organization and should not be construed as statements of fact.
Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.
The Gartner Report s described herein, Gartner Magic Quadrant for Network Services, Global, Neil Rickard, Bjarne Munch, 14 January 2016 represent s research opinion or viewpoints published, as part of a syndicated subscription service, by Gartner, Inc. Gartner, and are not representations of fact.
Each Gartner Report speaks as of its original publication date and not as of the date of this Annual Report and the opinions expressed in the Gartner Report s are subject to change without notice.
b IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Telecom Service Provider, 2015 Vendor Assessment, July 2015, IDC #257339.
The Strategic Report 33 Our lines of business However, we did see a decline in overall customer satisfaction in In the security area, we: our loyalty survey.
This was largely driven by issues around service introduced a cloud-based DDoS mitigation service: delivery, in particular delays in providing Ethernet circuits in the UK.
launched BT Assure Cyber Defence, an advanced security Were addressing this by changing our processes and procedures.
platform for monitoring, detecting and protecting against Were currently piloting a Net Promoter Score NPS and will launch cyber-threats: and this globally next year.
This new measure of customer satisfaction launched two further BT Assure services, Ethical Hacking for will give us much more timely and actionable insight on a Finance and Ethical Hacking for Vehicles which assesses the customer-by-customer basis.
vulnerabilities of connected vehicles to cyber-attacks.
Transform our costs Industry-specific solutions Weve continued to reduce our costs with underlying operating As a founding member of the Acuitas Digital Alliance, weve costs excluding transit down 1%.
launched our BT In-Store Visibility solution.
It gives retailers realtime digital insight from the shop and across the supply chain to Were taking tried-and-tested methods from the UK and are using give customers in-store the same experience they enjoy online.
them overseas to reduce the cost of failure, improve efficiency, streamline organisational structure and get better value for money Financial performance from suppliers.
2016 2015 2014 Year ended 31 March m m m Reduce failures in our processes Revenue 6,530 6,779 7,269 We continue to deliver good results by improving how we manage Underlying revenue excluding transit 2 % 4 % 1 % access circuits around the world including: Operating costs 5,482 5,732 6,228 removing circuits we no longer need: EBITDA 1,048 1,047 1,041 migrating to more advanced technologies with lower unit costs: and Depreciation and amortisation 518 519 616 reducing order backlogs.
Operating profit 530 528 425 Improving third-party supplier value for money Capital expenditure 415 468 516 Weve saved money on customer premises equipment by: Operating cash flow 475 349 499 applying best practice on managing discounts and rebates from a Revenue decreased 4% 2014 15: 7% including a 105m large supplier: negative impact from foreign exchange movements and a using refurbished kit: 30m decline in transit revenue.
Our key revenue measure, disposing of unused equipment: and underlying revenue excluding transit, decreased 2%, which was an insourcing the maintenance of equipment where we have the improvement on the 4% decline the year before.
skills to do this ourselves.
Underlying revenue excluding transit grew 4% in the high-growth From these, and other, cost transformation programmes, we have regions 2014 15: 9% reflecting the signing of key deals and not only delivered significant benefits this year but have also the impact of newly-launched capabilities, products and services.
identified further opportunities for next year.
Continental Europe delivered 5% growth in underlying revenue excluding transit 2014 15: 2% reflecting higher IP Exchange Invest for growth volumes and growth from corporate customers.
Weve continued to strengthen our capabilities with the launch of new cloud-based services which can be integrated with different In the UK our revenue was down 5% 2014 15: 11% reflecting suppliers and are available globally.
the decline in our public-sector income.
In the US and Canada we had a 9% decline in underlying revenue excluding transit 2014 15: High-growth regions 3% as a major customer started insourcing some services.
Weve improved our cloud-based BT Connect services in Singapore, Hong Kong and Japan.
And we also launched our BT MeetMe with Operating costs decreased 4% 2014 15: 8%.
Underlying Dolby Voice conferencing services in Argentina, Brazil, Colombia operating costs excluding transit decreased 1% 2014 15: 5% and Mexico.
reflecting the impact of lower revenue and the benefit of our cost transformation programmes.
Operating costs included 25m of Our network leaver costs 2014 15: nil.
We continued to expand our network: weve extended our internet EBITDA was flat 2014 15: up 1% and was up 1% excluding capability including 18 new internet gateways and a three-fold foreign exchange movements.
Depreciation and amortisation was increase to nearly 100 internet global points of presence PoPs.
flat 2014 15: down 16%, and operating profit was also flat And we opened two new, highly secure, sustainable data centres in 2014 15: up 24%.
We reduced our capital expenditure by 11% 2014 15: 9%, We also introduced cloud-based acceleration and security services, largely reflecting improved efficiencies.
EBITDA less capital marking our first steps on our virtualised network services roadmap.
expenditure was up 54m to 633m, a similar increase to last year.
Our core products and services Our operating cash flow of 475m was 126m higher than last Weve made it easier for our customers to connect securely to thirdyear, benefiting from the timing of contract-specific cash flows and party providers including Microsofts cloud-based Office 365 suite, the lower capital expenditure.
HP Enterprise Helion Managed Cloud Services and Salesforce.
Weve also made it simpler for customers to integrate video, conferencing and messaging platforms offered by different providers.
