The Strategic Report 11 Delivering our strategy RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Under our communications programme, Ingenious were sharing We invest in research and development R&D as we believe BTs innovation story with thought leaders, governments, and the commercial success is ever more dependent on it.
history of innovation combines scientific breakthrough, practical Examples of our research activities this year include: engineering and commercial purpose.
We call this purposeful innovation.
G. fast speed improvements Weve been driving the standards for a new transmission system Innovation heritage at the heart of our ultrafast broadband vision.
This means we Our origins can be traced back to an entrepreneurial fusion of should be able to deploy ultrafast broadband far more quickly than business and innovation.
In 1837 Sir William Fothergill Cooke previously thought possible.
a businessman and Sir Charles Wheatstone an academic filed a patent for the worlds first practical electric telegraph.
This led to XG-FAST trial the founding of the Electric Telegraph Company in 1846, the seed Working with Bell Labs, weve demonstrated speeds of 5.6Gbps company that eventually led to the formation of BT.
over 35 metres of copper cable in lab conditions.
This proves its possible to achieve very high broadband speeds over existing Weve pioneered many of the technologies that we and customers infrastructure.
For example, in 1926 we established the worlds first two-way, trans-Atlantic conversation by radio telephone, from our Long-reach VDSL wireless station near Rugby.
And in 1943 Tommy Flowers, working We have shown in the lab that we can take a 2km long copper line in the telecoms division of the GPO, developed the worlds first currently achieving 9Mbps with standard VDSL, and increase this to programmable electronic computer, Colossus.
In 1968, we installed 24Mbps and beyond.
the worlds first digital telephone exchange.
We laid the worlds first, purpose-designed optical fibre submarine cable in Loch Fyne Future-proofing exchange operations in 1980.
And in 1984, we installed the worlds first 140Mbps Weve been improving the tools that our exchange-based commercial single-mode optical fibre link.
Our global IP Exchange engineering teams use for planning their work.
We use artificial platform GIPX was the result of one of our research projects.
And intelligence and mathematical modelling to better forecast, plan more recently, weve led the industry in setting out our vision for and schedule where people and equipment will be needed.
widescale deployment of ultrafast broadband.
Quantum communications We sponsor the Information Age gallery at the Science Museum Were also leading the world in demonstrating how quantum where many of our historical innovations can be seen, including physics and optical engineering are on the cusp of providing much parts from Colossus.
improved security for optical fibre systems.
Weve shown how a This year we invested around 470m 2014 15: around 500m 200Gbps stream of encrypted data can be transmitted on the in research and development.
Over the years weve been one of the same 100km network link as a quantum encryption key.
This work largest investors in R&D of any company in the UK, and globally in could offer enhanced security for the data networks of the future.
BRAND AND REPUTATION Weve continued to grow the number of inventions we produce We own three strong brands: BT, EE and Plusnet.
These are at from our research activities.
In 2015 16 we filed patent the heart of our efforts to broaden and deepen our customer applications for 97 inventions 2014 15: 93. relationships.
The experience our customers have is shaped not just We routinely seek patent protection in different countries and by the service our front-line teams provide, but by everything we at 31 March 2016 had a worldwide portfolio of around 4,700 do: from the products and propositions we design, to the way we patents and applications.
Open innovation The BT brand continues to go from strength to strength.
Brand We bring together expertise and resources both our own and Finance has valued it at $18.4bn, 14% more than a year ago.
third-party at our eight global development centres.
Adastral Park According to their analysis, BT is the 60th most valuable brand in in the UK is our technology headquarters.
Its an innovation campus the world and the third most valuable brand in the UK.
which we share with around 70 high-tech companies, and is the In March 2015, we re-entered the UK consumer mobile market, workplace for around 3,700 people.
This year we continued to under the BT brand.
In January 2016 we took ownership of the grow our development centres in Kuala Lumpur and Bengaluru.
Since its launch in 2012, the EE brand has achieved Were keen to work with people outside BT.
We have extensive, impressive results in terms of awareness and positive associations.
long-standing, joint-research programmes with Cambridge The Plusnet brand continues to offer a distinctive positioning of University UK, Massachusetts Institute of Technology US, brilliant service at a great price.
Well continue to run all three of our Tsinghua University China, Khalifa University UAE and over 30 brands in the UK consumer market, offering products that meet other universities globally.
Our people help us innovate.
This year our internal New Ideas We continue to innovate for our customers, further building the Scheme had more than 1,700 submissions.
Its helping us provide a strength and breadth of our brands.
For example: better service to our customers.
In August, we added to our BT Sport offering, showing exclusive We run innovation showcases where business customers can UEFA Champions League and UEFA Europa League games.
We discuss applications and solutions with our experts, and work with enhanced this with the launch of Europes first live ultra-HD them on solving problems.
We also embarked on a multi-year strategic technology partnership with the Williams Martini Racing Formula One team.
Were providing the team with innovative communications a Comparison based on total R&D spend over 2005 06 to 2014 15.
Source: EU Industrial R&D Investment Scoreboard, http: iri.
