56 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS STATUTORY INFORMATION Introduction So far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant The directors submit their report and the audited financial information that has not been disclosed to the auditors and each statements of the company, British Telecommunications plc, and of the directors believes that all steps have been taken that ought the group, which includes its subsidiary undertakings, for the to have been taken to make them aware of any relevant audit 2015 16 financial year.
information and to establish that the auditors have been made aware of that information.
The audited consolidated financial statements are presented on pages62 to 115 and 135 to 140.
Capital management and funding policy The capital structure is managed by BT Group plc, the ultimate Dividend parent company of the group.
During the year a final dividend of 1,450m 2014 15: 1,200m has been paid to the parent company, BT Group The objective of BT Group plcs capital management and funding a Investments Limited.
The directors have declared a final dividend policy is to reduce the groupsnet debt while investing in the of 2,350m for 2015 16. business, supporting the pension fund and paying progressive dividends.
Principal activity The BT Group plc Board reviews the groups capital structure The company is the principal trading subsidiary of BT Group plc, regularly.
Management proposes actions which reflect the which is its ultimate parent company.
groupsinvestment plans and risk characteristics as well as the BT Group plc is one of the worlds leading communications macro-economic conditions in which we operate.
In the UK, we sell products and services to BT Group plcs funding policy is to raise and invest funds consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises SMEs.
centrally to meet the groups anticipated requirements.
We use a Around the world, as well as in the UK, we provide managed combination of capital market bond issuance, commercial paper networked IT services to large multinational corporations, borrowing, committed borrowing facilities and investments.
These domestic businesses and the public sector.
We also sell wholesale are planned so as to mature at different stages in order to meet telecoms services to communications providers in the UK and short, medium and long-term requirements.
Details of our treasury policy are included in note 25 to the Directors consolidated financial statements.
The directors, who served throughout 2015 16 and continued to be directors as at the date of this report, were Tony Chanmugam, Financial instruments GlynParry and Sean Williams.
Details of the groups financial risk management objectives and policies of the group and exposure to interest risk, credit risk, Directors and officers liability insurance and indemnity liquidity risk and foreign exchange are given in note 25 to the BT Group plc purchases insurance to cover the directors, officers consolidated financial statements.
and employees in positions of managerial supervision of BT Group plc and its subsidiaries against defence costs, civil damages Credit risk management policy and, in some circumstances, civil fines and penalties following We take proactive steps to minimise the impact of adverse market an action brought against them in their personal capacity.
The conditions on our financial instruments.
In managing investments insurance operates to protect the directors and officers directly in and derivative financial instruments, the groups central treasury circumstances where, by law, BT cannot provide an indemnity and function monitors the credit quality across treasury counterparties also provides BT, subject to a retention, with cover against the and actively manages any exposures which arise.
This central cost of indemnifying a director or officer.
One layer of insurance is team continually reviews any credit exposures, whether arising ring-fenced for the directors of BT Group plc.
from centrally-managed financial instruments or from the groups trade-related receivables.
Management within the lines of As at 12 May 2016, and throughout 2015 16, BT plc has business also actively monitors any exposures arising from trading provided an indemnity in respect of a similar group of people who balances.
would be covered by the above insurance.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides cover where the person has acted Off-balance sheet arrangements fraudulently or dishonestly.
Other than the financial commitments and contingent liabilities disclosed in note 29 to the consolidated financial statements, Financial statements there are no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are A statement by the directors of their responsibilities for preparing reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on: the financial statements is included in the Statement of our financial condition: changes in financial condition: revenues or directors responsibilities on page 59. expenses: results of operations: liquidity: capital expenditure: or Our critical accounting estimates and key judgements, and capital resources.
significant accounting policies are set out on pages 68 to 76 of the consolidated financial statements and conform with IFRS.
These reflect changes required given the acquisition of EE this a Net debt is a measure of BT Group plcs consolidated net indebtedness that provides an indicator of year.
These policies and applicable estimation techniques have the overall balance sheet strength of the group.
Net debt consists of loans and other borrowings been reviewed by the directors who have confirmed them to be both current and non-current, less current asset investments and cash and cash equivalents.
At appropriate for the preparation of the 2015 16 consolidated 31 March 2016 BT Group plcs net debt was 9,845m 2014 15: 5,119m.
Report of the directors 57 Statutory information Legal proceedings BT has enterprise-wide risk management processes for We do not believe that there is any single current court action identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by that would have a material adverse effect on our financial position the group.
These processes have been in place throughout the or operations.
year and have continued up to the date on which this document was approved.
The processes are in accordance with the FRC Going concern Guidance on risk management, internal control and related The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 55 includes information financial and business reporting.
on the group structure, the performance of each of the lines of Risk assessment and evaluation take place as an integral part of business, the impact of regulation and competition and principal BT Group plcs annual strategic planning cycle.
There is a detailed risks and uncertainties.
The Group performance section on risk management process which identifies the key risks facing the pages 49 to 55 includes information on our group financial group, each line of business and BT TSO.
results, cash flow, loans and borrowings and balance sheet position.
Notes 21, 22, 23 and 25 of the consolidated financial The key features of our enterprise-wide risk management and statements include information on the groups investments, cash internal control process covering financial, operational and and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings, derivatives, financial compliance controls are: risk management objectives, hedging policies and exposure to senior executives collectively review the groups key risks and interest, foreign exchange, credit, liquidity and market risks.
have created a Group Risk Register describing the risks, owners Alongside the factors noted above, the directors have considered and mitigation strategies.
BT Group plcs Group Risk Panel and BT Group plcs cash flow forecasts, as they relate to the group, in Operating Committee review this before it is reviewed and particular with reference to the period to the end of May 2017. approved by the BT Group plc Board: The directors are satisfied that these cash flow forecasts, taking the lines of business and BT TSO carry out risk assessments of into account reasonably possible risk sensitivities associated their operations, create risk registers relating to those operations with these forecasts and BT Group plcs current funding and and ensure that the key risks are addressed: facilities, alongside BT Group plcs funding strategy, show senior executives with responsibility for major group operations that the group will continue to operate for the foreseeable report quarterly their opinion on the effectiveness of the future.
The directors therefore continue to have a reasonable operation of internal controls in their areas of responsibility: expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue the internal auditors carry out continuing assessments of the in operational existence for the foreseeable future and continue quality of risk management and control, report to management to adopt a going concern basis in accordance with the guidance and the BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee on the status of Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK specific areas identified for improvement and promote effective Companies 2009 issued by the Financial Reporting Council in risk management in the lines of business and BT TSO: and preparing the consolidated financial statements.
the BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee, on behalf of the of BT Group plc Board, considers the effectiveness of the groups There has been no significant change in the financial or trading internal control procedures during the financial year.
It reviews position of the group since 31 March 2016. reports from the internal and external auditors and reports its conclusions to the of BT Group plc Board.
The BT Group plc Audit Audit tender & Risk Committee has carried out these actions for 2015 16.
 and its predecessor firms have been BTs We have not dealt with joint ventures and associates, which BT auditors since BT listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1984. does not control, as part of the group risk management process.
The external auditors are required to rotate the lead partner every They are responsible for their own internal control assessment.
five years and other partners who are responsible for the group and subsidiary audits must change at least every seven years.
Paul Our significant accounting policies are set out on pages 70 to 76.
Barkus will rotate after this year-end audit and Richard Hughes The consistent application of those policies is subject to ongoing will take over as lead partner.
verification through management review and independent review by internal and external auditors.
We are aware of the relevant regulation and guidance on audit tendering.
EU regulations and the Competition and Markets The processes supporting the preparation and consolidation of Authoritys ruling will impose rotation requirements meaning that the financial statements have been documented and are subject the groups auditors must be changed by 2021. to annual verification through the programme of testing done by our internal auditors.
This serves to confirm the operation of the The BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee will continue to internal controls over financial reporting and compliance with the consider annually the timetable for audit tendering and rotation, Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
taking into account the annual review of the effectiveness of the auditors and other relevant factors such as change programmes impacting the business.
As the group engages a number of audit US SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 firms for non-audit services the rotation will be carefully planned The company has debt securities registered with the US Securities to ensure that the new auditors are independent.
As a result, we must comply with those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act applicable Internal control and risk management to foreign issuers.
We comply with the legal and regulatory The Board of BT Group plc is responsible for the groups systems requirements introduced pursuant to this legislation, in so far as of internal control and risk management and for reviewing they are applicable.
the effectiveness of those systems each year.
These systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives: any system can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
58 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 Disclosure controls and procedures CROSS REFERENCE TO THE STRATEGIC REPORT The principal executive officer and the principal financial officer, As permitted by the Companies Act, we have chosen to include in after evaluating the effectiveness of the companys disclosure the Strategic Report the following information required by law controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by to be included in the Report of the Directors : this Annual Report & Form 20-F, concluded that, as of such date, an indication of likely future developments in the business of the the companys disclosure controls and procedures were effective company see the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 55 : to ensure that material information relating to the company was an indication of our research and development activities made known to them by others within the group.
page11 : The principal executive officer and principal financial officer information about our people page 7 : and concluded that the companys disclosure controls and procedures information about greenhouse gas emissions page 17. are also effective to ensure that the information required to be disclosed by the company in reports that it files under the By order of the Board Securities Exchange Act 1934 Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarised and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC.
The principal executive officer and the principal financial Heather Brierley officer also provided the certifications required by the SarbanesSecretary Oxley Act.
12 May 2016 Internal control over financial reporting Registered Office: 81 Newgate Street, London EC1A 7AJ BTs management is responsible for establishing and maintaining Registered in England and Wales No.
1800000 adequate internal control over financial reporting for the group.
Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with IFRS.
Management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on the framework for internal control evaluation contained in the FRC Guidance on internal control Turnbull, which is now reflected in the FRC Guidance on risk management, internal control and related financial and business reporting.
The scope of managements assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting included all relevant operations, except for the operation of the subsidiary EE Limited, which BT acquired in January 2016.
This exclusion is in accordance with the SECs general guidance that an assessment of a recently acquired business may be omitted from a companys scope in the year of acquisition.
EE Limited constituted 29% of the total assets and 5% of the external revenue of the consolidated financial statements of BT plc for the year ended 31 March 2016.
Management has concluded that at 31 March 2016, the companys internal control over financial reporting was effective.
There were no other changes in the companys internal control over financial reporting that occurred during 2015 16 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to have materially affected, BTs internal control over financial reporting.
Any significant deficiency, as defined by the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Board PCAOB, in internal control over financial reporting, is reported to the BTGroup plc Audit & Risk Committee.
 LLP, which audited the consolidated financial statements of the group for 2015 16, has also audited the effectiveness of the groups internal control over financial reporting under Auditing Standard No.
