24 BT plc The Strategic Report 25 Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 Delivering our strategy Compliance risks Link to strategy and Risk description Potential impact business model Whats changed over the last year?
How were mitigating the risks Business integrity and ethics Were proud of our high ethical standards.
If BT people, or associated people like suppliers or agents break Deliver superior More and more countries are bringing in anti-corruption and bribery legislation.
Weve put a number of controls in place to address risk in this area.
These We dont tolerate any forms of corruption.
We follow a wide range anti-corruption, bribery or sanctions legislation there could customer service In the UK, the Serious Fraud Office is now able to bring in deferred prosecutions include an anti-corruption and bribery programme and The Way We Work of local and international anti-corruption and bribery laws in be big penalties, criminal prosecution and significant brand Transform our costs agreements for fraud, bribery and other economic crime.
In terms of enforcement, our statement of business practice, available in 14 languages.
We ask all particular the UK Bribery Act and US Foreign Corrupt Practices damage.
This could have a major or minor impact on future there are yet to be any big cases stemming from the UK Bribery Act, but US FCPA BT people to sign up to its principles and to our anti-corruption and bribery Act FCPA.
Both these pieces of legislation have extraterritorial revenue and cash flow depending on the nature of the breach, generates a lot of enforcement actions.
We have policies covering gifts, hospitality, charitable donations and Trend: reach, so cover our global operations.
As we expand globally, were the legislation concerned and any penalties.
If we were accused sponsorship.
We run training for people in higher-risk roles like procurement increasingly operating in countries seen as having a higher risk of of corruption or bribery or violating sanctions regulations that and sales.
We also have to make sure we follow trade could lead to reputational damage with investors, regulators and We regularly weigh up our business integrity risks to make sure weve got the sanctions and import and export controls.
Speak Up our confidential hotline is operated by a third party with all reports passed straight to BT Group plcs Director of Ethics and Compliance for investigation.
Our internal audit team regularly runs checks on our business.
External providers also assess areas we think are higher risk, to make sure people understand our policies and that controls are working.
We do selective due diligence checks on third parties like suppliers, agents, resellers and distributors.
Procurement contracts include anti-corruption and bribery clauses.
Our policy helps us follow all sanctions and export controls that apply to us.
That policy means all bids involving a country with sanctions imposed by the EU and or the US need approval.
The policy also mandates everyone uses our internal shipping system to arrange international exports.
That system runs compliance checks and flags any orders which need an export licence.
Processing our customers data We control and process huge quantities of customer data Failing to stick to data protection and privacy laws could result Deliver superior National regulators are more aggressively protecting their citizens privacy and Weve introduced governance to clarify accountabilities and responsibilities for around the world.
So sticking to data privacy laws is something in possible regulatory enforcement action, fines, class-action, customer service data protection rights.
Theyre especially targeting companies who fail to do data activities across the whole business.
People, processes and technology we take extremely seriously.
Every single day we process the prison sentences and the regulator telling us to stop processing due diligence, or who knowingly accept or ignore a related risk for too long.
have been our core areas of focus.
By embedding this governance, were personal data of millions of customers.
Its important that those data.
This has been brought into sharp focus by the mushrooming of the data threat reinforcing our expectations around personal data with our people, partners Trend: individuals and businesses feel they can trust us to do the right environment, with several big organisations suffering incidents.
On top of that, we could see huge reputational damage and thing with their data.
Those losses could come from fines and Theres been a general trend toward bigger financial penalties and more The cornerstone of our education and training programme is making sure our Being trusted with our customers data goes further than damages if we fail to meet our legal requirements, as well as frequent public shamings for organisations that break global privacy and data people understand our data governance culture and the impact of data risks making sure its secure.
It means preserving the integrity of the costs resulting from having to close customer contracts and the protection laws.
The UK Information Commissioner now issues more penalties on our business.
Our mandatory data training focuses on individuals roles, with personal data we process.
And only keeping the things we need subsequent customer churn.
Companies whove had high profile than Ofcom.
relevant scenarios, helping highlight the varying data risks of different BT job to provide customers with the services theyve signed up for.
data incidents have seen their share price hit hard, and suffered families.
By educating our technical and commercial units weve made a step It also means being transparent around how we use that data, ongoing costs from their non-compliance.
change in understanding data risks across the group.
making sure the way we process personal data is legal, fair and We want to give our people the tools they need to make everyday risk-based in line with customers rights and wishes.
decisions around privacy and data protection without it being a burden or As a communications provider we operate under a stringent 24- making their job more complicated.
Because if we do that, theres a much hour reporting regime to tell the UK Information Commissioners better chance of data compliance being business as usual.
For example, using Office ICO if we become aware of a personal data security Privacy Impact Assessments when we develop new products and services breach.
We must also tell any affected individuals as quickly as makes sure everyone understands privacy issues from the start and builds in possible.
the right controls, without any operational impact.
Different parts of the world approach privacy and data Supporting the third-line assurance of our Internal Audit team, the Chief protection differently.
Individuals fundamental right to Privacy Officer and his team are a second line of defence.
They undertake an privacy is reflected in the fact that today data privacy laws are annual cycle of audit and monitoring.
That is overseen by the BT Compliance in force in over 100 countries.
More and more we and other Programme Panel, who track and monitor everything until completion.
multinationals have to show that were handling personal data in line with a complex tangle of national data laws and societal ethical expectations.
26 BT plc The Strategic Report 27 Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 Delivering our strategy Link to strategy and Risk description Potential impact business model Whats changed over the last year?
How were mitigating the risks Health & safety Our business and in particular our vast engineering workforce If we failed to implement and keep up effective health and Deliver superior The range and complexity of risks has gone up as weve offered new services For the past five years weve busied ourselves implementing a Board-endorsed does a lot of work which is subject to health and safety safety management and governance, that could have a big customer service to our customers.
Those risks include us doing more construction and electrical health, safety and wellbeing strategy.
And each year, each line of business regulation and enforcement by national authorities.
impact on our people and our finances.
It could lead to people Transform our costs engineering work on our own network, and the fact that we have new produces its own health and safety plan with its own targets and programmes.
getting injured, work-related sickness and service disruption for contracts which need our people to work to maintain and extend the UKs Our people managers take responsibility for making sure their teams know customers.
Weve taken a lot of steps to mitigate these risks especially Trend: how to comply with health and safety standards.
We monitor compliance using around how our people work with electricity or high off the ground.
It could also lead to our people and third parties making annual licensing, scheduled refresher training, competency assessments and compensation claims against us, or fines or other sanctions if we Were building a plan to further embed health and safety into our operations.
accreditation processes for higher risk groups.
All BT people do training in basic didnt stick to health and safety regulation.
There could even be In the past year, weve seen major legislative change particularly with the health and safety.
criminal prosecutions against us, our directors and our people UK introducing Construction, Design and Management Regulations which Wherever we do business around the world, we put in place policies and all of which would harm our brand and business.
place new responsibilities on organisations around making construction work programmes to make sure we stick to our own standards and that those safer.
Weve worked with the UK regulator and others in our sector to respond And of course an unhappy or unhealthy workforce also leads to standards meet or exceed minimum legal requirements.
Weve faced increased enforcement action higher work absence rates and lower performance levels.
against us this year, and also a few prosecutions initiated for past incidents.
Advice is provided to help management teams understand and control health and safety risks and help everyone feel involved in health, safety and wellbeing.
Weve created interventions to help promote good mental health and physical wellbeing.
We also provide support and rehabilitation services for people who have mental or physical health issues.
And we complement these measures with strong attendance management processes.
