The Strategic Report 45 Our lines of business OPENREACH cloud computing is increasing corporate demand for connectivity.
Openreach looks after the last mile of the UK communications A fast-growing data centre market is creating a new need for network which runs from the local exchange to peoples homes and high-capacity circuits 1Gbps or more : and businesses.
The network is made up of exchanges, copper and fibre strong demand for Ethernet and optical service products, as cables, underground ducts, street cabinets, telephone poles and businesses seek increased speeds and reliability.
We provide access to our network to all CPs on Competitors equivalent terms which means the same products, prices and levels Our main competitor across all three of our markets is Virgin Media.
Its cable network covers around half of UK homes, with plans to Our CP customers use our last mile network to deliver services reach an additional 4m premises by 2020. ranging from broadband, television and telephony for the home, For consumers, other companies are building their own fibre to high-speed data connections for businesses of all sizes.
access networks, reflecting the competitive nature of the market.
Openreach 10th birthday facts CityFibre, Hyperoptic and Gigaclear are deploying fibre-to-theWe celebrated our 10th birthday this year.
In particular, CityFibres joint venture with TalkTalk and grown substantially since Openreach was established in January Sky has the potential to pose a competitive threat.
Since the start of our fibre broadband rollout in 2009, Competitors in the business and infrastructure markets include our engineers have worked 10m hours and driven 72m miles to Virgin Media, Colt Group and Vodafone.
CityFibres prominence in complement and extend our existing infrastructure the copper this market is growing with plans to cover 50 Gigabit cities by wires and telephone poles that are a familiar sight in many streets.
It also acquired KCOMs UK infrastructure in the year.
Our fibre broadband network now reaches more than 25m premises.
In 2006: Pricing, service delivery and product innovation remain competitive themes.
The price per Gigabit is being driven down by intense the average broadband speed was 1.6Mbps, today it is more competition, particularly in urban areas.
Strong demand for than 28Mbps: Ethernet has put pressure on the delivery times of all providers.
consumer fibre access products didnt exist.
Today we have more than 5m connections: Products and services a new WLR connection cost 88 with a 100 rental charge in We offer four main products and services: fibre access: copperthe first year.
Today its 41.55 with an 89.50 annual charge.
based services: Ethernet: and infrastructure solutions.
Our access A 30% reduction in year one costs: network can carry broadcast and on-demand internet protocol there were 41,000 LLU lines.
Now there are around 10m: television IPTV services.
Our multicast service cuts the cost of we had 1,000 Ethernet connections, today we have over delivering broadcast TV.
200,000: and 50% of the country had a broadband connection.
Today thats Fibre access risen to around 80%.
Our wholesale fibre product is called Generic Ethernet Access.
We offer a number of different versions: Markets and customers Fibre-to-the-Cabinet FTTC takes fibre from the exchange We have more than 560 CPs using our network.
We operate in to the street cabinet and uses the existing copper network three markets: consumer, business and infrastructure.
for the final link to the customer.
FTTC offers speeds from The consumer market is made up of households who want fixed- 40Mbps to 80Mbps.
This year we launched a mid-range line broadband and telephony services.
Our largest customers product offering speeds of up to 55Mbps.
include Sky, TalkTalk and BT Consumer.
 FTTP provides speeds up to The business market consists of the 5.4m businesses in the 330Mbps.
The fibre runs from the exchange to the property.
UK, from sole traders to large multinational corporations, and the Copper-based services public sector.
Most of our CP customers serve business clients.
Wholesale Line Rental WLR lets CPs offer phone services The infrastructure market includes firms building network to their customers using our equipment and copper network.
infrastructure to data centres and mobile cell sites, and property They pay to use the lines between our exchanges and the developers connecting new build sites.
Ethernet connections customer premises but dont need to invest in their own and specialised services are the main areas of demand.
The total number of Openreach physical lines was essentially Local Loop Unbundling LLU involves CPs installing their unchanged during the year, growing by 2,000 lines, against a own equipment in our exchanges and renting the copper line 200,000 increase the year before.
CPs can use our shared metallic path facility SMPF product to offer broadband over a WLR line or As at 31 December 2015 there were 24.5m broadband lines in our metallic path facility MPF product to offer phone and the UK.
81% of these use the Openreach network with the rest broadband services using just their equipment.
mainly on the Virgin Media cable network.
Ethernet Our markets are shaped by the following trends: Our Ethernet products offer dedicated fibre connections with demand for connectivity means total fixed broadband ownership speeds up to 100Gbps.
CPs use them to complete their own is rising steadily: networks and to provide high-quality, high-bandwidth services increasing data usage, propelled by video streaming and content, to businesses and the public sector.
is driving demand for faster connections with more capacity: Ethernet Access Direct EAD 10Gbps Standard and Local rising data consumption is leading to significant investment in Access were launched in Autumn 2015, bringing affordable, backhaul capacity: high-capacity services to UK business and infrastructure markets.
46 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 have more to do to deliver the service customers expect.
This is why Optical Spectrum Access OSA Hub and Spoke also launched we set ourselves a more challenging RFT target.
It means CPs can deploy high-bandwidth services more efficiently and cost effectively to multiple sites, saving the There are a few areas in particular, along with the severity of customer space and power.
the winter storms, that contributed to the decline in RFT.
In the business market we havent reduced the backlog of Ethernet Infrastructure solutions circuits in line with our plans.
For residential customers we have Our infrastructure solutions let CPs build their own networks.
too many jobs that arent completed on time which is partially due Our Flexible Co-mingling Product allows CPs to place their to our engineers missing appointments.
We have a plan in place to equipment in our exchanges, providing their customers with tackle many of the issues that caused us problems this year.
Were voice, broadband and Ethernet services.
improving Ethernet delivery processes to complete jobs faster and Passive Infrastructure Access PIA products offer CPs were focusing on reducing missed appointments.
access to Openreachs infrastructure such as our ducts and One area of improvement was the backlog of new property telephone poles.
CPs can use PIA when building their own developments waiting for a network connection.
Over the year fibre networks.
This product has been available since 2011. we reduced the number of people waiting more than 30 days for Mobile Infill Infrastructure Solution MiiS helps mobile service after moving into a new home by 96%.
network operators improve their coverage.
We install antennas on telephone poles linked to a special street cabinet provided In the coming year our goal is to make sure people are connected with power and backhaul.
Mobile operators can then install on the day they move.
We also recognise that most people moving their radio equipment in the cabinet and use their spectrum into a new home expect to have access to fibre broadband and we to improve mobile coverage.
launched a co-funding scheme with the Home Builders Federation to make sure all new builds have fibre available.
Performance in the year The Openreach Charter Weve grown our revenue for the first time in four years.
We made In September 2015 we announced the Openreach Charter to set our superfast fibre broadband network available to a further 3m out our commitments to end customers, CPs and the nation premises.
We achieved record fibre broadband net additions of in building Britains connected future.
We grew Ethernet connections by 17%.
And we achieved commitments have been updated and are summarised below.
all the increased minimum service levels set by Ofcom, though our ambition and plans are to go much further.
Service Our number one priority will be giving great service to Operating performance customers.
Well set new standards for delivering on time and We continue to invest heavily in our superfast fibre broadband getting things right.
We hold ourselves accountable to fix network.
It now reaches more than 25m premises or around 85% problems of the UK.
Including other service providers, 90% of the UK is able to enjoy fibre broadband speeds.
Coverage Under the BDUK programme were investing alongside public We aspire to go beyond the UK Governments 95% target for funding to bring fibre broadband to rural communities.
With new initiatives and new technologies, working with the government through the Superfast Extension well keep working to get the remaining parts of Britain Programme SEP to help take fibre broadband to 95% of the connected country by the end of 2017.
We achieved 1.7m fibre broadband net additions in the year.
This Speed means that around 5.9m homes and businesses in the UK are now Well provide the speed people need, and create Britains connected, 23% of those passed.
Of the net additions in the year, ultrafast future with our ambition to bring ultrafast broadband 48% were provided to our external CP customers, an increase from to 12m homes and businesses by the end of 2020 40% last year, demonstrating the market-wide demand for fibre.
The number of Ethernet circuits we provide grew 17% in the year: this is the best growth for five years.
The physical line base Trusted partner increased by 2,000.
Well be a trusted partner for CPs, guaranteeing fair and equal treatment to all Deliver superior customer service As the internet has become a must-have, customers expect more from the service we provide and were committed to meeting those increasing needs.
Contribution to our community The table on page 47 shows Openreachs service performance on Well make a difference to the communities we serve, inspiring a number of key measures.
We publish this data, with additional our people to become volunteers in the community levels of detail, on a quarterly basis.
We continue to deliver 93% of orders on time.
We met all 60 of Ofcoms minimum service levels MSLs for copper products for the second year in a row.
These service levels become more stretching Investment each year and next year will expand to cover Ethernet products for Well invest to sustain the leadership of Britains digital economy the first time.
Despite having achieved the MSLs our key customer service measure, Right First Time, declined 6.9% 2014 15: 3.5% improvement.
We view the MSLs as a baseline and recognise we The Strategic Report 47 Our lines of business Openreach performance against service responsibilities Transform our costs Operating costs increased 1% 2014 15: 2% decrease with an Q4 Q4 increase in volumes, pay inflation and leaver costs partly offset by Movement 2015 16 2014 15 cost efficiencies.
Home This year we: New lines installed on time 93.36% 92.98% improved our processes and invested in new systems and tools that reduce the number of engineering jobs and unnecessary Average time to install with an customer contacts: 14.44 13.46 engineer working days negotiated improved terms with our key suppliers and insourced activities where possible.
This saves us money and means we can Average time to install without an 9.49 9.77 use our people more effectively: engineer working days transformed our desk-based functions by consolidating our Installation requiring an engineer teams from over 400 locations down to 28 larger centres of where wait is 22 days or longer for 1.12% 0.00% excellence.
This means we can run them more efficiently, share appointment best practice and create better working environments: successfully launched the View my Engineer tool: and Average time for first available appointment date for new 8.51 6.70 worked closely with our suppliers to help reduce the number installation working days of orders awaiting completion.
New lines requiring an engineer Invest for growth visit not installed 31 days past 1.34% 1.23% We have invested 10.5bn in Britains digital infrastructure in the target date last ten years, committing over 3bn to create a fibre broadband Average time to fix faults network that provides affordable high-speed broadband to the Maintenance level 1 2.82 2.67 vast majority of the UK.
working days Weve set out our vision to move the nation from superfast to Average time to fix faults ultrafast speeds with an ambition that 12m homes and businesses Maintenance level 2 1.94 1.79 will get access to ultrafast services by the end of 2020.
We will working days deliver ultrafast through a mix of two technologies: G. fast and FTTP.
We launched G. fast trials in Huntingdon, Gosforth and Faults fixed within agreed time 74.53% 75.10% Maintenance level 1 Swansea, which are progressing well, with homes and businesses taking part getting speeds of up to 330Mbps.
Weve also Faults fixed within agreed time announced additional G. fast pilots in Cherry Hinton and Gillingham 76.14% 75.66% Maintenance level 2 which will cover 25,000 homes and businesses by March 2017.
Finally weve introduced several trials across the country to improve Faults not cleared after 31 days or 1.60% 0.86% more Maintenance level 1 the way we provide FTTP connections.
We see FTTP becoming a much larger part of our network, in particular for new sites, Faults not cleared after 31 days or apartment blocks, small businesses and some rural areas.
1.79% 0.84% more Maintenance level 2 We invested 54% more than last year on connecting new sites and providing Ethernet.
We continue to invest to extend, upgrade and Business maintain our copper network which underpins most of the services Average time to install on-net we provide in the UK.
Weve increased preventative maintenance 26.50 33.49 services working days spend by 22% year on year.
This investment will make our network less susceptible to faults in future years.
Average time to install where new 68.20 69.95 build is required working days This year we invested in hiring over 1,000 people including around 280 apprentices and graduates.
Faults fixed within agreed time 94.26% 92.79% Financial performance Note: this compares the performance in the quarter and is not an annual measure.
2016 2015 2014 Year ended 31 March m m m Revenue 5,100 5,011 5,061 Improvement Operating costs 2,436 2,411 2,460 EBITDA 2,664 2,600 2,601 Steady performance maintaining focus Depreciation and amortisation 1,301 1,348 1,406 Further improvement needed plans in place to get back on track Operating profit 1,363 1,252 1,195 Capital expenditure 1,447 1,082 1,049 Operating cash flow 1,419 1,502 1,492 This is the first time in four years that Openreach has delivered revenue growth.
Revenue increased 2% 2014 15: 1% decline mainly driven by a 39% increase in fibre broadband revenue.
Higher Ethernet volumes also contributed to the revenue growth, but regulatory
