The Strategic Report 49 Group performance GROUP PERFORMANCE Customer service improvement In this section we discuss the performance of the group.
We Improving the service we deliver is key.
Our Right First Time explain how we have done this year against our key performance measure was down 3.0% 2014 15: up 4.7%.
Were making good steps in some areas.
Openreach We judge and explain our performance using certain alternative achieved all 60 of the minimum service levels set by Ofcom.
These include trends in underlying despite these improvements, were not where we want to be, revenue and operating costs excluding transit, and adjusted across all of our lines of businesses.
You can read more about our and reported EBITDA.
Adjusted means that a measure is before customer service on page 3. specific items.
We describe on page 141 what we mean by specific items and weve disclosed specific items for this year Right First Time is our key measure of customer service.
and the last two years in note 8 to the consolidated financial This tracks how often we keep the promises we make to our statements.
This could be about keeping to appointment times, fixing faults within an agreed period or answering calls promptly These alternative performance measures are not defined and dealing with queries or orders efficiently.
As well as improving under IFRS so theyre termed non-GAAP measures.
But theyre service and the customer experience, keeping our promises consistent with how management measures the groups financial should mean that there is less work to do in correcting our performance.
Weve defined each of these measures on pages mistakes, and so reduces our costs.
141 and 142, where we have provided more detail, including reconciliations to the nearest measure under IFRS.
GROUP FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Our acquisition of EE OUR PROGRESS AGAINST OUR KPIs EE being a part of the BT family is already having a big effect on Weve performed well against our two financial KPIs.
But our what we can offer our customers for more about EEs operations, customer service performance was down 3.0%, and we want to see page 40. do much better.
EE contributed revenue and EBITDA of 1,038m and 261m We use three key performance indicators KPIs to measure how respectively to the groups results in 2015 16. were doing against our strategy.
Our financial KPIs measure: the BT Group plc sold its investment in EE to the company at fair trend in underlying revenue excluding transit and our adjusted value of 11.0bn, financed by intercompany loans.
Customer service improvement is also a key non-financial provisional fair value exercise, weve allocated this between KPI for us.
goodwill of 6.4bn and net assets with a fair value of 4.6bn.
Weve outlined our performance against each KPI here, together You can find out more about the goodwill and purchase price with an explanation in italics of how we define each measure.
accounting later in the balance sheet section, and in note 13 to the consolidated financial statements.
Trend in underlying revenue excluding transit Our positive revenue performance, which excludes the impact The financial measures weve used throughout the next sections of EE, was driven by BT Consumer where revenue was up 7% include the impact of EE, unless weve specifically indicated reflecting 17% growth in broadband and TV revenue, helped by otherwise.
But our underlying measures by definition exclude our investments in BT Sport Europe and BT Mobile.
We explain EE: as weve set out on page 141, we exclude the impact of more about the performance of our lines of business from page 30. acquisitions, disposals and foreign exchange from these.
Underlying revenue reflects the overall performance of the group Income statement that will contribute to sustainable profitable revenue growth.
Summarised income statement We exclude the impact of acquisitions and disposals, foreign Year ended 31 March 2016 2015 2014 exchange movements and specific items from this measure.
Before specific items m m m We focus on the trend in underlying revenue excluding transit Revenue 18,909 17,851 18,287 because transit traffic is low margin and affected by reductions in a mobile termination rates, which are outside our control.
This reflects Operating profit 3,949 3,739 3,423 revenue growth, the results of EE since 29 January 2016 and our cost transformation programmes.
Net finance expense 151 344 383 Associates and joint ventures 6 1 3 Adjusted EBITDA is defined as group profit before depreciation, amortisation, net finance expense, taxation and is before specific Profit before taxation 3,804 3,394 3,037 items.
We consider adjusted EBITDA to be a useful measure of our Taxation 674 678 662 operating performance because it approximates the underlying Profit for the year 3,130 2,716 2,375 operating cash flow by eliminating depreciation and amortisation.
