6 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 operations are considered to be outputs more details of what we DELIVERING OUR STRATEGY are doing to minimise these can be found on pages 16 and 17.
This section explains how we deliver our strategy.
Outcomes The financial outcome of what we do hinges on the performance We describe our business model and the importance of our people, of our lines of business.
Together they contribute to the overall our physical assets and the research and development that we do.
performance and key performance indicators KPIs of the group.
We report on the status of our brands and outline our relationships with our main stakeholders, including regulatory bodies.
Finally Theres much more to what we do than just making money.
we describe how we go about mitigating the principal risks and What we do matters.
We help millions of people communicate, uncertainties that affect us.
be entertained, do business and generally live their lives.
We help our customers reduce their carbon footprint.
And we contribute directly to communities and the health of the UK by providing jobs, OUR BUSINESS MODEL working with suppliers and paying tax, and through our employees We create value for shareholders by developing and selling services volunteering activities.
that are important to our customers and that benefit communities, the environment and society as a whole.
All of which contribute to the strength of our brands which can influence whether a potential customer buys from us or one of our We invest to build and maintain communications networks in the competitors.
UK and overseas: we develop products and services that run over those networks: and then we sell them to consumers, businesses Our approach and the public sector.
By selling these services, were able to Our focus on delivering superior customer service, transforming make a return on our investments.
This means we can reinvest in our costs and investing for growth is central to what we do.
They the business to create value for our stakeholders over the short, are key business activities.
Better customer service means that medium and long term.
we spend less time and money putting things right.
These cost Who we are reductions, combined with savings from working more efficiently Were one of the worlds leading communications services and the cash we generate from sales, mean we can invest in the companies.
Some investments, such as sports rights, have a lifespan of just a Where we operate few years.
Other investments, such as our fibre network, are much Were based in the UK but we have customers across 180 countries longer term and can have pay-back periods stretching to more see page 30. than ten years.
Inputs Delivering our strategy is as much about how we do things, as what Our business model starts with the things that set us apart we do.
Thats why being a healthy organisation see page 8 and from our competitors.
We have a strong combination of people, living our corporate values page 7 are so important to us.
And technology, networks and other physical assets.
Our research and thats why our people are key to our success.
development activities support innovative new ways of doing things and advancements in our technology.
And we have the What sets us apart financial strength to invest in these areas to stay ahead of the We have a strong combination of people, technology, networks and competition.
other physical assets that set us apart from our competitors.
Our research and development R&D activities are crucial to us and Then there are the relationships we have with our stakeholders to wider society.
We have pioneered innovation in the telecoms such as our customers, and the natural resources we consume as arena, and our R&D supports new ways of doing things and part of doing business.
Outputs Importantly, we have the financial strength to invest in these areas The main output of our business is our portfolio of communications to stay ahead of the competition.
We make money by selling these in the UK and around the world through our customer-facing lines of A flexible and sustainable business model business.
Communications markets are dynamic and very competitive, particularly in the UK.
There are risks and opportunities.
Our We sell through a range of channels including online, contact Enterprise Risk Management framework see page 19 helps us centres and account managers.
And, following our acquisition of identify and mitigate the challenges and risks we face.
And we EE, the group now has 560 EE shops in the UK.
do an annual materiality review to understand the societal and Our revenue is mostly subscription or contract-based.
Individuals, environmental issues that are important to our stakeholders.
households and SMEs pay for standalone or bundled services, We have a flexible and sustainable business model, enabling us to typically on 12 to 24-month contracts.
Large corporate and anticipate and respond to changes in our markets.
It underpins our public-sector customers usually buy managed networked IT assessment of the future prospects of the group.
services on contracts spanning several years.
Our wholesale customer contracts range from one month in length for regulated We see more and more demand for our products and services products, to five years or more for major managed services deals.
because they play such an integral role in modern life.
We use insight teams to make sure we stay in tune with market We invest in our people so they can do their jobs better and are developments and customer expectations.
And we use governance more engaged.
And we encourage them to volunteer to benefit the committees, such as the Design Council, to make sure were making communities we serve.
We also have a long history of innovation.
So were confident that well be able to It helps us offer new and improved products and services, find deliver value over the short, medium and long term.
better ways of doing things and can generate valuable intellectual property for us.
Finally, the waste and emissions produced by our
