34 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 Key priorities UK Corporate Were focused on strengthening our position as a global leader.
This UK Corporate serves larger businesses typically 100 to 1,000 will be helped by the April 2016 reorganisation and the renewed employees, offering both standard and bespoke communications focus this provides for Global Services.
Our future priorities include: solutions and IT services.
strengthening the capabilities that underpin our Cloud of Clouds BT Fleet supplies BT and external customers with fleet strategy: our network performance, the systems delivering cloud management solutions.
Its one of the UKs leading providers services to our customers, and  solutions for of fleet maintenance and accident management services.
our customers: BT Business Solutions continuing to build deeper relationships with our major We provide IT services to UK customers through four specialist customers as their trusted partner: IT businesses: transforming our customer service through clearer insight into customer experiences, including the introduction of a Next Business Providing Generation Service Desk: continuing to drive down costs to become a more efficient BT IT Services IT hardware and networked IT solutions, organisation: managed and support services, and investing in the technologies which help our customers embrace consulting services.
the digital age: and further strengthening our defences against attempted cyberBT Business Direct IT and communications hardware and attacks and fraud, and supporting customers in their security software, including computing and challenges.
Weve also set ourselves some specific ambitions over the next BT Expedite Specialised IT services for the retail sector.
three years: Tikit Bespoke IT products and services for to grow our share of spending with our Global Accounts by 10%: legal and accountancy firms.
to achieve double-digit percentage annual growth rates in the revenue we generate in security, cloud unified communications and Cloud Compute: and BT Business Solutions typically targets organisations with 250 to increase our net promoter score by at least ten points.
We sell solutions and IT products primarily through the UK Corporate and UK SME channels.
We also sell to BT BUSINESS customers of BT Global Services and BT Wholesale.
BT Business BT Business sells communications and IT services in the UK and the Direct, BT Expedite and Tikit have their own direct sales functions.
We have around 900,000 customers and are leaders in fixed-voice, networking, cloud services and broadband.
BT Ireland In Northern Ireland were the largest provider of communications In BT Business were passionate about helping businesses of all sizes services for small and medium-sized enterprises SMEs and a succeed.
From household names and public-sector organisations leading supplier of networked IT services for public sector and right through to small businesses and start-ups, we help corporate customers.
organisations use the power of technology to change, compete and thrive.
In the Republic of Ireland we provide networked IT services for the public sector and large businesses and we provide wholesale Its not just business customers that rely on us.
We play a critical role services to other communications providers.
in society through our management of the 999 service in the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
And we keep the rest of BT Group on New organisational structure the road by managing and servicing the large fleet of BT vehicles.
From 1 April 2016 were creating a line of business called Business During 2015 16 we had four customer-facing divisions: and Public Sector.
This will consist of the existing BT Business organisation, along with the EE business division and some of BT UK SME Global Services UK corporate and public sector teams.
A number UK SME supplies small businesses, ranging from sole traders of our specialist businesses including BT Fleet, BT Redcare, BT through to more complex organisations including schools and Directories, BT Payphones and Tikit will move into the new colleges, with communication solutions and IT services.
We Wholesale and Ventures line of business.
serve our customers through a number of channels including As the new Business and Public Sector line of business, well: our network of 40 independent BT Local Business franchisees.
be a provider of communications and IT services to businesses We also have three specialist businesses and the public sector in the UK and the Republic of Ireland, serving over 1.2m customers: Business Providing offer the best fixed and mobile networks to provide seamless, converged business services: BT Redcare Fire and security alarm signalling services, have 12,000 people located across the UK and the Republic of surveillance networks and control room services.
Ireland dedicated to giving our customers the best experience: BT Directories Directory Enquiries, The Phone Book, website and services, operator services and call handling for generate revenue of around 5bn.
BT Payphones Public, private and managed payphone services.
The Strategic Report 35 Our lines of business Markets and customers Our acquisition of EE means well be able to respond more rapidly There are 5.4m SMEs in the UK.
They are critical to driving to these trends and accelerate the growth of our fixed-mobile economic growth.
They make up 99.9% of all UK businesses, services.
and account for 60% of private-sector employment and 47% of IT services business revenue.
The IT services market is very diverse, ranging from off-the-shelf Sole traders and small businesses typically buy fixed-lines, hardware sales to large outsourced solutions.
Competition is mobile and broadband.
Larger customers buy a broader range of fragmented with providers often focused on specific  services which include Ethernet and cloud-based types, industries or technologies.
Our main competitors are products.
Computacenter, Dimension Data, Kelway, Logicalis, SCC and Softcat.
We have around 900,000 customers including more than half of We estimate that the parts of the market we serve are worth FTSE350 companies.
Major customers include: around 8bn, of which we have around 6% share.
The areas of the market that are growing include cloud services, hosting, retailers like Halfords: infrastructure and security.
They offer attractive opportunities public sector organisations like the London Fire and Emergency for us to grow our share of the overall market.
Planning Authority: construction companies like Morgan Sindall: Products and services financial organisations like Old Mutual Wealth: and We offer a wide choice of fixed, mobile and IT services.
These range educational institutions like University of West Scotland.
from standalone products to managed services and customised Were focused on three main product markets: fixed-voice and solutions, suiting the needs of customers from small start-ups to data: mobility: and IT services.
We expect these markets to large enterprises.
increasingly converge over the next few years as technology and Fixed-voice customer needs evolve towards integrated services.
Our fixed-voice services range from calls and lines to fullyFixed-voice and data managed office phone systems and contact centre solutions.
The UK fixed-voice and data market that we address is worth Weve continued to develop BT Cloud Voice and BT Cloud Phone around 4.6bn.
in our growing portfolio of VoIP services.
We compete against more than 800 resellers and fixed network Weve launched Call Essentials, two great value fixed-price operators.
Our main competitors are Alternative Networks, Azzurri, packages for small businesses.
Customers can get unlimited Colt Group, Daisy Group, Gamma, KCOM Group, O2, TalkTalk, calls to UK landlines and mobiles, together with an international Unicom, Virgin Media, Vodafone and XLN.
option, giving them peace of mind about their bill.
There are 7.7m 2014 15: 7.7m business lines in the UK, Broadband and internet including those used by both SMEs and large corporates.
Some of We provide a range of internet access options including: BT these lines are provided by BT Global Services.
There are more lines Business Broadband over copper connections : BT Business than businesses as many customers buy more than one line.
Infinity over fibre-to-the-cabinet FTTC and fibre-to-thepremises FTTP : and BTnet dedicated internet access.
The number of business fixed-lines has decreased over the last few years as companies move towards VoIP and or mobile solutions.
Weve added the option to self-install, making it even easier for Businesses have also made fewer calls over their fixed-lines because our customers to benefit from superfast fibre broadband.
of the growth in email and other online communication.
Call And weve launched an online app store to allow customers to volumes in the market are 12% lower than a year earlier.
conveniently manage and tailor any extra software needs such We have a 46% market share of business lines excluding VoIP, as security, backup and Microsoft Office.
broadly level with last year.
Networking services Demand for faster and more reliable broadband connections is Our voice and data networking services support customers who growing, with continued migration towards fibre.
Businesses want need to connect more than one site.
Products include Ethernet, faster broadband to communicate, to transact with customers and IP virtual private network services which use IP connections, suppliers, and to maintain a competitive advantage.
SIP trunking which transports voice calls over IP networks, Were the largest business broadband provider in the UK, with over leased lines, cabling infrastructure and local area networking a third of the market for businesses with one or more employees.
Ethernet and dedicated internet access services are growing IT services strongly, with businesses becoming increasingly reliant on Our specialist IT services team provide solution design, through connectivity.
Were the leading provider of fixed networking services to delivery, management and in-life support, built around five in the UK with around a quarter of the market.
core product areas: Mobility end-user computing: The competitive landscape in the UK is evolving rapidly as unified communications and collaboration: businesses look to exploit the opportunities of services such as 4G networking: to work more flexibly and efficiently, and also to buy more of their security: and communications services from a single supplier.
data centres, cloud and hosting.
Our main competitors are O2 and Vodafone.
Both offer fixed These services are supported by partnerships with the likes of products as well as mobile and are increasingly selling converged Cisco, HP and Microsoft.
36 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 Deliver superior customer service Mobility Our vision is to be the market leader for customer service within We offer a range of handsets and tablets and a choice of voice three years.
But with our Right First Time measure down 5.9% and data tariffs.
BT One Phone combines office phone and mobile requirements Our customer service measure has been significantly impacted this into one cloud-based solution delivered through the customers year by the wet winter weather which caused delays in speed of mobile phone.
This year we improved the voicemail service, response for repairs.
To mitigate this type of impact, well continue including new recording features.
to invest and make changes until we can provide a consistently Before we bought EE, we operated as a mobile virtual network better experience.
Weve already seen signs were on the right track.
operator MVNO on the EE network.
Were confident that by We measure feedback directly from our customers and via our net bringing together the EE and BT networks we can launch a promoter score, which has increased by 2%.
Our peoples hard broader range of new converged and innovative services.
work has meant that weve seen an 8% decrease in complaints since last year.
Weve also improved our ability to resolve issues Performance in the year to the customers satisfaction at first point of contact, and this Weve increased EBITDA for the fourth year running through our measure has increased 4%.
continued focus on cost transformation.
During the year we: Underlying revenue excluding transit was flat with the continued fall in business line volumes offset by growth in VoIP services, fibre increased the number of customers on our UK Business Solution broadband and networking.
This platform brings all the core products and services that we sell in large volumes onto a single Our fibre broadband base has increased 45% and our IP lines are system, making it easier to serve customers who buy multiple up by 62%.
Weve made some customer service improvements this products from us.
It gives us a single view of the customers year and have clear plans to go further.
account, providing all the right information at the right time: Weve been learning more about our customers so we can deliver simplified our packages and offers, adding great value bundles so the services and performance they need to succeed.
our customers can get all of their communications needs from us: invested in 40,000 hours of training for our customers Operating performance operational teams: and Our order intake of 1,967m was down 5% after last year proactively contacted our customers after the delivery of their included a number of particularly large deals.
orders to check their products are working correctly and theyre getting the most out of their new service.
Customer Contract Were proud that our investment in our people and their Towergate Insurance Were helping Towergate Insurance to performance meant we were shortlisted for two awards, from the save costs and improve efficiency by British Quality Foundation and the Institute of Customer Service.
consolidating systems and by bringing Transform our costs together lines, mobiles, hosted contact Operating costs were down 2% due to savings made through our centres and inbound call service into cost transformation activities.
The main reason for the lower costs one managed service contract.
was a 4% reduction in our total labour resource.
Old Mutual Wealth Were providing a global WAN, wi-fi, Weve also made savings in other areas such as renegotiating some LAN, security and conferencing supplier contracts, which has saved 29m this year.
service which forms part of a strategic transformation programme for Old Continued investment in back office systems and the migration Mutual Wealth as it builds the UKs of customers onto the UK Business Solution has enabled greater leading retail investment business.
University of West Were providing WAN and LAN services, Invest for growth Scotland unified communications and educationWeve made significant investments in our products and specific analytical software to enhance services.
We want to meet customer needs and address market the student journey.
opportunities across our three strategic portfolio areas: fibre and connectivity: mobility and future voice: and networked IT services.
Sanctuary Personnel Were providing BTnet connectivity, cloud voice and infrastructure for a Weve invested to improve the speed, reach and quality of rapidly growing recruitment provider broadband services by improving our network infrastructure.
Weve offering future expansion capacity.
A invested in our managed compute cloud services product and our key attraction for Sanctuary was the future voice portfolio, focusing on delivering an excellent customer ability to work with a single supplier.
This year we migrated our existing mobile customers over to the EE network, which means our customers can now access the UKs The number of business lines we provide reduced 7% as customers largest 4G mobile network.
continue to migrate to VoIP.
This has been partly offset by growth in the number of IP lines we provide, which was up 62%.
Were seeing strong take-up of our BT Cloud Voice and BT Cloud Phone services with the number of users up 29% and 34% respectively in the fourth quarter alone.
Our Call Essentials packages are also performing well.
Weve signed up over 80,000 customers since launch.
