BT plc 2 Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 THE STRATEGIC REPORT PURPOSE AND STRATEGY OVERVIEW Our success as a business depends on delivering value to all our British Telecommunications plc is the principal operating subsidiary customers.
We try to think ahead, to anticipate what they want of BT Group plc.
We are a wholly owned subsidiary of BT Group and to develop products, services and an overall experience that plc.
The BT Group plc Board has ultimate responsibility for the meet their needs, whether as individuals or as businesses.
management of the group and the Operating Committee of BT Our services are vital to our customers and their communities.
We Group plc is the key management committee.
It monitors the look for ways of using and developing those services to deliver groups financial, operational and customer service performance economic growth and wider societal benefits.
To bring our purpose and has cross-business oversight of BTs lines of business.
It also to life, weve set a number of challenging long-term ambitions reviews the groups key risks and considers the potential threats and that make a positive impact on the societies, communities and opportunities to the business.
environment we operate in page 18.
The Purpose and strategy, Delivering our strategy, Our lines of By creating value for our customers and society we grow our business and Group performance sections on pages 2 to 55 form business and reward our shareholders for their investment in us.
OUR GOAL We present the audited consolidated financial statements on Our goal is to deliver sustainable profitable revenue growth.
In previous years, we relied on cost transformation to offset OUR PURPOSE declining revenues, so that we could grow our cash flows and the Our purpose is to use the power of communications to make a value of our business.
This year, we grew our revenue, driven by the better world.
investments we have been making.
Were here to meet the needs of our customers, delivering the In the years ahead, we expect revenue growth, combined with experience, products and services that matter to them.
Millions continued transformation of our costs, to provide a platform for of individuals connect through us to their friends and family, and long-term and sustainable cash flow growth.
have huge amounts of information and entertainment at their fingertips.
The smallest companies, right through to multinational Well reinvest some of the cash we generate back into the business, corporations, use our services every day to conduct their business.
to enable us to grow over the long term.
And well Many public services rely on our technologies.
And in the UK, most also use it to give back to our shareholders and other stakeholders.
of the telecoms industry operates across our networks we help OUR STRATEGY more than 500 other communications providers to serve their Our strategy is founded on broadening and deepening our customers.
The diagram below shows our strategy in the year and how it supports our goal and purpose.
It sits at the centre of our business model.
For 2016 17 our strategy is evolving.
The three pillars remain broadly the same but with a wider focus on the overall customer experience rather than just on customer service.
And with our acquisition of EE our investment areas are more focused on having the best integrated network in the UK and being a fully converged service provider.
Our purpose To use the power of communications to make a better world Our goal A growing BT: to deliver sustainable profitable revenue growth Our strategy Broaden and deepen our customer relationships Deliversuperior Transform Invest for customer service our costs growth Mobility Leading TV and UK business Fibre and future global content markets voice companies Our culture A healthy organisation The Strategic Report 3 Purpose and strategy To deliver sustainable profitable revenue growth, we need stronger Acting on Weve redesigned the way we launch new relationships with our customers.
That means making sure we stay products to more clearly reflect customer insight relevant to them as markets, lifestyles and technologies change.
The three pillars of our strategy help us do that: delivering superior BT Mobile was our first product launch in customer service: transforming our costs: and investing for which customer experience was a specific growth.
The better our customer service, the more well sell and design criteria from the outset.
Our net promoter score is highest among consumers the less time and money we need to spend putting things right.
And the better we manage our costs, the better value for money we can offer our customers and the more we can invest in giving Were rolling out this approach to other customers what they need, today and tomorrow.
These are the products under development.
principles that drive our business model page 6.
Keeping our Weve invested more to help make our services Deliver superior customer service more resilient.
Our investment in proactive customers connected network maintenance is up by 22%, improving Every day we touch the lives of millions, providing services that the fault profile of our network.
help people get the most out of their working and personal lives.
Our customers experience is affected by the quality, reliability and Creating great Our new My BT app won a Digital Experience value of our products and services.
And by how responsive we are Award, and has been downloaded more tools and systems when we need to provide new services or sort out problems.
51% of users check expectations continue to rise as our networks play an increasingly the app monthly and 21% use it weekly.
important role in their lives and businesses.
Were updating it every quarter.
Recent developments include allowing customers to Getting the customer experience right, and improving the quality pay their bills, monitor their broadband usage, of our customer relationships, is at the heart of our strategy for find out about network issues, and view their growth.
And also supports our drive for cost transformation.
Customer experience is one of the measures we use to set our In BT Wholesale weve invested significantly executives annual bonus.
It is made up of the Right First Time in our online capabilities including: improved search engines and navigation: personalised RFT metric and a customer perception measure.
RFT is our key online order and fault management: and better internal measure of customer service.
It tracks how often we keep online chat support.
the promises we make to our customers.
Working better Weve invested in broadening our contact How we did in the year centre agents skills and tools, letting them across our Our performance in the first quarter of the year was good.
But in take greater ownership of customer issues and organisation the second, third and fourth quarters, our service was impacted increasing the number of issues addressed in by electrical storms, system and network outages as well as 11 a single call.
separate winter storms over a five-month period.
The storms Where weve introduced this, in relation to the resulted in record levels of flooding and while we received much provision of new connections, complaints are praise for our response, they had a significant impact on our 50% lower and customer satisfaction is up service.
We recovered well in the fourth quarter and ended the year more than 17%.
Were extending this model with a positive upturn in our service measures.
But we missed our across all our contact centres.
RFT target for the year as a whole.
Performance was down 3.0% against a 4.7% increase in the prior year.
Supporting Were bringing our call centres back to the UK, with 60% of BT Consumer customer calls our people We need to redouble our efforts into next year as we know that being answered within the UK by the end of we need to do much better.
Were investing in jobs and were the year.
And were planning to extend that to multiskilling our people to give us better flexibility and capacity.
more than 90% by the end of March 2017.
In last years Annual Report we outlined a number of specific areas To do this we have hired more than 900 people in the UK and plan to hire a further that we would focus on this year.
Weve made good progress 1,000 over the course of the year ahead.
against each of these, although we recognise that we need to do more.
EE is creating 600 new roles to support its plans to handle all customer service calls in the UK and Ireland by the end of 2016.
Key priorities Looking ahead, were focused on: investing further in our network, making it more resilient: reducing the number of appointments missed by our engineers: hiring more people into our contact centres: investing more in our contact centre advisers, giving them the skills and tools to solve more customer issues: and improving our online tools to make it easier for customers to serve themselves.
BT plc 4 Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 Transform our costs Programmes this year included: Our approach to cost transformation reviewing and improving our end-to-end process for planning We run large and complex cost transformation programmes, led by engineer visits.
By creating centres of excellence where planners a team of consultants.
These consultants are BT people.
They know are based together, streamlining processes and improving our business better than anyone.
systems, were reducing the cost of failure, eliminating Our approach is based on a methodology honed over a decade.
Its inefficiencies and improving service: underpinned by forensic data analysis, strong governance and the developing a new operating model to govern how we serve the support of senior management.
By consolidating our sales and marketing teams, well reduce administrative effort and duplication and Our largest cost transformation activities are driven top-down.
focus our people on what really matters selling to customers: They might be end-to-end programmes spanning multiple lines consolidating our IT functions to improve data security, system of business or complex changes contained within a single line of stability and to gain economies of scale.
Weve also made sure business.
Continuous Improvement CI provides a complementary that our people have access to the right training programmes, bottom-up approach.
CI makes small but important changes to career opportunities and are sharing best practice: how we do things every day.
It has the added benefit of improving rationalising, standardising and automating our internal reporting employee engagement.
Weve also created a data analytics capability to improve Training is a key part of our approach.
We have an in-house Cost decision-making and provide support on larger transformation Transformation Faculty, part of the BT Academy page 7.
The programmes: faculty is responsible for the continued development of our change improving the efficiency and productivity of our off-shore shared professionals.
This year we trained and coached more than 900 service centres.
In particular, were reducing the administrative people.
BT is the only UK organisation licensed by the British resource required to operate these centres: and Quality Foundation to certify qualifications to the most advanced reviewing and redesigning our overseas operations with the aim a b levels in Lean, Six Sigma and Change & Project Management of ensuring that back-office functions are done from centres of methodologies on such a scale.
excellence located in low-cost countries.
Weve also continued to apply best practice from our UK operations.
How we did in the year This year, our underlying operating costs excluding transit were up Key priorities 2% mainly reflecting higher leaver costs and our investment in BT Looking ahead, were focused on: Sport Europe.
These offset our cost transformation activities.
Over the last seven years weve reduced our operating costs and capital realising substantial cost synergies from the integration of BT and expenditure by over 5bn.
EE: streamlining our Ethernet delivery and broadband repair processes with the aim of improving customer experience and reducing cost: reducing our network costs in the UK and overseas, which account for a large proportion of our overall costs: and rationalising and standardising our products, networks, applications and platforms, to remove complexity and reduce cost.
Were confident that there are plenty of opportunities to reduce costs further.
We see well over 1bn of gross opportunity over the next two years, much of which can be reinvested for growth.
We continue to benchmark our cost of doing business against other large telecoms companies.
While weve continued to improve our performance, we still see opportunity to do even better.
Increasingly we look beyond the world of telecoms to other industries to identify more opportunities.
You can read about cost transformation within our lines of business from page 30.
And the groups operating costs are described on page 50. a Lean is a methodology for achieving small, incremental changes in processes in order to eliminate waste and improve efficiency and quality.
b Six Sigma is a data-driven methodology for eliminating defects in processes.
The Strategic Report 5 Purpose and strategy Invest for growth Mobility and We completed the acquisition of EE.
Were Were investing in five strategic areas.
These are the things we future voice now the UKs leading communications believe will deliver sustainable profitable revenue growth which provider, bringing together the UKs best 4G will deliver value for our shareholders.
network with the UKs largest fibre network.
We want to transform the shape of Fibre Weve long been at the forefront of fibre communications by creating more innovative, innovation and investment and we aim to converged products and services.
address different parts of the consumer mobile market by using both the EE brand Our superfast fibre broadband network now and the BT Mobile brand.
With other networks, this takes availability to 90%.
We Were making progress towards our goal plan to extend coverage even further, so that by 2025 all our voice customers will that fibre availability goes beyond the UK be served using an IP voice solution, having Governments current 95% target by the migrated off our traditional telephony end of 2017. platform.
We plan to start rolling out ultrafast broadband UK business markets Weve continued to improve our product based on G. fast technology next year.
Were now better placed to new service is capable of delivering speeds of meet the needs of our customers as they 300-500Mbps.
Were trialling the technology increasingly adopt IP and cloud-based in a number of locations, including Huntingdon services.
in Cambridgeshire and Gosforth in Tyne and Were reorganising our structure to take Wear.
With the right regulatory environment, better advantage of the opportunities the service will reach 10m homes and smaller to grow our share of the UK business businesses by the end of 2020 with an market.
And to strengthen and deepen our ambition to get this to 12m, and the majority relationships with UK customers.
On 1 April of premises within a decade.
2016, we created a new line of business, Our ultrafast ambitions also include rolling Business and Public Sector.
It will serve out significantly more  large and small as well as the premises FTTP.
We intend to build FTTP public sector in the UK and the Republic of infrastructure in new housing developments Ireland.
Were also conducting trials to explore if FTTP can be installed faster and Leading global Were investing in our products, network and more efficiently in business parks and high companies expertise to increase our share of spending streets.
These trials and feedback from by our large multinational customers industry could lead to a new FTTP product page 30.
A particular area of focus is the being developed for SMEs with speeds of up cloud.
Were investing in new services to 1Gbps and strong service guarantees.
that allow large organisations around the world to connect easily and securely to the TV and content Weve continued to improve our TV applications and the data they need.
We want proposition: to empower companies so they can integrate and orchestrate IT resources, irrespective of New sports channel We launched BT Sport where they are hosted.
Europe, which is now the home of UEFA Champions League and UEFA Europa League New services launched this year included: football.
Well show 350 matches each an extension of BT Cloud Connect to season for three years.
provide connectivity to HP Enterprise New services We introduced a number Helion Managed Cloud Services: of innovative services, including BT Sport a cloud-based Distributed Denial of Service Ultra HD the first Ultra HD sports service in DDoS mitigation service: and Europe.
We launched BT Sports Connected BT Assure Cyber Defence, an advanced Red Button service, which allows BT TV security platform.
viewers to switch between matches and use a new Goal Alert function to keep track of the action across a range of games.
OUR CULTURE Richer content We continued to add We want to build and sustain a culture that helps us respond popular content and TV channels.
We secured quickly and effectively to changes in our markets.
This is vital to the exclusive rights to show the next Ashes the delivery of our strategy.
We continue to make organisational cricket series.
And we extended our rights to changes with the aim of improving our culture and our ability to the FA Cup by another three years, to 2021. perform well.
These changes centre on: Read more about these developments in the unifying the organisation around a common set of values: BT Consumer section from page 37. putting the customer first in everything we do: developing a leadership style which helps to drive change and gives people the confidence to take responsibility: and making BT an exciting place to work and a company our people are proud to work for.
