Strategic report Our strategy We have a clear strategy that is designed to realise our ambition to become the most dynamic, creative and admired soft drinks company in the world and supports our purpose of making lifes every day moments more enjoyable.
OUR STRATEGY TO SUPPORT OUR VISION IS BASED ON 4 KEY PILLARS INCREASE Generate our participation in soft drink 1 profitable categories and sales channels growth in our through innovation, disciplined revenue management, and a core markets balanced portfolio DELIVER Realise global on our strong growth potential 2 opportunities in in a number of international kids, family and markets, either by making selective acquisitions or by adult categories working with local partners ENSURE Continue to we have the right people, with 3 step-change the right capabilities to achieve our vision and establish a winning our business culture whilst continuing to capability improve efficiency and develop our business capability ACT Build trust and with integrity, by embedding 4 respect in our our sustainable business strategy across all our business communities units and continuing to lead the industry on public health For further information on our strategy, please see our CEOs report on page 16 12 Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p001-037.
indd 12 13 12 2016 18:58 Strategic report Chairmans introduction continued Calorie and sugar savings from reformulations undertaken during the year are assumed on the previous years sales volumes regardless of when the reformulation entered onto the market in that year.
Where a change of flavour occurs, the calorie sugar calculations are assumed on the closest comparable flavour for sales volumes, e. g. blackcurrant & apple assumed comparable to pear & blueberry.
All reformulation values are based on the latest recipe nutritional content.
STRATEGY IN ACTION: THE HEADLINES New innovation generated 4% WiseHead Productions: Launch of Teisseire pump GB delivered an outstanding of total revenue.
These included: Thomas & Evans inventing pack in France carbonates performance, led and growing new Zero Proof by Pepsi Max, Tango and 7UP Dr ench largest of all adult Out of home, we have grown category Free.
Volume led full year inleisure and licensed, winning innovation launched in the revenue growth and a robust past 3 years Launch of sugar-free MiWadi accounts such as Subway performance with double-digit Mini and MiWadi 0% sugar, giving us a 7 year arrangement Pur deys and Purdeys Edge Q4 revenue growth.
which has become the first in over 2000 outlets and G1, fastest growing evolved soft drinks brand to receive the leading hospitality group in energy brand: approval from Diabetes Scotland, as well as retaining J 0 Spritz recent successful 2 Ireland.
major contracts including KFC launch in GB market: and Fullers.
Fruit Shoot delivered growth single bottles in convenience In Brazil, we have successfully This achievement demonstrates inUnited States and Brazil and leisure, including a listing combined the strength of the the benefits of us bringing in Pizza Hut which will give local team with group capability, together the expertise of our In the USA we have continued access to over 6,000 outlets.
to deliver Maguary Fruit Shoot core markets with the local to make good progress in single single serve onto the shelves knowledge of our Brazilian serve and multi-pack Fruit Shoot, With our partner, Advantage in Sao Paulo with four flavours team underpinned by strong which we have successfully Sales and Marketing, we have developed for the local market commercial execution and launched into grocery.
established an effective route to in under 12 months.
market for Fruit Shoot multipack We maintained our share of and have achieved listings Fruit Shoot is already listed the market and distribution is with major retailers including in key retailers with 56% up by 10%.
We continue to Walmart, Kroger and HEB.
use our strong relationship with Pepsi to sell Fruit Shoot Supply chain investments The new PET line the fastest Additional warehousing is Separately, we will deliver 5m &efficiencies Programme is in Europe is now running in operational in Leeds, giving annualised cost savings from on-track to deliver projected Leeds, producing pack sizes additional space to supply the 2017. returns.
from 500ml to 3litres, enabling North and Scotland, and also in us to better access growth London - reducing mileage, channels.
We continue to lead the market in Our actions have led to an This year weve launched Focus on low no sugar No Added Sugar NAS drinks as annualised 19bn calorie Purdeys Edge caffeine free Britvic does not advertise any a proportion of our portfolio in GB reduction across our portfolio.
evolved energy drink: products to children under 12 through reformulation, innovation, re-launched Drench & R Whites In the Republic of Ireland, we and does not advertise high and responsible marketing.
with sugar levels under the are the leaders in no added sugar products to underv 16s.
proposed sugar tax: added Reformulating drinks with no sugar in both market share and Since 2005, all above the line multi-vitamins and reduced compromise on taste or quality.
advertising in relation to Pepsi sweetness in Fruit Shoot: 65% current volume exempt or Removed added sugar Fruit has led with sugar-free Pepsi launched MiWadi Mini NAS below proposed tax threshold.
2015 in GB and reformulated Continual innovation in products Weve used the power of our other brands, e. g. J 0.
Using the power of our brands 2 brands to inspire 2.6m people and range responsibly through our GB & Ireland reduced to actively play together and Led the use of Stevia in 2012.
Responsible Marketing Code to Fruit Shoot has helped over sweetness of Fruit Shoot.
60% of new innovation will be promote low and no sugar 500,000 children get active 68% of our current volume sold no or lower sugar and or alternatives and encourage through its Active Skills in the UK is exempt or below the nutritionally enhanced drinks active play: campaign.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 13 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p001-037.
