Strategic report Viability statement The Directors have determined that To support the final conclusion on viability, During the year, the a three-year period is an appropriate the assessment also took into account Directors assessed the timeframe for the assessment given the the mitigations available to the group to dynamic nature of the FMCG sector and protect against these downside scenarios.
viability of the Company this is in line with the groups strategic Finally the stress test scenarios were over a three-year period, planning period.
The starting point for the reviewed against the groups current and viability assessment is the strategic and projected debt and liquidity position.
taking into account the financial plan, which makes assumptions Based on the results of this analysis, the groups current financial relating to the economic climate in each of Directors have a reasonable expectation our markets, the growth of the soft drinks position and the principal that the group will be able to continue in category, input cost inflation and growth risks, particularly those operation and meet its liabilities as they from the groups value drivers.
The process fall due over the three year period to that could threaten the for assessing the viability of the group September 2019. involved input from a number of functions business model.
These across the business to model a series of The Strategic Report was approved by risks and the actions theoretical stress test scenarios based the Board and signed on its behalf by on the materialisation of principal risks.
being taken to manage Examples include a faulty product being or mitigate them are set supplied to market or a failure to respond to changing consumer preferences including out above.
The approach also considered Simon Litherland interdependencies between the groups Chief Executive Officer principal risks as well as reverse stress testing allowing the Directors to assess 29 November 2016 the circumstances that would render the business model unviable.
32 Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 Governance continued Governance 34 Corporate governance report 36 Board of directors 47 Nomination committee 50 Audit Committee 58 Remuneration Committee 59 Directors remuneration report 61 Remuneration At a glance 67 Annual Report on Remuneration 76 Directors Remuneration Policy 85 Directors report 88 Statement of directors responsibilities Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 33 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p033-088.
