Strategic report Britvic sets itself apart from its competitors by our Our unrivalled combination of market leading brands and track record in innovation, our expert knowledge of the soft drinks market, longstanding business and sustainable relationships with our partners, including PepsiCo, and a highly talented and model committed workforce.
We manufacture, market and sell both In the USA, we have agreements with a We are committed to building sustainable Britvic and PepsiCo brands in GB and number of Pepsi bottlers.
We also export relationships with all our partners, from Ireland, supported by dedicated Britvic products around the world and are suppliers of raw materials through to the commercial teams in both countries.
In a signifi cant player in the travelsector.
customers who sell our brands.
France, we manufacture, market and sell Our brands and innovations are built on We have developed an operating model our own category-leading brands, as well the quality of our insight and understanding which is based on the principles of simplicity, as supplying private label juice and syrups.
of the soft drinks markets in which we focus and accountability, to ensure we On 30 September 2015, we completed operate.
We have a strong track record in are cost-effi cient and effective and can the acquisition of Brazilian soft drinks innovation and our dedicated technical invest in the growth opportunities.
company Ebba, which manufactures and and consumer innovation teams are at sells the two leading liquid dilutable brands, All of this allows us to deliver value to our the forefront of identifying consumer trends Maguary and Dafruta, and has a growing shareholders, our customers and partners, and new technologies to ensure that we presence in the ready to drink the consumers who buy our brands, the deliver products that meet consumers nectarcategory.
communities in which we operate and to evolving needs.
Our marketing teams our employees.
Internationally, we work primarily in ensure that our brands are front of mind partnership with local companies through for our consumers.
franchise, distribution or licensing arrangements to exploit the global potential of our kids, family and adult brands.
MANUFACTURING MARKETING CUSTOMERS Our operations Commercial Responsible relationships marketing In GB we have factories in Leeds, We pride ourselves on being a great All our marketing activity is governed by Norwich, Rugby and Beckton.
a Responsible Marketing Code, which company to do business with.
We acknowledges that soft drinks should work in partnership with our customers In Ireland we have factories in Dublin be consumed as part of a balanced to grow both their businesses and and Newcastle West.
Equally we value our diet and lifestyle and that we have a In France we have factories in Crolles, relationships with our suppliers particular responsibility to children.
We Beziers, La Roche sur Foron and do not market our drinks to children and are committed to long term, Nantes under the age of 12. sustainable partnerships.
For PepsiCo franchised brands In the last year, we have been In Brazil, we have factories in in GB and Ireland we jointly fund acknowledged by the annual Araguari and Aracati.
Advantage survey of food and drink and manage marketing campaigns, combining PepsiCo global collateral companies and overall, we ranked and local market activations.
2nd across convenience and routes to markets, a step change improvement on the previous year.
We fully understand the impact our We use the power of our brands operations have on the environment to inspire people to actively play together and Fruit Shoot has helped and are committed to effi cient and As part of our responsible sourcing sustainable production, as well as the over 500,000 children get active programme, all our partners are highest quality standards.
through its Active Skills campaign.
required to comply with our Ethical Business Policy and are subject to Creativity is at the heart of our business our annual audit programme.
and our marketing activity and we have a track record of award-winning campaigns.
8 Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Our business model continued GB, IRELAND, FRANCE AND BRAZIL BRITVIC Raw materials Manufacturing Marketing Distribution Customers Consumers full goods INTERNATIONAL FRANCHISE BRITVIC PARTNER ACTIVITIES Raw materials Manufacturing Distribution Customers Manufacturing Marketing Transport to Consumers full goods compound international partner INTERNATIONAL EXPORT PARTNER ACTIVITIES BRITVIC Raw materials Manufacturing Marketing Export to Distribution Customers Consumers full goods international partner Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 9 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p001-037.
