Governance Directors report Articles of association The directors present their report and The companys articles may only be amended by a special the audited consolidated financial resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
No amendments statements of the company and the to the articles are being proposed at the AGM.
group for the 53 weeks ended 2 Directors October 2016.
The following were directors of the company during the year: Gerald Corbett, Simon Litherland, John Gibney resigned on 27 Additional disclosures January 2016, Joanne Averiss, Sue Clark appointed 29 Other information that is relevant to this report and which is also February 2016, Mathew Dunn appointed 25 November 2015, incorporated by reference, including information required in John Daly, Ben Gordon, Bob Ivell resigned 1 March 2016, Ian accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006 and Listing Rule McHoul and Euan Sutherland appointed 29 February 2016.
4R, can be located as follows: Subject to company law and the companys articles, the directors may exercise all of the powers of the company and may delegate Business model Page 8 their power and discretion to committees.
The executive team is Strategy for delivering objectives Pages 12-13 responsible for the day-to-day management of the group.
The articles give the directors power to appoint and replace directors.
Results Pages 9-21 Under the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, any Financial assets and liabilities Page 98 appointment must be recommended by the Nomination Committee for approval by the board.
The articles also require Principal risks Pages 28-31 directors to retire and submit themselves for election to the first Corporate responsibility Pages 24-27 AGM following appointment and to retire at the AGM held in the third calendar year after election or last re-election, but to comply Greenhouse gas emissions Pages 26-27 with the UK Corporate Governance Code all of the directors will Our people Pages 23-25 submit themselves for election Sue Clark and Euan Sutherland or re-election at the AGM.
The biographical details of the Going concern Page 87 directors are set out on pages 36 and 37 of this report.
The Viability statement Page 32 service contracts of the Executive Directors and letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available for Long-Term incentive plans Pages 141-142 inspection at the companys registered office.
Dividend waiver Page 86 as required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R Directors interests The directors interests in ordinary shares of the company are Business review and future development shown within the Directors Remuneration Report on page 72.
A review of the groups operations during the year and its plans No director has any other interest in any shares or loan stock of for the future is given in the Chairmans introduction, the Chief any group company.
Other than Joanne Averiss, who is a Executive Officers Review and the Chief Financial Officers Review director of a number of PepsiCos subsidiaries, no director was or between pages 2 to 23.
Details of the groups business model is materially interested in any contract, other than under their and strategy are summarised between pages 8, 9, 12 and 13. service contract or letter of appointment, which was subsisting during or existing at the end of year and which was significant in Results and dividends relation to the groups business.
Further details of Joanne Averiss appointments are set out on page 43 in the Corporate The groups profit before taxation attributable to the equity Governance Report.
shareholders amounted to 151.9m 2015: 137.6m and the profit after taxation amounted to 114.5m 2015: 103.8m.
An There are procedures in place to deal with any conflicts of interim dividend of 7.0p 2015: 6.7p per ordinary share was paid interest and these have operated effectively during the year.
Subject to shareholder approval, the directors have proposed a final dividend of 17.5p 2015: 16.3p per ordinary share payable on 3 February 2017 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 9 December 2016, giving a total dividend in respect of 2016 of 24.5p 2015: 23.0p, an increase of 6.5% per cent over the previous year.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 85 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p033-088.
indd 85 13 12 2016 19:06 Governance Directors report continued At 29 November 2016, the company had been notified, in Directors liabilities accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the As at the date of this report, customary indemnities are in place following interests amounting to three per cent or more of the under which the company has agreed, to the extent permitted by voting rights in the issued ordinary share capital of the company: law and the companys articles, to indemnify: The directors, in respect of all losses arising out of, or in Number of Percentage Nature of ordinary of voting holding connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and shares rights responsibilities as directors of the company or any of its subsidiaries: and APG Asset 16,080,643 6.12% Direct Directors of companies which are corporate trustees of the Management N. V groups pension schemes against liability incurred in connection Blackrock, Inc. 13,195,300 5.01% Indirect with those companies activities as trustees of such schemes.
Prudential plc group 13,193,028 5.01% Indirect Directors remuneration of companies The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the board, has adopted a policy that aims to attract and retain the directors Share capital needed to run the group effectively.
The policy is contained within The companys issued share capital comprised a single class of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 76 to 81. shares divided into ordinary shares of 20 pence each referred to as ordinary shares.
As at 2 October 2016, the companys Employees issued share capital comprised of 262,871,256 ordinary shares.
For full information on our employees, including the areas of learning and development, employee communication and Rights and restrictions attaching to shares engagement, health, safety and wellbeing and equal On a show of hands at a general meeting of the company, every opportunities these are included in our Sustainable business holder of ordinary shares present in person and entitled to vote review on pages 24 to 27. shall have one vote, and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for Human rights every ordinary share held.
Any notice of general meeting issued by the company will specify deadlines for exercising voting rights Britvic does not have a specific human rights policy.
Britvics and in appointing a proxy or proxies in relation to resolutions to Code of Conduct sets out our guidelines on human rights in that be proposed at the general meeting.
All proxy votes are counted wherever Britvic operates in the world, it ensures that work is and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each carried out in a safe and clean environment.
Proper standards of resolution are announced at the general meeting and published employment comply with local laws.
Britvic only works with on the companys website after the meeting.
suppliers who adopt the ethical business standard required under Britvics ethical business policy.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the company other than: Political donations Certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed No political donations were made by the group and its by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and subsidiaries 2015: nil.
Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and Britvics share dealing code whereby certain Greenhouse gas emissions employees of the group require the approval of the company Details of the greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes of carbon to deal in its ordinary shares.
dioxide equivalent CO2e for our office and manufacturing locations The company is not aware of any agreements between are set out in the Sustainable business review on page 27. shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
Major shareholders At 2 October 2016, the company had been notified, in Dividend Waiver accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the The trustees of the Britvic Share Incentive Plan have elected to following interests amounting to three per cent or more of the waive dividends on shares held under trust relating to dividends voting rights in the issued ordinary share capital of the company: payable during the year.
Number of Percentage Nature of ordinary of voting holding Shares held in employee benefit trusts shares rights Under the rules of the Britvic Share Incentive Plan the Plan FMR LLC 18,432,163 7.00% Indirect eligible employees are entitled to acquire shares in the company.
Plan shares are held in trust for participants by Equiniti Share Standard Life 14,838,243 5.645% Direct Plan Trustees Limited the Trustees.
Voting rights are exercised Investments Ltd indirect by the Trustees on receipt of participants instructions.
If a participant does not submit an instruction to the Trustees no vote APG Asset 12,522,359 5.07% Direct is registered.
In addition, the Trustees do not vote on any Management N. V unawarded shares held under the Plan as surplus assets.
As at Prudential plc group 13,102,948 4.98% Indirect 28 November 2016, the Trustees held 1.24% 2015: 0.08% of of companies the issued share capital of the company.
indd 86 13 12 2016 19:06 Governance Directors report continued Similarly, if First Names Jersey Limited, as Trustee of the Britvic 2017 annual general meeting Employee Benefit Trust the Trustee, holds ordinary shares on The AGM will be held at RSA House, Durham House Street, off trust for the benefit of the executive directors, senior executives the Strand, London WC2N 6HG, at 11.00am on 31 January and managers of the group, a dividend waiver is in place.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are Trustee is not permitted to vote on any unvested shares held in set out in the separate circular which has been sent to all the trust unless expressly directed to do so by the company.
shareholders with this Annual Report.
TheTrustees held 0.19% of the issued share capital as at 28 November 2016 2015: 0.5%.
Audit information The directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no Change of control provisions relevant audit information as defined in section 418 of the There are no agreements between the company and its directors Companies Act 2006 of which the auditor is unaware and that or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or each director has taken all reasonable steps to make themselves employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The auditor is aware of that information.
companys banking arrangements are terminable upon a change of control of the company.
Certain other indebtedness becomes The directors confirm full compliance with the Competition and repayable if a change of control leads to a downgrade in the Markets Authoritys Statutory Audit Services Order.
A full credit rating of the company.
The companys agreements with competitive audit tender was undertaken during the year which PepsiCo are terminable upon a change of control.
Further details resulted in Ernst & Young LLP being retained.
Further information of these agreements can be found on page 28. relating to the tender process can be found on page 55 of the Audit Committee report.
Financial risk management Disclaimer It is the groups objective to manage its financial risk so as to The purpose of this Annual Report is to provide information to the minimise the adverse fluctuations in the financial markets on the members of the company and it has been prepared for, and only groups reported profitability and cash flows.
The policies for for, the members of the company as a body, and no other managing each of the groups main financial risk areas are persons.
The company, its directors and employees, agents and referred to in the Treasury Management section of the Chief advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any other Financial Officers review on page 22 and in more detail within person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it note 24 of the consolidated financial statements.
may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
A cautionary statement in respect of forward-looking Research and development statements contained in this Annual Report appears on the inside The group carries out research and development necessary to front cover of this document.
support its principal activities as a manufacturer and distributor of soft drinks.
The directors report was approved by the Board on 29 November 2016.
Branches As a global group, our interests and activities are held or By Order of the Board operated through subsidiaries, branches, joint arrangements or associates which are established in, and subject to the laws and regulations of, many different jurisdictions.
Going concern and viability The Directors consider that the group and the company have Clare Thomas adequate resources to remain in operation for the foreseeable General Counsel and Company Secretary future and have therefore continued to adopt the going concern Britvic plc basis in preparing the financial statements.
5604923 The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the directors to assess and report on the prospects of the Group over a longer period.
This longer term viability statement is set out on page 32.
Events since the balance sheet date Subsequent to the period end, the group announced the acquisition, subject to competition approval, of East Coast Suppliers Limited, a licensed wholesaler in Ireland.
The acquisition price is deemed not material to the group.
