Strategic report Key performance indicators We use these key performance indicators to measure our performance in fi financial and non-fi financial terms, as described below.
LINK TO STRATEGIC PRIORITIES WHY DO WE MEASURE THIS?
PERFORMANCE Revenue This measure refl ects our performance Group net revenue increased by 10.1% in terms of our ability to participate in to 1431.3m in 2016, refl ecting an markets effectively and to grow average outstanding year in GB Carbs and an prices and or grow volume sold.
excellent fi first year in Brazil, offset by a challenging year in GB Stills.
Underlying EBITA measures the on-going Pre-exceptional EBITA of 186.1m Pre-exceptional EBITA profi tability for the group.
EBITA is preferred represented growth of 8.4% driven by ahead of EBIT to allow for the impact of like for like growth of 3.8%, the inclusion fair value amortisation that is generated of a 53rd week and the acquisition when acquisitions are made.
Improving operating margin is a key focus Pre-exceptional EBITA margin reduced by Pre-exceptional of the business and measures our ability 20bps as a result of incorporating Brazil, EBITA margin to drive a positive mix and eliminate which operates at a lower margin than unnecessary cost.
EBITA is preferred the group average margin.
ahead of EBIT to allow for the impact of fair value amortisation that is generated when acquisitions are made.
Earnings per share refl ects the profi tability Adjusted earnings per share was Adjusted EPS of the business and how effectively we 49.3p, up 6.5%, refl ecting the growth in fi finance our balance sheet.
It is a key pre-exceptional EBITA of 8.4% and the measure for our shareholders.
benefi t of a reduction of 1.2m in net pre-exceptional interest costs.
Underlying free cash fl ow is a key Free cash fl ow was 10.9m, compared Underlying free indicator of the fi financial management to a 89.3m in 2015. cash ow of the business and refl ects the cash Working capital was an outfl ow of 25.8m generated by the business to fund due to the 53rd week resulting in an extra payments to our shareholders and payment run and, as planned, capital acquisitions.
expenditure was 61.0m higher than last year due to the implementation of our business capability programme in the GB supply chain.
Key to our strategic priorities: Generate pro table Continue to stepgrowth in our core change our business markets capability Realise global opportunities Build trust and respect in kids, family and adult in our communities categories 14 Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Chairmans introduction continued LINK TO STRATEGIC PRIORITIES WHY DO WE MEASURE THIS?
PERFORMANCE The Great Place to Work survey allows This is our fourth year for completing Great place to work all our people to anonymously feedback the survey and we continue to make survey their views.
progress in making Britvic a great place to work.
This year we achieved a Trust Index score of 72% with an 86% response rate.
Average calories per We are committed to helping Average calories per 250ml is 34.9 in 250ml consumers make healthier choices, 2016, down from 35.4 in 2015.
This and use average calories per 250ml reflects continued development of our as our key performance measure to portfolio, for example removal of added track development of our portfolio.
sugar from our Robinsons range.
The Advantage Survey is an In 2016 Britvic were ranked 2nd in GB Advantage survey independent report providing insight Wholesale and Convenience, 3rd in into customer service direct from Ireland and 4th in GB Grocery.
retailers, and benchmarking against our peers.
The CR index measure reflects the Britvic scored 2.5 stars in 2016, an Business in the progress of our Sustainable Business improvement from 2 stars in 2015. community corporate programme and provides an indication responsibility index of our contribution towards society through our responsible business practices.
For further information on our strategy, please see our CEOs report on page 16. making lifes everyday moments more enjoyable Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 15 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p001-037.
