Governance Board of directors Ben Gordon John Daly Clare Thomas Ian McHoul Gerald Corbett DL Independent Non-Executive Senior Independent General Counsel and Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Chairman Director Non-Executive Director Company Secretary Director Gerald Corbett has been Ben Gordon was appointed a John Daly was appointed a See full biography on page 39.
Ian McHoul was appointed a Non-Executive Chairman of the Non-Executive Director on Non-Executive Director on Non-Executive Director on Company since 24 November 15April 2008.
Companys Senior Skills, competence and Skills, competence and Skills, competencies and IndependentDirector.
experience: experience: experience: Ben has a strong background in Skills, competence and Ian is a Chartered Accountant Over a long business career, executive management, consumer experience: and has extensive finance, Gerald has been a director of insight and international retail John has more than 30 years of strategy, beverage and retail 13 public companies, seven of gained through his roles as Chief extensive international business experience gained through which he has chaired.
These Executive of Mothercare plc and and management experience leadership roles at Scottish & leadership experiences have former Senior Vice President and having held a variety of senior Newcastle plc, Inntrepreneur enabled Gerald to utilise his Managing Director of Disney Store, leadership roles, most notably Pub Group and Fosters Brewing significant insight and Europe and Asia Pacific.
He has during his 20 years at British Group.
Ian is Chief Financial experience to cultivate an open also held senior management American Tobacco plc.
Most Officer of Amec Foster Wheeler boardroom environment.
His positions with WHSmith group recent positions at BAT were plc and has previously served as most recent roles were as in the UK and the USA and Chief Operating Officer from Non-Executive Director and Chairman of Betfair Group plc LOreal S. A. in France and in 2010 to 2014 and Regional Chairman of the Audit 2012 - February 2016, the UK.
Ben has an MBA from Director for Asia Pacific, based in Committee of Premier Foods plc Moneysupermarket.
com Group INSEAD and is a Member of Hong Kong from 2004 to 2010. between 2004 and 2013, the plc 2007-2014 and SSL the Institution of Civil Engineers.
Prior to his time at British last year of which he was also International plc 2005-2010.
American Tobacco plc, John the Senior Independent Director.
His executive career included Current appointments: held various sales and marketing Ian holds a BSc in Mathematics Group Finance Director roles Non-Executive Director of St. positions with Johnson & from the University of Bristol.
with Redland plc and Grand Ives plc and a Trustee of the Johnson, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Metropolitan plc, and Chief Canal & River Trust.
Current appointments: Pennwalt Corporation and Executive of Railtrack.
Chief Financial Officer of Amec Schering-Plough.
Current appointments: Member of the Audit, Nomination Current appointments: Gerald is Chairman of Segro plc and Remuneration Committees Committees: Non-Executive Director of and is Chairman of the AIM Chair of the Audit Committee Wolseley plc Member of the listed investment and stockbroking and a member of the Audit, Remuneration and business Numis Corporation plc.
Nomination and Remuneration Nominations Committees and Gerald will not seek re-election at Committees.
G4S PLC Member of the Audit the AGM of Numis Corporation Committee and Chairman of the in February 2017.
Gerald is a Remuneration Committee member of the Advisory Committee at Spencer Stuart.
Committees: Chair of the Remuneration Committees: Committee and a member of Chair of the Nomination the Audit and Nomination Committee and a member of Committees.
36 Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p033-088.
indd 36 13 12 2016 19:05 Governance Board of directors continued From left to right: Ben Gordon John Daly Clare Thomas Ian McHoul Gerald Corbett Simon Litherland Euan Sutherland Sue Clark Mathew Dunn Joanne Averiss Simon Litherland Euan Sutherland Sue Clark Mathew Dunn Joanne Averiss Chief Executive Officer Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Director Director Simon Litherland was appointed Mathew joined the business in Joanne Averiss was appointed Chief Executive Officer in Euan was appointed a Sue was appointed a September 2015 and was a Non-Executive Director on February 2013 and is responsible Non-Executive Director on Non-Executive Director on appointed a director on 25 18 November 2005 and is the for overseeing the delivery of the 29 February 2016.
He is responsible Pepsi Group Nominee Director.
for Finance, Legal, Estates, Risk Skills, competence and Skills, competence and Skills, competence and He joined Britvic in September Management, and IT.
experience: experience: experience: 2011, initially as Managing Euan has over 23 years Sue has strong international Skills, competence and Joanne has gained considerable Director of Britvic GB.
experience gained from the retail credentials and has worked in experience: knowledge and experience of Skills, competence and and FMCG sectors having held the global FMCG sector for the Prior to joining Britvic, Mathew legal and regulatory matters experience: roles with Boots, Dixons, last 13 years.
Prior to the merger was at SABMiller PLC where he through her role at Pepsi Group.
Over 20 years of his career was Coca-Cola and Mars.
Euan was with Anheuser-Busch InBev in was CFO of South African She has been a member of the spent with Diageo.
His last role previously Group Chief Executive October 2016, Sue held the role Breweries Ltd, based in South Pepsi Group legal department was MD of Diageo Great Britain, Officer for the Co-op group of of Managing Director of Africa since 2014.
Mathew first since 1990, holding a series of having previously run Diageos companies.
Earlier in his career SABMiller Europe and was an joined SABMiller in 2002 where positions in the UK and the US businesses in South Africa, he was Group Chief Operating Executive Committee member he held various financial and is currently Senior Vice Ireland and Central and Eastern Officer at Kingfisher Plc, Chief of SABMiller plc.
She joined planning and management, President Law, General Europe.
During his time at Diageo, Executive Officer of B&Q and SABMiller in 2003 as Corporate as well as leadership positions Counsel, Europe and Sub Simon was responsible for an Chief Executive of AS Watson Affairs Director and was part of before joining EMI Music Ltd as Saharan Africa with legal extensive portfolio of brands UK, owner of Superdrug.
Euan the executive team that built the CFO of their Global Catalogue responsibility for all of the Pepsi including Guinness, Johnnie has a first class honours degree business into a top 5 FTSE division in 2009.
He returned to Groups business units within Walker, Baileys, Smirnoff and in Managerial & Administrative company.
Previously, Sue has SABMiller in 2010 as CFO, Asia Europe and Sub Saharan Africa.
In his earlier Studies from Aston University.
held a number of senior roles in based in China a role which he Current appointments: career he held a variety of UK companies, including that of held until his 2014 move to Current appointments: Trustee and Chair of the Mesen International Finance Director Director of Corporate Affairs for South Africa.
Group Chief Executive Officer Educational Trust.
roles in Diageo, IDV and Grand Railtrack Group and Scottish of SuperGroup plc.
Sue has an MBA Committees: None.
as a Chartered Accountant from Heriot-Watt University.
with Deloitte in South Africa and A member of the Audit Current appointments: has a business degree at the Committee.
Committees: Current appointments: Member of the Remuneration President and Chairman of ISBA Committee.
Council the voice of British Advertisers.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 37 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p033-088.
indd 37 13 12 2016 19:05 Governance Executive team Simon Litherland Jean-Luc Tivolle Joo Caetano fide Doug Frost Clive Hooper Chief Executive Officer Managing Director, France Chief People Officer Chief Supply Chain Officer Mello Neto Managing Director, Ebba, See full biography on page 37.
Jean-Luc Tivolle was appointed Doug Frost was appointed Clive was appointed Chief Brazil Managing Director of Britvic Human Resources Director in Supply Chain Officer in October France 2010, after 14 years 2004 and became Chief People 2016 having joined the business Mathew Dunn Joo Caetano fide Mello Neto as Vice-Chairman of Fruit Officer in October 2016.
Doug in 2006 as Production Director.
joined Britvic following the Chief Financial Officer Entreprises SAS, which was previously worked for 15 years Clive has responsibility for acquisition of Ebba on 30 acquired by Britvic at that time.
with Mars Incorporated in production, procurement, logistics, See full biography on page 37.
He has over Prior to this, he held senior roles positions in manufacturing, warehousing, technical and 30 years of executive in Tetra Pak and a variety of sales and human resources.
quality, safety and environment management experience in positions at Chocolat Poulain He started his career in the UK, across Britvic sites.
Prior to the consumer goods industry.
then worked across several joining Britvic, Clive has held Previously, Joo Caetano worked continental European markets senior management, production for Cia.
Mller fide Bebidas and latterly spent several years and planning roles at Greencore, Caninha 51 where he spent in Latin America.
14 years and acted as Chief Clive has a BEng in Engineering Executive Officer for 7 of those from the Royal Naval years.
Macedo for 7 years as Chief Executive Officer of Hidracor before moving to Ebba.
38 Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Left to right back row: Jean-Luc Tivolle, Joo Caetano fide Mello Neto, Doug Frost, Clive Hooper, Paul Graham, Mathew Dunn, Hessel fide Jong Left to right front row: Simon Litherland, Matt Barwell, Kevin Donnelly, Clare Thomas Matt Barwell Paul Graham Clare Thomas Kevin Donnelly Hessel fide Jong Chief Marketing Officer Managing Director, GB General Counsel and Managing Director, Ireland Managing Director, International Company Secretary Matt is responsible for Britvics Paul was appointed GB Kevin joined Britvic Ireland in Hessel joined Britvic on 28 global marketing, innovation and Managing Director on 13 April Clare Thomas joined the group as September 2008 as Marketing September 2015 as Managing sustainability strategies.
He 2015 having joined the business General Counsel and Company Director and was appointed Director, International and he joined Britvic from Diageo in in September 2012 as GB Secretary in September 2013 Country Director in June 2013. has over 20 years of 2014 where he held a number General Manager.
Paul is also and has responsibility for the He has over 25 years management experience in of senior positions over 15 years a member of the Executive legal, internal audit and risk, experience in sales, marketing international FMCG.
including Marketing and Council of The British Soft company secretarial and estates and general management in Prior to joining Britvic, Hessel Innovation Director, Africa.
Clare has a corporate FMCG companies, including worked as an advisor to a started his career with Mars joining Britvic, he worked in and commercial legal background, Unilever and Dairygold.
Kevin number of private equity where he worked for ten years a range of commercial roles and prior to joining Britvic spent holds a First Class Honours companies, including in both the confectionary and for companies including Mars 15 years as a corporate M&A Degree in Marketing from Trinity Blackstone and Bencis Capital pet food businesses.
Matt is a Confectionery and United lawyer at law firm Addleshaw College Dublin and a Post Partners.
From 2008 through Fellow of The Marketing Society.
Paul has a BSc in Goddard LLP, including six years Graduate Diploma in Digital 2014, he was Managing Management Sciences from as a partner, with a particular Marketing.
Director of the Dutch and the University of Manchester.
Benelux operations of the Coca-Cola Company.
Before 2008, Hessel held various regional and global leadership positions at Heineken and SCA Group in Europe and Asia.
Hessel is based in Amsterdam and holds a Master of Business Administration from INSEAD and a Bachelor of Business Administration from Nyenrode University.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 39 Governance Board of Directors continued The role of the board Compliance with The UK The board is responsible for the long term success of the group, Corporate Governance Code corporate governance, strategy, risk management and financial performance.
The board normally meets at least 8 times each The board supports the principles laid down in The UK Corporate financial year and has a formal schedule of matters reserved Governance Code as issued by the Financial Reporting Council in to it for decision making, including responsibility for the overall September 2014, which applies to financial years beginning on or management and performance of the group, and the approval of after 1 October 2014 the Code available at www.
its long term objectives and commercial strategy, approval of This report describes how the principles of the Code are applied annual and interim results, annual budgets, material acquisitions and reports on the companys compliance with the Codes and disposals, material agreements and major capital provisions.
commitments, approval of treasury policies, and assessment of its going concern position.
Throughout the financial year ended 2 October 2016 and to the date of this report, we have complied with the provisions set out Board members are given appropriate documentation in advance in the Code with the exception of the provisions below: of each board or committee meeting.
This includes a detailed report on current trading performance and comprehensive Code Provision B.
1.2 For a short period following the AGM briefing papers on matters where the board will be required to on 31 January 2016 until 29 February reach a decision.
Senior executives below board level attend 2016 when Euan Sutherland and Sue board meetings where appropriate to present business updates.
Clark were appointed as directors, the composition of the Board was There is an established procedure for the preparation and review temporarily imbalanced in terms of by the board of the annual budget.
The business reports monthly independence with Bob Ivell reaching on its performance against its agreed budget.
The board receives his nine years tenure and remaining a monthly update on performance and reviews any significant on the Board until Euan and Sue had variances at each of its meetings.
All major investment decisions been appointed.
are usually subject to post-completion reviews.
At least one of the boards regular meetings every year is devoted to reviewing Code Provision B.
6.2 The last externally facilitated Board and agreeing the groups long-term strategy.
evaluation was carried out during July September 2013.
The Board agreed that following the significant Matters reserved for the board changes to the Board over the past The board provides strong and effective leadership within a year, that there would be more value framework of prudent and effective controls, and in accordance in delaying the externally facilitated with the Code provisions there is a formal schedule of matters evaluation during 2017.
Further details specifically reserved for board decision which defines the board are set out on page 46 of this report.
This clear definition not only compliments and strengthens the companys decisions, but builds the foundations of a solid business.
Although there is a Leadership standard agenda of items, these are regularly reviewed to ensure that the board provides continual effective leadership and drive The board towards the groups strategic aims.
Matters which the board consider suitable for delegation are contained in the terms of The board of directors currently has nine members, comprising reference of its committees which, in line with the Code provisions, the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, five can be found on the companys website at independent Non-Executive Directors and the PepsiCo nominated http: www.
com investor-centre corporate-governance Non-Executive Director.
The biographical details of the board members are set out on pages 36 and 37.
All of the directors bring strong judgement to the boards deliberations.
They have all Re-election of directors occupied, or occupy, senior positions in UK and or international The companys articles of association provide that all directors companies including listed companies and have substantial will stand for re-election at least every three years but in order to experience across a range of businesses.
Other than their fees, comply with the Code, all of the directors submit themselves for which are disclosed on page 69, the Non-Executive Directors re-election or election following first appointment at each annual received no remuneration from the company during the year.
They also do not participate in any of the groups pension schemes or in any of the groups bonus, share option or other Board committees incentive schemes.
The board is assisted by four board committees as shown in thegovernance framework diagram below to which it delegates specific responsibilities.
Each committee has full terms of reference that have been approved by the board and which can be found on our website at http: www.
com investor-centre corporate-governance 40 Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p033-088.
indd 40 13 12 2016 19:05 Governance Board of Directors continued The Chairman works closely with the Chief Executive Officer to Company Secretary ensure that the strategies and actions agreed by the board are Clare Thomas is the Company Secretary and her biography can implemented and provides support and appropriate advice to the be found on page 39.
Her responsibilities include ensuring good Chief Executive Officer.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible information flows to the board and its committees and between for the day-to-day management of the business, developing the senior management and the Non-Executive Directors, advising groups strategic direction for consideration and approval by the the board on all legal and corporate governance matters, and board, and implementing the agreed strategy.
He is supported by assisting the Chairman in ensuring that the directors have the other members of his executive team.
suitably tailored and detailed induction and on-going  programmes.
The different roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are acknowledged.
A responsibility statement for each of those roles has been agreed with the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, The role of the Chairman and respectively, and adopted by the board.
Chief Executive Officer The Chairman is primarily responsible for the workings of the During the year the Chairman met with the Non-Executive board: to ensure that its strategic and supervisory role is Directors without the Executive Directors present to evaluate their achieved and for ensuring effective communication with performance and the Non-Executive Directors met without the shareholders.
Chairman present, to evaluate his performance.
Governance Framework Shareholders 2,787 Shareholders as at 2 October 2016 Board Chairman Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors Executive Team Chief Executive Officer Chief Chief Chief Chief MD MD MD MD MD General Financial Marketing People Supply Ireland Brazil GB France International Counsel & Officer Officer Officer Chain Company Officer Secretary Nomination Audit Remuneration Disclosure Committee Committee Committee Committee Chairman 4 Non-Executive Directors 4 Non-Executive Directors Chairman 3 Non-Executive Directors Chairman CEO and CFO IR Director Provides oversight and Director of Corporate Primary responsibility for governance over the Agrees remuneration policy Affairs succession planning, groups annual reporting, and sets individual Company Secretary board director selection internal controls, risk compensation levels for and board composition management and directors and senior Provides assistance with relationship with external management disclosures required under auditors the Listing Rules and to help ensure that disclosure controls and procedures are properly implemented Committee Report pages Committee Report pages Committee and Directors 47 and 49 50 to 55 Remuneration Reports pages 58 to 84 Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 41 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p033-088.
indd 41 13 12 2016 19:05 Governance Board of Directors continued Board activities during the year During the year, consideration and decisions taken by the board have included: Leadership Financial Internal controls Strategy Governance & People Performance & risk management & stakeholders Reviewed the Received regular Received regular Received regular Received regular development of people performance reports updates on risk and M&Aupdates meeting reports and potential talent in from the CFO reviewed key risks and fromeach of the Review of the Britvic including mitigation plans Committee Chairs Approved annual companys strategy succession planning budget Approved insurance over a 2 day off-site Reviewed annual for senior leaders renewal approach and meeting feeincreases for Approved half year Discussed the strategy theNon-Executive andfull year results Review and approval composition of the Directors including dividend Received regular of investments relating Board and its recommendations updates on quality, to the GB supply Reviewed Committees, including andannouncements health & safety & chaintransformation developments in succession planning environment programme corporate governance, Approved interim Visit to Amsterdam legal and regulatory management Received updates office & local trade updates statements onBrexit implications, visits innovation and the Received investor Approved annual Brazil business relations reports and report including going shareholder feedback concern review and Deep dives of viability statement specificUK brands, Received updates theInternational & onsugar tax Approved long-term USbusinesses financing plans Board meetings and attendance The board met nine times during the year in accordance with its scheduled meeting calendar, excluding ad-hoc conference calls and committee meetings to approve the financial results.
Additional meetings were also convened to deal with key matters requiring the boards attention and major projects, as required.
The board meetings were held at the head office in Hemel Hempstead, except two meetings which were held off-site in London and Amsterdam.
The attendance by each board member is shown below: Membership and attendance Number of Number of Number of Number of Board Audit Remuneration Nomination meetings Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings Gerald Corbett 9 9 4 4 2 2 Simon Litherland 9 9 1 Mathew Dunn 7 7 2 Joanne Averiss 8 9 3 Sue Clark 5 5 2 2 John Daly 9 9 3 3 4 4 2 2 Ben Gordon 9 9 3 3 4 4 2 2 Ian McHoul 9 9 3 3 4 4 2 2 3 Euan Sutherland 5 5 2 2 4 John Gibney 3 3 5 Bob Ivell 4 4 1 1 2 2 1 2 Notes: 1.
Meetings attended by Mathew Dunn following his appointment on 25 November 2015 2.
Joanne Averiss was unable to attend a meeting due to a pre-existing business commitment 3.
Meetings attended by Sue Clark and Euan Sutherland following their appointments on 29 February 2016.
Meetings attended by John Gibney until his date of resignation, 27 January 2016.
Meetings attended by Bob Ivell up until he stepped down from the Board on 1 March 2016.
Senior independent director The Senior Independent Director is John Daly who is available to shareholders if they have concerns which are not resolved through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
His biography can be found on page 36.
42 Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p033-088.
indd 42 13 12 2016 19:05 Governance Board of Directors continued Tenure of Non-Executive Directors The Code provides that the length of tenure is a factor to consider when determining the independence of Non-Executive Directors.
The table below shows the tenure and independence of each of our Non-Executive Directors since the date of their first election by shareholders.
Date first Years from Considered elected by first election to be shareholders to 2017 AGM independent by the board 1 Gerald Corbett January 2007 10 n a 2 Joanne Averiss January 2007 10 No 3 Sue Clark - - Yes John Daly January 2016 1 Yes Ben Gordon January 2009 8 Yes Ian McHoul January 2015 2 Yes 3 Euan Sutherland - - Yes Notes: 1 The company considers that, on appointment, the Chairman was independent for the purposes of provision A.
Joanne Averiss is Senior Vice President Law, General Counsel, Europe of Pepsico and is the PepsiCo Non-Executive Director.
Accordingly, she is not considered to be independent by the board.
In addition to her fiduciary obligations to act in the best interests of the company, Joanne Averiss is required under her letter of appointment to discharge her duties in the interests of the company notwithstanding her connection with PepsiCo.
With the exception of Joanne Averiss, the Non-Executive Directors are all independent of management and free from any business or other relationship, including those relationships and circumstances referred to in provision B.
1.1 of the Code that could materially interfere with the exercise of independent and objective judgement.
Appointed on 29 February 2016 and will stand for election at the AGM.
COMPOSITION GENDER OFTHE BOARD TENURE OF BOARD 11% 22% 22% 22% 45% 78% 33% 67% Female Executives More than 3 years Male Non-executives Less than 1 year Chair 1 - 3 years BOARD SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE Retail & marketing Consumer International Finance investment 0 2 4 6 8 10 Number of directors Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 43 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p033-088.
indd 43 13 12 2016 19:05 Governance Board of Directors continued The board is supported by the Audit Committee in reviewing Service contracts and letters of appointment the effectiveness of the groups risk process and internal control Details of the Executive Directors service contracts and the systems.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, Chairmans and the Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 75.
These objectives and it must be recognised that it can only provide documents are available for inspection at the registered office of reasonable and not absolute assurance against material the company during normal business hours and at the AGM.
Management, with the assistance of the finance function, is Independent advice responsible for the appropriate maintenance of financial records The board has approved a procedure for directors to take and processes.
This ensures that all financial information is independent professional advice at the companys expense if relevant, reliable, in accordance with the applicable laws and necessary.
No such advice was sought by any director during the regulations, and distributed both internally and externally in year.
In addition, the directors have direct access to the advice a timely manner.
A review of the consolidation and financial and services of the Company Secretary.
statements is completed by management to ensure that the financial position and results of the group are appropriately Indemnification of directors recorded, circulated to members of the board and published In addition to the indemnity granted by the company to directors where appropriate.
All financial information published by the in respect of their liabilities incurred as a result of their office in group is subject to the approval of the board, on the accordance with our articles of association, we maintain a recommendation of the Audit Committee.
directors and officers liability insurance policy throughout the year.
Neither our indemnity nor the insurance provides cover in the event that a director has proven to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
Risk management and internal control The board has overall responsibility for monitoring the groups system of internal control and risk management and for carrying out a review of its effectiveness.
In discharging that responsibility, the board confirms that it has established the procedures necessary to apply the Code, including clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
These procedures have been in place since the company listed and are regularly reviewed by the board.
Business performance is managed closely and the board and the executive team have established processes, as part of the normal good management of the business, to monitor: Strategic plan achievement, through a regular review of progress towards strategic objectives: Monitoring and maintenance of insurance cover to insure all risk areas of the group: Financial performance, within a comprehensive financial planning and accounting framework, including budgeting and forecasting, financial reporting, analysing variances against plan and taking appropriate management action: Capital investment and asset management performance, with detailed appraisal, authorisation and post investment reviews: and The principal risks facing the business ensuring that the significant risks faced by the group are being identified, evaluated and appropriately managed, giving consideration to the balance of risk, cost and opportunity.
44 Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p033-088.
indd 44 13 12 2016 19:05 Governance Board of Directors continued Effectiveness Conflicts of interest Induction and development The companys articles of association allow the board to The Chairman is responsible for preparing and co-ordinating authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise and to aninduction programme for newly appointed directors, including impose limits or conditions, as appropriate.
Any decision of the presentations from senior management on different aspects of board to authorise a conflict of interest, whether matter-specific the business, as well as guidance on their duties, responsibilities or situational, is only effective if it is agreed without the and liabilities as a director of a listed company.
The Non-Executive participation of the conflicted director s, and in making such a Directors are encouraged to visit group manufacturing sites to decision, as always, the directors must act in a way they consider enable them to gain a greater understanding of the groups in good faith will be most likely to promote the success of the activities and to meet senior managers throughout the business.
The company has an established procedure whereby Every director has access to appropriate training as required actual or potential conflicts of interest are reviewed annually and subsequent to his appointment and is encouraged to develop for the appropriate authorisation to be sought prior to the hisunderstanding of the group.
To strengthen the directors appointment of any new director or if a new conflict arises.
The knowledge and understanding of the Group, board meetings Nomination Committee engaged with Spencer Stuart during the regularly include updates and briefings on specific areas of the year for the purpose of recruiting Mathew Dunn, Sue Clark and groups activities and board meetings, where possible, are held Euan Sutherland.
As Gerald Corbett serves on the Advisory offsite at other Britvic sites.
Committee of Spencer Stuart, it was agreed that he should Following Sue Clark and Euan Sutherlands appointment to the absent himself from discussions relating to the engagement of board, the Company Secretary assisted the Chairman in organising Spencer Stuart and from discussions relating to their an appropriate induction programmes for both directors.
John Daly, the Senior Independent Director programme was tailored according to their background, experience chaired the Nomination Committee which made the appointments.
and the requirements of their role, noting their appointments as John Daly serves on the Board of Wolsely plc with Tessa Bamford members of the Remuneration and Audit Committees respectively.
who is a consultant with Spencer Stuart.
Both John Dalys and The table below details the highlights of their induction Gerald Corbetts external appointments were considered as part programme to date: of the annual review and renewed for a period of one year.
Type of induction activity Meetings with Chairman, CEO and CFO to understand the culture and values, strategy, Face to face meetings recentdevelopments, overview of financials including last years report and accounts and key challengesand opportunities Meetings with members of the Executive team to gain insight of their role and responsibilities, thestructure of their teams and current challenges and opportunities Site visits Visits to our Leeds and Rugby sites to further their knowledge of operations Committee inductions To understand Committee remit and overview of key issues policies developments Meeting with Chair of Committee and advisers to Committee Investor relations To gain an overview of investor relations activities, market facing issues and investor concerns and media views Governance, risk Matters reserved for the Board and Statement of Authorities, overview of Board procedures management and andschedule of future meetings litigation Directors duties and Board procedures for conflicts of interest and share dealing Key governance issues affecting the company Principal risk register and risk management approach Overview of material litigation Directors & Officers insurance policy To gain access to key materials and policies allowing each director to further their knowledge of Use of Board portal the work of the Board and annual planning cycles, minutes from previous meetings and other relevant information In terms of on-going development for the other directors, John Daly was appointed Chair of the Remuneration Committee in January 2016 and has been supported by the Remuneration Committees advisers to further understand remuneration related hot topics, investor views on remuneration and market trends.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 45 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p033-088.
indd 45 13 12 2016 19:05 Governance Board of directors continued Board evaluation Each year the performance of the Board, its Committees and directors is evaluated.
The last externally facilitated evaluation was carried out during July September 2013.
The Board agreed that following the significant changes to the Board over the past year that there would be more value in delaying the externally facilitated evaluation to 2017.
This year, an internal evaluation process was carried out by way of a questionnaire based on the performance of the Board and its Committees and that of the Chairman.
The results of the evaluation were presented to the Board and confirmed that the Board and its Committees were operating effectively.
2015 Evaluation Recommendations Actions delivered Continue to focus on shorter-term Bob Ivell and Silvia Lagnados succession plans were completed succession planning and for a in February 2016 with the appointment of Sue Clark and Euan successor to the Chairman Sutherland.
Given the year of change on the Board, the Chairman has agreed to remain on the Board until the new board has settled Implement a deeper succession plan A talent review is brought to the Board on an annual basis to focus and focus on talent management on the pipeline of talent for the leadership team Increase the boards visibility to external The Board portal is used to ensure directors have access to the investor concerns and updates latest sector and company related broker notes Continue with opportunities for the The Board have visited the Amsterdam office and the Rugby factory Non-Executive Directors to visit other during the year.
Meetings are scheduled to take place off-site with sites and to meet informally outside board dinners to enable discussion outside of the boardroom of board meetings Focus on strategy and risk In light of the increased governance focus on risk, the boards management agenda has been re-shaped with risk and strategy appearing as regular features.
During the year, an additional meeting was held off-site with an exclusive focus on strategic opportunities and challenges for the company 2016 Evaluation Recommendations for 2016-17 Continue to embed the newer members of the Board through informal engagement Continued focus on strategic priorities with regular deep dives Develop content and format of information for the Board Develop Board succession plans 46 Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p033-088.
