KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Measuring progress against our strategy CUSTOMERS ACTIVE CUSTOMER POWER BRAND ACTIVE GROWTH OF OUR MOST CUSTOMER SATISFACTION ACCOUNTS m CUSTOMER ACCOUNTS m LOYAL CUSTOMERS % RATING % 2.2% -140bps -10bps 6.9% 2015 4.05m 2015 1.87m 2015 1.0% 2015 85.9% 2016 4.14m 2016 2.00m 2016 -0.4% 2016 85.8% Relevance to strategy Relevance to strategy Relevance to strategy Relevance to strategy Definition Definition Definition Definition The number of customer The number of Power Brand We define our most loyal Our latest overall customer accounts which made a retail JD Williams, Simply Be and customers as those who have satisfaction score, as measured purchase in the last 12 months.
Jacamo customer accounts purchased from us in each of independently by the UK which made a retail purchase the last four clothing seasons.
Performance Performance Performance Performance Growth of 2.2% is a solid result, We are pleased to report 6.9% Whilst the marginal decline We are very proud of our particularly against a competitive growth here, with this figure in this customer group is results in the survey, where market backdrop.
In line with exceeding 2 million for the first disappointing, this was as a we continue to be ranked third our strategy we continue to time.
The combination of this result of the headwind of our in the UK retail sector behind prioritise recruitment for our customer growth together with Traditional Segment.
We are only Amazon and John Lewis.
increased spend drove Power taking actions to improve Our score of 85.8% is over Brand revenue growth of 10.0%.
4ppts higher than the retail sector average.
Outlook Outlook Outlook Outlook We will continue to attract Our Power Brands remain our The actions being taken to Customer satisfaction is driven new customers to our business focus, as we believe that these improve our Traditional titles by a wide range of factors through great product, three brands have the greatest should feed into increased value, product quality, delivery, innovative marketing campaigns global growth potential over customer loyalty.
Elsewhere, ways to pay and sorting out and fantastic customer service.
we will continue to continually issues when things go wrong focus on customer retention to name just a few.
We talk to and frequency of spend.
our customers every day to ensure we are doing the best job we possibly can.
"Risk Risk Risk Risk Failure to change Failure to change Failure to change Failure to change Competition Competition Competition Competition People People People Regulatory environment N Brown Group plc 24 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Product Price People Place PRODUCT LADIESWEAR MARKET SHARE MENSWEAR MARKET SHARE GROUP RETURNS RATE SIZE 16 % CHEST 44"" % ROLLING 12 MONTHS % at 20bps -120bps 2015 4.0% 2015 1.5% 2015 28.6% 2016 4.0% 2016 1.7% 2016 27.4% Relevance to strategy Relevance to strategy Relevance to strategy Definition Definition Definition Our market share in UK Our market share in UK The amount, measured in value, Ladieswear, in size 16 and higher."
Menswear, in chest size 44 and of products which are returned Market share is calculated using higher.
Market share is calculated to us by customers, over the internal and Kantar data, and this using internal and Kantar data, last 12 months.
figure relates to the 24 weeks and this figure relates to the 24 ending 14 February.
Performance Performance Performance We saw a flat market share We are pleased to report a This KPI is a measure of customer here, a solid result.
Within this, 20bps increase in market share satisfaction with our products, we gained share in younger in Menswear.
This was driven and we are very pleased with Womenswear, driven by Simply by the continued strong the 120bps improvement this Be, and saw a small decline in performance of Jacamo.
Product mix the relative the older age groups as a result outperformance of Homewares of the underperformance of our and Menswear, further Traditional Segment.
improvements to our product quality and fit, and the increase in cash customers all contributed to the decline in our returns rate, in roughly equal measure.
Outlook Outlook Outlook Against a challenging market We strive to continually improve The relative outperformance of backdrop we will focus on our products.
For SS16 we Homewares and Menswear is driving share through continued significantly extended the unlikely to continue indefinitely: improvements to our products, menswear range within JD Womenswear growth is positive everyday great value and Williams, which is called Williams in margin terms but a headwind exciting and efficient and Brown, and performance so to our returns rate.
improvements and new cash customers should continue to help this KPI.
Risk Risk Risk Failure to change Failure to change Failure to change Competition Competition Competition People People N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 25 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS CONTINUED DIGITAL ONLINE ONLINE PENETRATION CONVERSION TRAFFIC FROM MOBILE PENETRATION % OF NEW CUSTOMERS % RATE % DEVICES % 6ppts 7ppts at 10ppts 2015 59% 2015 65% 2015 5.8% 2015 56% 2016 65% 2016 72% 2016 5.8% 2016 66% Relevance to strategy Relevance to strategy Relevance to strategy Relevance to strategy Definition Definition Definition Definition The percentage of sales, The percentage of sales from The percentage of website The percentage of our total excluding stores and new customers, excluding stores sessions which result in an online traffic which comes International, which comes and International, which comes order being placed.
from either a smartphone to us online.
largest channel is through our contact centre.
Performance Performance Performance Performance We have worked very hard We view this metric as a leading Our conversion rate was flat at Mobile devices now account for over the past year to transform indicator of the Group, and are 5.8%, significantly above the two-thirds of our online traffic, into a digital-first retailer, very pleased with the 7ppts industry average.
Within this, an increase of 10ppts year on prioritising online in every increase year on year, to the conversion rate for all three year.
Within this, we have seen business process.
Our device types PC, smartphone a 65% increase in smartphone resulted in online revenue new customers are increasingly and tablet increased sessions, and this is now the up by 15% year on year.
digital in their mindset and significantly.
leading device type by traffic.
Outlook Outlook Outlook Outlook We have created a digital centre We will continue to serve The continued increase in mobile We continue to optimise our of excellence to ensure our customers, both new and devices represents an ongoing already strong mobile and tablet online proposition is the best it existing, in whichever way headwind, as customers tend to propositions.
Our new web platform is most convenient for them.
use these for browsing as well as customers smartphones are will further improve our offering Customers are increasingly purchasing, resulting in a increasingly the channel of and increase our digital agility.
choosing to shop online, and naturally lower conversion rate.
choice, whereas our online therefore we expect continued We continue to optimise traditional customers favour progress in this metric.
Our job is to ensure that with us, irrelevant of the device customers get a great experience type they use, to drive revenues.
with us, whichever way they choose to browse and shop.
Risk Risk Risk Risk Failure to change Failure to change Competition Competition Competition Competition People People People People Cyber Security Cyber Security Cyber Security Cyber Security N Brown Group plc 26 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Product Price People Place FINANCIAL SERVICES ARREARS RATE PROVISION RATE NEW CREDIT RECRUITS 28 DAYS % RESTATED % ROLLERS -50bps 2% 60bps 2015 10.3% 2015 16.1% 2015 133,000 2016 10.9% 2016 15.6% 2016 136,000 Relevance to strategy Relevance to strategy Relevance to strategy Definition Definition Definition Arrears over 28 days are defined Closing bad debt provision The number of new customers as customer debts with two or as a percentage of gross opening a credit account and more missed payments.
rolling a balance in the last six months.
Performance Performance Performance Credit arrears stood at 10.9% The improving trend in this In the second half of the year for FY16, an increase of 60bps metric is a direct result of we saw 136,000 new rollers: from 10.3% last year, driven by the work we have done over for the year as a whole we new customer recruitment.
This the past two years to both welcomed over 286,000 new metric is still significantly lower tighten our credit policies credit customers rolling a than it was a few years ago, as a and help customers in balance.
The primary driver result of the improvements we financial difficulties, putting of an increase in new credit have made to our Financial them on payment plans to customers is our improved Services business.
Outlook Outlook Outlook In FY17 we expect our arrears Whilst we continue to improve We will continue to work hard rate to increase slightly, the quality of our credit to recruit new customers, reflecting increased levels book, in FY17 we expect our including cash, rollers and of customer recruitment.
provisions rate to increase non-rollers.
The implementation slightly, as a result of increased of our new Financial Services levels of customer recruitment.
systems will allow us to offer a more tailored suite of Financial Services products, broadening our appeal.
Risk Risk Risk Failure to change Failure to change Failure to change Competition Competition Competition People People People Regulatory environment Regulatory environment Regulatory environment N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 27
