OUR STRATEGY Our vision To be the universally loved experts in fashion that fits.
Our mission Well do this by helping our customers look and feel amazing through our trusted family of fashion brands.
N Brown Group plc 20 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Key Performance Indicators p24 Risk management p28 Strategy rocket The strategy laid out on this page is unchanged from the one we presented in last years annual report.
We view our strategy as a rocket, with the four drivers of our success the engines, and GUSTO, our values, our rocket fuel.
4 drivers of success Product Price People Place Fantastic quality and fit Great prices and flexible Obsessed with customers, Whatever you want, fashion, home ranges, and ways to pay enriched with data and powered wherever you are, whenever relevant financial services by technology you want it, we make it easy Relevance Relevance Relevance Relevance Great product is the lifeblood of Value and convenient ways to Without our people and their Customers shop how and when our business it is the absolute pay are both as important to relentless enthusiasm and passion they want, and it is our job to core of what we do.
customers as they have ever been.
are our most important asset.
Progress 2016 Progress 2016 Progress 2016 Progress 2016 We drove significant After a strategic price We digitalised all of our people We continue to drive our digital improvements to both product recalibration last year we tools, introduced new skillsets capabilities to ensure our sites quality and our style credentials ensured our price points to the business and embedded look fantastic.
We moved to through changes to design, stayed sharp this year, and our GUSTO values to leverage 9pm cut-off for next day and sourcing, buying and also ran exciting and efficient not just what we do but how completed our new warehouse merchandising.
promotions to drive cash we do it.
Atlantic our USA business continued to perform strongly.
Priorities 2017 Priorities 2017 Priorities 2017 Priorities 2017 We will continue to improve We will continue to drive great Our ambition is to be the most We will further improve our our clothing and homewares value for customers and cash fabulous place to work in delivery offering, ensure our products, with in-season profit for us.
In Financial fashion, by hiring great people, small number of stores are the flexibility an ongoing focus.
Services, our new systems will developing talent and best they can be and grow our The roll-out of Fit 4 the Future give our customers more rewarding achievement.
will also allow us to offer a options to pay.
wider range of more tailored Financial Services products.
Associated risks Associated risks Associated risks Associated risks Failure to change Failure to change People Failure to change Competition Competition Competition Regulatory environment People Cyber security KPIs KPIs KPIs KPIs 4.0% 85.8% 85.8% 65% Ladieswear market share, size 16 Customer satisfaction rating, UK CSI Customer satisfaction rating, UK CSI Online penetration 1.7% 136k 5.8% Menswear market share, chest size 44 New credit recruits Rollers Conversion rate 27.4% 4.14m Group returns rate rolling 12 months Active customer accounts N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 21
