STRATEGY IN ACTION Key achievements through 2016 Previously, we relied on Having the team has also Product Price external design agencies and allowed us to introduce new tended to follow the high ranges which are designed street, meaning our ranges in-house from scratch, such Improving werent as fashionable as they as the fast fashion Simply Be could have been.
Over the last Unique range and the Lorraine 18 months we have significantly Kelly for JD Williams collection.
promotional invested in a new in-house team Initially the team was primarily of talented designers.
This efficiency focused on Womenswear, team ensures that our product but we continue to expand, offering captures all the latest with recruits in Footwear, trends in comprehensive and Accessories, Menswear and brand-appropriate ways.
Sharp prices in line with a dedicated print designer the mid-market Our designers fulfill a range of tasks.
They make sure we are on-trend and have fashionable collections Value for money which appeal both to our loyal existing customers and attract new ones.
They translate the colours, Attractive promotions shapes and styles of the season to which drive cash margin fit and flatter our customers, whatever their age or size.
New in-house As we reported in last years report, Autumn 2014 saw us undertake a strategic price design team re-calibration, rebasing our prices to ensure we were competitive.
This year our focus was on improving our promotional efficiency, ensuring that we drove volumes and as a result generated positive cash margin.
This was most apparent over the Black Friday and Cyber Monday week.
We planned the event months in advance, buying some great products specifically for it, at attractive margins so both our customers, and our business, got some great deals.
N Brown Group plc 22 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Key Performance Indicators p24 Risk management p28 People Place New operating team in place Warehouse extension now ANGELA SPINDLER CRAIG LOVELACE RALPH TUCKER ANN STEER Chief Executive Group Chief Product and Marketing Director Financial Officer Retail Director complete Last year we announced a 24m investment in a major warehouse extension at our facility in Shaw, on the outskirts of Manchester.
We are very pleased to report that the new warehouse went live, on time and to budget.
STEVE JOHNSON ANDY HAYWOOD CAROLINE IAN CARR Financial Services Chief Operating MASSINGHAM Logistics Director The new building has doubled our pick-face, Director Officer People Director increased our throughput capacity by 30% and our storage capacity by 25%.
It will enable us to get products to our customers even faster, and further improve our already very efficient operations.
Importantly, it also This year saw the arrival of our All the team are digital natives supports our International ambitions over new CFO, Craig Lovelace, in and experts in their fields.
May 2015, and Steve Johnson, They are used to working in our first ever Financial Services fast-paced businesses, and Director, in February 2016. are hugely excited about the transformational journey we These two appointments mean are on.
that our new operating team is now in place, after considerable changes over the past two years.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 23
