Directors report The directors present their report Forward-looking statements contained In accordance with the Companys together with the financial statements in this report have been made by the articles of association, throughout the and the independent auditors report for directors in good faith based on the year the Company has maintained the year ended 31 March 2016. information available to them up to the insurance cover for its directors and time of their approval of this report and officers and those of its subsidiary such statements should be treated with companies under a directors and Principal Activity caution due to the uncertainties, officers liability policy as permitted by The principal activity of the Group is including economic and business risk sections 232 to 235 of the Companies the business of healthcare: focusing factors, inherent in them.
The Company has also, to the on Interventional Medicine therapies extent permitted by law, entered into for liver cancer, emphysema and Further information on the Group is separate Deeds of Indemnity in favour vascular disorders, Specialty available on the website: 76 of each of its directors to provide them Pharmaceuticals for acute care uses, www.
Notwithstanding the Governance with appropriate protection with and a licensing business.
references made in this Annual Report respect to potential liabilities arising to the Groups website, none of the from the discharge of their duties.
Strategic Report information made available on the Neither the insurance policy nor the website constitutes part of, or should be The Group is required by the Companies indemnities provide cover where the deemed to be incorporated by reference Act 2006 to set out a fair and balanced relevant director or officer is found to into, this Annual Report.
review of the business, including the have acted fraudulently or intentionally performance and development of the breached the law.
Results and dividends Group during the year and at the year Information on directors remuneration, end and a description of the principal The results for the year and the financial contracts, options and their beneficial risks it faces.
This information is position at 31 March 2016 are shown in interests, including those of their contained within the strategic report the Consolidated Income Statement on immediate families, in the shares of the which can be found on pages 2 to 32 page 83 and the Consolidated Company are shown in the directors and incorporated into this report by Statement of Financial Position on page remuneration report on pages 54 to 75. reference: 85.
The directors do not recommend the None of the directors had an interest in payment of a dividend for the year The Chairmans Statement on page 6, any contract of significance to which 14 15: nil.
The results of the Group for the Chief Executives review on pages the Company or any of its subsidiaries the year are explained further on pages 7 and 8 and the Market Overview on was party during the year.
22 to 26. pages 2 and 3 provide details of the Groups principal activities and Corporate governance Directors and their powers and strategy, its performance during the interests A report on corporate governance can year and its prospects for future be found on pages 36 to 47. development opportunities.
The directors of the Group at the date of this report, together with their Details of the principal risks facing the Environmental matters biographical details and dates of Group are set out on pages 27 to 32. appointment, are shown on pages 34 Our greenhouse gas emissions have Information relating to the and 35. been calculated as carbon dioxide environment, employees and equivalents, these are disclosed in the The Board confirms that each of the stakeholders, health and safety, People and Practices section of the directors who served during the year ethical considerations including strategic report on pages 19 to 21. has been formally appraised during the reporting of response to the UK period.
All the directors continue to Modern Slavery Act, charitable demonstrate commitment to the Group, donations and policies regarding its the Board and to their role.
In employees is set out on pages 19 to 21. accordance with the UK Corporate This information is prepared solely to Governance Code the Code, all assist shareholders to assess the directors of the Company will stand for Groups overall strategy, the risks election or re-election annually.
inherent in it and the potential for the strategy to succeed.
The directors report should not be relied on by any other person or for any other purpose.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Share capital and shareholders Share capital and shareholders As at 31 March 2016 the issued share Shareholding % holding capital of the Company was Invesco Asset Management 86,084,177 22.48% 38,299,158, divided into 382,991,577 Novo A S 44,173,492 11.53% shares of 10p each.
During the year the Woodford Investment Management 31,574,541 8.24% share capital increased by 1,214,874 shares due to the exercise and vesting AXA Investment Managers 22,418,717 5.85% of share awards by employees and M&G Investment Management 18,706,406 4.88% former employees under the Companys Aviva Investors 18,652,447 4.87% employee share schemes.
The Standard Life Investments 16,018,069 4.18% Company has only one class of shares Schroder Investment Management 13,566,930 3.54% and there are no restrictions on voting rights or on the holding or transfer of Change of control Viability Statement these securities.
There are a number of agreements with In accordance with the 2014 edition third parties with terms that take effect of the Code, directors are also required Details of the movements in the after, or terminate upon, a change of to provide a broader assessment of Companys share capital are shown in control of the Group, such as viability over a longer period.
This note 19 to the financial statements on commercial contracts, bank facility statement, assessing the viability of the page 108.
At 31 March 2016, the agreements, guarantees, property Group over the three-year period of that Company had 9,178 shareholders 2015: agreements and employee share plans.
assessment can be found on page 29 of 9,361.
Further details of shareholdings None of these are considered to be the strategic report.
and Company reporting dates may be significant in terms of their likely impact found on page 131. on the business of the Group as a whole.
Political donations The BTG Employee Share Trust holds Furthermore, the directors are not The Group did not make any political shares in the Company which may be 77 aware of any agreements between the donations during the financial year used for the benefit of employees.
The Governance Group and its directors or employees 2014 15: nil.
shares held by the Trust have the same that provide for compensation for loss rights as those held by all other of office or employment following a Annual General Meeting shareholders.
Further details of the takeover of the Group.
Trust are set out in note 24 to the The AGM of the Company will be held at financial statements on page 115.
10.30 am on 14 July 2016 at the offices Research and Development of Stephenson Harwood LLP, 1 Finsbury Details of outstanding share options and Research and Development R&D is an Circus, London EC2M 7SH.
Matters to awards are set out in note 23 to the important part of the Groups activities be considered at the meeting include financial statements on pages 112 to 114. focusing in the areas of Interventional resolutions to receive the Annual Report As at 13 May 2016, the Company had Medicine and Specialty Pharmaceuticals.
and Accounts, to reappoint the auditor been notified of the interests held, The Group spent 77.2m 2014 15: and re-elect the directors.
In addition, directly or indirectly, in 3% or more of 68.3m on R&D during the year.
shareholders will be asked to approve the Companys issued share capital, set the new Directors Remuneration Policy out in the table above right.
Treasury management and the BTG Performance Share Plan 2016.
A summary of the new policy can The Groups policy on the use of financial Articles of association be found in the Directors Remuneration instruments and the management of The Board may exercise all the powers Report on pages 54 to 75. financial risks is set out in note 26 to of the Company, subject to the the accounts on pages 116 to 119. provisions of relevant statutes, the Disclosure of information Companys articles of association the Going concern to the auditor Articles and any directions given by a The Groups business activities The directors who held office at the date special resolution of the shareholders.
together with the factors affecting its of approval of this Report confirm that, The Articles, for instance, contain performance, position and future so far as they are each aware, there is certain specific provisions and development are set out within the no relevant audit information of which restrictions regarding the Groups power strategic report on pages 2 to 32 the Groups auditor is unaware: and to borrow money.
Powers relating to the each director has taken all the steps The directors have reviewed the current issuing and buying back of shares are that they ought to have taken as a and projected financial position of the included in the Articles and are subject director to make themselves aware of Group, making reasonable assumptions to such authorities being approved any relevant audit information and to about future performance and taking annually by shareholders at the Annual establish that the Groups auditor is into account the Groups cash balances General Meeting AGM.
There is no aware of that information.
On the current intention of requesting the basis of this review, and after making authority to buy back shares of the Auditor due enquiries, the directors have a Group.
The rules for the election and Resolutions will be proposed at the reasonable expectation that the Group re-election of directors are set out in the forthcoming AGM, to reappoint KPMG has adequate resources to continue to Articles however in line with the Code, LLP as auditor and to authorise the operate for the next twelve months.
For the directors will stand for annual directors to determine its remuneration.
this reason they continue to adopt the re-election at the AGM.
The articles are going concern basis in preparing the By order of the Board available on the Groups website at financial statements.
com responsibility corporategovernance Dr Paul Mussenden Company Secretary 16 May 2016 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
