29 Strategic Report Functional Area Summary of KPIs Measured Investigation of lost time accidents minimum one day lost Environment, and all first aid incidents Health & Safety EHS : Waste produced Carbon footprint Ensuring: Water consumption BTG operations are safe for employees, visitors and the Monitoring completion of corrective actions for all measures public who interact with our business reported we appropriately manage our impact on the environment compliance with internal and external regulatory standards Assessment against internal operating standards and Research & Development R&D : procedures and ongoing review of the scope and content of the policy framework and procedures Ensuring: Testing of the effectiveness of training we protect the safety and data privacy of patients FDA MHRA Internal audit findings and delivery on participating in our clinical studies and meet all applicable remediation plans.
Active monitoring of clinical studies laws and regulations with respect to conduct of Research and other activities and Development for example the requirements of Good Clinical Practice and Good Laboratory Practice Detailed review of project progress against agreed stage gate milestones for further funding we generate adequate data to support regulatory submissions and product approvals Ongoing review of the portfolio as a whole against wider for intended uses strategic needs we define appropriate development plans to meet our strategic goals we meet project specific and portfolio budgets and timelines Assessment processes to define the future capability Skills and capabilities: or development needs of the Group in light of strategy Reviewing the competitiveness of Company reward Ensuring the business attracts, retains and develops programmes and employee benefits talented individuals of the calibre and with the capabilities needed to deliver on the Groups operations and strategy Ensuring key individuals have adequate ongoing development as well as succession plans in place Enhancing overall leadership development programmes Taking account of the Groups position the Group has considerable Viability statement and principal risks, the Directors financial resources together The activities of the Group, together assess the prospects of the Group with several established mature with the factors likely to affect its by reviewing and discussing at least business units that provide a future development and performance, once each year the annual forecast, strong financial underpin: the financial position, its cash flows, the three-year strategic plan and the strong cash generation by the liquidity position and borrowing Group risk framework.
The Directors Groups operations and access to a facilities are described in the Strategic review and discuss the potential impact 100m revolving credit facility: and Report on pages 22 to 26.
The of each principal risk as well as the risk Directors have carried out a robust the Group continues to diversify impact of any major events or assessment of the principal risks its product and geographical transactions.
A three-year period is facing the Group, including those that operations.
considered appropriate for this would threaten its business model, Based on the results of this analysis, assessment because: future performance, solvency or the Directors believe that the Group it is the period covered by the liquidity.
These risks and the ways is well placed to manage its business strategic plan: and they are being managed and sought to risks successfully.
The Directors have be mitigated by a wide range of actions it enables a higher level of confidence, a reasonable expectation that the are summarised in this section.
even in extreme adverse events.
This Group will be able to continue in is due to a number of factors such as: operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of their assessment.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 30 Risk management and principal risks continued Strategic Report The pharmaceutical and medical device Problems at contractors facilities, such Principal risks industries are highly competitive and as technical issues, contamination and Although not exhaustive, we describe in require substantial ongoing product regulatory actions may lead to delays and the table below what we believe to be the investment, innovation and development disruptions or loss of supply or available most significant risks that could materially to sustain a continuing competitive capacity.
Some materials and services affect the Groups ability to achieve its advantage.
The Companys success may only be available from one source financial goals, operating and strategic will continue to depend on its ability and regulatory requirements may make objectives.
While other risks are deemed to in-license, acquire or develop new substitution costly, time-consuming or less material at this time, given the nature products and businesses and to realise the commercially unviable.
With respect to of the Companys business, risks expected benefit from such activities by internal manufacturing activity, BTG relies continually change.
the application of resources and effectively on its single site in Wales for supply of As a general risk, the existing and future integrating acquired opportunities into manufactured antibodies and a single site products launched by the Company may the Group.
As BTG operates in such a in Farnham, UK, for the manufacture of the not be a commercial success depending highly specialised industry, in order to Beads and Varithena with the consequent on a number of complex and inter-related deliver against our strategic objectives possibilities for disruption to, or loss of factors including: the receipt, maintenance we require highly skilled and experienced supplies resulting from, technical issues, and the scope of the applicable required employees who are highly sought after by contamination or regulatory actions.
BTGs marketing approvals and clearances our competitors.
Challenges in attracting, polyclonal antibody products rely on serum and the time and investment required to retaining and motivating such employees produced from our sheep flocks in Australia, obtain approvals : product acceptance may impact our ability to maintain which could be subject to disease by physicians and patients: commercially performance levels and to deliver against outbreaks or fire.
BTG manufactures its viable levels of product reimbursement our strategic growth objectives.
EKOS products at a single site in Seattle, being established: safety and efficacy Washington, USA, and the PneumRx Coil We continue to rely on third-party continuing to be demonstrated: at a single site in San Francisco, California, contractors for the supply of many key the impact of competition and the USA, with the consequent possibilities for materials and services.
These processes successful enforcement of the Companys disruption to or loss of supply.
inherently carry risks of failure and loss of intellectual property or defence against product and are risks over which the third party intellectual property rights.
Company has a lower degree of control.
Principal Risks and changes during the course of the year Risk detail General mitigation strategy Change in 2015 16 Market Access: securing adequate reimbursement for BTGs products BTG may not be able to sell its products profitably Ensuring effective advocacy with The Company continues to strengthen its global if reimbursement by third-party payers, including payers based on accurate data and market access reimbursement capabilities government and private health insurers, is limited analysis to inform reimbursement with an ongoing focus on Varithena.
The Group may be subject to price decisions.
Ensuring accurate and levels of reimbursement continue to be secured limits on reimbursement of products which are complete submissions.
In the US, that process has been outside of its control, reducing sales volume or materially slower than originally envisaged and is BTG is seeking to utilise its expanding prices, negatively impacting Group revenues.
This not yet universal, adversely impacting revenue expertise across the portfolio, both is particularly the case in the US where a growth.
Progress continues to be made based on within and outside the US.
R&D significant proportion of the Groups revenues are learnings to date.
plans increasingly seek to create the derived, and in light of the ongoing US healthcare data likely to be required to secure Acceptable progress continues to secure reforms, requiring increased rebates or discounts the desired level of reimbursement appropriate reimbursement for other products to be provided.
Third-party payers are increasingly for the applicable products after across the portfolio.
attempting to contain healthcare costs through commercial launch.
A future focus will be on supporting appropriate measures that are likely to impact the products reimbursement levels for the PneumRx Coil both that BTG is developing.
in EU and in US following approval.
Notwithstanding progress to date, in light of the ongoing specific challenges relating to Varithena 2015 2016 and a more challenging external environment in the industry generally, the overall risk is assessed 2014 2015 to have increased.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Risk detail General mitigation strategy Change in 2015 16 31 Strategic Obtaining Maintaining product regulatory approvals Report An inability to meet existing or new regulations or The Company has expert internal teams The Regulatory Affairs group was further regulatory guidance.
This may result in delays or dedicated to ensuring compliance in strengthened and restructured during the year.
failures in bringing products to market, additional each of these areas, defining regulatory Discussions with the UK MHRA and BSi continue material costs of development or the imposition strategies and supporting product with respect to the reclassification of the of restrictions on approval or the sale of a product approvals and maintenance of existing DC Bead product in the EU which, if not resolved, or its manufacture or distribution, including the product licences.
could reduce the scope of the indicated uses of possible withdrawal of a product from the market The process is supported by the the product, adversely impacting the Group.
or narrowing of its approval or indicated uses.
governance systems defined above and Successful outcomes from the PneumRx RENEW This is particularly the case for drug-eluting monthly monitoring of performance study and CroFab Copperhead snake studies.
beads or other combination products in respect against goals and of changes in the There has been a focus during the year on of which the regulatory requirements may be less regulatory landscape.
The use of preparing the PMA submission to seek US clear in certain territories.
external resources such as contract approval of the PneumRx Coil.
That is expected The pharmaceutical and device industries are clinical research organisations CROs to be submitted in 2016. highly regulated in relation to the development, are being more effectively leveraged.
Vistogard was approved and commercially approval, manufacturing and sale of products.
FDA has granted 510k clearance for and the Company has commercially launched a new 2015 2016 product in US, LC Bead LUMI.
While progress has been made in a number 2014 2015 of areas, the overall level of risk is deemed equivalent to the prior year.
IP Legal challenges BTG may be subject to challenges relating to the Maintenance of the IP function Currently, BTG earns significant royalties from validity of its patents or alleging infringement by as a core capability of the Group, sales of Johnson & Johnsons Zytiga, which is BTG of intellectual property IP rights of others, supplemented by external expertise, subject to multiple challenges by manufacturers which might result in cessation of BTG product which monitors third-party patent of generic versions seeking to enter the US and sales, litigation and or settlement costs and or portfolios and patent applications and other markets.
A third party inter partes review loss of earnings.
BTG might elect to sue third IP rights.
Development and challenge of one of the core patents protecting parties for their infringement of BTGs IP in order implementation of BTG patent filing, Zytiga has also been commenced in the US.
to protect current or future product revenue defence and enforcement strategies, In light of the above, generic competition in the streams.
Litigation involves significant costs and pursuing litigation or settlement US may occur as early as the 2018 19 financial uncertainties.
BTG may not be able to secure or strategies where appropriate.
Robust year in US and 2020 21 financial year in EU when maintain the necessary IP in relation to products processes are in place to automate the ten-year post-approval data exclusivity acquired or in development, limiting the potential patent renewals: internal controls period ends.
In each case generic competition to generate value from these products and established to avoid disclosure of would substantially reduce the value of Zytiga investments.
Patent expiries can adversely patentable material prior to filing and the level of royalties received by BTG.
impact the Groups revenues due to a resultant patent applications and to protect Zytiga will in any event be subject to existing increase in competition.
BTG successfully defended the CroFab patent against third party challenge.
2015 2016 The commercial exploitation of Varithena may lead to further IP challenges or competition 2014 2015 requiring the Group to initiate litigation for example against potential generic competitors.
Based on the progress of multiple IP strategies the overall risk in this area is assessed to have reduced in aggregate over the year.
Key Increased risk Unchanged risk Decreased risk High risk Medium risk BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 32 Risk management and principal risks continued Strategic Report Risk detail General mitigation strategy Change in 2015 16 Competition BTGs products may face competition from BTG focuses on select opportunities We expanded our interventional oncology products that have superior attributes, including addressing specialist segments business into parts of Asia with direct sales in better efficacy or side effect profiles, cost less where there are relatively high Taiwan and Hong Kong including China via to produce or be offered at a lower price than barriers to entry, for example, SciClone.
relating to the development and In Interventional Oncology our previous EU manufacturing processes, or the There are currently no competitive products to distributor of DC Bead Terumo has launched need to generate significant supportive CroFab, DigiFab, Voraxaze or Vistogard a competing chemoembolisation bead product clinical data to gain approval and but Instituto Bioclon may launch a competitor in EU, LifePearl.
Our previous US distributor commercial acceptance.
We seek product to CroFab around October 2018.
AngioDynamics has also announced plans to to differentiate our products by The Interventional Medicine bead products launch an embolic bead of their own in the US.
demonstrating, in clinical trials, compete with products from Merit Medical safety and efficacy benefits, or Limited and CeloNova Biosciences, Inc. greater patient acceptance.
acquired by Boston Scientific in 2015 and TheraSphere competes with a product from Sirtex Medical Limited.
Varithena competes with other treatment modalities including heat ablation, vein stripping and physician-compounded sclerosing foam.
EkoSonic competes with other interventional clot treatment products from US companies like Boston Scientific Corporation.
There is a competitor to PneumRx in the form of the Pulmonx, Inc. valve.
In Licensing, Zytiga competes with a number of other treatments for prostate cancer including Xtandi enzalutamide.
2015 2016 2014 2015 Healthcare law compliance Extensive laws and regulations relate to how A comprehensive compliance PneumRx commercial and other activities BTG markets its products and interacts with its programme is in place as referred have been incorporated into BTGs global customers and payers.
Failure to meet applicable to above.
Ongoing monitoring and compliance programme.
requirements may result in criminal or civil auditing is undertaken to seek to BTG continues to enhance its compliance proceedings against the Group, exclusion of ensure any material failures are programme.
Monitoring data indicates that sale of products in certain territories and identified where possible and overall the risk is reducing but not sufficiently to material financial penalties or other sanctions remediated.
The programme is change overall risk rating, excluding the potential against the Group or their commercial partners, continually reviewed and improved outcome of the US Department of Justice DOJ or their respective employees or directors.
to reflect ongoing learnings and investigation with respect to LC Bead in the US.
changes to the external environment.
Defending actual or alleged violations may BTG continues to fully cooperate with the DOJ in require significant management time and relation to the investigation.
At this time it is not financial commitment, even if not proven.
possible to determine the outcome which In July 2014, BTG announced that it had received a could potentially include restrictions on how subpoena from the US Department of Justice, BTG conducts its business and the imposition seeking documents in relation to an investigation of material financial penalties.
There can be regarding LC Bead, covering the period since 2003. no guarantee that equivalent investigations will not arise with respect to other parts of the 2015 2016 Group or that existing compliance policies and procedures will be accepted as adequate by 2014 2015 investigating agencies.
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board on 16 May 2016.
By order of the Board Dr Paul Mussenden Company Secretary BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance The Board of Directors 33 Governance and our approach to corporate governance and remuneration.
Board of Directors 34 Corporate Governance report 36 Audit Committee report 48 Nomination Committee report 52 Directors remuneration report 54 Directors report 76 Statement of directors responsibilities 78 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
