12 Interventional Strategic Report Oncology Our Interventional Oncology franchise comprises three main products that are used in the treatment of liver cancer: TheraSphere, glass microspheres that deliver internal radiation therapy, and LC Bead and DC Bead, our embolisation and chemoembolisation polymer beads.
TheraSphere is a powerful, wellThis differs from secondary liver Market potential tolerated liver cancer therapy that cancer, in which tumours in other We estimate that the global combined consists of millions of small glass organs have spread, or metastasised, annual incidence of HCC and mCRC is microspheres 20 to 30 micrometres in to the liver, such as metastatic approximately 1.2 million people, of diameter, or about a third of the width colorectal cancer mCRC.
whom we estimate approximately of a human hair containing radioactive Unlike most cancers, the cause of 147,000 patients would be amenable yttrium-90.
HCC can often be identified in individual to locoregional treatments taking into The Bead products block arteries patients.
High levels of alcohol account access and affordability in embolisation, starving tumours of their consumption or chronic infections of different countries.
This represents blood supply and nutrients.
Drughepatitis B or C cause continual damage an approximate $1.3 billion global eluting beads also deliver a localised to the liver and have been shown to be opportunity.
In addition, we are exploring dose of a chemotherapeutic drug risk factors for HCC.
This repeated ways to use our products in non-hepatic directly to the tumour.
Both damage to the liver can cause scarring indications, such as benign tumours like TheraSphere and Bead products are or cirrhosis which can ultimately lead uterine fibroids.
Our target is to increase injected by physicians into the main to the development of HCC.
Additional revenues from approximately $140m artery of the patients liver through a and rarer causes of HCC include today to $300m-$400m by our 2021 22 catheter.
This allows the treatment to autoimmune diseases such as biliary fiscal year.
be delivered directly to the tumour via cirrhosis and autoimmune hepatitis.
If diagnosed early, liver tumours can Competition be removed and some patients are Although the locoregional treatment suitable for a transplant.
Most liver About liver cancer of liver cancer is a relatively new tumours are only diagnosed at a later When cancer originates in the liver it is discipline, embolisation and stage, when symptomatic, and they called primary liver cancer, the most transarterial chemoembolisation TACE may have grown into large, hard-tocommon form being hepatocellular have become standard treatments for remove tumours that have spread carcinoma HCC.
unresectable, intermediate-stage HCC widely throughout the liver.
Conventional TACE stage the liver may be damaged by both cTACE involves the administration of the cancer and underlying infections or a compounded oil and drug solution other conditions, which means surgical emulsion followed by an embolising resection is usually no longer an option.
LC Bead competes with a Potential market size for the For unresectable tumours, locoregional small number of commercially available interventional treatment of liver cancer treatments including embolisation, beads and DC Bead competes with chemoembolisation, internal radiation cTACE and a small number of other therapy and ablation may be used 147k available patients: beads that are capable of being loaded to shrink the tumours and delay with chemotherapeutic drugs.
BTG has Potential $1.3bn disease progression.
a leading market position in the US and global opportunity EU and we are building our presence in Asia.
TheraSphere is one of two BTG target 2021 22: commercially available selective $300m - $400m internal radiation products to treat liver tumours.
BTG Sales 2015 16: $140m BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our strategy for growth Investing in clinical data Product Innovation 13 Interventional Oncology is the most We invest in clinical studies to support Product innovation is central to Strategic advanced demonstration of BTGs the growth of our oncology products.
our Interventional Medicine growth Report Interventional Medicine strategy in We are recruiting patients in two strategy.
BTG is the first company to which we are making simultaneous randomised controlled clinical trials have a commercially available embolic investments across three key areas for TheraSphere, which if successful bead that uniquely provides real-time to drive growth.
could secure PMAs in the US in both visible confirmation of location HCC and as a second line treatment during the embolisation procedure for mCRC in the liver.
These indications and remains visible in follow-up New markets would significantly expand the number scans.
This has the potential to Expansion into Asia is a key goal for BTG, of patients eligible for our products.
provide interventional oncologists given the high incidence of primary liver With the introduction of LC Bead LUMI, with increased precision and control, cancer.
To date, we have established a we will be conducting a number of and to optimise patient treatment.
hub for commercial, regulatory and studies to explore the benefits of We are also exploring other options medical affairs in Hong Kong to develop imageability in tumour embolisation outside of the liver with the relationships and support our procedures.
We are also funding a development of our biodegradable regulatory and commercial strategy, number of Investigator Initiated Studies bead which has the potential to treat tailored to each country.
In China, which to explore the use of our products in patients with benign tumours like alone has over half of all global primary particular in liver cancer patient uterine fibroids.
liver cancer patients due to the sub-populations.
high prevalence of hepatitis B, we Galil Medical acquisition have partnered with SciClone Pharmaceuticals, Inc. which sells In May 2016 we announced the DC Bead, and in Japan our partner acquisition of Galil Medical, a leader Eisai Co. Ltd, sells DC Bead.
BTG sells in the development of cryoablation.
directly through our own sales force in This complementary acquisition Taiwan and works with distributors in enhances our offering to interventional other parts of the region.
As a result oncologists with products used in the TheraSphere is now available in treatment of kidney and other tumours.
Hong Kong, Singapore and South Korea and we are progressing plans Key facts to gain regulatory approvals in other 1 Liver cancer is the second most prevalent cancer worldwide Asian countries.
Asia has the highest incidence of liver cancer per head 2 of population, accounting for nearly 50% of the worlds total Source: 1 World Health Organisation 2 Epidemiology of Viral Hepatitis and Hepatocelluar Carcinoma Gastroenterology, Vol 143, Issue 1, July 2012 FOCUS ON: The Next Generation of Embolic Beads LC Bead LUMI is the first radiopaque bead available for the embolisation of hypervascular tumours and arteriovenous malformations AVMs.
Granted FDA clearance in December 2015, it is now commercially available in the US.
The launch of LC Bead LUMI has the potential to be a real game-changer in the field of embolisation.
Not only does it provide doctors and patients with reassurance that the tumour has been treated in its entirety, but it allows interventional radiologists like me to refine treatment as we go, with the subsequent prospect of improved outcomes for patients.
Raj Narayanan, Associate Professor of Clinical Radiology at the University of Miami BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
