p C o l o e m v e m d e r & c e i a r i l i u s q s t e P c c u e A d o p o r l e p a g n n i d r p e v r i a l e c t D i c t e h s g i M s n a i n r u 04 Business model Strategic Report We create value by acquiring, developing, manufacturing and commercialising specialist medical products that meet the needs of our customers and advance the treatment of their patients.
Customer insight Business model We pride ourselves on being a trusted partner with our customers.
Our products are used by specialist physicians and we provide training and ongoing support for all matters, ranging from safe use to reimbursement guidance.
We also invite proposals for funding to explore the use of our products in different patient populations which helps to inform our innovation strategy.
These interactions give us unique insights into our customers and the way they choose to treat their patients.
We supplement Our insight from our customers with formal mission market research, using the information to identify potential new market opportunities.
These may be addressable with our current products and technology platforms, or they may require us to acquire and or develop new technologies.
Acquire and develop BTG has gained a strong reputation for Our mission value creation through acquisitions and To bring to market innovative products in specialist areas of in-licensing activities.
Our business healthcare in order to serve doctors and their patients better.
development strategy is focused on opportunities that complement our Key activities current product portfolio, capabilities Key activities include identifying unmet medical needs, and overall growth strategy with a acquiring and developing innovative products, manufacturing focus on late-stage development and those products to the highest standards and selling them marketed products.
We typically look directly or commercialising through partners.
for opportunities where we can leverage our existing capabilities in the field of Our four key objectives Interventional Medicine or Specialty Pharmaceuticals, whether through Financial management selling products using an established sales channel or through a new sales team that can be supported by our Delivering products for our key stakeholders existing commercial infrastructure.
In all cases we seek to exploit the full People and practices value of these products by investing in development, regulatory approvals and commercial activities.
Investing for growth For all products that we look to acquire, we undertake rigorous analysis to Read more on pages 10-11 establish the potential size of the market opportunity, product lifecycle and competitive threats.
We typically BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 e f a m c o t t u s r t u e n I C e n v m e e s g t i a n n g a f m o r l g a i r c o n w a t n h i F 05 Business segments Product Use Strategic Report Interventional Medicine Beads Liver tumours Oncology Read more on page 12 TheraSphere Liver tumours Vascular EkoSonic Blood clots Read more on page 14 Varithena Varicose veins Pulmonology PneumRx Coils Advanced emphysema Read more on page 16 Specialty Pharmaceuticals CroFab Crotalid envenomation Read more on page 18 DigiFab Digoxin toxicity Voraxaze High-dose methotrexate toxicity Vistogard 5-fluorouracil toxicity Licensing royalties Zytiga Advanced prostate cancer Read more on page 18 Two-Part Hip Cup Hip replacement Lemtrada Multiple sclerosis focus on opportunities where proof and Camberley, UK.
TheraSphere of concept and the safety efficacy is currently manufactured for us We are executing profiles have been established, as this by Nordion, Inc. in Canada.
Our our strategy to is often a lower-risk approach.
Having EkoSonic Endovascular System is identified suitable opportunities, we manufactured at our site in Seattle, achieve sustained, look to differentiate our products from Washington and the PneumRx Coil profitable growth.
others in the medical device sector by System is manufactured and investing in studies to generate clinical assembled in-house at our facility data that support their approved use.
We liaise with clinicians, regulators and We manufacture the ovine polyclonal others to determine the appropriate antibodies CroFab and DigiFab at Louise Makin trial designs and our development our plant in Llandysul, Wales.
This Chief Executive Officer personnel manage these activities complex supply chain involves raising and oversee the contract research antibodies in dedicated sheep flocks organisations involved in conducting products on a named patient basis in South Australia before processing many of our studies.
where those products are not yet and converting them into bulk approved but meet the required criteria substance in Wales.
The final filling to be made available.
In Europe we also Manufacture and freeze-drying is carried out by have dedicated sales teams detailing a third party in the US where the We manufacture a number of our Interventional Oncology products products are sold.
We continue to products in-house and use third-party and a sales team selling the PneumRx invest in upgrading our manufacturing contractors to supply key materials Coils.
We are expanding our small sales operations and capabilities to ensure and services.
We have robust quality team for EkoSonic in Europe where the we continue to meet all relevant systems, policies, and procedures in majority of sales are made through standards as they evolve and to provide place to ensure we meet our legal and distributors.
In Asia we have established further capacity as the business grows.
We put patient a direct sales force in Taiwan for our safety first in meeting and exceeding Interventional Oncology products and the expectations of our customers Commercialise elsewhere in the region we use partners.
We sell our products directly in the In the UK we manufacture Bead US, where we have dedicated sales products and Varithena at our teams for Varithena, our Interventional site in Farnham, with Bead product Oncology products, EkoSonic and our development activities also taking Specialty Pharmaceuticals products.
place at our site in Alzenau, Germany Outside the US we also sell certain BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
