38 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 Creating a connected society Stakeholders Our 2020 ambitions and relationships As well as our people, our main stakeholders are: our More than 9 out of 10 people in the customers: communities: shareholders: lenders: our UK will have access to our fibrepension schemes: suppliers: government: and regulatory based products and services 9 10 authorities.
Our markets and customers Help 10m people overcome social We sell fixed-voice, broadband, mobile and TV products and disadvantage through the benefits our products and services can bring services to individuals and households in the UK.
For small and 10m medium-sized enterprises, as well as larger businesses in the UK, we offer fixed-voice, broadband, mobility, networking and IT services.
In both the UK and globally we offer managed networked This year, we extended our fibre footprint in the UK to more IT services to multinational corporations, domestic businesses and than 25m premises and in line with our 2020 goal this public sector organisations.
means around 8.5 out of 10 people can now access fibre-based Some of our customers are also our competitors.
This is because products and services see page 85.
We plan to extend coverage we sell wholesale products and services to other communications even further so that fibre availability in the UK exceeds the providers in the UK and overseas.
Governments current target of 95% by the end of 2017.
You can read about our markets, customers and the services We continue to push for greater digital inclusion, both by playing we provide them in our lines of business section, from page 57. a leading role in the development of the Governments Digital Inclusion Outcomes Framework, and through the use of our own a Communities and society products.
BTs purpose is embedded at the heart of our business, and has Were helping low income groups to get online with two products: helped us to deliver economic growth and wider societal and BT Basic Broadband and our BT Business Digital Inclusion for environmental benefits.
During the year we invested 35m to Social Housing solution.
The launch of the BT and Barclays Wi-Fi accelerate a number of environmental and societal priorities that in Our Community initiative is providing access, guidance and help to bring our purpose to life see page 43.
This investment is coaching to those who need it most.
a mixture of cash, time volunteered, and in-kind contributions.
It Keeping people safe online remains a priority.
Internet Matters, is equivalent to 1.1% of our previous years adjusted profit before the website we co-founded in 2014 to help parents keep their tax.
Over the last five years weve invested over 153m, children safe online, has now had over 2.5m visitors.
The Right an average of 1.18% of our adjusted profit before tax.
Click, our partnership with UNICEF UK, has seen BT volunteers deliver 280 workshops in schools, teaching children and parents BTs total investment in society how to use the internet safely.
Year ended 31 March This year weve developed a methodology to measure the social m impact of our products and services.
This has been successfully 40 1.50% piloted on three propositions BT Basic, Digital Inclusion for Social 1.12% 1.15% 1.10% 1.01% Housing and Mobile Health Worker and has been used on a 30 corporate contract through our work with the Colombian government page 62.
Having a way to measure the wider 20 benefits our products and services can bring shows how valuable 10 ICT, and what we do, has become in peoples day-to-day lives.
We can also use the methodology to influence how we develop 0 our future products.
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Outside the UK, our Connecting Africa programme has now Investment time, cash and in-kind support successfully connected all 30 of the planned SOS Childrens Percentage of previous year's adjusted profit before taxation Villages, in 13 countries, using BTs satellite technology.
We have used this in seven villages to provide a new Healthcare Management System, improving healthcare services for over 100,000 people.
We also continue to embed social and environmental criteria into our business processes, helping us to make better decisions, stimulate growth and spark innovation.
In January we launched a BT Infinity Lab competition, in partnership with the Department of Transport, to stimulate social and environmental innovation in the SME sector.
31.9 27.1 27.2 32.5 35.0 39 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Supporting charities and communities Our lenders Our lenders, mainly banking institutions and bondholders, play an important role in our treasury and funding strategy.
Our 2020 ambition These relationships are vital for funding the business and meeting our liquidity requirements.
We tell you more about this on Help generate more than 1bn for page 102. good causes, using our people, their skills and our technology 1bn Our pension schemes We operate defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
The largest is the BT Pension Scheme BTPS which has 301,500 members.
You can read more about it on page 107.
This year we added 94m towards our 1bn target.
60m of this was raised via MyDonate, our commission-free online fundraising Our suppliers and donations platform.
This takes our overall fundraising total to Our suppliers play a vital role: their products and services help us 327m.
We source from across the world and currently As well as supporting a number of smaller charities and individual have suppliers in over 150 countries.
We spent around 10.2bn fundraisers, we again used MyDonate and our communications with our suppliers this year 2014 15: 9.4bn.
Around 64% of technology with help from our volunteers to support various our spend is with the top 100 suppliers.
These included Comic Relief, Children We want to get the most from our suppliers especially from their in Need, and the Disasters Emergency Committee appeal after the diversity, skills and innovation.
The mix of suppliers keeps evolving earthquake in Nepal.
as we expand into markets such as mobility, TV and televised sport.
In the UK, we provide discounted calls and line rental charges to This year weve grown our supplier base in IT security, to support members of The Charities Club, saving those charities 1.2m on our growing investment in cyber security.
But weve also removed their phone bills.
over 2,800 suppliers from our procurement systems.
We see sport as a positive vehicle for change in young peoples As part of integrating EE, were working to identify opportunities lives.
Through the donations of BT Sport customers, The for cost savings and efficiencies through our combined spend.
Supporters Club funded nine new sports charities and community Our approach to procurement sports foundations this year four in the UK.
And we encourage We have around 330 BT people in 30 countries working with people to take up sport through the Join In campaign.
As part of our cost transformation activities weve Our shareholders concentrated on making the most of our relationships with We have around 825,000 shareholders.
As well as the Annual our largest suppliers to get even better value.
In-life contract Report and Annual General Meeting, we keep our shareholders management of our top 130 suppliers has delivered savings up to date with how were doing through regular mailings.
often include offers on our products and services that are only Weve continued our Purchase Order PO Intercept programme, available to shareholders.
Our website includes press releases, reviewing all POs over 1,000 to make sure that were getting newsletters, presentations and webcasts that can also keep our the best from our spend across BT.
Our Central Business Services shareholders informed.
organisation has hired more people to support this programme.
We held a general meeting in April 2015 at which our shareholders Theyve reviewed around 90,000 POs, accounting for 4bn of approved the acquisition of EE.
And in January 2016 we published spend, and have saved us more than 15m.
a prospectus for the issue of new BT shares that were part of the The Procurement Profession, part of the BT Academy, has grown consideration for the acquisition.
this year, developing a rich library of over 120 training modules.
Most of our shares are held by institutional investors.
We have an The website attracts nearly 250 visits a month on average.
extensive investor relations programme aimed at keeping existing Our ambition is to have all our buyers accredited and licensed.
investors informed and attracting new ones.
This programme And for a few of our expert practitioners to be recognised includes: externally as fellows of CIPS Chartered Institute of Procurement reporting quarterly results, accompanied by a conference call and Supply.
or presentation from senior management: We now have 198 licensed buyers.
And there are now five fellows teach-ins on key topics: of CIPS 2014 15: two leading our procurement activities in BT.
site visits for example this year we invited investors to an innovation event at Adastral Park : and meetings and conference calls with investors both in the UK and around the world.
In 2015 16, we held 353 meetings or events with institutional investors.
We were voted the best company for investor relations in England in the Extel Survey 2015, for the second year running.
We also maintained our second place in the European telecoms sector.
And we won the IR Magazine award for best investor relations in the European Technology & Communications sector.
