18 Specialty Strategic Report Pharmaceuticals Our portfolio comprises four niche antidote products that are used in FOCUS ON: hospital emergency rooms and intensive Vistogard oral care units.
These acute care products granules typically address conditions with small Vistogard is the first and only treatment for early onset of severe patient populations for which there are 5-fluorouracil 5-FU toxicity.
5-FU is a common chemotherapeutic and is limited or no existing treatment options.
received by an estimated 250,000 patients in the US annually.
Toxicity occurs in approximately 5-10% of patients and there are over 1,300 deaths as a result per annum.
We provide antidotes to counteract the Our cancer therapy drugs include We continue to build value and potentially life-threatening effects Voraxaze, an antidote to the toxic leadership in our portfolio of rescue associated with exposure or overexposure side effects of high dose use of the medicines.
This year we successfully to certain toxins.
These products are sold chemotherapeutic agent, methotrexate, completed a study evaluating the throughout the US by two dedicated field which affects approximately 200-300 use of CroFab in the treatment of forces and elsewhere in the world by patients in the US each year.
This envenomations from the Copperhead our partners, where approved or where product is also sold outside the US snake, giving physicians greater permitted to be made available on a on a named-patient basis.
confidence in using our product.
We also named patient basis.
launched our first smartphone app that In December 2015 our partner Wellstat can aid the public and first responders in CroFab is currently the only treatment Therapeutics Corporation received US the event of a snakebite.
for North American crotalid snake approval for Vistogard.
This product is an envenomation on the market for which antidote for the potentially life-threatening there are on average 5,000 annual side effects of overexposure to the envenomations.
DigiFab is an antidote chemotherapeutic 5-fluorouracil and we We continue to build for the toxic reaction to digoxin, a currently estimate peak annual sales of value and leadership common heart medicine for which between $25 million to $35 million.
in our portfolio of there are about 16 million annual prescriptions and it is estimated that rescue medicines.
around 4% result in a toxic reaction.
Licensing We receive royalties relating to the Zytiga royalties sales of products that are subject to intellectual property licence agreements between BTG and various 118.9m partners.
These royalties vary but 2014 15: 105.2m usually amount to a single digit 13% percentage of our licensees sales.
We then typically share half of what Lemtrada royalties we receive with the original source of the technology that we acquired or in-licensed.
These royalties are expected 19.8m to decline over time as patents on 2014 15: 4.9m existing out-licensed products expire.
Within this segment, royalties from sales of Johnson & Johnsons prostate cancer drug Zytiga are the largest contributor.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
