23 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Programmes this year included: Transform our costs reviewing and improving our end-to-end process for planning Our approach to cost transformation engineer visits.
By creating centres of excellence where planners We run large and complex cost transformation programmes, led by are based together, streamlining processes and improving a team of consultants.
These consultants are BT people.
They know systems, were reducing the cost of failure, eliminating our business better than anyone.
inefficiencies and improving service: developing a new operating model to govern how we serve the Our approach is based on a methodology honed over a decade.
By consolidating our sales and marketing Its underpinned by forensic data analysis, strong governance and teams, well reduce administrative effort and duplication, and the support of senior management.
focus our people on what really matters selling to customers: Our largest cost transformation activities are driven top-down.
consolidating our IT functions to improve data security, system They might be end-to-end programmes spanning multiple lines stability and to gain economies of scale.
Weve also made sure of business or complex changes contained within a single line of that our people have access to the right training programmes, business.
Continuous Improvement CI provides a complementary career opportunities and are sharing best practice: bottom-up approach.
CI makes small but important changes to rationalising, standardising and automating our internal how we do things every day.
It has the added benefit of improving reporting function.
Weve also created a data analytics capability employee engagement.
to improve decision-making and provide support on larger transformation programmes: Training is a key part of our approach.
We have an in-house Cost improving the efficiency and productivity of our off-shore shared Transformation Faculty, part of the BT Academy page 32.
In particular, were reducing the administrative faculty is responsible for the continued development of our change resource required to operate these centres: and professionals.
This year we trained and coached more than 900 reviewing and redesigning our overseas operations with the aim people.
BT is the only UK organisation licensed by the British of ensuring that back-office functions are done from centres of Quality Foundation to certify qualifications to the most advanced excellence located in low-cost countries.
Weve also continued a b levels in Lean, Six Sigma and Change & Project Management to apply best practice from our UK operations.
How we did in the year Key priorities This year, our underlying operating costs excluding transit were up 2% mainly reflecting higher leaver costs and our investment in BT Looking ahead, were focused on: Sport Europe.
These offset our cost transformation activities.
Over realising substantial cost synergies from the integration of BT and the last seven years weve reduced our operating costs and capital EE page 98 : expenditure by over 5bn.
streamlining our Ethernet delivery and broadband repair processes with the aim of improving customer experience and reducing cost: reducing our network costs in the UK and overseas, which account for a large proportion of our overall costs: and rationalising and standardising our products, networks, applications and platforms, to remove complexity and reduce cost.
Were confident that there are plenty of opportunities to reduce costs further.
We see well over 1bn of gross opportunity over the next two years, much of which can be reinvested for growth.
We continue to benchmark our cost of doing business against other large telecoms companies.
While weve continued to improve our performance, we still see opportunity to do even better.
Increasingly we look beyond the world of telecoms to other industries to identify more opportunities.
You can read about cost transformation within our lines of business from page 57.
And the groups operating costs are described on page 98. a Lean is a methodology for achieving small, incremental changes in processes in order to eliminate waste and improve efficiency and quality.
b Six Sigma is a data-driven methodology for eliminating defects in processes.
24 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 Invest for growth Mobility and We completed the acquisition of EE.
Were Were investing in five strategic areas.
These are the things now the UKs leading communications future voice we believe will deliver sustainable profitable revenue growth provider, bringing together the UKs best 4G which will deliver value for our shareholders.
network with the UKs largest fibre network.
We want to transform the shape of communications by creating more innovative, Fibre Weve long been at the forefront of fibre converged products and services.
Well innovation and investment and we aim to address different parts of the consumer keep it that way.
mobile market by using both the EE brand Our superfast fibre broadband network now and the BT Mobile brand.
With other Were making progress towards our goal networks, this takes availability to 90%.
We that by 2025 all our voice customers plan to extend coverage even further, so will be served using an IP voice solution, that fibre availability goes beyond the UK having migrated off our traditional Governments current 95% target by the telephony platform.
We plan to start rolling out ultrafast broadband UK business markets Weve continued to improve our product based on G. fast technology next year.
Were now better placed new service is capable of delivering speeds of to meet the needs of our customers as 300-500Mbps.
Were trialing the technology they increasingly adopt IP and cloudin a number of locations, including Huntingdon based services.
in Cambridgeshire and Gosforth in Tyne and Were reorganising our structure to Wear.
With the right regulatory environment, take better advantage of the opportunities the service will reach 10m homes and smaller to grow our share of the UK business businesses by the end of 2020 with an market.
And to strengthen and deepen ambition to get this to 12m, and the majority our relationships with UK customers.
On 1 April 2016, we created a new line Our ultrafast ambitions also include rolling of business, Business and Public Sector.
out significantly more fibre-to-theIt will serve businesses large and small premises FTTP.
We intend to build FTTP as well as the public sector in the UK and infrastructure in new housing developments the Republic of Ireland.
Were also conducting trials to explore if FTTP can be installed faster and Leading global Were investing in our products, network and more efficiently in business parks and high expertise to increase our share of spending companies streets.
These trials and feedback from by our large multinational customers industry could lead to a new FTTP product page 59.
A particular area of focus is the being developed for SMEs with speeds of up cloud.
Were investing in new services to 1Gbps and strong service guarantees.
that allow large organisations around the world to connect easily and securely to the TV and content Weve continued to improve our TV applications and the data they need.
We want proposition: to empower companies so they can integrate and orchestrate IT resources, irrespective of New sports channel We launched BT Sport where they are hosted.
Europe, which is now the home of UEFA Champions League and UEFA Europa League New services launched this year included: football.
Well show 350 matches each an extension of BT Cloud Connect to season for three years.
provide connectivity to HP Enterprise New services We introduced a number of Helion Managed Cloud Services: innovative services, including BT Sport a cloud-based Distributed Denial of Service Ultra HD the first Ultra HD sports service DDoS mitigation service: and in Europe.
We launched BT Sports Connected BT Assure Cyber Defence, an advanced Red Button service, which allows BT TV security platform.
viewers to switch between matches and use a new Goal Alert function to keep track of the action across a range of games.
Richer content We continued to add Our culture popular content and TV channels.
We secured We want to build and sustain a culture that helps us respond the exclusive rights to show the next Ashes cricket series.
And we extended our rights to quickly and effectively to changes in our markets.
This is vital to the FA Cup by another three years to 2021. the delivery of our strategy.
We continue to make organisational changes with the aim of improving our culture and our ability Read more about these developments in to perform well.
These changes centre on: the BT Consumer section on page 73. unifying the organisation around a common set of values: putting the customer first in everything we do: developing a leadership style which helps to drive change and gives people the confidence to take responsibility: and making BT an exciting place to work and a company our people are proud to work for.
25 25 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Delivering our strategy 26 Operating Committee In this section we explain our business model and how we create value for our shareholders.
28 Our business model We set out the main inputs and outputs of 31 Financial strength the business, as well as the key outcomes 31 Our people the impact that we have on our stakeholders, 34 Our networks and physical assets on society and on the environment.
34 Network platforms 35 Service platforms We describe the importance of our people, 35 IT systems 36 Properties our physical assets and the research and development that we do.
We report on 36 Research and development the status of our brands and outline our 37 Brand and reputation relationships with our main stakeholders, 38 Stakeholders and relationships including regulatory bodies.
Finally we describe 38 Our markets and customers 38 Communities and society how we go about mitigating the principal risks 39 Our shareholders and uncertainties that affect us.
39 Our lenders 39 Our pension schemes The section starts with an overview of the 39 Our suppliers Operating Committee, its members and their 40 Human rights 41 Our relationship with HM responsibilities.
Government 41 Regulation 43 Protecting the environment 45 Our performance as a sustainable Our people and responsible business Their commitment, expertise and diversity are key to the success of our business.
46 Our risks Our global reach We offer services across 180 countries.
We have more than 21,000 people based outside the UK, across 60 countries.
Our research activities We invest extensively in R&D to find better ways of doing things and to offer new services.
Innovation is an important part of our history and key to our brand and our future.
