120 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 In light of the above, the committee proposes to tender the audit External audit no later than 2019 with the new auditors appointed no later than We: for the financial year commencing on 1 April 2020.
However, considered and approved the auditors group audit plan this the committee keeps the external audit arrangements under followed discussion with the auditors on the scope of the work annual review and may elect to accelerate the planned to be undertaken as well as their consideration of risk informing appointment of new auditors if appropriate, for example their plan: for service quality or independence reasons.
reviewed reports on external audit findings: and The company confirms that it complied with the provisions of the considered and approved the letter of representation issued to Competition and Markets Authoritys Order for the financial year the external auditors.
The committee and the external auditors have discussed the issues addressed by the committee during the year and the areas of Auditor effectiveness particular audit focus, as described in the Independent Auditors We discussed the quality of the audit throughout the year Report on pages 158 to 163. and consider the performance of our external auditors, , annually, taking into account feedback Management reported to the committee that they were not aware from a survey targeted at various stakeholders across the business of any material misstatement and the auditors also reported the and the committees own assessment.
The evaluation focuses misstatements they had found in the course of their work.
The on: robustness of the audit process, quality of delivery, reporting committee confirmed that these unadjusted misstatements were and people and services.
The external auditors performance was not material to the financial statements.
considered to be on par or improved on the prior year and the  PwC have audited EE for the purposes relationship with management is viewed as robust, collaborative of the consolidated financial statements at 31 March 2016 and and transparent.
We concluded they were independent and will be appointed as statutory auditors of EE Limited and recommended they be re-appointed by the Board.
Independence and objectivity Audit tender BTs agreed policies on what non-audit services can be provided PwC and its predecessor firms have been BTs auditors since by the external auditors and the relevant approval process were BT listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1984.
Their updated during the year.
The external auditors are not permitted reappointment has not been subject to a tender in that time.
to perform any work which they may be later required to audit or The external auditors are required to rotate the lead partner every which might affect their objectivity and independence or create a five years and other partners who are responsible for group and conflict of interests.
There are internal procedures in place for the subsidiary audits must change at least every seven years.
Paul approval of work given to the external auditors.
Barkus will rotate after this year-end audit and Richard Hughes will We monitored compliance with the agreed policies and the take over as lead partner.
level of non-audit fees paid to the auditors in order to satisfy The committee considers its recommendations to the Board on ourselves that the types of services being provided and the fees the appointment and reappointment of auditors annually, and incurred were appropriate.
You can see details of non-audit specifically has responsibility for establishing formal and transparent services carried out by the external auditors in note 7 to the arrangements with PwC.
The committee has reviewed the consolidated financial statements.
In this context audit-related timetable for tendering, taking into account all relevant regulation assurance services are considered to pose a low threat to auditor and guidance and having regard to the following: independence and therefore the proportion of other non-audit services to total services is considered the most suitable measure the group is undergoing a period of significant business change of the non-audit services provided.
These represented 26% of the through the integration of EE, our organisational restructuring total fees 2014 15: 33%.
In the past two years, the Reporting and transformation programmes.
A measured rotation timetable Accountants work performed by the external auditors in relation maintains stability in the independent oversight provided by to the acquisition of EE and its subsidiaries has increased the nonthe external auditors and maximises efficiency and effectiveness audit fees compared to prior years.
Additionally in 2015 16, the while the business fully implements the changes: and EE acquisition has resulted in incremental audit fees.
Further details BT draws on expertise from other accounting firms and therefore of the non-audit services that are prohibited and allowed under a rotation of external audit services will require careful planning the policy can be found in the corporate governance section of the of transition periods to ensure that all services are fully contracted BT website.
throughout the rotation process and that the incoming auditor is independent.
The committee is satisfied that the overall levels of audit and non-audit fees are not material relative to the income of the external auditors as a whole and therefore that the objectivity and independence of the external auditors was not compromised.
121 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Internal audit Governance and compliance We monitor and review the effectiveness of internal audit and We were briefed on: in April 2015, we endorsed the internal audit plan of work.
This ethics and compliance and strategic priorities for 2015 16: integrates the assurance requirements for the internal financial the US safe harbour ruling and European general data protection controls testing programme, the groups overseas footprint, and the regulation: groups risk assurance mapping.
It includes coverage of static and Speak Up cases, outcomes, statistics and trends including the dynamic risks.
Key areas of focus across the plan included financial confidential, anonymous submission by employees regarding management and controls, customer service, revenue assurance accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters.
and billing, procurement and supplier contract governance, major We ensure that arrangements are in place for the proportionate, contracts for networked IT services and data compromise, privacy independent investigation and follow up of these matters : and and protection including cyber security.
the work of several of our Regional Governance Committees We receive regular reports from the internal auditors.
which monitor governance and compliance in their respective We monitored managements responsiveness to the findings and regions.
recommendations and discuss with them the action required Committee review to bring matters to resolution.
We review our performance annually by inviting members, At the end of the year we received a report on the performance of key executives and the external auditors to complete online internal audit.
During the year audit teams have been established questionnaires.
The results show that the committee has in Hungary and Hong Kong, whilst in India and LATAM we have performed effectively.
Areas of focus during 2016 17 will increased the teams to reflect BTs increasing operations in those include the integration of EE, associated risks and alignment of regions.
controls to BT standards, overseas entities and the regulatory financial statements.
Internal controls and risk management BT has in place an internal control environment to protect the Nick Rose business from material risks which have been identified within the Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee group.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining 4 May 2016 adequate internal controls over financial reporting and we have responsibility for ensuring the effectiveness of these controls.
To enable us to do this, each quarter the lines of business certify compliance with the Financial Reporting Council's risk management guidance and Sarbanes-Oxley controls.
The outcomes of these reviews are reported to us and no significant weaknesses were identified in the annual review.
BTs risk management processes which have been in place throughout the period under review identify and monitor the risks facing the group.
The risks which are considered material are reviewed regularly by the Operating Committee and the Board.
During the year we heard from the Chief Executive on the enterprise-wide risk management process and the key risks facing the group as a whole.
Each line of business CEO presented the key risks in their part of the business as well as the actions they are taking to address them.
We have continued to monitor our operations in Italy and progress has been made to improve the control environment.
We continue to keep under review the current trends of security risks facing BT and the progress made to manage these risks.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the groups systems of internal controls and risk management.
You can find details of the Boards and our review of the groups systems of internal control and risk management on page 151.
122 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 What we have done Nominating & We met twice this year.
This is fewer times than in previous years, because the Board approved the transfer of oversight of certain Governance Committee non-financial risks from the Nominating & Governance Committee to the Audit & Risk Committee in April 2015.
Chairmans report The chart below shows how we allocated our time.
Allocation of time 5% 30% Other Board membership and succession 29% Governance programmes 36% Governance structure and eectiveness In preparation for our acquisition of EE, we continued to focus on our Board composition and succession plan, and reviewed our governance and committee structures to help ensure the success of Board membership and succession our new organisation.
Reviewing our succession plans and the composition of the Board is essential.
We want the composition of our Board to support diversity in its widest sense.
We want to attract Board members with a diverse range of backgrounds who will contribute a wealth Who we are of knowledge, understanding and experience of the communities I chair the Nominating & Governance Committee at the request to whom BT provide services.
We make sure our Board has the right balance of skills, experience, knowledge, diversity and independence from As part of our gender diversity policy, we aim to have at least 25% its members.
I do not take part in any discussion concerning the female representation on the Board.
With three female members selection and appointment of my successor.
out of 11, we currently have 27% female representation.
We ensure that diversity is considered as part of any candidate shortlist Our members and their meeting attendance are set out below.
The process drawn up by external search consultants.
We will work Company Secretary attends our meetings, and where appropriate, towards Lord Daviess new target of 33% female Board so does the Chief Executive.
You can read more about BTs approach to diversity on page 33.
Committee members We believe our Board composition is currently appropriate, but Meetings we will continue to keep this under review.
Member Eligible to attend Attended In order to get the right balance of skills and knowledge on our Sir Michael Rake chairman 2 2 Board, we evaluate candidates against a skills matrix, and ask our Tony Ball 2 2 Board members to re-evaluate their own skills annually.
Our skills matrix covers the skills required for running a listed company: Iain Conn 2 2 knowledge and understanding of different customer sectors: a Phil Hodkinson 2 2 industry specific knowledge: stakeholder engagement: and b regional experience in different parts of the world.
Isabel Hudson 1 1 Having reviewed a list provided by MWM Consulting, we concluded Nick Rose 2 2 that the proposed candidates did not have the appropriate a Phil retired from the committee on 31 January 2016. b technology skills.
I then met with Mike Inglis, who has strong Isabel was appointed to the committee from 1 August 2015. technology skills and is known to a former director.
I recommended that other members of the committee and the Board met with Mike before we recommended his appointment to the Board in July 2015.
Mike joined on 1 September 2015, and brings a decade of Board experience and strong technology expertise, as well as commercial, operational and marketing experience.
123 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information As part of our acquisition of EE, Deutsche Telekom DT is entitled After reviewing our Board committees membership, we to nominate an individual to be appointed as a non-independent, recommended: non-executive director of BT.
We considered DTs nomination of Tim Isabel Hudson should join the Nominating & Governance Httges as the DT representative to the Board and recommended Committee with effect from 1 August 2015: and to the Chairman that he approve this nomination.
Tim brings Gunhild Stordalen should join the Committee for Sustainable and relevant experience in mobile, financial control, corporate planning, Responsible Business as an independent member, with effect and mergers and acquisitions.
The appointments of Mike Inglis and Tim Httges particularly We reviewed the proposed governance arrangements to be put in strengthen our industry specific knowledge and we believe the place from the completion of the EE acquisition, and recommended Board has strong expertise in all areas of our skills matrix.
We that the Board approve a new Reserved Power in relation to related agreed that the size and composition of the Board in light of the EE party transactions between BT and Deutsche Telekom.
transaction was appropriate and did not require a refresh.
We will keep this under review.
Subject to completion of the EE acquisition we recommended that the Board approve the terms of reference and appoint the As well as the new appointments to the Board, we recommended proposed members and chairs of the Integration Committee and that Tony Balls appointment as an independent non-executive the Conflicted Matters Committee.
director be extended by a further three-year term from 16 July 2015.
This recommendation followed a thorough evaluation of Governance programmes Tonys performance, in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code This year, we discussed a review of BTs governance operating statement that any term beyond six years for a non-executive model and framework, recent improvements to the Delegation director should be subject to a particularly rigorous review.
of Authority framework, a project to clarify our governance and Tony brings international business expertise, in addition to financial, compliance roles outside the UK, and external governance operational, sales and marketing experience.
Having held a number developments on Board diversity and succession planning.
of senior executive positions in broadcasting and telecoms The aim of reviewing our governance framework is to ensure that businesses, he has strong industry specific knowledge, and makes a governance in BT is clear and simple, to align with our culture and valuable and long-ranging contribution to the Board and the purpose.
The review is ongoing: in December we endorsed the committees of which he is a member.
proposed next steps, and discussed the proposal to amend the We reviewed Tonys other roles, and we do not believe that these terms of reference of our Regional Governance Committees to prevent Tony from making a full contribution as a BT Group plc expand their oversight of risk.
We asked the Chief Executive, Group independent non-executive director.
We were able to assure Finance Director and Group General Counsel & Company Secretary ourselves that Tony continues to be independent in character and to decide if this was appropriate and if so, gave them the authority judgement and that there are no conflicts of interest that could to amend the terms of reference and seek endorsement from the affect his judgement.
All non-executive appointments can be terminated on three In BTs non-UK operations, we have clarified our country managers months notice and are subject to automatic termination in the accountability for a common set of governance and compliance event of a director not being elected or re-elected by shareholders standards, and put in place a formal process to appoint new at the AGM.
As a result, country managers are reporting a better understanding of their obligations.
We are now focusing on In December, the committee supported the Chief Executive how to embed the principles into how we work, assessing the entering into further discussions with Simon Lowth, as successor to capabilities and development needs of country managers, and the Group Finance Director.
Simon is one of the UKs most providing appropriate assurance to the Operating Committee.
respected CFOs, known for driving cost transformation and performance improvement programmes.
I look forward to Simon joining us in July 2016.
We also discussed succession plans for the Operating Committee, and the appointment of five senior executives from EE.
Governance structure and effectiveness We keep our membership of BTs Board committees and governance structure under constant review.
Following the establishment of the Technology Committee in November 2014, we recommended a change to the terms of reference to the Board.
We recommended that there should be no stipulated minimum number of members, but that the quorum of two members should be retained, and should include at least one non-executive member.
The Board approved the change to the terms of reference in June 2015.
