02 Market overview Strategic Report Global markets for pharmaceuticals and medical devices are expected to increase over the coming years, fuelled by population growth, increasing longevity, technological advances, consumer empowerment and economic expansion.
To benefit from these trends, healthcare companies must innovate and demonstrate value for money to physicians, patients and payers.
strong customer relationships that Healthcare market trends BTGs strategy inform our market understanding The global markets for prescription Our strategy is to develop leading and innovation strategy.
pharmaceuticals and medical devices positions in selected market segments We operate in two medical areas, respectively were $743bn and $375bn in by providing differentiated medical Interventional Medicine and Specialty 2014 and are forecast to reach $987bn products.
We target patient populations Pharmaceuticals, and we earn royalties 4.9% CAGR and $477bn 4.1% CAGR who are poorly served by existing 1 from our legacy Licensing activities.
In 2014, North treatment options, and who are cared See pages 4-5 for more information America accounted for 45% of global for by specialist physicians with whom on our business model and how we pharmaceuticals sales, Europe 25%, we can be partners in the drive to are creating value.
Asia Pacific and emerging markets deliver better healthcare.
By 2019, Our products are drugs, devices or variations in regional growth rates are Regulation combinations, and are often expected to result in North America administered in a dedicated The healthcare industry is highly accounting for 43% of global procedure: hence we serve our regulated by governments globally, with pharmaceutical sales, Europe 18%, specialist physician customers through strict rules overseeing research, clinical Asia Pacific and emerging markets small, highly skilled sales and medical development, pharmacovigilance, 3 33% and Japan 6%.
We invest in clinical and other manufacturing and commercial activity.
studies to demonstrate patient benefits In the US, EU and Japan, the regulations and cost effectiveness, so that we can relating to the approval, manufacture achieve appropriate market adoption, and distribution of medical products are coverage and pricing.
While there are usually physicians with new products and some modifications each year, which procedures that they can be confident are intended to raise overall safety, address their patients needs, we foster quality and compliance, there have In the US, healthcare investment is increasing but payers are putting more emphasis on the value and clinical benefit of treatment options when formulating their coverage policies.
In Europe, low growth is a result of government indebtedness and austerity programmes putting pressure on healthcare budgets.
In Asia Pacific and emerging markets, growing economies are enabling governments to spend more on healthcare.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 all of which are niche antidotes that 03 treat acute toxicities.
In Interventional Strategic Medicine, our oncology, vascular Report and pulmonology products do face competition from products manufactured by other public and private medical device companies.
However, all market segments are growing, and by having differentiated technologies we believe we can maintain our position in our chosen segments.
Interventional Medicine Advances in imaging and device technology have enabled the development of innovative, precision therapies that have the potential to improve efficacy and safety and to reduce treatment and recovery times.
One of the first medical disciplines to adopt minimally invasive interventions was cardiology, where coronary stents been no recent significant changes and benefits.
In Europe, most countries are routinely implanted instead of none are currently anticipated.
In Asia have formal mechanisms to decide performing open heart surgery.
Pacific and emerging markets, countries whether and to which patient groups Minimally invasive approaches are including China are continuing to approved products should be available now being used in many medical areas, implement regulatory changes to improve and at what price.
Austerity measures spurred on by technological advances, quality and oversight of medical mean that governments are seeking to medical need and the desire to reduce manufacturers and suppliers.
control costs, which is placing pressure in-hospital treatment costs using on healthcare companies to reduce At BTG we have developed extensive key-hole or even pin-hole techniques.
quality, pharmacovigilance and Our current Interventional Medicine compliance systems and procedures.
In some Asia Pacific and emerging portfolio comprises early-stage and We also recruit highly skilled and markets increasing healthcare spending high-growth products targeting experienced employees and provide is providing growth opportunities for the treatment of cancer, vascular regular training to ensure that we healthcare companies.
However, there conditions and lung disease.
All of our comply with all regulatory standards.
are significant challenges relating to products address unmet needs and have We pay close attention to the future access to healthcare and affordability significant growth potential.
To unlock regulatory landscape and the potential where individuals are required to pay their full value, we are investing in impact of healthcare reforms.
This is of or part-pay their healthcare costs.
product innovation, geographic particular importance when reviewing BTG focuses on innovative, differentiated expansion and indication expansion.
product development or acquisition products that advance the treatment Our Specialty Pharmaceuticals and opportunities.
Wherever possible, we of underserved patient populations, Licensing businesses are established seek guidance and clearance from all and we invest to demonstrate their value.
and provide strong cash flows to fund regulators for studies and pathways Our therapies are usually used once these investments.
Where we rely on rather than chronically.
This helps us to partners to gain regulatory approvals, gain market acceptance and appropriate we ensure their capabilities and reimbursement coverage and pricing.
Competition Our industry is highly competitive.
Companies compete to attract and retain technical and commercial talent, to develop and acquire innovative products and to gain share in their chosen markets and geographies.
We focus on medical areas where we can develop leading positions through our capability and resources to undertake product innovation, clinical development and commercial expansion.
Our strategy involves developing a deep understanding of Pricing our customer needs and being able The industry is facing increased to service them through small, highly pricing pressures globally.
In the US, skilled sales forces.
there is a strong focus on value, with 1 EvaluatePharma : World Preview 2015, Outlook to 2020 public and private payers making policy Currently there are no competing 2 Statista: Sales of the global pharmaceutical market in 2014, by region determinations based on evidence of products for our four marketed 3 Statista: Projected global pharmaceutical sales for clinical benefit and health economic Specialty Pharmaceutical products, 2019, by region BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
