28 BT Group plc 29 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Annual Report 2016 External environment Our business model We create value for shareholders by developing and Governance Inputs Outputs selling services that are important to our customers and that benefit communities, the environment and society Financial Our purpose Skills & expertise as a whole.
To use the power of communications to make a better world strength We invest to build and maintain communications P roducts &services Our goal networks in the UK and overseas: we develop products A growing BT: to deliver sustainable profitable revenue growth Our people and services that run over those networks: and then Innovation we sell them to consumers, businesses and the public a Our strategy Broaden and deepen our customer relationships sector.
By selling these services, were able to make a Networks & return on our investments.
This means we can reinvest physicalassets Waste & emissions in the business to create value for our stakeholders over the short, medium and long term.
Outcomes Deliversuperior Transform Invest for Research & development customer service our costs growth Group performance &KPIs Value creation Stakeholders & relationships Line of business Mobility Leading performance TV and UK business Fibre and future global content markets Natural voice companies Our brand strength resources Our culture A healthy organisation Socie tal benefits Environmental benefits Risks a For 2016 17 our strategy is evolving see page 21.
Inputs In this Annual Report, coloured icons show the linkage between our Outputs Outcomes business model inputs, outputs and outcomes the impact that we have Financial strength on our stakeholders, on society and on the environment.
Skills & expertise Group performance & KPIs Were focused on growing our cash flow over the long term.
Read more 31 We invest in our people so they can do their jobs better The groups financial results and our progress Read more Read more You can find the inputs, outputs and outcomes for each of our lines Together with a prudent financial policy and a strong balance on page 31 93 and are more engaged.
And we encourage them to from page against our KPIs are the key measurable outcomes from page of business from page 57. sheet, we can invest in our business and the things that set volunteer to benefit the communities we serve.
us apart from our competitors.
This key provides a mapping to the capitals of the IIRCs Integrated Reporting IR Framework.
Products & services Line of business performance Our people Our products range from fixed and mobile telephony, Read more Our lines of business sell our products and services and Read more We have 102,500 people.
Their commitment, expertise Read more 57 57 IIRC capitals key 31 from page TV and broadband services for UK individuals and put our strategy into action.
from page and diversity are key to the success of our business.
from page households, through to managing the networks and Financial Intellectual communications needs of some of the worlds leading Our brand strength Networks & physical assets multinational companies.
Our brands are a key asset.
Our investments in areas Our networks and platforms are the foundations of the Read more Read more Human Social 37 34 such as BT Sport have increased the value of the BT on page products and services we sell.
We continue to invest in from page Innovation brand.
And the EE brand gives us strength in mobile.
these to improve the service we offer our customers.
Manufactured Natural We have a long history of innovation.
It helps us offer Read more 36 new and improved products and services, find better from page Societal benefits Research & development ways of doing things and can generate valuable Were increasing digital inclusion and helping people Were one of the largest investors in research and Read more Read more 38 36 intellectual property for us.
get the most from being online.
Our people from page development in the UK.
from page and platforms support a number of good causes.
Waste & emissions Stakeholders & relationships Our operations produce some waste and emissions: Read more Environmental benefits Key stakeholders include our customers, communities, Read more 43 38 were working to minimise these.
from page We help our customers and suppliers reduce their Read more shareholders, lenders, our pension schemes, suppliers, from page 43 waste and carbon emissions.
from page government and regulators.
Natural resources You can find out more about the IR Framework at: We use some natural resources in doing business.
org energy use has declined for the seventh consecutive year.
