32 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 Hiring more apprentices A global workforce We hired around 550 new apprentices into eight business At 31 March 2016 we had 102,500 full-time equivalent operations, learning a range of skills.
Demand for apprentices FTE employees in 61 countries, with 81,400 of them based in continues to grow so we expect to hire even more next year.
This includes 12,800 who joined the group as part of EE.
Were one of the largest employers in the UK, supporting Investing for growth its economy by providing jobs and income.
We create meaningful roles so that people understand what they are responsible for.
We also invest in learning This year, excluding acquisitions, we recruited nearly 11,400 and development to allow our people to build skills and careers to people, bringing fresh ideas and new approaches to help us deliver successfully for our customers.
The BT Academy helps them innovate, learn and improve.
Of these, more than 4,200 are do this.
The Academy is not a physical place or building, its a combination of materials, events, and activities.
It gives people easy External hires full-time equivalents access to the knowledge and skills they need, when they need it, Year ended 31 March changing the way they learn and develop.
It is organised across 000 four faculties.
12 10 The Academy 8 Business Customer Leadership Technical 6 Each faculty supports a number of communities we call 4 professions, providing both structured learning and ways 2 to connect and share with others.
Were very pleased with how the Academy has done in its first 0 full year.
Across the world employees used the Academy website 2013 2014 2015 2016 over 400,000 times.
Over 20% of our people each month are now sharing information and ideas as well as accessing learning UK Non-UK materials online.
The tools weve developed have won awards gold for Internal We continued to transform our HR function, reviewing our Learning Solution of the Year at the Learning and Performance systems, processes, policies and services.
This has allowed us to Institute Annual Learning Awards 2016, and silver for Best Use simplify further the way we work and to improve the service our of Technology in Learning at the Training Journal Awards 2015.
HR team offers our people.
This year has seen many success stories culminating in the As our business evolves to meet the needs of our customers, National Apprenticeship Finals in January 2016 where we had we adapt our organisation, redeploying people through the BT two finalists.
We also won the Scottish SDS Macro Apprentice transition centre.
This helps us avoid redundancies.
Last year in Employer Of The Year Award.
the UK, 1,000 people were redeployed, meaning that we retained Preparing young people for employment experienced people with the skills we need for the future.
With growing demand for digital skills in the UK, we feel wellplaced to help create a future supply of suitably-skilled people, Recruiting talented people helping both our own business and the national economy, and A customer-connected workforce creating a brighter future for the countrys youth.
Improving the quality of our customer relationships is at the heart of our people strategy.
Our 2020 ambition Weve built on previous years, recruiting 900 new field engineers and more than 900 new people to work in customer-facing roles in our UK contact centres.
Weve also converted 600 agency Help 5m children to receive better workers to permanent employees, so that we keep their skills and teaching in computer skills experience in the organisation.
5m Highest-ever graduate intake In 2015 16 we hired 300 graduates globally, our highest intake to date.
Were planning on hiring around 300 again in 2016 17.
Creating a culture of tech literacy Weve made a long-term commitment to help build a culture We were again in the top half of The Times Top 100 Graduate of tech literacy.
As our first goal, we want to help 5m children Employers.
Were one of only four companies in the IT and telecoms by the end of 2020. sector to feature in the top 100.
33 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Were doing this by: Inspiring Kids to connect with exciting and relevant tech concepts: Enabling Teachers to feel confident to teach young people about tech in computing lessons: and Equipping Schools to be able to use technology effectively.
Were working with our partners the British Computer Society and the National Schools Partnership to deliver the Barefoot Computing Programme, which helps primary school teachers across the country deliver the new computing curriculum.
Over the 2014 15 school year we supported 12,500 teachers, helping to give around 340,000 children better teaching in computer science.
Were on track to reach a further 15,000 teachers and 400,000 children by the end of the 2015 16 school year.
Challenge Cup Getting young people Work Ready Challenge Cup is our key people engagement programme.
Its an annual Were a founding partner of Movement to Work, a voluntary competition that started in 2003. collaboration of UK employers committed to tackling youth It encourages people to form teams and come up with insights and new unemployment.
Our Work Ready programme helps 1624 initiatives, including ideas for changing business processes.
year-olds get better prepared for work, building both confidence The aim of the Challenge Cup is to improve customer experience while and their core employability skills.
It often supports people from generating ideas for creating growth and saving money for BT.
over 4,300 people came together to form over 900 teams across 24 countries.
The number of people participating has increased year on Our traineeship programme is at the heart of our strategy.
Those year, with 67% of those involved this year doing so for the first time.
not currently in education, employment or training can join BT for seven weeks of skills development and work experience.
So far over 1,000 young people have taken part in this initiative, with more Twice a year, more than 72,000 people provide feedback on than 600 gaining recognised certificates in work skills and business administration.
Many go on to get jobs, either in BT or elsewhere.
working for BT through our employee engagement survey.
It helps us develop a focused people strategy and support action planning The Princes Trust at a local level.
Engagement levels have remained stable for the last BT is part of The Princes Trust Technology Leadership Group, which two years at just over 3.8 out of a maximum of 5, with a telecoms helps thousands of young people turn their lives around each year.
Weve donated use of the BT Tower as a venue for the Trusts We keep our people informed about company results, major annual ICT Leaders Dinner for the last ten years raising 96,000 in 2015. business decisions and other things that affect them using a variety of digital channels.
Leaders regularly connect with their Engaging our people teams through roundtable meetings, town hall debates, site visits, We continue to focus on the health of our organisation.
From the webcasts and blogs.
rapid expansion of our Academy, through to the business initiatives We consult with our people or their representatives on a regular that are driving Continuous Improvement across BT, we are basis, taking their views into account on decisions that affect investing in a culture of strong employee engagement.
In the UK we recognise two main trade unions.
The This also benefits our customers.
We believe that highly-engaged Communication Workers Union represents people in engineering, employees provide the best experience for customers, helping us administration and clerical positions.
Prospect represents to broaden and deepen our relationship with them.
Diversity at work Employee engagement index Diversity is part of our heritage as far back as 1880 Henry Year ended 31 March Fawcett, who was blind, was appointed Postmaster General.
3.9 Improving the mix of our people remains a priority and, in particular, were encouraging more women to take up a career 3.8 in technology.
Were proud of our Tech Literacy programmes and events like the BT Young Scientist and Technology exhibition 3.7 that target young women in education.
Weve run recruitment campaigns in Openreach to attract more women into engineering 3.6 and redesigned our entry schemes to try to get rid of any unconscious bias.
3.5 19,000 women now work for us many with flexible contracts.
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thats 21% of our workforce and there are more than 11,000 women in our management team corresponding to 26%.
We aim to have at least 25% female representation on our Board, and it currently sits at 27% three out of 11 Board members.
Our maternity return rate, measured one year after women come back, is 86%, well above the industry average.
34 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 Gender is only part of the story.
Our aim is to create an inclusive energy and enthusiasm to make a practical difference in their local culture that values all differences in people.
That includes helping our tech literacy programme that diverse teams are more innovative and can deliver a better and promoting traineeships.
experience to an equally diverse customer base.
This year over 27% of our people spent nearly 45,000 days This year weve focused on Inclusive Leadership training for volunteering their time to support charities and community groups senior management teams, specific programmes around working around the world.
BT volunteers were involved in raising 8.5m for patterns and promoting our #bettertogether culture.
The Race at Children In Need and 2.9m for Sport Relief.
Work report we sponsored with Business in the Community will set The EE business shares our passion for making a difference.
It the direction for development programmes for our employees from supports several charities through volunteering such as Apps for black and minority ethnic backgrounds.
Good, in which young people use new technologies to design and a We are a Two Ticks employer and we actively encourage the make products that can make a difference to their world, gaining recruitment, development and retention of disabled people.
Well confidence and skills at the same time.
Our combined contributions automatically put an applicant with a disability or long-term health will benefit good causes in the years ahead.
condition, who meets the minimum criteria for a vacancy, through Pay and benefits to the first stage of a recruitment process.
Were making progress We compare pay and benefits for our people with companies on improving diversity but we recognise that there is a lot more of similar size and complexity to ensure our remuneration is we need to do.
Staying safe and well In the UK, most of our engineering and support people are Were committed to having no avoidable health and safety paid on terms and conditions negotiated through collective incidents.
The 11% reduction in the rate of lost time due to injury bargaining with our recognised trade unions, ensuring fair terms brings us to our lowest-ever level.
However, some of our activities and conditions for all.
Our managers pay and any bonuses are are inherently hazardous and the risks, particularly in external determined by a combination of business performance and their engineering, remain challenging to manage.
Weve accepted personal contribution to the company.
some localised and historic failures raised by the Health and Safety Executive.
Weve done a lot to mitigate the risks highlighted and Our executives may also receive long-term awards to reward the we still compare well with industry benchmarks.
The amount they ultimately receive is determined by the groups performance over a three-year period.
We havent done as well as we wanted on some indicators.
Our Executive directors must retain incentive shares for a further twosickness absence rate has risen by 5%, driven mainly by increasing year period.
levels of musculoskeletal and mental health conditions.
Weve measured our peoples sense of wellbeing for some time.
The In line with our regulatory obligations, incentives for people long-term improvements weve seen were broadly flat this year, in Openreach are tied solely to a combination of personal with a small increase of 0.5%.
The pattern of sickness absence contribution and Openreachs performance, rather than that and wellbeing varies across the group and is strongly linked to the of the wider group.
level of change taking place within a particular business area.
We We support our people by providing a range of retirement savings see the best results where changes have been well managed with plans.
In the UK, our main defined benefit scheme is the BT a style that takes account of peoples perceptions.
Were sharing Pension Scheme and our defined contribution scheme is the BT best practice on managing change across the lines of business and Retirement Saving Scheme.
You can read more about these on through the Academy.
We continue to focus on early intervention when people are sick or Sharing in success injured.
Our company-funded schemes helped get 91% of people Almost 60% of our people take part in one or more of our savingstreated back into their role on full duties.
related share option plans saveshare, which operate in over 25 countries.
In August 2015, almost 13,000 people in our 2010 Volunteering saveshare plan were able to buy shares at 104p, representing an average gain of around 10,000 each.
Our 2020 ambition Our networks and Inspire two-thirds of our people physical assets to volunteer some of their time 66% Our networks, platforms and IT systems are the foundations of the products our customers rely on around the world.
Our people can use up to three working days a year on Network platforms volunteering activities.
As well as having a positive impact on society, our employee engagement survey see page 33 shows Our global reach higher engagement levels from those who volunteer than from Our global network provides service to 180 countries and is those who dont.
supported by in-country networks and infrastructure.
Most Some people choose to help charities with particular issues of our network assets are in the UK and continental Europe.
needing their expert input and knowledge.
Others use their We continue to selectively expand the reach of our network to support multinational companies in other regions.
And we use the expertise we gain from protecting BTs own networks, to a Two Ticks is an accreditation that is given to organisations that are committed to employing help secure our customers networks.
