40 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 Choosing our suppliers We introduced it in September 2013 and its now one of the We want to know who were doing business with and who is acting largest supplier finance schemes in the UK, supporting over on our behalf.
EE also operates a supplier finance scheme.
choose suppliers using principles that make sure both we and the These schemes are attractive for SMEs who make up around 40% supplier act ethically and responsibly: of our supply base.
They also support UK government initiatives check that the goods and services we buy are made, delivered to encourage small business growth.
and disposed of in a socially and environmentally responsible We also follow the principles of the Better Payment Practice way: and Code set up by the Government in partnership with business measure things like suppliers energy use, environmental impact organisations.
and labour standards, and work with them to improve these.
Human rights Ethical standards in our supply chain The human rights of our employees, people working in our supply We want our suppliers employees to experience working chain, our customers and members of the communities where we conditions that are safe and fair.
We send all but our lowest-risk operate could be affected by the way we do business.
We think suppliers an ethical standards questionnaire.
Based on their about what these effects could be and try to positively impact the responses, we follow up with any suppliers identified as high or experience and approach for those we work with.
We also consider medium risk.
This year we met our target to achieve 100% followhow we can remove or reduce potential negative impacts in up action within three months.
We also visit supplier sites to make accordance with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human sure they meet our standards.
This year we visited 47 sites around Rights UNGPs.
the world, the same as last year.
Its important that everyone in BT, and everyone who works with us, understands our commitment to the UNGPs.
Thats why we Number of on-site supplier assessments commit to them in The Way We Work, our statement of business Year ended 31 March practice.
60 We have other policies to address specific issues which might 50 affect human rights, such as: supply chain standards: diversity and inclusion: and safety and wellbeing in the workplace.
40 Were in the process of drawing together our approach into one 30 overarching human rights policy so that anyone can easily access our principles and understand how we put them into practice.
20 As were a communications provider, the rights to privacy and 10 freedom of expression are the human rights which could be most at risk from our operations: 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 Privacy because we must comply with laws on investigatory powers.
These allow governments, in certain situations, to request information about how people use our services and the To comply with the Dodd-Frank Act and our Securities and content of their communications.
Exchange Commission SEC obligations, we repeated our annual Freedom of expression because although we dont host much research asking our BT product suppliers whether their products online content ourselves, we do help people get online.
So if we contain certain minerals which may have been sourced from block content which we do in very limited circumstances, that conflict areas such as the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
As a could clearly affect peoples rights to express their views and result we have a better understanding of our suppliers own supply receive information.
chains but were not yet at the point where we can declare an We support and respect peoples rights to privacy and free individual product to be entirely conflict mineral free.
expression, though we accept that sometimes there may need In June 2015 we filed with the SEC our 2014 report describing to be limitations on those rights, as international human rights our conflict minerals approach and reflecting the supplier standards allow.
Any limitations should be within clear legal responses we received.
We will file the report for 2015 in frameworks with the right checks and balances.
2015 we published our Privacy and Free Expression in UK Communications report which explains our approach to this in The Modern Slavery Act, which came into effect in 2015, more detail.
has meant that were reviewing the processes we use with our suppliers to address human rights risks in our supply chain.
Our Human Rights Steering Group, which is chaired by a member of the Operating Committee, meets quarterly.
This year it Paying our suppliers considered a broad range of issues, including: This year the average number of days between invoice date and supplier payment was 62 days globally 2014 15: 60 days, with our approach to an overarching human rights policy: 54 days for UK invoices.
our due diligence processes when it comes to winning business: the Modern Slavery Act 2015: Suppliers can choose to use the BT Supplier Finance scheme our supply chain: and which offers contracted suppliers the chance to be paid early.
specific human rights issues arising from day-to-day business.
This reduces their financing costs.
Find out more about the BT Supplier You can find out more about the www.
com TheWayWeWork Finance scheme at: Better Payment Practice Code at: www.
