What are the Board of Directors responsibilities of the Board?
Our Board of Directors is responsible for governing the Company and are Our Board of Directors come ultimately accountable to our from a diverse range of shareholders for our activities, strategy and performance.
Each year we hold an backgrounds to enable us to Annual General Meeting at which the Board provides a report to shareholders access a broad knowledge base.
on the performance of the business, what its future plans and strategies are They define BTGs strategy and and also submit themselves for re-election to the Board.
oversee governance, risk and business performance.
34 Governance Garry Watts Dame Louise Makin Chairman Chief Executive Officer Garry Watts, FCA, MBE, joined the Louise Makin, MA, PhD Cantab, MBA, Board of BTG as non-executive DBE, joined BTG as Chief Executive Chairman in January 2012.
She is a Chairman of the Nomination non-executive director of Intertek Group Committee.
plc and the Woodford Patient Capital Trust, and a Trustee of the Outward Garry is Chairman of Spire Healthcare Bound Trust.
and of Foxtons Group plc and non-executive director of Coca-Cola From 2001, she was President, Enterprises, Inc. Until December 2010, Biopharmaceuticals Europe of Baxter he was for seven years CEO of SSL Healthcare, where she was responsible International plc and before that its for Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
Garry is a former partner at KPMG.
Louise joined Baxter Healthcare in 2000 He was previously an executive director as Vice President, Strategy & Business of Celltech plc and of Medeva plc and a Development Europe.
Before joining non-executive director of Protherics Baxter, she was Director of Global PLC.
Other roles have included 17 years Ceramics at English China Clay and as a member of the UK Medicines and prior to that she held a variety of roles Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency at ICI between 1985 and 1998.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Susan Foden Giles Kerr Ian Much Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Susan Foden, MA, DPhil, joined BTG as Giles Kerr, FCA, joined BTG as a Ian Much joined BTG as a non-executive a non-executive director in March 2015 non-executive director in October director in August 2010.
He is Chairman and is a member of the Remuneration 2007 and is the Companys Senior of the Remuneration Committee and a Committee.
He is Chairman member of the Audit and Nomination of the Audit Committee and a member Committees.
Susan is currently a non-executive of the Nomination and Remuneration director with BerGenBio AS, Vectura Ian was Chief Executive of fide La Rue plc Committees.
Group plc, Evgen Pharma plc and between 1998 and 2004 and Chief The Cell and Gene Therapy Catapult and Giles is currently the Director of Executive of T&N plc between 1996 and is an advisory board member for CD3 Finance with the University of Oxford, 1998.
Previous non-executive director a joint initiative between Leuven UK.
He is also a Director of Quanta Fluid appointments include Manchester University and the European Investment Solutions Ltd, Isis Innovation Ltd, Senior United plc, Camelot plc, Admiral plc, 35 Fund.
Previously Susan was an Investor plc and PayPoint plc.
Previously Giles Senior plc and Chemring Group plc.
Governance Director with the venture capital firm was the Group Finance Director and Merlin Biosciences, CEO of the Chief Financial Officer of Amersham technology transfer company, Cancer plc, acquired by GE Healthcare in 2004 Research Campaign Technology Ltd and previously served as director of and Head of Academic Liaison at Victrex plc.
Prior to his role at Amersham, Celltech Ltd and formally served on the he was a partner with Arthur Andersen boards of Cizzle and Source Bioscience.
Rolf Soderstrom Jim OShea Richard Wohanka Non-Executive Director Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Jim OShea joined BTG as a nonRolf Soderstrom, BA, ACA, joined BTG Richard Wohanka joined BTG as a executive director in April 2009 and as Chief Financial Officer in December non-executive director in January 2013 he is a member of the Nomination 2008 from Protherics PLC, where he and is a member of the Audit Committee.
was Finance Director from August 2007.
Richard has more than 20 years He is the Chairman of Cardiome Pharma From 2004, he was a Divisional Finance experience in building asset Corp, and a director of Prostrakan Group Director of Cobham plc, managing a management businesses.
He was Plc, Trevi Therapeutics, Inc and Ocular portfolio of businesses across Europe CEO of Union Bancaire Prive Asset TM Therapeutix Inc and a former Chairman and the USA.
From 2000 he was a Management between October 2009 of the US National Pharmaceuticals Director of Corporate Finance at and June 2012, and from 2001 to 2009 Council.
From 2007 to 2008, he was Vice Cable & Wireless plc.
Prior to this, he was CEO of Fortis Investment Chairman of Sepracor, Inc. where he he worked in the Corporate Recovery Management.
Richard is a board was also President and Chief Operating and Corporate Finance Department member of the Nuclear Liabilities Officer from 1999 to 2007.
Previously, of  after Fund and of Scottish Widows.
Jim was Senior Vice President of Sales & qualifying as a Chartered Accountant.
Marketing and Medical Affairs for Zeneca Pharmaceuticals US, a business unit of Zeneca Inc.
While at Zeneca, he held several management positions of increasing responsibility in international sales and marketing in the US and the UK.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
