117 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Training and information Board evaluation We encourage all directors to update their skills and knowledge The Chairman and Company Secretary carried out a Board and the Board and individual directors receive ongoing training as evaluation in 2015 through an electronic questionnaire.
TheChairman also reviews with each director any training discussed the resulting report in June and noted that, overall, or development they need to help them in performing their role.
We also identified a number of areas And directors receive briefings to enhance their awareness of the offocus and highlight our actions in the table below.
different aspects of the business.
The Chief Executive regularly The table below shows progress against the main actions: provides information on the business in his report to the Board which can include: updates on operational matters, the competitive Key areas Actions and regulatory environment and other changes affecting the group and the wider communications industry, group and line of Strategy and long-term vision business performance, strategy, investor relations and corporate Time devoted to developing and Along with the Board strategy day responsibility.
The Chairman also provides a weekly written update our long-term vision in March, we have continued to to the non-executive directors on key business activities, high level dedicate time to strategy items meetings, regulation and relevant sector highlights.
at Board meetings and dinners throughout the year.
Our Group The Company Secretary provides briefings during the year Director Strategy, Policy and on any significant developments in legal, governance and Portfolio has presented regularly compliance areas.
We also hold Board seminars during the year to the Board.
covering accounting, governance and compliance, and reporting Knowledge to help inform our We received independent external developments.
strategy, such as competitor presentations to address this.
analysis and market insight Customer perception A better understanding of our As part of our regular reviews customers needs and how they of customer service, we agreed see us a revised customer experience strategy, which gives us better insight into customer perception and how we are seen compared to our competitors.
Executive succession planning Better visibility of senior We continue to invite independent management to help inform non-executives to attend Talent succession planning Breakfasts and Chairmans dinners with potential successors to the OC and other key roles.
EE Integration of EE and group The Board has been updated strategy for the enlarged group on integration plans and a new Integration Committee has been established, chaired by the Chief Executive.
More details can be found on page 115.
We have begun the Boards evaluation for 2016 17.
This is being conducted internally by electronic questionnaires.
Further details on this 124 evaluation process are on page 124.
