27 26 BT Group plc Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Annual Report 2016 Operating Committee This is our key management committee.
It meets weekly and is chaired by the Chief Executive.
Brief details of its members are set out on these pages.
The Operating Committee has collective responsibility for running our business and delivering our strategy.
It monitors the groups financial, operational and customer service performance and has cross-business oversight of the lines of business.
It also reviews the groups principal risks and considers the potential threats to, and opportunities for, the business.
It: develops BTs strategy and budgets for the Boards approval: recommends to the Board capital expenditure and investment budgets: allocates resources across BT Dan Fitz within plans agreed by the Board: Company Secretary prepares and delivers major Dan is the Group General Counsel & Gavin Patterson Tony Chanmugam Marc Allera Luis Alvarez programmes: and Company Secretary of BT Group plc.
reviews the senior talent base He joined BT in April 2010 as its Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director CEO, EE CEO, Global Services and succession arrangements.
General Counsel and was appointed appointed as Chief Executive in appointed to the Board as Group Finance appointed February 2016 appointed October 2012 Company Secretary in November 2012.
It can approve, up to certain limits set by September 2013 and on the Board Director in December 2008.
Marc was formerly chief commercial officer Luis was formerly president of the Dan previously spent six years at Misys the Board, capital expenditure, disposals of and 12 years at Cable & Wireless.
Tony was formerly CFO, BT Retail, and for EE, responsible for all commercial European, Middle East, Africa and Latin fixed assets, investments and divestments.
Gavin was previously CEO, BT Retail and Managing Director, BT Enterprises and, activities across a multi-channel operation America operations of BT Global Services It has delegated some of these approvals from 2004 to 2008 was Managing from 1997 to 2004, he was CFO and including digital, retail, telesales and serving some of our biggest global to sub-committees, such as the Design Director, BT Consumer, BT Retail.
Before then Chief Operating Officer of BT Global customer base management.
Luis also led BT Global Services Council page 30, and to senior executives.
joining BT, Gavin was managing director Solutions.
He is qualified as a Chartered Marc spent ten years at Three UK where Telecom Markets unit, managing business The Company Secretary attends all of the consumer division of Telewest Management Accountant.
he held a number of senior positions, with carriers and operators outside the UK.
Prior to that, he spent including chief commercial officer and sales Before joining BT, Luis worked at Ericsson, nine years at Procter & Gamble, rising and marketing director.
Nigel Stagg, formerly CEO, BT Wholesale IBM and Group Santander.
Luis has a to become European marketing director.
and Joe Garner, formerly CEO, Openreach telecommunications engineering degree.
an invitee to the Operating Committee both left during the year.
Clive Selley Invitee, CEO, Openreach Clive was appointed CEO, Openreach in February 2016.
He was formerly CEO, BT Technology, Service & Operations, CEO BT Innovate & Design and before that President, BT Global Services Portfolio & Service Design.
He is an invitee because the CEO of Openreach cannot be a member of the Operating Committee under the provisions of the Undertakings.
Gerry McQuade John Petter Graham Sutherland Howard Watson Alison Wilcox CEO, Wholesale and Ventures CEO, Consumer CEO, Business and CEO, Technology, Service Group HR Director appointed March 2016 appointed September 2013 appointed July 2015 Public Sector & Operations Gerry was previously chief sales and John was formerly Managing Director, BT Alison was formerly Regional HR Director appointed September 2013 appointed February 2016 marketing officer for EE Business, EE Consumer, BT Retail and prior to that, Chief for Vodafone Europe and prior to that, Graham was formerly Managing Director, Howard was formerly chief architect Business Wholesale businesses, and was Operating Officer in BT Consumer.
John was Regional HR Director for Vodafones Africa, BT Business, BT Retail, responsible for the and Managing Director global IT systems responsible for all EE product development.
appointed chairman of the Plusnet Board Middle East and Asia Pacific footprint.
small and medium-sized enterprises unit and led the technical teams behind the Simon Lowth in 2008 and has overseen its development Alison joined Vodafone in 2006 as Group within BT Retail and prior to that, CEO of launch of BT Sport in 2013.
Gerry was chief development officer at Group Finance Director designate as a key part of BTs strategy.
Director of Leadership following a career BT Ireland.
Orange from January 2008, where he was Simon will join BT on 4 July 2016 as Group Howard joined BT in 2011 and has in consulting.
key in overseeing the merger of Orange Prior to joining BT, John held roles as Finance Director designate and an Operating 30 years of telecoms experience having Before joining BT, Graham held a number Committee member.
He was also one of the marketing and commercial director at spent time at Telewest now Virgin Media of senior management positions including founding directors of Virgin Mobile and Telewest now Virgin Media and brand and Cartesian, a telecommunications managing director of NTL in the Republic previously worked at Cellnet now O2.
Graham is qualified as a Chartered Management Accountant.
