61 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Products and services We deliver value to our customers by combining a broad portfolio of products and services with industry-specific solutions and consulting expertise.
Our network is at the heart of what we provide.
We have simple product categories organised around what our customers need.
These are: BT One People communicate using technology in many different ways by phone, instant messaging, email, audio and video conferencing and data-sharing solutions, either at their desks or on mobile devices.
Businesses want these channels to be integrated and to work together BT Assure easily and reliably.
Security that matters Our collaboration services help customers simplify their communication channels and transform the way they interact with their customers, colleagues, partners and suppliers.
And our mobile services help keep them in touch when they are on the move.
BT One BT Compute BT Connect Services that Networks that think Communications that unify adapt BT Contact Relationships that grow Service from BT BT Contact Our contact centre services help our customers build stronger BT Advise relationships with their customers.
We offer a number of ways for them Knowledge that delivers to communicate together, including email, web chat, video, social media and the phone either via automated systems or dedicated advisers.
Industry propositions Our cloud contact solutions give companies more control over their costs, allowing them to change capacity in response to demand.
Innovation from BT BT Compute BT Connect Businesses want reliable but flexible IT platforms and services for their Network services are at the core of our Cloud of Clouds strategy.
applications, data storage and security.
We provide IT services across They connect our customers to their people, to their own customers, our global network from 48 data centres around the world, 22 of which to the cloud and to the world.
We offer a range of flexible, intelligent are cloud-enabled.
Our services range from traditional telehousing and secure IP, Ethernet and internet virtual private network services, and colocation to the latest public, private and hybrid cloud solutions, including direct connectivity to third-party cloud services providers.
delivered in any combination our customers need.
We deliver our network services across 180 countries over a range of access technologies including DSL, Ethernet and satellite.
BT Assure BT Advise Cyber security is now firmly on the boardroom agenda for many We want to become a trusted adviser for all our customers.
Our team of companies with cyber-attacks a daily occurrence.
We use the expertise more than 2,000 professional services people provides the connection we have from protecting BT to develop products and services such as between business strategy and technology.
By giving expert advice and firewalls, web security, intrusion prevention and threat monitoring to then integrating and managing all essential business technologies, our protect our customers.
customers can get the most value from our services.
62 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 Societal benefits Industry propositions We make a positive difference to communities.
In India weve Our industry-specific solutions help customers overcome been supporting Katha since 2001.
We helped it to establish the challenges unique to the environments they operate in.
Katha Information Technology and E-commerce School KITES in For example: the heart of Govindpuri, an impoverished area of Delhi.
Using an our Digital Consumer portfolio enables retailers to provide online resource based on Katha methods, the Katha Consortium an online experience to shoppers in their physical stores: has now supported over 17,000 young people and educators, and our Field Force Automation solutions provide workers with the I Love Reading programme has touched the lives of almost access to corporate applications, regardless of their location: 700,000 people.
and Were also working with the Colombian government to bring BT Industrial Wireless services provide mining and oil poorer areas of the country, including rural areas, online.
This companies with connectivity to the coalface or wellhead project will connect over 700 new Vive Digital kiosks across the for safer and more cost-efficient operations.
country, allowing people in these areas to connect to the internet and access e-learning and e-training services as well as a range of Performance in the year online public services.
The estimated social value of this work We have consolidated our position as a global leader is 1.8m a year.
for managed networked IT services.
Were working with Milton Keynes Council to pilot smart parking at the main railway station to help offer a better experience to the Weve improved our Right First Time performance and have towns residents as well as reducing fuel use and vehicle emissions.
extended our customer satisfaction measures to give clearer insight into customer experience.
But we continue to work on service delivery as our loyalty surveys have shown a decline in Operating performance customer satisfaction, which was largely driven by delays in We achieved a total order intake of 6.2bn.
While this was down providing Ethernet circuits in the UK.
4%, excluding contract renewals our order intake grew in the year, in line with our strategy to grow our share of our customers We grew underlying revenue excluding transit in the high-growth network and IT spend.
Key deals with our top global customers regions of the world and Continental Europe.
But overall it continue to make up a large part overall.
declined, driven by lower UK public sector income and because a major customer in the US started to insource some services.
Contracts we won this year include: Despite this, we grew our operating cash flow.
Analyst firms recognise us as a global leader in the market.
Customer Contract We were positioned as a Leader in Gartners 2016 Magic Quadrant a AIA Group Providing managed network and security for Network Services, Global, for the 12th time.
We were also BT Connect services covering 52 sites in 15 countries ranked a Leader in IDCs MarketScape Worldwide Telecom Service across Asia Pacific.
ALS Providing a global managed network BT Connect, comprising WAN services, internet access, Examples of how were broadening BT Assure cloud connectivity, network acceleration and deepening customer relationships and optimisation, as well as managed security services.
Working with Williams Martini Racing, weve improved the availability of data in near real-time from each race track back to their Caixa Increasing the number of lottery outlets headquarters in Oxfordshire.
This supports the teams in improving car BT Connect that we will serve in Brazil from 14,000 performance on race days through data analysis.
to 18,000, using our network and We opened new customer showcases.
One in New York and a security satellite connectivity.
showcase in the UK with access to highly-skilled cyber security specialists and innovative demonstrations.
Commerzbank Providing a global collaboration system We extended the rollout of our Customer Thermometer which takes BT One bringing together 49,000 users in 20 a regular gauge of customer experience.
Customers are asked for countries across the globe.
feedback via email in a simple format at key points of interaction.
We use hothousing events to engage with our customers, sharing our European Commission Delivering cloud services across 52 major extensive knowledge and skills across a broad spectrum of business BT One, European institutions, agencies and topics, as well as hearing their views and insights.
Walgreens Boots Alliance Upgrading and expanding its IT network in a Gartner, Magic Quadrant for Network Services, Global, Neil Rickard, Bjarne Munch, January BT Connect 20 countries.
Gartner footnote: Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its Zurich Insurance Group Modernising and managing its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors BT Connect communications infrastructure.
with the highest ratings or other designation.
Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartners research organization and should not be construed as statements of fact.
Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.
The Gartner Report s described herein, Gartner Magic Quadrant for Network Services, Global, Neil Rickard, Bjarne Munch, 14 January 2016 represent s research opinion or viewpoints published, as part of a syndicated subscription service, by Gartner, Inc. Gartner, and are not representations of fact.
Each Gartner Report speaks as of its original publication date and not as of the date of this Annual Report and the opinions expressed in the Gartner Report s are subject to change without notice.
b IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Telecom Service Provider, 2015 Vendor Assessment, July 2015, IDC #257339.
63 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Deliver superior customer service Transform our costs Customer experience is at the heart of the way we do Weve continued to reduce our costs with underlying business.
We gather feedback from our customers through operating costs excluding transit down 1%.
our global account management teams and by using Were taking tried-and-tested methods from the UK and are using third-party surveys.
them overseas to reduce the cost of failure, improve efficiency, streamline organisational structure and get better value for money And this year we extended the rollout of our Customer from suppliers.
It takes a regular gauge of customer experience using email to gain customer feedback Reduce failures in our processes at key points of interaction.
We continue to deliver good results by improving how we manage access circuits around the world including: During the year we: improved the speed of service delivery for our main products removing circuits we no longer need: by 14%.
This will remain a key focus for us next year: migrating to more advanced technologies with lower unit costs: continued to deliver network reliability across our core products: and introduced pre-emptive, automated service management into reducing order backlogs.
This means we can identify issues and act on Improving third-party supplier value for money them before the customer feels any impact: and Weve saved money on customer premises equipment by: started to develop better tools to keep our customers informed of progress on major orders.
applying best practice on managing discounts and rebates from a large supplier: Thanks to these improvements, we increased our Right First Time using refurbished kit: measure 2.3%, building on last years 8.6% increase.
disposing of unused equipment: and However, we did see a decline in overall customer satisfaction insourcing the maintenance of equipment where we have in our loyalty survey.
This was largely driven by issues around the skills to do this ourselves.
service delivery, in particular delays in providing Ethernet circuits From these, and other, cost transformation programmes, we have in the UK.
Were addressing this by changing our processes and not only delivered significant benefits this year but have procedures.
also identified further opportunities for next year.
Were currently piloting a Net Promoter Score NPS and will launch Invest for growth this globally next year.
This new measure of customer satisfaction will give us much more timely and actionable insight on a Weve continued to strengthen our capabilities with customer-by-customer basis.
the launch of new cloud-based services which can be integrated with different suppliers and are available globally.
High-growth regions Weve improved our cloud-based BT Connect services in Singapore, Hong Kong and Japan.
And we also launched our BT MeetMe with Dolby Voice conferencing services in Argentina, Brazil, Colombia and Mexico.
Our network We continued to expand our network: weve extended our internet capability including 18 new internet gateways and a three-fold increase to nearly 100 internet global points of presence PoPs.
And we opened two new, highly secure, sustainable data centres in the UK.
We also introduced cloud-based acceleration and security services, marking our first steps on our virtualised network services roadmap.
64 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 Our core products and services Operating costs decreased 4% 2014 15: 8%.
Underlying Weve made it easier for our customers to connect securely to operating costs excluding transit decreased 1% 2014 15: 5% third-party providers including Microsofts cloud-based Office reflecting the impact of lower revenue and the benefit of our cost 365 suite, HP Enterprise Helion Managed Cloud Services and transformation programmes.
Operating costs included 25m of Salesforce.
EBITDA was flat 2014 15: up 1% and was up 1% excluding Weve also made it simpler for customers to integrate foreign exchange movements.
Depreciation and amortisation video, conferencing and messaging platforms offered was flat 2014 15: down 16%, and operating profit was also by different providers.
In the security area, we: We reduced our capital expenditure by 11% 2014 15: 9%, introduced a cloud-based DDoS mitigation service: largely reflecting improved efficiencies.
EBITDA less capital launched BT Assure Cyber Defence, an advanced security expenditure was up 54m to 633m, a similar increase to platform for monitoring, detecting and protecting against last year.
cyber-threats: and Our operating cash flow of 475m was 126m higher than last launched two further BT Assure services, Ethical Hacking for year, benefiting from the timing of contract-specific cash flows Finance and Ethical Hacking for Vehicles which assesses the and the lower capital expenditure.
vulnerabilities of connected vehicles to cyber-attacks.
Industry-specific solutions As a founding member of the Acuitas Digital Alliance, weve BT Global Services 12-month rolling operating cash ow launched our BT In-Store Visibility solution.
It gives retailers realYear ended 31 March time digital insight from the shop and across the supply chain to m give customers in-store the same experience they enjoy online.
600 500 Financial performance 400 2016 2015 2014 Year ended 31 March m m m 300 Revenue 6,530 6,779 7,269 200 Underlying revenue excluding 100 transit 2 % 4 % 1 % 0 Operating costs 5,482 5,732 6,228 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 EBITDA 1,048 1,047 1,041 2015 2016 Depreciation and amortisation 518 519 616 Operating profit 530 528 425 Capital expenditure 415 468 516 Key priorities Operating cash flow 475 349 499 Were focused on strengthening our position as a global leader.
This will be helped by the April 2016 reorganisation and the renewed focus this provides for Global Services.
Our future priorities include: Revenue decreased 4% 2014 15: 7% including a 105m negative impact from foreign exchange strengthening the capabilities that underpin our Cloud of Clouds strategy: our network performance, the systems delivering cloud movements and a 30m decline in transit revenue.
services to our customers, and  solutions for our Our key revenue measure, underlying revenue excluding customers: transit, decreased 2%, which was an improvement on continuing to build deeper relationships with our major customers as the 4% decline the year before.
their trusted partner: transforming our customer service through clearer insight into Underlying revenue excluding transit grew 4% in the high-growth customer experiences, including the introduction of a Next Generation regions 2014 15: 9% reflecting the signing of key deals and Service Desk: the impact of newly-launched capabilities, products and services.
continuing to drive down costs to become a more efficient organisation: Continental Europe delivered 5% growth in underlying revenue investing in the technologies which help our customers embrace the digital age: and excluding transit 2014 15: 2% reflecting higher IP Exchange further strengthening our defences against attempted cyber-attacks volumes and growth from corporate customers.
and fraud, and supporting customers in their security challenges.
In the UK our revenue was down 5% 2014 15: 11% reflecting Weve also set ourselves some specific ambitions over the next the decline in our public-sector income.
In the US and Canada three years: we had a 9% decline in underlying revenue excluding transit to grow our share of spending with our Global Accounts by 10%: 2014 15: 3% as a major customer started insourcing some to achieve double-digit percentage annual growth rates in the revenue services.
we generate in security, cloud unified communications and Cloud Compute: and to increase our net promoter score by at least ten points.
65 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information BT Business BT Business sells communications and IT services in the Inputs, outputs and outcomes UK and the Republic of Ireland.
We have around 900,000 customers and are leaders in fixed-voice, networking, Inputs cloud services and broadband.
We have access to the UKs largest fibre network and, going forward, the fastest 4G network through EE.
In BT Business were passionate about helping businesses of all sizes succeed.
From household names and public-sector We partner with leading companies such as Broadsoft, Cisco, HP and Microsoft.
organisations right through to small businesses and start-ups, we help organisations use the power of technology to change, Were an organisation of around 8,000 people providing local, regional compete and thrive.
and national coverage across the UK.
Its not just business customers that rely on us.
We play a critical role in society through our management of the 999 service in Outputs We offer a wide choice of fixed, mobile and IT services.
the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
And we keep the rest of BT Group on the road by managing and servicing the large fleet Were growing our portfolio of converged, IP and cloud-based products of BT vehicles.
During 2015 16 we had four customer-facing divisions: This year we invested in 40,000 hours of training for our customerfacing people.
UK SME BT Business UK Corporate BT Ireland Outcomes Small to Larger SMEs and Solutions Were the leading UK provider of fixed business communications and mid-market businesses public sector UK SMEs, IT services and represent 15% of BTs revenue.
companies and corporate in Northern corporates, plus specific mid-market Ireland some publicWe support communities through volunteering and play a critical role target markets sector in society through managing the 999 service.
Public sector, for specialist organisations corporates and services We help young people to learn and develop through our apprentice wholesale in scheme.
Typically the Republic Typically Typically customers customers have of Ireland customers have have 100 250-5,000 100-1,000 UK Corporate employees employees employees UK Corporate serves larger businesses typically 100 to 1,000 employees, offering both standard and bespoke communications BT Global solutions and IT services.
BT Redcare Ireland Services and BT Directories BT Fleet network BT Fleet supplies BT and external customers with fleet BT Wholesale BT Payphones infrastructure customers management solutions.
Its one of the UKs leading providers of fleet maintenance and accident management services.
BT Business Solutions sell through relationship We provide IT services to UK customers through four specialist IT businesses: UK SME UK SME supplies small businesses, ranging from sole traders Business Providing through to more complex organisations including schools and colleges, with communication solutions and IT services.
We BT IT Services IT hardware and networked IT solutions, managed and support services, and serve our customers through a number of channels including consulting services.
our network of 40 independent BT Local Business franchisees.
BT Business Direct IT and communications hardware and We also have three specialist businesses software, including computing and networking equipment, sold online.
Business Providing BT Expedite Specialised IT services for the retail sector.
BT Redcare Fire and security alarm signalling services, surveillance networks and control room Tikit Bespoke IT products and services for legal services.
BT Directories Directory Enquiries, The Phone Book, website services, operator services and BT Business Solutions typically targets organisations with 250 call handling for the emergency services.
We sell solutions and IT products primarily through the UK Corporate and UK SME channels.
We also sell to BT Payphones Public, private and managed payphone customers of BT Global Services and BT Wholesale.
Direct, BT Expedite and Tikit have their own direct sales functions.
BT Ireland In Northern Ireland were the largest provider of communications services for small and medium-sized enterprises SMEs and a leading supplier of networked IT services for public sector and corporate customers.
66 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 In the Republic of Ireland we provide networked IT services for We have a 46% market share of business lines excluding VoIP, the public sector and large businesses and we provide wholesale broadly level with last year.
services to other communications providers.
Demand for faster and more reliable broadband connections is growing, with continued migration towards fibre.
Businesses want New organisational structure faster broadband to communicate, to transact with customers and From 1 April 2016 were creating a line of business called Business suppliers, and to maintain a competitive advantage.
This will consist of the existing BT Business organisation, along with the EE business division and some of BT Were the largest business broadband provider in the UK, with over Global Services UK corporate and public sector teams.
A number a third of the market for businesses with one or more employees.
of our specialist businesses including BT Fleet, BT Redcare, Ethernet and dedicated internet access services are growing BT Directories, BT Payphones and Tikit will move into the new strongly, with businesses becoming increasingly reliant on Wholesale and Ventures line of business.
Were the leading provider of fixed networking As the new Business and Public Sector line of business, well: services in the UK with around a quarter of the market.
be a provider of communications and IT services to businesses Mobility and the public sector in the UK and the Republic of Ireland, The competitive landscape in the UK is evolving rapidly as serving over 1.2m customers: businesses look to exploit the opportunities of services such as 4G offer the best fixed and mobile networks to provide seamless, to work more flexibly and efficiently, and also to buy more of their converged business services: communications services from a single supplier.
have 12,000 people located across the UK and the Republic of Ireland dedicated to giving our customers the best experience: Our main competitors are O2 and Vodafone.
Both offer fixed and products as well as mobile and are increasingly selling generate revenue of around 5bn.
Our acquisition of EE means well be able to respond more Markets and customers rapidly to these trends and accelerate the growth of our There are 5.4m SMEs in the UK.
They are critical to fixed-mobile services.
They make up 99.9% of all IT services UK businesses, and account for 60% of private-sector The IT services market is very diverse, ranging from off-the-shelf employment and 47% of business revenue.
hardware sales to large outsourced solutions.
Competition is Sole traders and small businesses typically buy fixed-lines, fragmented with providers often focused on specific customermobile and broadband.
Larger customers buy a broader range types, industries or technologies.
Our main competitors are of communications services which include Ethernet and cloudComputacenter, Dimension Data, Kelway, Logicalis, SCC and based products.
We have around 900,000 customers including more than half We estimate that the parts of the market we serve are worth of FTSE350 companies.
Major customers include: around 8bn, of which we have around 6% share.
The areas of the market that are growing include cloud services, hosting, retailers like Halfords: infrastructure and security.
They offer attractive opportunities public sector organisations like the London Fire and Emergency for us to grow our share of the overall market.
Planning Authority: construction companies like Morgan Sindall: financial organisations like Old Mutual Wealth: and Market size and BT Business share educational institutions like University of West Scotland.
bn 10 Were focused on three main product markets: fixed-voice and data: mobility: and IT services.
We expect these markets 8 to increasingly converge over the next few years as technology and customer needs evolve towards integrated services.
6 Fixed-voice and data The UK fixed-voice and data market that we address is worth 4 around 4.6bn.
We compete against more than 800 resellers and fixed network 2 operators.
Our main competitors are Alternative Networks, Azzurri, Colt Group, Daisy Group, Gamma, KCOM Group, O2, 0 TalkTalk, Unicom, Virgin Media, Vodafone and XLN.
Fixed-voice a, b c Mobility inc EE IT services a and data There are 7.7m 2014 15: 7.7m business lines in UK, including those used by both SMEs and large corporates.
Some of these BT Business Rest of market lines are provided by BT Global Services.
There are more lines than Source: BT Business revenue and IDC market sizing model.
businesses as many customers buy more than one line.
a Market size and our market share for xed and mobility services includes 1,000 employees and the addressable proportion of the 1,000 employee market.
The number of business fixed-lines has decreased over the last b Mobility market size excludes devices and is formalised mobile contracts only.
c IT services market size includes only the product and service portfolio we address for the 250 few years as companies move towards VoIP and or mobile solutions.
The revenue that is used to calculate our market share includes Businesses have also made fewer calls over their fixed-lines sales of BT Business IT products and services through BT Global Services as well as our direct because of the growth in email and other online communication.
Call volumes in the market are 12% lower than a year earlier.
31% 28% 6% 67 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Products and services We offer a wide choice of fixed, mobile and IT services.
These range from standalone products to managed services and customised solutions, suiting the needs of customers from small start-ups to large enterprises.
Fixed-voice Our fixed-voice services range from calls and lines to fully-managed IT services office phone systems and contact centre solutions.
Weve continued Our specialist IT services team provide solution design, through to to develop BT Cloud Voice and BT Cloud Phone in our growing portfolio delivery, management and in-life support, built around five core product of VoIP services.
areas: Weve launched Call Essentials, two great value fixed-price packages end-user computing: for small businesses.
Customers can get unlimited calls to UK landlines unified communications and collaboration: and mobiles, together with an international option, giving them peace networking: of mind about their bill.
security: and data centres, cloud and hosting.
These services are supported by partnerships with the likes of Cisco, HP and Microsoft.
Broadband and internet We provide a range of internet access options including: BT Business Broadband over copper connections : BT Business Infinity over fibreto-the-cabinet FTTC and  FTTP : and BTnet dedicated internet access.
Weve added the option to self-install, making it even easier for our customers to benefit from superfast fibre broadband.
And weve launched an online app store to allow customers to conveniently manage and tailor any extra software needs such as security, backup and Microsoft Office.
Mobility We offer a range of handsets and tablets and a choice of voice and data tariffs.
BT One Phone combines office phone and mobile requirements into one cloud-based solution delivered through the customers mobile phone.
This year we improved the voicemail service, including new recording Networking services features.
Our voice and data networking services support customers who need to connect more than one site.
Products include Ethernet, IP virtual Before we bought EE, we operated as a mobile virtual network operator private network services which use IP connections, SIP trunking MVNO on the EE network.
Were confident that by bringing together which transports voice calls over IP networks, leased lines, cabling the EE and BT networks we can launch a broader range of new converged infrastructure and local area networking solutions.
68 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 Contracts we won or re-signed this year include: Performance in the year Weve increased EBITDA for the fourth year running Customer Contract through our continued focus on cost transformation.
Towergate Insurance Were helping Towergate Insurance to Underlying revenue excluding transit was flat with the continued save costs and improve efficiency by fall in business line volumes offset by growth in VoIP services, consolidating systems and by bringing fibre broadband and networking.
together lines, mobiles, hosted contact Our fibre broadband base has increased 45% and our IP lines are centres and inbound call service into one up by 62%.
Weve made some customer service improvements managed service contract.
this year and have clear plans to go further.
Old Mutual Wealth Were providing a global WAN, wi-fi, LAN, Weve been learning more about our customers so we can deliver security and conferencing service which the services and perfomance they need to succeed.
forms part of a strategic transformation programme for Old Mutual Wealth as it builds the UKs leading retail investment Examples of how were broadening business.
and deepening customer relationships University of West Were providing WAN and LAN services, Scotland unified communications and educationWeve contacted more customers than ever before to see how were specific analytical software to enhance the doing, and have learnt from their responses.
Weve been working with education and technology partners to develop the Connected Campus blueprint.
This means colleges can build and Sanctuary Personnel Were providing BTnet connectivity, cloud run a campus platform that uses technology to help students and staff voice and infrastructure for a rapidly better engage.
Weve used our network expertise to help Shropshire Housing Group growing recruitment provider offering reduce costs while offering its clients a better service.
We provided future expansion capacity.
a smart managed WAN with enhanced network intelligence which A key attraction for Sanctuary was the delivered greater reliability and the savings they required.
ability to work with a single supplier.
The number of business lines we provide reduced 7% as Operating performance customers continue to migrate to VoIP.
This has been partly offset Our order intake of 1,967m was down 5% after last year by growth in the number of IP lines we provide, which was up included a number of particularly large deals.
Were seeing strong take-up of our BT Cloud Voice and BT Cloud Phone services with the number of users up 29% and 34% respectively in the fourth quarter alone.
BT Business 12-month rolling order intake Year ended 31 March Our Call Essentials packages are also performing well.
Weve signed up over 80,000 customers since launch.
m 2,200 2,100 2,000 1,900 1,800 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2015 2016 69 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information This year we migrated our exisiting mobile customers over to the Deliver superior customer service EE network, which means our customers can now access the UKs Our vision is to be the market leader for customer service largest 4G mobile network.
But with our Right First Time measure down 5.9% 2014 15: up 5.1%, we know we need to Helping SMEs get faster connections do better.
Weve helped more SMEs get online this year.
Faster Our customer service measure has been significantly impacted this broadband connections have been shown to really benefit year by the wet winter weather which caused delays in speed of SMEs by increasing employee effectiveness, speeding up response for repairs.
To mitigate this type of impact, well continue the delivery of goods and improving their ability to develop to invest and make changes until we can provide a consistently new services.
Weve already seen signs were on the right track.
We joined a discount scheme backed by the Department for Culture, Media and Sport DCMS to encourage faster We measure feedback directly from our customers and via our adoption of superfast broadband.
net promoter score, which has increased by 2%.
Our peoples hard work has meant that weve seen an 8% decrease in Were proud to be ranked the number one supplier by DCMS complaints since last year.
Weve also improved our ability to ahead of 840 suppliers including Virgin Media and TalkTalk.
resolve issues to the customers satisfaction at first point of When the scheme closed in October 2015 we had provided contact, and this measure has increased 4%.
almost 8,800 SMEs across the UK with discounted superfast During the year we: connections.
increased the number of customers on our UK Business Solution system to 93% of the total.
This platform brings all the core 86% of firms reported that their broadband upgrade had increased products and services that we sell in large volumes onto a single their employees effectiveness.
system, making it easier to serve customers who buy multiple 86% products from us.
It gives us a single view of the customers account, providing all the right information at the right time: simplified our packages and offers, adding great value bundles so our customers can get all of their communications needs from us: invested in 40,000 hours of training for our customers operational teams: and Almost 70% reported increased proactively contacted our customers after the delivery of their speed and reliability of delivering orders to check their products are working correctly and theyre goods or services.
getting the most out of their new service.
70% Were proud that our investment in our people and their performance meant we were shortlisted for two awards, from the British Quality Foundation and the Institute of Customer Service.
Transform our costs Operating costs were down 2% due to savings made 45% reported that the upgrade through our cost transformation activities.
The main had improved their ability to develop reason for the lower costs was a 4% reduction in our total new goods or services.
Weve also made savings in other areas such as renegotiating some supplier contracts, which has saved 29m this year.
Continued investment in back office systems and the migration of customers onto the UK Business Solution has enabled greater efficiencies.
Source: Department for Culture, Media and Sport.
Invest for growth Weve made significant investments in our products and services.
We want to meet customer needs and address market opportunities across our three strategic portfolio areas: fibre and connectivity: mobility and future voice: and networked IT services.
Weve invested to improve the speed, reach and quality of broadband services by improving our network infrastructure.
Weve invested in our managed compute cloud services product and our future voice portfolio, focusing on delivering an excellent customer experience.
70 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 Financial performance Key priorities Following the April 2016 reorganisation we have a refreshed and 2016 2015 2014 expanded focus on the business and public-sector markets in the Year ended 31 March m m m UK and the Republic of Ireland.
Our future priorities include: Revenue 3,130 3,145 3,213 successfully launching our new Business and Public Sector organisation including delivering efficiencies: Underlying revenue excluding introducing our full portfolio of fixed, mobile and IT services to existing transit 0% 1 % 1 % BT customers and those acquired with EE: Operating costs 2,054 2,104 2,211 developing and integrating further our portfolio of products and managed services: and EBITDA 1,076 1,041 1,002 continuing to improve the customer experience we provide.
Depreciation and amortisation 198 180 197 Weve also set ourselves some specific ambitions over the next three Operating profit 878 861 805 years: Capital expenditure 138 187 127 increase the number of revenue generating units by 15%: Operating cash flow 819 874 799 generate double-digit percentage revenue growth in IP voice, mobile, networking and IT services: deliver a 20-point improvement in our net promoter score: and Revenue was broadly flat 2014 15: 2% decline with become the market leader for customer service.
underlying revenue excluding transit also flat 2014 15: 1% decline.
SME & Corporate voice revenue decreased 2% 2014 15: 5% with higher average revenue per user and higher uptake of VoIP services partly mitigating the continued fall in business line volumes.
The number of traditional lines declined 7%, but this was partly offset by a 62% increase in the number of IP lines.
SME & Corporate data and networking revenue increased 3% 2014 15: 2% with continued growth in fibre broadband and our networking products.
Business fibre broadband net additions were up 17% year on year.
BT Irelands underlying revenue excluding transit was up 7%, with higher equipment sales and data and call volumes in the Republic of Ireland, and continued fibre broadband growth in Northern Ireland.
Foreign exchange movements had a 22m negative impact on BT Ireland revenue.
Operating costs were down 2% 2014 15: 5% and underlying operating costs excluding transit were also down 2% 2014 15: 4%.
Depreciation and amortisation increased 10% 2014 15: 9% decrease mainly reflecting our investment last year in BT Fleet vehicles to support Openreach.
Capital expenditure decreased 49m 2014 15: 60m increase reflecting our investment in BT Fleet vehicles last year.
Operating cash flow was 6% lower 2014 15: 9% higher reflecting the timing of working capital movements.
71 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information BT Consumer BT Consumer is the largest provider of consumer Inputs, outputs and outcomes broadband and fixed-voice in the UK.
We want to deepen our customer relationships through selling broadband, Inputs TV, BT Sport channels and mobile services to our customers.
BT Consumer employs over 6,000 people, with over 70% directly helping our customers through our contact centres.
We connect millions of households and people to information and entertainment, to friends and family, at home or on the move.
We buy access to the Openreach network to sell fixed-line and Whether theyre banking on their laptop, watching movies through broadband services.
their YouView box, or tweeting on their smartphone, were making Weve secured exclusive rights to broadcast sports content to our it fast, safe, reliable and easy.
We also offer a range of devices including telephones, baby Outputs monitors and set-top boxes through high street retailers.
And we We provide connectivity services over copper lines, fibre broadband offer commercial services for businesses who want access to BT and 4G mobile.
Sport or connectivity through BT Wi-fi.
Developments such as the BT Sport and My BT apps help improve Through our award-winning second brand, Plusnet, we target customer engagement.
price-conscious customers with fixed-line, broadband and This year we provided over 770,000 hours of training to our contact TV services.
Outcomes We generated 24% and 16% of BTs revenue and EBITDA respectively.
We encourage volunteering, with 55% of BT Consumer employees volunteering in the year.
We work closely with our suppliers to make our products and business operations more sustainable, right through the supply chain and to the Home phone Home phone customer.
We helped over 9,000 charities raise 60m in the year through MyDonate, our commission-free online fundraising and donation platform.
Broadband Broadband Markets and customers The UK population consists of around TV TV 64m individuals and around 27m households.
The telecoms market is very competitive with more than ten fixed-line operators, seven major bundled product suppliers and four mobile network operators.
BT Sport BT Sport Pay-TV is less competitive with only four providers.
Most of our major competitors, including Virgin Media and TalkTalk, offer bundled services which include fixed-line, mobile, broadband and TV services.
Sky and Vodafone have both announced plans Mobile to offer all four services as well.
BT Consumer market share As at 30 September 2015 % 50 40 30 20 10 0 Home phone Broadband Pay-TV Source: Ofcom and BT data.
37 33 9 72 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 Home phone Products and services As at 30 September 2015 there were 25.9m fixed residential We sell five main services: home phone, broadband, phone lines in the UK, 2.5% above last year.
Our share of this market declined to 37% from 38% the previous year as more TV, mobile and our sports channels.
We offer a variety households chose to consolidate their services with one provider.
of packages to our customers with a range of add-ons.
People are using their home phones less with call volumes down 12% over the year.
This was a result of migration to mobile, voice over IP and instant messaging services.
Broadband There were around 24.5m broadband connections in the UK as at 31 December 2015.
Our broadband base among homes and small businesses is now 8.1m excluding EE, a market share of 33%.
Services requiring higher speeds and capacity, such as catch-up TV and on-demand services from the BBC, Netflix and Amazon, are driving the take-up of fibre broadband.
Including Virgin Media there were 10.2m fibre broadband or cable lines as at 31 December 2015, more than 40% of all broadband lines.
Home phone See page 85 for more details on the broadband market.
We provide a range of products and calling plans, allowing customers to choose the best service for their household needs: TV and content The pay-TV market grew to 15.2m UK households at the end of Line Rental Saver gives customers a discount on their line rental if they pay for a year upfront: December 2015, up 3% compared with a year earlier.
BT TV Line Rental Plus comes with Call Barring and Choose to Refuse, and has 9% of the total market.
Pay-TV services are available from gives customers the choice of paying bills automatically by Direct a number of suppliers: Debit, or paying when they receive the bill: Home Phone Saver offers line rental, inclusive calls and extra calling Sky satellite : features in one simple package at a discounted price: Virgin Media cable : BT Basic offers discounted line rental and inclusive calls to those on BT and EE Freeview with IP TV channels : or low incomes and in receipt of certain state benefits such as income TalkTalk Freeview with IP TV channels.
Were the only company to offer a service like this: and Right Plan is a free service our customers can use to find out whether Customers who choose not to pay for their TV service mostly access they are on the right calling plan for the kinds of calls they make.
live TV channels through Freeview or Freesat.
The overall number All our home phone services come with weekend call bundles and we of households without a pay-TV subscription declined to 10.9m at provide call packages that let customers choose inclusive evening or the end of December 2015.
And there are some homes that dont anytime calls to fixed-lines, and discounted calls to mobiles.
Were in the process of developing a free service aimed at blocking the majority of nuisance calls made to our home phone customers.
TV market segmentation At 31 December 2015 42% 58% Freeview or Freesat Pay-TV Broadband We offer two versions of broadband: an ADSL service, delivered Source: Ofcom and market data.
completely over copper lines: and BT Infinity, our superfast broadband service, which uses fibre to deliver higher speeds and a better overall experience.
Over-the-top services continue to grow in popularity with 6.8m We offer a range of options with different usage limits and speeds.
households subscribing to a service from Netflix, Amazon or Now TV.
In addition, our broadband customers can get: Sky has had exclusivity over much of the UKs premium content discounted BT Sport, our collection of premium sports channels: for many years.
We continue to pursue commercial, legal and discounted BT Mobile, offering SIM-only mobile packages: our suite of tools such as BT NetProtect Plus, to protect family regulatory avenues to obtain access to Skys sports channels members and devices from harmful websites and other malware: for our TV customers on a fair basis to increase competition and BT Wi-fi, offering free unlimited access to wi-fi hotspots in the consumer choice.
UK and abroad: and BT Cloud, providing secure online storage and on-the-go access Mobile to data and photos.
The UK mobile market is discussed in the EE section on page 76.
73 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information BT TV Our BT TV service is available exclusively to our broadband customers.
We offer three packages: Starter.
This is our entry-level offering.
With our YouView box, customers can pause and rewind live TV and receive up to 80 Freeview TV channels: Entertainment Plus.
This package comes with a YouView box and access to Freeview and 27 pay-TV channels: and Total Entertainment.
Our most complete package offers access to Freeview and 49 pay-TV channels, and comes with an Ultra HD-ready YouView box.
Customers on our YouView platform can scroll back seven days for easy access to catch-up TV from BBC iPlayer, ITV Hub formerly ITV Player, All 4 and Demand 5.
BT Mobile All BT TV customers still in contract get access to our BT Sport We launched BT Mobile in March 2015, focusing initially on the SIMchannels and the AMC channel at no extra cost in standard definition.
In addition, BT TV customers can add extra channel packs and other All our plans come with access to 4G, unlimited use of BT Wi-fi, on-demand services such as BT Kids, Sky Sports 1 and 2, Sky Movies unlimited text messages and free access to BT Sport 1.
Customers can also rent or buy TV shows and films.
three packages offering a variety of data and call allowances.
In July 2015, we launched the UKs first Ultra HD TV service with BT Mobile customers can keep track of their usage through the BT content from BT Sport.
We later added Netflix Ultra HD.
Customers can also use the app to buy various bolt-ons including roaming bundles.
In February 2016 we upgraded our TV app on both Apple and Android devices adding a new, dedicated kids on-demand and catch-up library, BT Mobile uses EEs 4G network offering the best speeds and coverage seven more channels and a wider collection of premium entertainment in the UK.
BT Sport BT Wi-fi We provide live coverage of domestic and international sports across We provide public wi-fi services to a growing number of partners, four channels.
including Tesco, Barclays and Hilton.
We offer BT Sport in SD, HD and Ultra HD formats and the channels Using our BT Wi-fi app, all BT Broadband and BT Mobile customers can are available on BT TV, our BT Sport app, btsport.
com and on the Sky seamlessly connect to wi-fi in these partner locations, as well as to the Digital Satellite Platform.
5.6m BT Wi-fi hotspots in the UK and a further 13m internationally as part of our partnership with FON.
We reward our broadband, TV and mobile customers with discounted access to BT Sport on their preferred platform.
We also offer a range of vouchers for non-BT customers to access the network.
We also have wholesale agreements for the distribution of BT Sport to Virgin Media TV customers, and in the Republic of Ireland with Setanta.
74 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 Performance in the year Our average revenue per user ARPU was 446, up 31 from Revenue growth of 7% 2014 15: 7% has been driven last year driven mainly by broadband, our new BT Sport Europe by higher customer numbers in broadband and by our new channel, BT Mobile and changes in our pricing.
But our investments in these areas meant our EBITDA grew by only 1%.
Our BT Mobile base is now over 400,000 with over 40% of our customers choosing one of our two higher-tier packages.
We increased our share of the DSL and fibre broadband market for the seventh year in a row, had our best-ever take-up of TV, and our lowest line losses for more than eight years.
Deliver superior customer service Weve made investments in 2015 16 that will improve customer experience in the future.
But we didnt make as Examples of how were broadening much progress as we would have liked, particularly on our and deepening customer relationships Right First Time measure of customer service.
In March Customers buying more products from us can save money and get 2016 we answered 60% of customer calls March 2015: an even better service.
51% from within the UK, with a commitment to increase By making some football games free on BT Sport Showcase, weve this to 90% by March 2017. been able to show a further 0.7m homes whats on offer.
Sharing multimedia content on social media sites is helping us This means a significant change for our people, who will be explore new ways to engage sports fans without the need of working more evenings and weekends which is often when a subscription.
customers want to speak to us.
We gave our front-line agents over 770,000 hours of extra a training so that they can more effectively prevent and resolve Operating performance customer problems.
At 31 March 2016 we had 9.5m consumer fixed-lines 2014 15: Weve started to introduce a new way of working focused 9.6m, with 9.4m active voice lines where a customer buys calls on people taking ownership of resolving problems.
Customer from us as well as paying for the line.
We lost 81,000 net active satisfaction is improved where this has been introduced.
lines, compared with 203,000 last year.
Weve invested in new and more convenient ways for customers We achieved 390,000 broadband net additions this year, 63% to deal with us, such as the award-winning My BT app.
This allows of the DSL and fibre broadband market net additions.
This took customers to do things like check their bill or track their broadband our overall market share to 41%, up from 40% a year ago.
The app has been downloaded more than 435,000 times Weve continued to grow our fibre base, and now have 3.9m and were continuing to regularly add more features.
fibre broadband customers including business lines, a 29% Were replacing the systems in our customer service centres with increase from last year.
48% of our retail broadband customers simpler ones which are built on web-based technologies and are now on fibre, compared with 39% last year.
re-use a version of our external website.
This should drive higher We achieved 330,000 BT TV net additions, our best-ever productivity and better customer satisfaction.
performance, and now have 1.5m BT TV customers, up 28%.
Right First Time, our overall measure of customer service, declined We grew the number of commercial premises taking BT Sport 2.1% 2014 15: increased 1.9%.
While weve improved on our to 27,000, including 30% of all UK pubs.
measure of how often a customer needs to contact us by 15% BT Sports average daily audience figures increased 45% year on year, we havent met our promises around delivering onyear on year, from the start of the football season in August 2015 time for enough of our customers, partly reflecting problems from to the end of March 2016.
Almost all of the FA Premier League wider industry demand for Openreach products.
Our measure has matches we showed this season reached over 1m viewers.
also been impacted by the widespread flooding in parts of the UK this year.
Average revenue per user BT Mobile is our best performing Right First Time product with Year ended 31 March both on-time delivery and on-time repair above 95%.
460 BT Mobile 440 BT Mobile was designed from the start using customer insight.
As a result, it has the best customer satisfaction of all BT Consumer 420 products.
Key features include: discounts for BT Broadband customers: 400 UK contact centres: the BT Mobile app: and 380 spend controls that help people avoid bill-shock.
360 2014 2015 2016 a Data excludes EEs fixed-line and broadband business.
391 415 446 75 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Financial performance Transform our costs Operating costs increased 9% reflecting the costs of the 2016 2015 2014 UEFA Champions League and UEFA Europa League rights Year ended 31 March m m m and the growth in our customer base.
The increase was Revenue 4,598 4,285 4,019 partly offset by our cost transformation activities.
Operating costs 3,561 3,254 3,186 We delivered savings this year by: EBITDA 1,037 1,031 833 extending our fibre self-install programme across all fibre Depreciation and amortisation 206 218 219 products, including Plusnets, which further reduced the number Operating profit 831 813 614 of engineer visits and the associated cost: Capital expenditure 206 207 211 reducing customer equipment costs by negotiating better commercial terms with our suppliers: and Operating cash flow 762 813 472 improving our real-time network diagnostics, helping us to more quickly find the right solution for customer faults, avoiding Revenue increased 7% 2014 15: 7% with a strong unnecessary engineer visits.
performance across broadband and TV resulting from the launch of our European football coverage.
Invest for growth Calls and lines revenue increased 2% 2014 15: 1%, reflecting In the summer we launched our new BT Sport Pack, the the lowest level of line losses for over eight years, new pricing and home of European football, increasing the choice of the launch of BT Mobile.
content for our customers and increasing engagement with sports fans.
We also launched an improved BT Sport Broadband and TV revenue was up 17% 2014 15: 16% app and Europes first Ultra HD sports channel.
including the impact of the launch of our European football proposition, continued growth in broadband and our best-ever In August we exclusively launched AMCs UK channel.
AMC is a year for adding new TV customers.
leading US TV network with a track record of producing successful Other revenue decreased 10% 2014 15: 6% increase after premium dramas.
We also extended our deal with UKTV to include last year benefited from the successful launch of the BT8500 all ten of its channels as well as gaining access to the UKTV Play Advanced Call Blocker handset.
Weve added the UK rights to show all Australian home cricket Operating costs were up 9% 2014 15: 2%.
This reflected the internationals, including the 2017 18 Ashes.
The five-year rights launch of our European football proposition including the sports deal starts in 2016.
In addition, we extended the rights for rights costs as well as the cost of launching the channels in August.
Excluding UEFA rights costs, operating costs increased 3%, mainly reflecting the growth in our customer base.
We launched BT Mobile and our advertising is improving the perception of the service and is attracting subscribers.
Depreciation and amortisation decreased 6% 2014 15: broadly flat.
Capital expenditure was flat 2014 15: down 2%.
Operating cash flow decreased 6% 2014 15: 72% increase reflecting unfavourable working capital movements relating to the timing of our sports rights and capital expenditure payments.
Key priorities Our future plans include: continuing to transform our customer service with 90% of all calls being answered within the UK by March 2017: launching our new FA Premier League rights and Australian cricket rights on BT Sport: trialing and launching ultrafast broadband using Openreach G. fast products: launching mobile handsets to unlock a new market opportunity while creating synergies with EE: introducing a new YouView user interface to drive better engagement with our content: launching our breakthrough new service to help home phone customers avoid nuisance calls: and increasing the number of revenue generating units by 2.5m over the next three years.
76 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 EE We acquired EE on 29 January 2016.
EE is the largest Inputs, outputs and outcomes mobile network operator in the UK.
It provides mobile and fixed communications services to consumers, businesses, Inputs the public sector and the wholesale market.
We have 12,800 people, with 43% directly helping our customers EE came into the group as a separate line of business and that is through our shops and contact centres.
how its reflected in this Annual Report.
In EE, we have over 30m We have an extensive 2G and 3G network and provide the UKs fastest connections, 15m of which are 4G.
New customers join on the 4G network covering over 96% of the population.
EE brand, though we still have a number of customers on legacy Orange and T-Mobile tariffs.
We acquire and retain customers Outputs through our chain of about 560 shops, our website and contact We offer a wide range of mobile services to the consumer and business centres, and through third parties, such as Dixons Carphone.
markets, in addition to supporting over 30 MVNOs and selling fixed broadband products.
Our mobile network is the biggest and fastest in the UK and has Our new My EE app is helping to improve customer experience.
been independently recognised as the best overall network by RootMetrics in its latest report for the second half of 2015.
Outcomes Were the largest mobile operator in the UK, rated as the best network in independent testing.
In the Sunday Times Best Big Companies to Work For 2016 awards, Overall Performance EE reached number seven, up from 13 in the 2015 awards.
RootScore Award Winner EE By September 2015 total UK mobile call volumes were steady at around 35bn minutes per quarter.
SMS and MMS messages were down 8% to 25bn messages per quarter on average.
Mobile telephony services generated 3.8bn in retail revenues in the quarter to September 2015, down 1% year on year.
EE Three The market is subject to a number of existing and potential Network Reliability Network Speed structural changes: rapid adoption of 4G devices as 4G networks are deployed.
Nearly all handsets sold are therefore smartphones: EE EE EE growth of connected devices, including tablets: Mobile internet Call Text significant growth in mobile data use: continued decline in the prepaid market as customers move to postpaid tariffs: New organisational structure increased popularity of SIM-only tariffs.
Smartphones are From 1 April 2016 we changed how the former EE business was evolving at a slower pace so people are keeping their mobile organised to manage it better within the group.
Business mobile phones for longer: was transferred to Business and Public Sector, the wholesale regulatory pressure on the prices we charge customers and other operations were transferred to Wholesale and Ventures and the telecoms companies: mobile network was transferred as a distinct business unit into TSO.
the proposed takeover of O2 by CK Hutchison the owner of Following the reorganisation, the consumer-facing parts of EE Three, subject to regulatory approval: and will remain as a distinct line of business providing postpay, prepaid Sky launching as an MVNO in 2016. and fixed broadband services primarily to consumers.
The EE line EE has a 32% share of the UK mobile market, on a revenue basis.
of business will also support the Emergency Services Network contract awarded to EE in December 2015.
Mobile revenue UK market share by operator Markets and customers At 31 December 2015 The mobile market is very competitive, with over 85m 3% 4% a connections, served by four mobile network operators Virgin Mobile Tesco Mobile and numerous mobile virtual network operators MVNOs.
Our main competitors are O2, Vodafone, Three, Tesco Mobile and 12% 32% Three EE Virgin Media.
Competition for customers is increased by third party distributors selling mobile services on behalf of the mobile operators, from high street shops and online.
Around 93% of adults in the UK have a mobile phone, and 15% of adults live in mobile-only households.
Two-thirds of adults in 25% the UK use a smartphone, and over 54% of homes also have a Vodafone tablet.
Increasingly, people are using their mobiles to access the 24% O2 internet, listen to radio and watch TV.
According to Ofcom, 60% of Source: EE and market data.
mobile connections are on postpaid tariffs.
77 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Products and services We provide mobile services in the UK, covering up to 99% of the population with 2G, 98% with 3G and over 96% with 4G technologies.
We also have an extensive wholesale segment, connecting MVNO customers and machine-to-machine devices.
Broadband services, fixed-voice and a TV service are also sold under the EE brand.
Devices We offer a wide range of 4G mobile phones, tablets and mobile broadband devices.
Customers may also choose to bring their own device and then connect using a SIM-only plan.
Postpaid New consumer customers, and those who renew their contracts with us, are put on 4G tariffs.
If the tariff includes a handset, the contract is typically for 24 months.
The tariff will include a bundle of monthly voice, SMS and data use.
Prices vary with the size of the bundle, the device type and 4G speed.
The tariffs are split into three main groups: EE Regular gives access to standard 4G services, unlimited texts and tiered bundles of voice and data use: EE Extra provides access to the double-speed 4G network, has double the data allowances of EE Regular and includes European roaming and international calling benefits: and EE Complete which provides the benefits of EE Extra together with the option to upgrade the handset every 12 months.
Wholesale Over 30 MVNOs, including Virgin Mobile, use our mobile network.
Were also active in the machine-to-machine M2M market, with a tiered range of products.
Prepaid With Enterprise Messaging, our bulk messaging range of products, Prepaid customers buy a phone and then add a pay-as-you-go pack organisations can send large volumes of text messages to customers of 4G use.
The packs are split into three groups: or employees.
Everything packs for unlimited texts and tiered bundles of voice and data use over a 30-day period: Talk and text packs for tiered bundles of voice and text use over 30 days: and Data packs ranging from 1GB to 4GB over seven to 30-day periods.
Prepaid customers are encouraged to buy packs on a regular basis by rewarding three months of consecutive purchases with extra data, voice or text use.
Business We also sell 4G mobile services to business customers.
Small business plans up to 50 employees are for 12 or 24 months, and most come with unlimited voice and text use.
Options include the ability to share data allowances across a number of devices, access to double-speed 4G and inclusive overseas roaming.
Large businesses more than 50 employees and public-sector Broadband and TV organisations can choose from a wide range of standard and We sell fixed-voice, broadband including superfast fibre broadband and customisable plans.
Customers can bundle in tiered levels of mobile TV services.
To encourage take-up, our postpaid customers get larger security.
If required, we also install equipment to improve mobile data allowances if they also buy EE broadband.
We also offer an extensive range EE TV provides more than 70 free channels simultaneously on up to four of fixed-line and data services, including voice, private telephone devices, and access to pay-TV channels.
The EE TV set-top box comes network integration, leased lines and VPNs to provide customers with with one terabyte of memory and can be controlled from a mobile their complete communications needs.
phone or tablet using the EE TV app.
78 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 Our postpay base grew by 54,000 to 15.4m, supported by Performance in the period a strong performance in the large business segment with new customers including Arriva Trains.
The prepay base continued Revenue for the two months from 29 January 2016, when to decline, in line with industry trends, partly as customers move EE was acquired by the BT Group, to 31 March 2016 was to postpay.
1,055m with an EBITDA margin of 25%.
We had 30.6m total connections at the end of the year and our The machine-to-machine base grew 77,000 to 2.3m as the 4G customer base reached 15.1m.
Internet of Things market starts to grow.
Fixed broadband was up 11,000 to 951,000, supported by EE TV, in a competitive market.
Examples of how were broadening and deepening customer relationships Our base of MVNO customers stood at 3.7m, up 28,000, as our MVNO partners continued to do well in the mobile market.
Weve developed and promoted our My EE app to help customers manage their EE account wherever they are.
We extended our 4G network coverage to over 96% of the population.
a Customer base movements In April 2016 we started trialing online appointment booking in a selection of our shops, so customers can book sales and service 000 appointments directly from our website.
31,000 Weve continued to bring customer service roles back to the UK, and 30,900 in April 2016 we announced plans for 100% of EE customer calls 30,800 to be handled in the UK by the end of 2016.
Weve shown 30,300 how these are broken down below.
30,200 30,100 Customer base by type 30,000 000 MVNO 3,720 Fixed broadband 951 a Period from the acquisition of EE on 29 January 2016 to 31 March 2016.
M2M 2,272 Prepay 8,251 Postpay 15,411 of which 4G 15,148 0 6,000 12,000 18,000 At 29 January 2016 30,861 Postpay 54 Prepay 426 M2M 77 Fixed broadband 11 MVNO 28 At 31 March 2016 30,605 79 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Financial performance Deliver superior customer service Improving customer service is a key priority.
While we have 2016 made steady progress, there is still room for improvement, From 29 January to 31 March m as shown by the number of complaints our customers External revenue 1,038 make to Ofcom.
Internal revenue 17 In the period we accelerated work on projects across four key areas: Total revenue 1,055 Call centres.
Transforming service for our customers, reducing Operating costs 794 complaints and customers propensity to call: EBITDA 261 Self service.
Increasing take-up of the My EE app and improving Depreciation and amortisation 176 online service: Shops.
Improving service and providing more digital capabilities Operating profit 85 in store: and Capital expenditure 111 IT.
Operating cash flow 310 As part of our ambition to offer the best mobile customer service in the UK, weve started the Omnichannel initiative, to provide a Revenue for the two months since acquisition was consistent experience for our customers, regardless of how they 1,055m.
This consisted of mobile service revenue interact with us.
This will enable us to give customers better, more of 913m, fixed and wholesale revenue of 89m and relevant offers, follow up on potential sales quickly and effectively equipment sales of 53m.
and support customers more proactively.
This also includes revenue of 17m which is internal, reflecting Transform our costs trading with other lines of business within the group.
Monthly mobile ARPUs in the period were 26.7 for postpaid customers, Since EE was formed in 2010 it has gone through a process of 3.9 for prepaid and 18.6 on a combined basis.
transformation as the legacy Orange and T-Mobile businesses were combined.
Weve removed duplication from the mobile network, Operating costs were 794m giving EBITDA of 261m, shops and support functions to drive profitability.
continue to drive efficiencies as we integrate EEs business into the Capital expenditure was 111m as we extended 4G coverage to wider group and share our ideas, experience and methodology.
over 96% of the UK population.
Preparation for the Emergency Services Network contract continued in line with agreed Invest for growth milestones.
We have the best mobile network in the UK, having Operating cash flow, which excludes interest and tax, was 310m been named number one network by RootMetrics and benefiting from the timing of working capital.
recognised as the UKs fastest network by Speedtest.
Weve made 4G voice calling more widely available, bringing it to Key priorities Manchester and Birmingham.
The increased network coverage and resilience required for the Emergency Services Network contract Over the coming year we plan to further integrate the new EE line will also benefit consumer and business mobile customers.
of business into the group, in line with the reorganisation that took effect from 1 April 2016, and begin to realise the revenue and cost synergies associated with the acquisition.
We also plan to broaden and deepen our customer relationships by: improving the customer experience: extending 4G coverage and aiming to remain the UKs best quality mobile network: progressing the build phase of the Emergency Services Network contract, working closely with TSO: and launching a range of combined mobile, fixed-line and TV products.
80 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 BT Wholesale We provide network products and services to Inputs, outputs and outcomes Communications Providers CPs operating in Great Britain.
We also offer services for media Inputs companies and broadcasters.
We have 1,300 people, of whom 89% are customer-facing.
We do this by combining BTs core network and IT platforms with We take advantage of the scale, reach and reliability of BTs networks Openreachs access products.
We add our own expertise in and platforms.
designing, building and supporting new products and bespoke We bring BTs R&D resources to bear on our customers business issues.
We can then offer a range of services that complement our customers own capabilities.
This means we can share in their success.
Outputs We supply wholesale telecoms products including voice, broadband, Were structured around our customers: mobile and fixed network Ethernet and hosted services.
We also provide bespoke managed operators: resellers: and media organisations and broadcasters.
largest customers are supported by dedicated client teams, while others are served by a desk-based sales force.
All are supported by We invest in new services for the wholesale market, such as our Hosted Communications Services and 4K video transport.
expert product managers and customer service agents.
Outcomes We take a share of the market which BT does not serve directly.
Customer service teams This year our share represented around 11% of BTs revenue.
Customers A more competitive market for communications services drives greater customer choice.
Mobile network Fixed network DeskClient operators operators based sales sales teams teams Media & Markets and customers Resellers broadcasters We serve over 1,400 CPs, including: the major consumer brands Sky, TalkTalk and Virgin Media: the mobile Product management teams operators, O2, Three and Vodafone: overseas CPs operating in the UK: and other service providers such as Daisy Group and KCOM Group.
We also provide specialist media and broadcast services to major organisations Outside Great Britain, BT serves CPs through BT Ireland and BT Global Services.
BT remains Europes largest wholesale telecoms provider.
including the BBC, Channel 4, ITV, Sky, SoftBank Corp. and Star TV.
Our main competitors are Virgin Media, TalkTalk and Vodafone.
Revenue market share of European wholesale telecommunications providers The main trends in the wholesale market this year were the continuing take-up of IP voice services and stronger demand 51% 16% for higher-bandwidth broadband networks.
Other BT Voice services: moving to IP The number of calls made over traditional fixed networks fell by 12% 10% this year, as calls moved to mobile networks or to instant Orange messaging and other IP-based alternatives.
And owners of these networks were able to charge less to carry such calls, as a result of price reductions imposed following Ofcoms last Narrowband Market Review.
As businesses opt to make and receive calls over IP they are 9% Deutsche Telekom increasingly buying newer voice services such as SIP-Trunking and Hosted Voice.
According to the Cavell Group, in 2015 the number 5% 7% of SIP Trunks which connect a businesss switchboard to its Telefnica Telecom Italia IP voice service provider grew by 31%.
And users of Hosted IP Source: European Wholesale Market Share 2014-15: The Big Picture, Ovum, May 2016.
Voice which eliminates the need for a switchboard altogether grew by 30%.
New organisational structure From 1 April 2016 were integrating BT Wholesale, EEs wholesale team and some of BTs smaller business units into a new Wholesale and Ventures line of business.
The smaller business units include BT Directories and BT Fleet, together with the majority of BT Redcare, BT Payphones and Tikit.
Theyre all described on page 65.
The new organisational structure will give more visibility to these smaller but important enterprises while bringing together the wholesale businesses of BT and EE.
81 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information UK Hosted IP Voice seats 000 2,500 Media services Our long-established media network connects major locations around the world where broadcast or film content is created or distributed.
2,000 In the UK it carries all of the nations digital terrestrial TV, as well as TV broadcasts from more than 150 sports and news locations.
Local 1,500 partners help us link TV stations to major sports venues worldwide.
We also offer related media services such as content playout in which 1,000 we send finished TV content off to be transmitted and media file acceleration and security.
500 0 Dec 13 Jun 14 Dec 14 Jun 15 Dec 15 Source: Cavell Group, February 2016.
Voice calls CPs use our IP Exchange IPX platform to carry their customers voice calls beyond the reach of their own voice network.
IPX delivers calls between CPs networks, or to their final destination, translating Connectivity services: higher bandwidths between the many different network technologies that may be used along the way.
IPX is now used by over 150 CPs, including most of This year average usage over our wholesale broadband circuits rose the UKs biggest operators.
And 43% of all our broadband lines ordered this year As voice moves to IP, IPX is gradually replacing our equivalent use higher-speed fibre technologies.
We expect this trend towards products based on older Time Division Multiplexing TDM higher-bandwidth broadband to continue.
These products include Transit, Direct Conveyance and International Direct Dial.
For CPs without their own voice network, we offer BT Wholesale Calls which routes calls for them end to end.
The CP maintains the customer Products and services relationship through its own sales, customer service and billing operations.
BT Wholesales products and services either supplement CPs own capabilities or can be sold on to CPs own customers as they are.
Where CPs need a more bespoke or comprehensive service, we combine our products with Hosted communications other components to create managed solutions.
Our Hosted Communications Services portfolio enables a CP to offer a range of services without having to develop, maintain and upgrade them itself.
Traditionally, businesses have made and received calls over phone lines via a switchboard.
Wholesale Hosted Centrex, a hosted voice service, moves the switchboard capability into BTs network.
And Wholesale Broadband SIP-Trunking delivers the calls over broadband.
When put together, the We provide CPs with broadband connections between their core business no longer needs to house and maintain a switchboard or rent network and their customers.
Wholesale Broadband Connect can separate phone lines.
serve 95% of premises with copper-based broadband 2014 15: 92% and over 25m premises with fibre broadband.
Our older In the same way, our Hosted Contact Centres replace the systems and broadband network brings our total coverage to more than 99% services usually needed to handle inbound or outbound customer calls of all premises.
In partnership with Avaya Inc. we offer Avaya Cloud Solutions, a hosted and fully-integrated contact centre service with end-to-end For CPs without their own network, we offer Managed Broadband.
This includes the necessary connectivity and internet access together with full end-to-end service management.
Managed solutions We combine our products with third-party components and our own Ethernet professional services to create managed solutions that solve specific We supply CPs with Ethernet connections linking their core network customer or industry problems.
to their customers business premises.
Ethernet services are continuing For example, this year we implemented new small cell solutions at a to replace Partial Private Circuits, a legacy connectivity service which number of mobile transmission sites.
These solutions can include the we also offer.
electronic equipment at a site, the network to the site, the site itself With Wholesale Ethernet, CPs can reach 82% of business premises and end-to-end service management.
They can help mobile operators over copper-based circuits 2014 15: 81% and more than 99% over improve their coverage in rural areas or provide more capacity in urban fibre, at speeds of up to 10Gbps.
This year we fully launched Wholesale locations.
Optical which extends those speeds to 100Gbps.
Our Managed Ethernet Access Service MEAS carries mobile voice and data traffic to and from mobile operators transmission masts, using a mix of copper, fibre and radio technologies.
1,296 1,404 1,649 1,909 2,142 82 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 Performance in the year Operating performance This year we signed 1.5bn of orders.
This was down around Underlying revenue excluding transit rose by 1%, 400m on last years order intake, but up around 150m reversing the falls of the previous three years.
But EBITDA excluding orders signed with EE, which is now part of BT.
fell by 3% 2014 15: 9% reflecting a changing volume We signed deals for a wide range of services, including: and product mix across our product portfolio.
Wholesale Hosted Centrex and SIP-Trunking for a large CP We signed fewer orders this year but saw a substantial uplift to resell, replacing their own platform: in sales of our strategic growth products: Ethernet, Hosted the supply and maintenance of vehicles to support the new Communications Services and IPX.
Customer satisfaction continued Emergency Services Network contract within EE: to rise as a result of investments in self-service a national broadcast network for the BBC see page 83 : systems and tools.
MEAS circuits to connect a mobile operators new cell sites to its core network: IPX for three major CPs and for a smaller IP voice specialist, Examples of how were broadening and enabling it to close its old voice network: and deepening customer relationships a video multiplexing solution for a major US-based media company.
Weve expanded our portfolio, so we can meet a wider range of customer needs.
For example, Wholesale Optical enables CPs to connect We also signed up seven new channel partners to sell our Avaya sites over very high-bandwidth connections.
In our Media & Broadcast business, new partnerships have enabled us to reach more customers and offer more services.
New partners this year IPX carried 26bn UK-originated voice minutes in the year, up 41%.
include Aspera, Deluxe, Intelsat, Megahertz and SoftBank Corp. Several major CPs joined the platform, increasing the value of the Weve extended our network coverage, so we can provide service more service to other users.
Weve made it easier for CPs to do business with us, for example by adding new features to our online service portal.
Weve invited customers to joint strategy and planning events at BTs Voice minutes carried by IPX research facility at Adastral Park.
Year ended 31 March bn 30 25 20 BT Wholesale continues to lead the 15 local market as a provider of wholesale connectivity, communications, and media 10 services, and continues to invest in 5 relevant areas, including 4K video and 0 optical transport.
The total number of broadband lines we provide on a wholesale basis grew for the first time in many years.
This reflected a slowdown in the LLU network rollout of large broadband providers as well as our own success in selling both fibre and copper broadband to smaller CPs.
The total number of wholesale Ethernet lines we provide grew too, by 23%, mainly as a result of targeted pricing initiatives, network expansion and migration from Partial Private Circuits.
We also connected more MEAS circuits.
Despite fierce competition, the number of our SIP Trunks nearly doubled.
And the number of our Hosted Centrex users tripled, driven in part by new pricing options.
6 11 19 26 83 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Initiatives in three main areas drove the improvement in customer BBC satisfaction: Weve been chosen by the BBC to provide its next generation Product reliability.
We gave CPs new tools to help them broadcast network in a deal worth more than 100m to BT.
improve the stability of broadband lines.
We also made it easier for them to identify problems in their customers own home Were helping the BBC deliver considerable savings as well as paving the wiring and equipment.
CPs reported 7% fewer broadband faults way for future digital innovation.
Well enable them to move to a new, state-of-the-art network from April 2017. as a result.
And the reliability of our Ethernet circuits improved by 11% as new diagnostic tools meant we could identify and fix The new network will be run by our Media & Broadcast team.
Itll be more problems in our network before CPs even noticed them.
efficient and flexible and better able to support BBC innovation.
And itll allow extra services and capacity to be added for major events, such as Customer updates.
We kept our CP customers better informed a general election or the Olympics, more easily and at a lower cost than on the progress of their orders and any faults.
could keep their own customers more up to date.
Customer satisfaction in this area rose by six percentage points.
Matthew Postgate of the BBC said: This is an important step towards building an internet-fit BBC and will allow us to provide more interactive The online experience.
We made it easier to do business with and personalised content in the future.
us by adding new features to Business Zone, the online service portal which we launched last year.
Improvements in both our resourcing and the delivery process Deliver superior customer service itself contributed to strong growth in our Ethernet base this year.
Customer satisfaction rose to 85% in the fourth quarter, But delivering Ethernet circuits on time proved more challenging, because a higher proportion needed new fibre or ducting up from 80% for the same period last year.
But our Right First Time performance, which measures our ability to deliver orders Transform our costs and repair faults on time, was down by 2.6% 2014 15: up 4.4%.
This was as a result of the weather and systems This year we focused our cost transformation activities on: outages mentioned on page 22. reducing selling, general and administrative costs, which were 11% lower than last year: renegotiating our supplier contracts and reducing the number Customer satisfaction of suppliers we use: and Year ended 31 March rationalising legacy platforms and networks and removing % underutilised infrastructure.
90 Invest for growth 80 New product launches included Media Move and Cloud Playout, two new services for the media and broadcast industry.
We also 70 fully launched Wholesale Optical after a soft-launch last year which offers high-bandwidth data connectivity.
We enabled Wholesale Hosted Centrex and Skype for Business to work 60 together.
This means Skype users can get all the features of our Centrex platform, such as the ability to call people who are not on their corporate network.
50 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2015 2016 Wholesale Broadband Connect and Wholesale Ethernet are Source: BT customer satisfaction survey.
Based on responses from a monthly random sample now available from more exchanges.
And we migrated our IPX of BT Wholesale customers.
customers onto a new, larger platform.
BT Wholesale is unmatched in terms of breadth of offerings and its abilities to deliver managed and outsourcing services.
84 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 Operating costs decreased 3%.
Underlying operating costs Financial performance excluding transit increased 2%, with the cost of delivering more IP services only partially offset by continuing cost transformation activities.
2016 2015 2014 Year ended 31 March m m m EBITDA declined 3%, reflecting the one-off impact of lower Revenue 2,086 2,157 2,422 ladder pricing revenues as well as the continuing migration to lower-margin IP services.
But this was an improvement on last Underlying revenue excluding years 9% decline.
Depreciation and amortisation was down 5% transit 1% 7 % 3 % 2014 15: 9% and operating profit fell 2% 2014 15: 9%.
Operating costs 1,544 1,596 1,808 Capital expenditure was 16% lower than last year 2014 15: EBITDA 542 561 614 14%, driven by lower spend on sustaining our legacy voice Depreciation and amortisation 212 224 245 network, and as last year included some investments in efficiency Operating profit 330 337 369 programmes.
Working capital was helped by better collections contributing to a 45% increase in operating cash flow.
Capital expenditure 177 210 244 Operating cash flow 404 278 372 Key priorities Revenue was down 3% compared with an 11% decline last year.
This included 82m or 51% less transit revenue Next year well be part of the new Wholesale and Ventures line of than in the prior year.
business, as explained on page 80.
Our priorities will be: integrating the various business units and their teams: Our key measure, underlying revenue excluding transit, was up 1% creating revenue and cost synergies, for example by selling EEs mobile compared with a decline of 7% last year.
This reflects growth in IP services to BT Wholesale customers: services and managed solutions, partly offset by a decline in our continuing to improve customer experience, especially in Ethernet legacy products.
IP services revenue was up 25%, helped by 41% delivery: higher IPX volumes and a 23% increase in Ethernet connections.
further expanding our Ethernet network, making it available from Managed solutions revenue grew 3% and accounted for 39% of more BT exchanges and more third-party datacentres: total revenue, up from 37% last year.
increasing the number of customers using fibre rather than copper broadband: Calls, lines and circuits revenue fell 14%, mainly because of lower further strengthening our defences against attempted cyber-attacks volumes and customers switching to newer IP technologies.
and fraud: and continuing our cost transformation activities.
Broadband revenue was 12% lower, but this was an improvement on last years decline of 17%.
While migration to LLU continues Weve also set ourselves some specific ambitions within the next to reduce the size of our copper broadband base, fibre broadband three years: volumes have increased, reflecting demand across the market.
to grow the number of Ethernet circuits we provide by 50%: to increase the number of MVNO brands on 4G from less than 5% Following the Supreme Court judgment on ladder pricing in July to at least 80%: and 2014, we recognised around 15m of ladder pricing trading to deliver all our products on time at least 95% of the time revenue this year 2014 15: around 30m.
This is in addition by the end of the period.
to revenue treated as a specific item relating to prior years, as explained on page 187.
We do not expect to include any further trading revenue relating to ladder pricing in the income statement next year, because we stopped pricing on that basis in July 2015.
85 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Openreach Openreach looks after the last mile of the UK Openreach 10th birthday facts communications network which runs from the local We celebrated our 10th birthday this year.
Our network has grown exchange to peoples homes and businesses.
The substantially since Openreach was established in January 2006. network is made up of exchanges, copper and fibre Since the start of our fibre broadband rollout in 2009, our engineers cables, underground ducts, street cabinets, telephone have worked 10m hours and driven 72m miles to complement and extend our existing infrastructure the copper wires and telephone poles and distribution points.
We provide access to our poles that are a familiar sight in many streets.
Our fibre broadband network to all CPs on equivalent terms which means network now reaches more than 25m premises.
In 2006: the same products, prices and levels of service.
the average broadband speed was 1.6Mbps, today it is more than 28Mbps: Our CP customers use our network to deliver services ranging consumer fibre access products didnt exist.
Today we have more from broadband, television and telephony for the home, than 5m connections: to high-speed data connections for businesses of all sizes.
a new WLR connection cost 88 with a 100 rental charge in the first year.
Today its 41.55 with an 89.50 annual charge.
A 30% reduction in year one costs: Openreach local access network there were 41,000 LLU lines.
Now there are around 10m: we had 1,000 Ethernet connections, today we have over 200,000: Exchange DP and 50% of the country had a broadband connection.
Today thats FTTC PCP risen to around 80%.
Markets and customers DP We have more than 560 CPs using our network.
We Over 5,500 operate in three markets: consumer, business and c101,000 PCPs c4.7m DPs exchanges infrastructure.
The consumer market is made up of households who want Fibre FTTC Fibre-to-the-cabinet DP Distribution point fixed-line broadband and telephony services.
Our largest Copper PCP Primary connection point customers include Sky, TalkTalk and BT Consumer.
The business market consists of the 5.4m businesses in the UK, from sole traders to large multinational corporations, and the Inputs, outputs and outcomes public sector.
Most of our CP customers serve business clients.
The infrastructure market includes firms building network Inputs infrastructure to data centres and mobile cell sites, and property Weve a UK workforce of 31,500 people.
developers connecting new build sites.
Ethernet connections We install and maintain fibre and copper communications networks and specialised services are the main areas of demand.
that connect homes and businesses.
Our network is nationwide, reliable The total number of Openreach physical lines was essentially and fast.
unchanged during the year, growing by 2,000 lines, against Our customers are the 560 CPs who deliver communications services a 200,000 increase the year before.
to end customers, and property developers building new homes and buildings.
We also have relationships with communities throughout the As at 31 December 2015 there were 24.5m broadband lines in UK that co-fund investments in fibre networks with us.
81% of these use the Openreach network with the rest Outputs mainly on the Virgin Media cable network.
A team of highly-skilled network engineers and planners maintains a high quality access network.
Total UK broadband market We provide network access and engineering services which enable As at 31 March products including broadband and point-to-point Ethernet.
m We have 21,000 iPhones in use by our engineers.
New and improved 25 applications are helping them to complete jobs faster and provide feedback on task times meaning work can be handed out more efficiently.
20 2012 Outcomes 15 Fibre broadband has driven growth in our revenue and profits, supporting further investment in the network.
10 Our brand has been strengthened by the successful rollout of fibre to around 85% of the UK.
This puts us on track to support the Governments 5 target of 95% superfast coverage by the end of 2017.
Weve exceeded Ofcoms minimum service targets for the past two years.
0 The UK has the highest share of GDP generated by the digital economy a 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 of any country in the G20.
Openreach underpins that by running the a largest superfast network in the country.
20.9 21.9 22.9 23.9 24.5 86 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 Our markets are shaped by the following trends: demand for connectivity means total fixed broadband ownership is rising steadily: increasing data usage, propelled by video streaming and content, is driving demand for faster connections with more capacity: rising data consumption is leading to significant investment in backhaul capacity: cloud computing is increasing corporate demand for connectivity.
Copper-based services A fast-growing data centre market is creating a new need for Wholesale Line Rental WLR lets CPs offer phone services to their high-capacity circuits 1Gbps or more : and customers using our equipment and copper network.
They pay to use strong demand for Ethernet and optical service products, the lines between our exchanges and the customer premises but dont need to invest in their own network equipment or infrastructure.
as businesses seek increased speeds and reliability.
Local Loop Unbundling LLU involves CPs installing their own Competitors equipment in our exchanges and renting the copper line to the customer building.
CPs can use our shared metallic path facility Our main competitor across all three of our markets is Virgin Media.
SMPF product to offer broadband over a WLR line or our metallic Its cable network covers around half of UK homes, with plans to path facility MPF product to offer phone and broadband services reach an additional 4m premises by 2020. using just their equipment.
For consumers, other companies are building their own fibre access networks, reflecting the competitive nature of the market.
CityFibre, Hyperoptic and Gigaclear are deploying fibre-to-thepremises.
In particular, CityFibres joint venture with TalkTalk and Sky has the potential to pose a competitive threat.
Competitors in the business and infrastructure markets include Virgin Media, Colt Group and Vodafone.
CityFibres prominence in Ethernet this market is growing with plans to cover 50 Gigabit cities by Our Ethernet products offer dedicated fibre connections with speeds 2020.
It also acquired KCOMs UK infrastructure in the year.
CPs use them to complete their own networks and to Pricing, service delivery and product innovation remain competitive provide high-quality, high-bandwidth services to businesses and the public sector.
The price per Gigabit is being driven down by intense Ethernet Access Direct EAD 10Gbps Standard and Local Access competition, particularly in urban areas.
Strong demand for were launched in Autumn 2015, bringing affordable, high-capacity Ethernet has put pressure on the delivery times of all providers.
services to UK business and infrastructure markets.
Optical Spectrum Access OSA Hub and Spoke also launched Products and services this year.
It means CPs can deploy high-bandwidth services more efficiently and cost effectively to multiple sites, saving the customer We offer four main products and services: fibre access: space and power.
copper-based services: Ethernet: and infrastructure solutions.
Our access network can carry broadcast and on-demand internet protocol television IPTV services.
Our multicast service cuts the cost of delivering broadcast TV.
Infrastructure solutions Our infrastructure solutions let CPs build their own networks.
Our Flexible Co-mingling Product allows CPs to place their equipment in our exchanges, providing their customers with voice, broadband and Ethernet services.
Passive Infrastructure Access PIA products offer CPs access to Openreachs infrastructure such as our ducts and telephone poles.
CPs can use PIA when building their own fibre networks.
This product Fibre access has been available since 2011.
Our wholesale fibre product is called Generic Ethernet Access.
We offer Mobile Infill Infrastructure Solution MiiS helps mobile network a number of different versions: operators improve their coverage.
We install antennas on telephone Fibre-to-the-Cabinet FTTC takes fibre from the exchange to poles linked to a special street cabinet provided with power and the street cabinet and uses the existing copper network for the final backhaul.
Mobile operators can then install their radio equipment link to the customer.
FTTC offers speeds from 40Mbps to 80Mbps.
in the cabinet and use their spectrum to improve mobile coverage.
This year we launched a mid-range product offering speeds of up to 55Mbps.
 FTTP provides speeds up to 330Mbps.
The fibre runs from the exchange to the property.
87 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information The number of Ethernet circuits we provide grew 17% in the Performance in the year year: this is the best growth for five years.
The physical line base Weve grown our revenue for the first time in four years.
We made our superfast fibre broadband network available to a further 3m premises.
We achieved record fibre Deliver superior customer service broadband net additions of 1.7m.
We grew Ethernet As the internet has become a must-have, customers connections by 17%.
And we achieved all the increased expect more from the service we provide and were minimum service levels set by Ofcom, though our ambition committed to meeting those increasing needs.
and plans are to go much further.
The table on page 88 shows Openreachs service performance on a number of key measures.
We publish this data, with additional Examples of how were broadening levels of detail, on a quarterly basis.
and deepening customer relationships We continue to deliver 93% of orders on time.
We met all 60 of Ofcoms minimum service levels MSLs for copper products for the We announced the Openreach Charter to set out our commitments second year in a row.
These service levels become more stretching in building Britains connected future.
each year and next year will expand to cover Ethernet products for Weve improved customer service and complaints have almost halved, the first time.
though we recognise we have more to do.
Weve successfully launched the View My Engineer service to keep end Despite having achieved the MSLs our key customer service customers up to date on their orders or any faults, and to remind them measure, Right First Time, declined 6.9% 2014 15: 3.5% of their upcoming engineer visit.
We view the MSLs as a baseline and recognise we have more to do to deliver the service customers expect.
This is why we set ourselves a more challenging RFT target.
Operating performance We continue to invest heavily in our superfast fibre broadband There are a few areas in particular, along with the severity of network.
It now reaches more than 25m premises or around 85% the winter storms, that contributed to the decline in RFT.
Including other service providers, 90% of the UK is able business market we havent reduced the backlog of Ethernet to enjoy fibre broadband speeds.
circuits in line with our plans.
For residential customers we have too many jobs that arent completed on time which is partially due Under the BDUK programme were investing alongside public to our engineers missing appointments.
We have a plan in place to funding to bring fibre broadband to rural communities.
Were also tackle many of the issues that caused us problems this year.
Were working with the government through the Superfast Extension improving Ethernet delivery processes to complete jobs faster and Programme SEP to help take fibre broadband to 95% of the were focusing on reducing missed appointments.
One area of improvement was the backlog of new property We achieved 1.7m fibre broadband net additions in the year.
This developments waiting for a network connection.
Over the year we means that around 5.9m homes and businesses in the UK are now reduced the number of people waiting more than 30 days connected, 23% of those passed.
Of the net additions in the year, for service after moving into a new home by 96%.
48% were provided to our external CP customers, an increase from 40% last year, demonstrating the market-wide demand for fibre.
In the coming year our goal is to make sure people are connected on the day they move.
We also recognise that most people moving into a new home expect to have access to fibre broadband and we Openreach bre broadband net additions launched a co-funding scheme with the Home Builders Federation Year ended 31 March to make sure all new builds have fibre available.
aspx 88 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 Openreach performance against service responsibilities The Openreach Charter Q4 Q4 In September 2015 we announced the Openreach Charter Movement 2015 16 2014 15 to set out our commitments to end customers, CPs and the nation in building Britains connected future.
Home The most important commitments have been updated New lines installed on time 93.36% 92.98% and are summarised below.
Average time to install with an 14.44 13.46 engineer working days Service Our number one priority will be giving great service to Average time to install without 9.49 9.77 customers.
Well set new standards for delivering on time and an engineer working days getting things right.
We hold ourselves accountable to fix Installation requiring an problems engineer where wait is 22 days 1.12% 0.00% or longer for appointment Coverage Average time for first available We aspire to go beyond the UK Governments 95% target for appointment date for new 8.51 6.70 fibre broadband.
With new initiatives and new technologies, installation working days well keep working to get Britain connected New lines requiring an engineer visit not installed 31 days past 1.34% 1.23% target date Speed Average time to fix faults Well provide the speed people need, and create Britains Maintenance level 1 working 2.82 2.67 ultrafast future with our ambition to bring ultrafast days broadband to 12m homes and businesses by the end of 2020 Average time to fix faults Maintenance level 2 working 1.94 1.79 days Trusted partner Faults fixed within agreed time 74.53% 75.10% Well be a trusted partner for CPs, guaranteeing fair and equal Maintenance level 1 treatment to all Faults fixed within agreed time 76.14% 75.66% Maintenance level 2 Faults not cleared after 31 days or more 1.60% 0.86% Contribution to our community Maintenance level 1 Well make a difference to the communities we serve, Faults not cleared after 31 days inspiring our people to become volunteers in the community or more 1.79% 0.84% Maintenance level 2 Business Investment Average time to install on-net 26.50 33.49 Well invest to sustain the leadership of Britains digital services working days economy Average time to install where new build is required working 68.20 69.95 days Faults fixed within agreed time 94.26% 92.79% Note: this compares the performance in the quarter and is not an annual measure.
Improvement Steady performance maintaining focus Further improvement needed plans in place to get back on track 89 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Transform our costs Financial performance Operating costs increased 1% 2014 15: 2% decrease with an increase in volumes, pay inflation and leaver costs 2016 2015 2014 Year ended 31 March m m m partly offset by cost efficiencies.
Revenue 5,100 5,011 5,061 This year we: Operating costs 2,436 2,411 2,460 improved our processes and invested in new systems and tools EBITDA 2,664 2,600 2,601 that reduce the number of engineering jobs and unnecessary customer contacts: Depreciation and amortisation 1,301 1,348 1,406 negotiated improved terms with our key suppliers and insourced Operating profit 1,363 1,252 1,195 activities where possible.
This saves us money and means we can Capital expenditure 1,447 1,082 1,049 use our people more effectively: transformed our desk-based functions by consolidating our Operating cash flow 1,419 1,502 1,492 teams from over 400 locations down to 28 larger centres of excellence.
This means we can run them more efficiently, share This is the first time in four years that Openreach best practice and create better working environments: has delivered revenue growth.
successfully launched the View my Engineer tool: and worked closely with our suppliers to help reduce the number Revenue increased 2% 2014 15: 1% decline mainly driven of orders awaiting completion.
by a 39% increase in fibre broadband revenue.
Higher Ethernet volumes also contributed to the revenue growth, but regulatory price changes had an overall negative impact of around 130m, Invest for growth equivalent to 3% of our revenue.
We have invested 10.5bn in Britains digital Operating costs were up 1% 2014 15: 2% down mainly infrastructure in the last ten years, committing over reflecting higher volumes, pay inflation and a 29m increase in 3bn to create a fibre broadband network that provides leaver costs.
There was also no benefit this year from the sale of affordable high-speed broadband to the vast majority redundant copper 2014 15: 29m.
These effects were partly of the UK.
Weve set out our vision to move the nation from superfast to ultrafast speeds with an ambition that 12m homes and businesses The main driver of the Openreach cost base is labour which will get access to ultrafast services by the end of 2020.
We will makes up over 1bn of variable cost, after deducting own work deliver ultrafast through a mix of two technologies: G. fast and capitalised.
We reduced our labour costs by 7%, partly by creating FTTP.
We launched G. fast trials in Huntingdon, Gosforth and our centres of excellence.
Swansea, which are progressing well, with homes and businesses EBITDA grew 2% 2014 15: flat.
With depreciation and taking part getting speeds of up to 330Mbps.
Weve also amortisation down 3% 2014 15: 4%, operating profit was announced additional G. fast pilots in Cherry Hinton and Gillingham up 9% 2014 15: 5%.
which will cover 25,000 homes and businesses by March 2017.
Finally weve introduced several trials across the country to improve Capital expenditure was 1,447m, up 365m or 34% 2014 15: the way we provide FTTP connections.
We see FTTP becoming up 33m or 3%.
This consists of gross expenditure of 1,540m a much larger part of our network, in particular for new sites, 2014 15: 1,460m which has been reduced by grants of 93m apartment blocks, small businesses and some rural areas.
2014 15: 378m directly related to our fibre broadband network build in the year.
The total amount of grants recognised is lower We invested 54% more than last year on connecting new sites and than last year as we have deferred 227m of grant income due to providing Ethernet.
We continue to invest to extend, upgrade and strong levels of fibre broadband take-up.
This is primarily because maintain our copper network which underpins most of the services we increased our base-case assumption for take-up from 20% we provide in the UK.
Weve increased preventative maintenance to 33% in BDUK areas and under the terms of the programme, spend by 22% year on year.
This investment will make our network we have a potential obligation to either re-invest or repay grant less susceptible to faults in future years.
funding depending on factors including the level of customer This year we invested in hiring over 1,000 people including around take-up achieved.
Operating cash flow decreased 6% 2014 15: 1% increase primarily reflecting the higher capital expenditure.
Key priorities Following the appointment of Clive Selley as CEO, our future plans include: achieving our goal of 95% on-time installations by the end of 2017, which is ahead of Ofcoms minimum service level: working with government to help take fibre broadband to 95% of the country by the end of 2017: getting ultrafast broadband to 10m premises, with an ambition to get this to 12m, by the end of 2020: recruiting 1,000 frontline engineers to deliver further improvements in service: and working to deploy FTTP using microfibre technology.
90 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 BT Technology, Service Inputs, outputs and outcomes & Operations BT TSO Inputs BT TSO is our internal technology unit and is responsible There are around 13,000 people in BT TSO and this year we recruited over 200 graduates and apprentices.
for delivering and operating our networks, platforms and IT systems.
Our global multi-protocol label switching MPLS network lets our lines of business launch products and services quickly and cost effectively.
We design, build and operate BTs global networks and systems.
This year we invested around 470m in research and development.
We And we make sure theyre reliable and resilient.
We work closely have research collaborations with over 30 universities around the world.
with each of the lines of business, creating new products for them and making sure that services evolve with the changing needs of Outputs their customers.
We help create the products that BTs lines of business sell to their customers.
We manage BTs research and development and look at ways to differentiate BT though innovation.
And we manage BTs Over 90% of BT TSO people have completed an accredited learning worldwide patent portfolio.
We tell you more about that on course.
This year we filed patents for 97 inventions.
Given the rapid pace of change in the technology that BT TSO people work on, weve developed comprehensive training and Outcomes re-skilling programmes.
Were also a major recruiter of UK Were ranked as one of the 50 most innovative companies in the world.
This is covered further on page 32.
34% of our people volunteered this year.
In February Howard Watson replaced Clive Selley as CEO of BT Weve reduced the groups total worldwide net CO e emissions by 81% 2 TSO.
Howard was previously responsible for leading BTs global IT versus 1996 97 base levels.
During this time we improved our levels of IT reliability every year.
Performance in the year New organisational structure On 1 April 2016 we formed a new business unit called IT and Weve continued to proactively maintain and refresh Mobile which sits within TSO.
It draws together EEs mobile the technology in our networks and service platforms.
technology experts with the teams that manage BTs IT platforms.
New features have been added, improvements made to network Products and services reliability and older technology removed.
For example, we installed higher capacity and more cost-effective routers for We manage the infrastructure for BTs products, services our MPLS network.
You can read more about this and other and internal systems, such as the voice, data and TV network enhancements on page 35.
And weve continued taking networks.
Our people also design and deliver the largeequipment out of our legacy networks.
For example, this year scale global managed networked services which we sell we turned off around 600 PSTN switching elements that we no to many of the top companies in the world.
Weve improved the reliability of our IT systems.
This has resulted We deliver and run BTs applications and IT systems, such as our in 39% fewer IT faults.
Weve also continued to reduce our costs customer management and HR systems.
Our investments in and the groups energy consumption, which we say more about these have simplified processes and improved the way our people on page 44. interact with them.
To help improve customer service, we developed the My BT app.
Key priorities This means consumers can access their account, billing and order information from the convenience of their smartphone.
Our future plans include: developing technology solutions that help our customers, such as increasing the broadband speeds we can provide homes at the end of long copper lines: moving from a technology trial to a live consumer trial of an all-IP voice service: continuing to invest in our TV platform, improving the customer experience of our set-top box and investigating new technologies such as High Dynamic Range for better picture quality: continuing to evaluate technologies such as Software-Defined Networks that will enhance the cloud-based services that we offer to businesses: and continuing our network rationalisation.
91 91 Ov Over erview view The S The Str tra at tegic R egic Repor eport t Go Gov vernanc ernance e Financial sta Financial stat temen ements ts A Additional inf dditional informa ormation tion Case study: Programmable networks Weve started on our journey to achieve a fully programmable network.
New technologies such as Network Functions Virtualisation NFV and Software-Defined Networks SDN mean we can run specialist network functions on standard hardware and control network components using software.
Weve led the industry in researching the benefits of these technologies since 2011, as we believe they will help enterprise customers reduce complexity and cost, and be more agile.
From idea to reality Weve worked with standards bodies and vendors to define how these should work.
And in December 2015, we worked with BT Global Services to introduce NFV capabilities into its BT Cloud Connect portfolio.
A multinational customer is already using this technology to provide a virtualised wide area network acceleration function, using standard data centre hardware rather than specialist equipment.
And were moving beyond the data centre.
Were running customer trials to virtualise routers and firewalls and to support cloud services such as Office 365.
In the future, 5G networks will use NFV.
And well be able to use it in our TV network to distribute content.
All of this should make our network cheaper to build and simpler to operate.
BT Cloud Connect portfolio Introducing NFV capabilities into the BT Cloud Connect portfolio 92 92 B BT Gr T Group plc oup plc Annual R Annual Repor eport 2 t 20 01 16 6 50% Broadband traffic has grown at around 50% a year Case study: This year we completed a three-year core broadband network evolution programme toensure that our single IP network supports these services, and provides improved Evolving our performance and reliability.
During this time weve: IP network introduced new core routers that provide five times the capacity of the ones they replaced, helping us to meet future data growth: Over recent years, the needs of our optimised our network to efficiently route traffic customers have evolved from PSTN services, by removing network hops and increasing content caching within our network, speeding up access to leased lines and early mobile data services the internet: to superfast broadband, TV, mobile data introduced three new, highly-resilient internet and Ethernet data services.
Our network service nodes for our consumer broadband traffic which are located to minimise internet delay for now supports a wide range of over-the-top our customers: applications and services, which require deployed over 850 Multi-Service Edge network increasing bandwidths.
For example, over components that each support multiple services such as broadband, Ethernet and internal the last four years Netflix traffic has grown connectivity between different layers of the from nothing to 20% of the data we carry.
network: and introduced a lower-cost Ethernet router suitable And broadband traffic has grown at around for smaller exchanges.
93 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Group performance 94 Gr oup Finance Directors In this section we explain how weve done introduction this year against our key performance 95 Financial highlights indicators.
We set out the groups financial 96 Group performance results for the year: what weve focused on, 96 Progress against our KPIs and what weve achieved.
96 Outlook 98 Our acquisition of EE 98 Income statement 100 Dividends Progress against our KPIs 101 Cash flow While weve again delivered strong financial results 102 Net debt 104 Taxation this year, our customer service was not good enough.
105 Capital expenditure 106 Balance sheet Our financial performance 107 Pensions 108 Contractual obligations Our financial strength has given us the ability to make and commitments investments that are delivering for the business.
Bold decisions Our acquisition of EE is already having a big effect on how we do business and were pleased with its performance since joining the group.
Alternative performance measures We judge and explain our performance using certain alternative performance measures.
These include trends in underlying revenue and operating costs excluding transit, adjusted and reported EBITDA, adjusted earnings per share, normalised and reported fee cash flow and net debt.
Adjusted means that a measure is before specific items.
We describe on page 240 what we mean by specific items and weve disclosed specific items for this year and the last two years in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.
These alternative performance measures are not defined under IFRS so theyre termed non-GAAP measures.
But theyre consistent with how management measures the groups financial performance.
Weve defined each of these measures on pages 240 to 242, where weve provided more detail, including reconciliations to the nearest measure under IFRS.
You can find a review of the 57 performance of our lines of business this y ear, from page 57 94 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 Group Finance Directors introduction over 1bn out of our gross costs over the next The investments weve been two years.
making have driven our strong We grew adjusted EBITDA to 6.6bn, including financial performance this year.
Adjusted profit before tax EE has made a significant was 3.5bn, up 9%, and adjusted EPS of contribution to our results in the 33.2p was up 5%.
two months since we acquired the Normalised free cash flow was 3.1bn, up business at the end of January.
Our ability to generate strong cash flow from the business has Im pleased to say our key measure of the supported our growth and investment groups revenue trend, underlying revenue ambitions.
excluding transit which by definition excludes EE, was up 2%.
Thats our best performance And finally, were already making good in more than seven years, and at the top end progress on integrating EE.
We now see the of our outlook range of 1% to 2% growth.
opportunity to deliver synergies of around And weve again delivered EBITDA and free cash 400m a year from the EE integration, 10% flow growth, in line with the outlook we set more than before and at a lower cost than at the start of the year.
Were refreshing our organisation to make sure we can deliver the BT Consumer revenue was up 7% reflecting best possible outcome for our customers and 17% growth in broadband and TV revenue, have made these changes with effect from benefiting from our investments in BT Sport 1 April 2016 see page 58. and BT Mobile.
Openreach revenue was up 2% with fibre broadband growth more than offsetting regulatory headwinds.
And we met the milestone of bringing fibre broadband to 25m premises: this means, including other service providers, 90% of the UK can now Tony Chanmugam Group Finance Director access the speeds that it offers.
4 May 2016 Weve continued to make further cost savings, helped by major end-to-end programmes across our lines of business.
Were confident theres plenty more we can do and we see the opportunity to take well Performance against our outlook At the start of the year we published our outlook, which was for BT excluding EE.
We refined this at our third quarter results to reflect our expectations for revenue growth.
These measures also impact directors remuneration.
So we have assessed our financial performance for the year against the targets that we set, excluding the impact of the EE transaction and its subsequent contribution to our group results.
2015 16 performance against our outlook, excluding the impact of EE Outlook for 2016 17 and 2017 18 Outlook Result 2016 17 2017 18 Change in underlying revenue Change in underlying revenue a a excluding transit Up 1%2% Up 2% excluding transit Growth Growth b b Adjusted EBITDA Modest growth Up 1% Adjusted EBITDA c7.9bn Growth b b Normalised free cash flow c2.8bn 2.84bn Normalised free cash flow 3.1bn3.2bn 3.6bn Dividend per share Up 10%15% Up 13% Dividend per share 10% growth 10% growth Share buyback c300m 315m Share buyback c200m a Defined on page 240. b Defined on page 241.
See page 240 for further details.
Includes the impact of the 1.0bn equity placing we made in February 2015. b e Before depreciation and amortisation.
Reflects the impact from EE.
See page 102. c See definition on page 241 and summarised cash flow statement on page 101.
2,312 18,287 2,346 2,827 18,287 2,645 17,979 2,326 3,172 17,851 968 3,029 111 19,042 2,650 3,473 1,038 18,909 25.7 2,171 12,447 28.2 2,450 12,171 26.5 2,782 11,961 31.5 2,830 11,580 261 725 29.9 3,069 12,677 33.2 261 725 3,098 12,329 5,840 7,028 6,116 6,018 5,119 6,271 191 6,365 9,845 261 6,580 96 BT Group plc 97 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Annual Report 2016 Group performance Trend in underlying revenue excluding transit Trend in underlying revenue excluding transit Our positive revenue performance, which excludes the impact Year ended 31 March of EE, was driven by BT Consumer where revenue was up 7% Our key measure of the groups reflecting 17% growth in broadband and TV revenue, helped by % 2016 revenue trend, underlying Progress against our KPIs 3 our investments in BT Sport Europe and BT Mobile.
We explain more revenue excluding transit, was 2 about the performance of our lines of business from page 57.
Weve performed well against our three financial KPIs.
up 2.0%, at the top end of our 2.0% 1 Underlying revenue reflects the overall performance of the group outlook range of 1% to 2%.
But our customer service performance was down 3.0%, 0 that will contribute to sustainable profitable revenue growth.
We And it's our best growth in more 1 and we want to do much better.
2015 exclude the impact of acquisitions and disposals, foreign exchange than seven years.
2 movements and specific items from this measure.
We focus on the We use four key performance indicators KPIs to measure how 3 trend in underlying revenue excluding transit because transit traffic 0.4 % we are doing against our strategy.
Our financial KPIs measure: 4 is low margin and affected by reductions in mobile termination 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 the trend in underlying revenue excluding transit: our adjusted rates, which are outside our control.
earnings per share: and normalised free cash flow.
Customer service a b Outlook Result improvement is also a key non-financial KPI for us.
Up 1%-2% Up 2.0% Our KPIs are chosen because they reflect the key elements of our strategy.
We use these to measure the variable elements of our senior executives pay each year, as weve explained in the Report Adjusted profit after tax grew 13% this year reflecting the impact on Directors Remuneration see page 128.
Adjusted earnings per share Adjusted earnings per share Year ended 31 March of the acquisition of EE, our cost transformation activities and a Weve outlined our performance against each KPI here, together lower interest expense together with a reduction in the effective tax pence Adjusted earnings per share 2016 with an explanation in italics of how we define each measure.
You can find reconciliations of the financial measures to the closest 30 Adjusted earnings per share grew 5% to 33.2p.
The weighted 33.2p IFRS measure in the Additional information section on pages 25 average number of shares in the market increased 7% reflecting the 240 to 242. additional shares we have issued as part of the EE acquisition.
20 2015 Profit forecast considered within the Listing Prospectus Adjusted earnings per share is the adjusted profit after tax 15 attributable to our shareholders, divided by the weighted average On 26 January 2016 we published a Listing Prospectus in relation 31.5p 10 number of shares in issue.
Being an adjusted measure, it excludes to our acquisition of EE.
In this, we provided information relating 5 the impact of specific items and as such it is a consistent way to to our 2015 16 profit forecast.
This information confirmed our Change measure the performance of our business over time.
0 outlook as stated on 29 October 2015, when we published our 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 unaudited results for the six months ended 30 September 2015, 5% in which we stated that for 2015 16 we expected modest growth in adjusted EBITDA relative to the 6,271m we achieved in 2014 15.
The increase of 268m or 9% in our normalised free cash flow Normalised free cash flow Normalised free cash ow This profit forecast did not take into account any impact of the Year ended 31 March primarily reflects the 261m generated by EE in the period since acquisition of EE.
We generated normalised free acquisition.
Excluding EE, normalised free cash flow was 2,837m, m 2016 3,100 cash flow of 3,098m.
This in line with our outlook.
Our adjusted EBITDA in 2015 16 for BT, excluding EE, was was up 268m compared with 2,900 Free cash flow is the cash we generate from our operations, less 6,319m, up 48m, consistent with the statement we made last year.
Normalised free cash 3,098m 2,700 capital expenditure and finance costs.
It represents the cash in the Listing Prospectus.
flow excluding the impact of EE 2,500 available to invest in the business, repay debt, support the pension was 2,837m, in line with our 2015 scheme and pay dividends to our shareholders.
2,100 We expect growth in underlying revenue excluding transit in Normalised free cash flow excludes significant non-operational 2,830m 1,900 2016 17.
Adjusted EBITDA is expected to be around 7.9bn, payments and receipts that distort the trend in our cash flow.
So 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 in calculating normalised free cash flow we take out the impact of after a net investment of around 100m in launching handset Change specific items, purchases of telecommunications licences, pension offerings to BT Mobile customers.
Normalised free cash flow a b Excludes the impact of EE Outlook Result deficit payments and the tax benefit from pension deficit payments.
This is after up to 300m of c2.8bn 2.84bn 9% upfront capital expenditure in the Emergency Services Network ESN contract, as well as around 100m of EE integration capital expenditure.
Customer service improvement Improving the service we deliver is key.
Our Right First Time For 2017 18, we expect growth in underlying revenue excluding Customer service At 31 March measure was down 3.0% 2014 15: up 4.7%.
This was transit and adjusted EBITDA.
We also expect to incur capital disappointing.
Were making good steps in some areas.
Openreach % Our customer service measure expenditure of around 100m on the ESN contract and around 2016 20 achieved all 60 of the minimum service levels set by Ofcom.
But Right First Time was down 100m again on integration.
We are confident in our cash despite these improvements, were not where we want to be, across 3.0% compared with up 4.7% 15 flow generation, as a result of the investments we are currently all of our lines of business.
You can read more about our customer 3.0% last year.
making, the ability of our business to respond to a dynamic service on page 22.
10 industry environment, and ongoing cost transformation and 2015 Right First Time is our key measure of customer service.
This tracks 5 synergy realisation opportunities.
As such, we expect to generate how often we keep the promises we make to our customers.
This normalised free cash flow of more than 3.6bn in 2017 18.
0 could be about keeping to appointment times, fixing faults within an 4.7% c 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 agreed period or answering calls promptly and dealing with queries We expect to grow our dividend per share by at least 10% in both or orders efficiently.
As well as improving service and the customer 2016 17 and 2017 18.
We expect to buy back around 200m experience, keeping our promises should mean that there is less b Target Result of shares in 2016 17 to help counteract the dilutive effect of allwork to do in correcting our mistakes, and so reduces our costs.
Above 4.7% Down 3.0% employee share option plans maturing in the year.
This is below the 315m buyback we completed in 2015 16 reflecting the lower a number of shares that are expected to be required for our share Financial outlook which was given at the start of the year and reaffirmed in February.
