21 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Our purpose Our goal Our purpose is to use the power of communications Our goal is to deliver sustainable profitable to make a better world.
Were here to meet the needs of our customers, delivering the In previous years, we relied on cost transformation to offset experience, products and services that matter to them.
Millions declining revenues, so that we could grow our cash flows and the of individuals connect through us to their friends and family, and value of our business.
This year, we grew our revenue, driven by have huge amounts of information and entertainment at their the investments weve been making.
The smallest companies, right through to multinational In the years ahead, we expect profitable revenue growth, corporations, use our services every day to conduct their business.
combined with continued transformation of our costs, to provide Many public services rely on our technologies.
And in the UK, a platform for long-term and sustainable cash flow growth.
most of the telecoms industry operates across our networks we help more than 500 other communications providers to serve Well reinvest some of the cash we generate back into the business, their customers.
to help us to grow over the long term.
And well also use it to pay dividends to our shareholders and reward other Our success as a business depends on delivering value to all our stakeholders.
We try to think ahead, anticipate what they want and develop products, services and an overall experience that meet Our strategy their needs, whether as individuals or as businesses.
Our services are vital to our customers and their communities.
Our strategy is founded on broadening and deepening We look for ways of using and developing those services to deliver our customer relationships.
economic growth and wider societal benefits.
To bring our purpose To deliver sustainable profitable revenue growth, we need stronger to life, weve set a number of challenging long-term ambitions relationships with our customers.
That means making sure we stay that make a positive impact on the societies, communities and relevant to them as markets, lifestyles and technologies change.
environment we operate in page 45.
The three pillars of our strategy help us do that: delivering superior By creating value for our customers and society, we grow customer service: transforming our costs: and investing for growth.
our business and reward our shareholders for investing in us.
The better our customer service, the more well sell and the less time and money well spend putting things right.
And the better we manage our costs, the better value for money we can offer our customers and the more we can invest in giving customers what they need - today and tomorrow.
These are the principles that drive our business model page 28.
The diagram below shows our strategy in the year and how it supports our goal and purpose.
It sits at the centre of our business model.
For 2016 17 our strategy is evolving.
The three pillars remain broadly the same but with a wider focus on the overall customer experience rather than just on customer service.
And with the acquisition of EE our investment areas are evolving to focus on having the best integrated network in the UK and being a fully converged service provider.
Our purpose To use the power of communications to make a better world Our goal A growing BT: to deliver sustainable profitable revenue growth Our strategy Broaden and deepen our customer relationships Deliversuperior Transform Invest for customer service our costs growth Mobility Leading TV and UK business Fibre and future global content markets voice companies Our culture A healthy organisation Our business model 28 on page 28
