118 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 Reports of the Board committees On behalf of the committee I would like to thank Paul for his Audit & Risk Committee contribution over the years.
The Board has agreed that I have recent and relevant financial Chairmans report experience as required by the provisions of the Code and that I constitute an audit committee financial expert for the purposes ofthe Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
After each meeting, I report to the Board on the main issues that we discussed.
Committee members Meetings Member Eligible to attend Attended Nick Rose chairman 8 8 Iain Conn 8 7 a Warren East 2 2 Karen Richardson 8 8 Jasmine Whitbread 8 8 a Warren retired from the committee on 31 May 2015.
The committee has continued to pay particular attention to two aspects of our IT environment, What we have done namely data security and cyber security.
These areas We met eight times during the year to reflect the increased focus present an ever-increasing threat for all companies.
of the committee for the oversight of certain non-financial risks New areas of focus for us this year included which the Board agreed should transfer from the Nominating & the acquisition and integration of the EE mobile Governance Committee to the Audit & Risk Committee with effect business and review of our regional governance from April 2015. and compliance programmes.
We set time aside at each meeting to seek the views of the internal and external auditors in the absence of management.
Who we are I chair the Audit & Risk Committee.
Our membership and meeting Allocation of time attendance during the year are set out opposite.
The diverse backgrounds of the committee members and their combined skills 18% 24% and experience enable us to fulfil the committees remit, as set out External audit matters Governance and compliance in its terms of reference.
We regularly meet with external experts to keep ourselves fully 13% aware of market best practices.
Internal audit matters Although they aren't members of the committee, the Company Secretary, Group Finance Director, Deputy Finance Director, Director Group Financial Control and Director Internal Audit attend each meeting as does the lead audit partner and representatives from our external auditors.
I meet with this group ahead of the meetings to review key areas for discussion with the committee.
22% 23% The external auditors are not present when we discuss their Financial matters Risks and controls performance and or remuneration.
Our lead external audit partner Paul Barkus will rotate after this year-end audit and be replaced with Richard Hughes.
I met with Richard prior to his appointment and he has also met with other committee members.
119 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information The committee has an annual work plan.
This includes standing Goodwill impairment items that we consider regularly, in addition to any specific We reviewed managements process and methodology for assessing matters that need the committees attention and topical items on the carrying value of goodwill.
We also considered the cash flow which we chose to focus.
In 2015 16 for example, we reviewed forecasts for the groups cash generating units CGUs that hold the accounting for EE and the BDUK regional fibre deployment goodwill, being BT Global Services, BT Business, BT Consumer and EE.
We considered the key assumptions, resulting headroom and programme, privacy and data governance and cyber security.
the sensitivities applied by management in forming its assessment We also asked management to provide us with greater that no goodwill impairment charges were required.
We agreed detail on overseas contract management, deferred costs in BT with managements assessment that there was no impairment of Global Services contracts and Speak Up BTs whistleblowing goodwill this year.
We also discussed and agreed with managements confidential hotline.
disclosures in respect of the headroom in BT Global Services in note 12 to the financial statements.
Activities during the year The external auditors discuss the key judgements and assumptions used in the impairment tests with the committee and provide us with Financial reporting their own report.
We: Accounting for the EE acquisition reviewed the Annual Report & Form 20-F, together with We received a paper from management setting out the process annual, half-year and quarterly results announcements for and outcomes of the purchase price allocation exercise and the recommendation to the Board: assessment of goodwill following the acquisition of EE.
Management highlighted key areas of judgement and risk and the governance considered updates to the UK Corporate Governance Code and around the review of the fair value assumptions.
We reviewed the key its application to the Annual Report, including compliance with judgements made on intangible assets which include: customer and the provisions for the robust assessment of risk and the viability MVNO relationships, spectrum, brand and software.
We noted that statement: and there were no significant issues on impairment.
considered the Annual Report in the context of advising the BT Pension Scheme BTPS Board that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced We reviewed the assumptions underlying the valuation of the and understandable and provides the information necessary for pension liabilities in the financial statements and considered the shareholders to assess the group's position and performance, financial assumptions including the discount rate, future inflation, business model and strategy.
salary increase expectations and pension increases as summarised in note 20 to the financial statements.
We also considered sensitivities The significant issues we considered in relation to the financial around the assumptions and reviewed the accounting impacts, as statements for the year ended 31 March 2016 are set out below.
We well as the impact of the assumptions on the 2015 16 and 2016 17 have discussed these with the external auditors during the year.
income statements and the related disclosures.
We were satisfied that these were appropriate.
Group accounting policies, critical accounting estimates and judgements Revenue, including major contracts We reviewed the accounting policies, the updates made to reflect In addition to our review of the appropriateness of accounting the acquisition of EE including the consistency of accounting policies policies, management provided regular updates on the performance between BT and EE, and the disclosures in note 2 to the consolidated of major contracts within BT Global Services.
This included an financial statements that relate to critical accounting estimates and overview of the trading and operational performance of the judgements, and confirmed they are appropriate for the group.
contracts, contract risk management, governance, controls and processes, the assessment of the future performance of the contracts Going concern and any requirement for loss provisions.
We considered managements forecasts of group cash flows and net debt as well as the financing facilities available to the group.
Asset verification and asset lives Following this review, which took into account the acquisition of We considered the results of managements annual review of EE and the related impact on our forecasts, and a discussion of asset lives, verification of assets and fully depreciated assets.
We the sensitivities, we confirmed that it continues to be appropriate considered the judgements taken in relation to asset lives and the to follow the going concern basis of accounting in the financial methodology applied to consider asset verification.
Further detail on the basis of the going concern that the proposed adjustments were appropriate.
assessment by the directors is set out on page 149.
Other matters Viability statement Each quarter, as part of our review of the quarterly results, we are We received a paper from management setting out BTs obligations provided with a summary of specific items and managements view to include a viability statement in the Annual Report.
We endorsed of the quality of earnings and of the effective tax rate.
At the halfthe selection of a three year time horizon as a basis for the statement year and full-year, a detailed assessment of provisions is also provided and the approach to its development.
Further detail on the and discussed.
In each quarter and for the full year, the committee assessment of viability and the viability statement are set out on was satisfied with the information, analysis and explanations page 54. provided in relation to the results.
Regulatory reporting We noted the requirement for BT to publish its Regulatory Financial Statements and a new Reconciliation report by 31 July 2015.
There were delays in the preparation process of the Reconciliation report and management are implementing changes across people, processes and systems in order for us to meet our 2015 16 regulatory compliance obligations.
