14 Interventional 1,000,000 Strategic Report Annual occurrences of DVT, Vascular PE and PAO in the US 700,000 Candidates for interventional Within our Interventional Vascular treatment $1bn market potential portfolio we have two products.
140,000 The EkoSonic Endovascular System Current interventional treatments is an ultrasonic catheter drug delivery DVT Deep Vein Thrombosis device used in the treatment of blood PE Pulmonary Embolism PAO Peripheral Arterial Occlusion Incidence source: American Heart Association clots.
Varithena is used in the treatment of varicose veins.
Pulmonary embolism PE Leading the treatment FOCUS ON: The benefits of interventional treatment of severe blood clots with EkoSonic have been demonstrated There is an increasing recognition of Why use EkoSonic ?
in two clinical trials, one of which has the benefits of treating blood clots resulted in it being the only interventional Only device cleared by the FDA interventionally to prevent further device cleared for use by the FDA in PE.
to treat PE complications and readmission to We are adding to the clinical evidence Superiority over anticoagulation hospital.
In the US, it is estimated that in treating PE with another study, medication without increase in around 1 million people get some form OPTALYSE, for which patient recruitment bleeding complications of clot each year and of those, about is progressing.
70% are amenable to interventional Clinical data demonstrating treatment.
The annual number of favourable risk profile Drivers of future growth interventional procedures in the US Uses up to 70% less thrombolytic Since we bought the EKOS business in is growing strongly, we estimate 2013 we have increased US hospital Faster infusion time from about 95,000 in 2013 to over penetration from around 40% to 60%.
140,000 today, and we expect this We anticipate this progress continuing growth to continue.
as we build on our leadership in the The EkoSonic Endovascular System is treatment of PE, where we are seeing unique in that the ultrasound technology increased adoption by interventional speeds lysis the destruction of red blood cardiologists.
We also have a new, more cells by unwinding and thinning fibrin portable control unit in development strands that enmesh a blood clot and that will enhance usability and enable uses less of the potentially harmful bilateral treatment of PE or DVT.
With thrombolytic agent, often tissue our strategy in place we aim to deliver plasminogen activator tPA.
This annual sales in the range of $100macoustic action combined with the $200m by the end of our 2021 22 selective placement of tPA directly into financial year.
the clot can offer safety and efficacy advantages compared with standard means of administering the thrombolytic agent.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Varithena : transforming the 15 treatment of varicose veins Strategic It is estimated that there are Report approximately 30 million Americans with varicose veins, of whom about 2.5 million develop symptoms which qualify them to receive reimbursed treatment by their healthcare provider.
In 2014 there were about 750,000 great saphenous vein GSV procedures and this number is expected to grow to more than 1 million annual procedures by 2021.
How Varithena works Varithena is a uniform, low-nitrogen, polidocanol microfoam, dispensed from a proprietary canister device.
The physician injects a small amount of Varithena into the malfunctioning vein through a small tube or a needle.
It displaces the blood from the vein to reach and treat the vein wall: the diseased vein collapses and blood flow is diverted to healthy veins nearby.
Treatment is a nonsurgical procedure no incision is required and usually Competition in the US Laying the foundations takes less than one hour after which patients may resume light activities.
reimbursed sector for growth Varithena was launched in the US Varithena has the potential to reimbursed sector in August 2014. transform the treatment of varicose Approximately 70% of reimbursed veins.
We are exploring opportunities procedures are conducted in in new geographies with the current approximately 1,000 private vein product and we are progressing plans clinics with the remainder primarily to target new indications, including conducted in hospitals.
Since 2005, cosmetic veins and other venous most symptomatic varicose vein disorders.
These opportunities could treatments involve a combination of generate further sales over time.
heat ablation of the GSV and stab phlebectomy of the visible varicosities.
Varithena is the only product in this market sector to receive FDA approval based on randomised Phase III trials, which demonstrated clinically 1 2 Potential market opportunity meaningful improvements in both ofVarithena in the US the symptoms and appearance of varicose veins using patient and Prevalence: physician reported outcomes instruments.
A Varithena procedure 30m requires no sedation or tumescent Incidence: anaesthesia and has no limitation 2.5m on vein anatomy or diameter.
Other recent competitor developments Visited vein clinic: to treat the GSV include a product that 1.4m FOCUS ON: uses a combined rotating catheter tip and chemical injection and another Why varicose that uses a glue to close the GSV.
If Treated: veins form patients have associated visible 0.5m varicosities a second procedure such 1 Tiny valves help the leg veins as stab phlebectomy would be required work against gravity to push to treat these, unlike Varithena which blood back to the heart.
is a comprehensive treatment for all 2 But if valves weaken, blood can veins above and below the knee.
leak backwards and pool, resulting in varicose veins.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
