41 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Were developing an enhanced human rights due diligence tool a requirement for national regulators to review markets for for our global sales team.
Weve also undertaken detailed human significant market power SMP every three years and to put rights impact assessments on a number of potential business appropriate and proportionate SMP remedies in place.
As a result, we took a range of mitigating steps such Companies with SMP typically have a market share of 40% or as including detailed contractual provisions, integrating human more and would, without regulation, be able to do things such rights considerations into customer training and ongoing project as increase prices without losing business to competitors as would monitoring.
Weve also turned down business opportunities on the happen in a fully competitive market.
The directives also cover basis of human rights concerns.
how regulators should impose remedies to prevent the exercise of SMP, for example by setting price controls.
The rules require Our relationship with HM Government national regulators to consult with the EC on any remedies before Were one of the largest suppliers of networked IT services to the they are finalised to make sure theyre consistent with European UK public sector.
We work with more than 1,400 organisations regulations.
across central, local and devolved government, healthcare, police and defence to provide some of the UKs most vital services.
Functional separation of the access network from downstream For example: businesses is included in the EU Common Regulatory Framework list of remedies.
But its positioned as an exceptional remedy, We run N3, the National Health Services secure national requiring a high burden of proof of market failure, and is subject network.
Structural separation, unless self-imposed, is not We provide telecoms services to the Ministry of Defence and included.
contact centre and conferencing services to the Department for Work and Pensions.
Weve recently started working with the NHS Islington Clinical Review of the European Common Commissioning Group and the London Borough of Islington to Regulatory Framework provide a service that will help join up health and social care in Islington and improve the experience of care for the boroughs In May 2015, the EC announced its strategy for the Digital Single Market residents.
which includes a plan to review the European Common Regulatory Were working with Bromley Council to deliver computer and Framework.
As part of this review, the EC will assess how to encourage data centre services which will help provide them with greater investment in infrastructure and how to make current telecoms and media flexibility in running their IT services.
rules fit for new challenges and new types of service provider.
The EC is also reviewing copyright and content policy.
Any changes are expected Were working with the Government to extend fibre broadband to be implemented by mid-2017.
to rural areas under the Broadband Delivery UK BDUK scheme.
In December, EE was awarded a contract to provide the emergency services with nationwide 4G voice and data services.
UK regulation We can be required by law to do certain things and provide The UK telecoms and broadcasting industries are regulated certain services to the Government.
For example, under the primarily by Ofcom the UKs independent regulator within Communications Act, we and others can be required to provide the framework set by the various European directives, the or restore services during disasters.
The Civil Contingencies Act Communications Act 2003 the Communications Act and other 2004 also says that the Government can impose obligations on UK and EU regulations and recommendations.
us and others at times of emergency or in connection with civil The telecoms sector is subject to an extensive ex-ante regulatory contingency planning.
framework set out under the European Common Regulatory The Secretary of State for the Home Department can also require Framework.
By contrast, broadcasting and pay-TV is only currently us to take certain actions in the interests of national security.
subject to a mixture of separate, specific regulation and general competition law.
Regulation Communications and TV services are regulated by governmental The Communications Act and Ofcom and non-governmental bodies in the UK and around the world.
The Communications Act gives Ofcom legal powers and sets out This is to make sure that CPs and broadcasters comply with how electronic communications and broadcasting services should common standards and rules, and that nobody is disadvantaged be regulated in the UK.
It includes the conditions set by the by providers with strong positions in their markets.
European Union EU regulation Ofcoms main duties In EU countries, electronic communications networks and services are governed by directives and regulations set by the European To further the interests of citizens in relation to communications Commission EC.
These create a Europe-wide framework known matters.
as the European Common Regulatory Framework covering services To further the interests of consumers in relevant markets, where such as fixed and mobile voice, broadband, cable and satellite TV.
The directives include rules covering: access and interconnection: universal service obligations: and
