16 Interventional The PneumRx Coil is made of nitinol Strategic shape-memory metal.
Multiple coils Report are used in the procedure.
Pulmonology The PneumRx Coil is an interventional treatment for advanced emphysema, a debilitating lung disease that affects millions of people globally.
Emphysema is characterised by loss of the lungs natural elastic properties and increased lung volume, which make breathing difficult.
There is no cure for this disease and until recently there was little doctors could offer other than major surgery applicable only to a small subset of patients, to remove the diseased portion of their lungs.
Potential market size for the Large market potential The coils gather up PneumRx Coil There are very few treatment options for the large number of people and compress the Prevalence EU5 US: suffering from advanced emphysema.
diseased lung tissue 1,2 It is estimated that there are more than 10.4m 5.3 million people in the US and largest and re-tension the Emphysema five EU countries with advanced stage GOLD stages III and IV: airway network.
emphysema, a chronic obstructive 5.3m pulmonary disease COPD, resulting in a significant health-economic burden 3 US EU5 relating to both in-patient and outpatient care costs.
The National Institutes of Health and Target: the World Health Organisation use $250m the GOLD Global initiative for chronic Obstructive Lung Disease classification to describe the severity of COPDs 1 Applying pooled prevalence figure of 1.8% for including emphysema.
This staging emphysema Halbert, R, Natoli, J, et al.
Global burden of system classifies people with COPD COPD: systematic review and meta analysis.
Eur Respir J 2006: 28 3 : 523 532 and applying to EU 5 population: based on their degree of airflow 2 Trends in COPD Chronic Bronchitis and Emphysema : limitation obstruction as measured Morbidity and Mortality Page 12.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
National Health Interview Survey during pulmonary function tests.
Analysis performed by American staging uses four categories of severity Lung Association Research and Health Education using SPSS and SUDAAN software: ranging from Stage I mild to Stage IV 3 Assumes 50% of emphysema patients are GOLD very severe.
The PneumRx Coil has stages III and IV Agusti et al.
Characterisation of clinically demonstrated success in COPD heterogeneity in the ECLIPSE cohort.
2010, 11:122 improving lung function and quality of life in a broad range of patients in GOLD stages III and IV.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Patients treated with the PneumRx 17 Coils showed a statistically significant Strategic 14.6 metre between-group difference Report vs. control patients in change in the six minute walk test 6MWT at 12 months, which was the studys primary endpoint.
Importantly, patients treated with the PneumRx Coils exhibited statistically significant and clinically meaningful improvements vs. control patients at 12 months in Quality of Life as measured by the Saint George Respiratory Questionnaire SGRQ and in lung function, as measured by Forced Expiratory Volume in one second FEV1.
Full data were presented at the American Thoracic Society meeting in May 2016 and published in the Journal of the American Medical Association.
The full data analysis shows that patients with heterogeneous or homogeneous emphysema and a higher degree of lung over-inflation demonstrated the greatest improvements in quality of life and exercise capacity versus control patients.
This provides a good basis for the development of this therapy, as it will help physicians identify those patients who are most suitable for treatment with the coils.
Commercial expansion plans The PneumRx Coil received CE mark During the year we increased the size How the PneumRx clearance in Europe in 2010 and to date of our European team in order to build Coil works our main sales have been concentrated on the commercial platform in our key The PneumRx Coils are made of a in key markets such as Germany, markets and take the PneumRx Coils shape-memory material called nitinol, Switzerland and Turkey.
Following common in medical implants like heart the successful outcome of the RENEW stents.
The coils are pre-programmed study, we are progressing a regulatory Demonstrating clinically in a double-loop shape.
After being application with the US FDA, which meaningful results straightened for insertion into the lung could lead to US PMA approval in 2017. via a bronchoscope, they gather up and In May 2015, the French government In Europe we are establishing the most compress the diseased lung tissue released top line data from their effective patient referral pathway by surrounding them, re-tensioning the REVOLENS trial which showed that engaging with both medical airway network, as they recover their the PneumRx Coils are superior to the pulmonologists and interventional original shape.
The coils are designed standard of care for improving exercise pulmonologists, as well as with key to improve lung function in three ways: capacity in patients with severe opinion leaders KOLs, in order to expand emphysema at 6 months.
The results of compress diseased tissue, which the awareness and knowledge of the this trial were subsequently published provides room for healthier tissue PneumRx Coils.
Our market access in the Journal of the American Medical to function teams are working with the French Association JAMA in January 2016. re-tension the lung which may Ministry of Health to gain full In December 2015 we announced enable more efficient contraction reimbursement following the successful the successful outcome of the during the breathing cycle REVOLENS data.
A similar process is RENEW study, a pivotal US under way in Germany, and we are also tether open small airways, preventing randomised controlled clinical trial working with national regulators to airway collapse during exhalation comparing the safety and efficacy expand reimbursement coverage across The coil procedure is performed of the PneumRx Coil with a medical other major European markets.
In the under conscious sedation or general therapy control group in patients with UK, NICE National Institute for Health anaesthesia.
Around ten coils are severe emphysema.
and Care Excellence has granted placed in a single lung to tighten the The RENEW trial was one of the largest investigational use for the PneumRx entire airway network and a full randomised controlled clinical trials Coils and may update this guidance on treatment involves two separate to date of a medical device in patients publication of further evidence.
procedures, one for each side of with severe emphysema.
The primary Our target for this franchise is to reach the lung.
A procedure typically takes and secondary endpoints of the study 30-45 minutes, depending on patient $250m in annual sales by the end of were all met.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
