Board and Governance Board of Directors Board of Directors Chairman Non-executive directors Sir John Peace 67 Fabiola Arredondo 49 Chairman Non-executive director Sir John Peace became Chairman of the Board in June Fabiola Arredondo was appointed as a non-executive 2002 and is also Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Fabiola is currently the Managing He is Chairman of Standard Chartered PLC.
Previously he Partner of Siempre Holdings, a private investment firm was Chairman of Experian plc from 2006 to 2014 and Group based in Connecticut, US.
She is also a non-executive Chief Executive of GUS plc from 2000 to 2006.
Sir John director of Rodale Inc. NPR Inc. National Public Radio, isLord-Lieutenant of Nottinghamshire and was knighted and a trustee ofSesame Workshop.
Prior to Siempre in2011 for services to business and the voluntary sector.
Holdings, Fabiola held senior operating roles at Yahoo!
Inc, the BBC and Bertelsmann AG.
She has also previously Executive directors served as a non-executive director of Experian plc, Christopher Bailey 45 Saks Incorporated, Intelsat Inc. BOC Group plc, Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer and Bankinter S. A. Christopher Bailey became Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer in May 2014, having previously served Philip Bowman 63 as Chief Creative Officer since 2009.
Christopher joined as Senior Independent Director Design Director in May 2001.
Prior to working at Burberry, Philip Bowman was appointed as a non-executive director Christopher was the Senior Designer of Womenswear in June 2002 and is the Senior Independent Director and at Gucci in Milan from 1996 to 2001.
From 1994 to 1996 Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Philip was Chief Executive hewas the Womenswear Designer at Donna Karan.
of Smiths Group plc from 2007 to 2015, and previously held the positions of Chief Executive at Scottish Power plc and Carol Fairweather 55 Chief Executive at Allied Domecq plc.
His earlier career Chief Financial Officer included five years as a director of Bass plc.
He was Carol Fairweather became Chief Financial Officer in July previously Chairman of Liberty plc and Coral Eurobet plc 2013, having joined Burberry in June 2006.
She previously and a non-executive director of Scottish & Newcastle plc held the position of Senior Vice President, Group Finance.
and British Sky Broadcasting Group plc.
Prior to joining Burberry, Carol was Director of Finance atNews International Limited from 1997 to 2005 and UK Ian Carter 54 Regional Controller at Shandwick plc from 1991 to 1997.
Non-executive director Ian Carter was appointed as a non-executive director John Smith 58 in April 2007 and is Chairman of the Remuneration Chief Operating Officer Committee.
He is President of Hilton Worldwide Global John Smith became Chief Operating Officer in March Development and Chairman of Del Friscos Restaurant 2013, having previously been a non-executive director Group, Inc.
Previously, Ian was CEO of Hilton International from December 2009.
John was Chief Executive of BBC Company and Executive Vice President of Hilton Hotels Worldwide from 2004 to 2012.
John joined the BBC in Corporation, and a director of Hilton Group plc until 1989, where he held the positions of Chief Operating the acquisition of Hilton International by Hilton Hotels Officer, Director of Finance, Property & Business Affairs Corporation in February 2006.
He previously served as and Finance Director.
He previously served as a nonan Officer and President ofBlack & Decker Corporation executive director of Severn Trent plc and Vickers PLC, between 2001 and 2004. and on the Accounting Standards Board from 2001 to 2004.
64 Board and Governance Board of Directors Jeremy Darroch 53 Dame Carolyn McCall 54 Non-executive director Non-executive director Jeremy Darroch was appointed as a non-executive director Dame Carolyn McCall was appointed as a non-executive in February 2014.
He is Chief Executive Officer of Sky plc, director in September 2014.
Dame Carolyn is Chief Executive aposition he has held since 2007, having joined the company of easyJet plc, a position she has held since July 2010. as Chief Financial Officer in 2004.
Prior to Sky, Jeremy was Prior to easyJet, she held a number of roles at Guardian Group Finance Director of DSG International plc formerly Media Group plc including Chief Executive from 2006 to Dixons Group plc and spent 12 years at Procter & Gamble 2010.
Shehas also previously served as a non-executive in a variety of roles in the UK and Europe.
Jeremy also director of Lloyds TSB, Tesco PLC and New Look plc.
previously served as a non-executive director and Chairman Dame Carolyn wasawarded the OBE for services to women of the Audit Committee of Marks and Spencer Group plc.
in business inJune 2008 and a Damehood for services to the aviation industry in January 2016.
In January 2014, Stephanie George 59 Prime Minister David Cameron appointed her a UK Non-executive director Business Ambassador.
Stephanie George was appointed as a non-executive Key to membership of committees director in March 2006.
She is an adviser to Penske Audit Committee Media Corporation and was recently Vice Chairman of Nomination Committee Fairchild Fashion Media Inc parent of Womens Wear Remuneration Committee Daily.
Stephanie also sits on the Board of Lincoln Center.
Previously, Stephanie was Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer at Time Inc. and spent 12 years atFairchild Publications.
Matthew Key 53 Non-executive director Matthew Key was appointed as a non-executive director inSeptember 2013.
Matthew is a non-executive director ofOrbit Showtime Network, a leading multi-platform pay TVnetwork in the Middle East and North Africa.
Matthew is also a member of the European Advisory Board of Samsung Electronics.
Previously, he was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Telefnica Digital, the global innovation arm of Telefnica.
He also previously served as Chairman and CEO of Telefnica Europe plc formerly O2 plc, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of O2 UK, and Chief Financial Officer for Vodafone UK.
Prior to this, he held various financial positions at Kingfisher plc, Coca-Cola & Schweppes Beverages Limited and Grand Metropolitan Plc.
Matthew isalso Chairman of the Dallaglio Foundation, which is acharity focused on disengaged youth.
65 Back row: Ian Carter, Carol Fairweather, Matthew Key, John Smith, Philip Bowman, Dame Carolyn McCall Front row: Jeremy Darroch, Stephanie George, Sir John Peace, Christopher Bailey, Fabiola Arredondo
