Board and Governance Directors Report DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their Annual Report and the audited Political donations consolidated financial statements of the Company for the The Company made no political donations during the year to 31 March 2016. year in line with its policy 2015: nil.
In keeping with the Companys approach in prior years, shareholder approval Strategic Report is being sought at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, Burberry Group plc is required by the Companies Act as a precautionary measure, for the Company and its 2006 to prepare a Strategic Report that includes a fair subsidiaries to make donations and or incur expenditure review of the Companys business, the development and which may be construed as political by the wide definition the performance of the Companys business during the of that term included in the relevant legislation.
Further year, of the position of the Company at the end of the details are provided in the Notice of this years Annual financial year to 31 March 2016 and a description of the General Meeting.
principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Company.
The Strategic Report can be found on pages 7 to 61.
Financial instruments The Corporate Governance Report is set out on pages The Groups financial risk management objectives 68 to 82, is incorporated by reference and shall be and policies are set out within note 25 of the financial deemed to form part of this report.
Note 25 also details the Groups exposure to foreign exchange, share price, interest, credit, capital Other Governance Disclosures and liquidity risks.
This note is incorporated by reference Revenue and profit and deemed to form part of this report.
Revenue from the continuing business during the period amounted to 2,514.7m 2015: 2,523.2m.
The profit for Annual General Meeting the year attributable to equity holders of the Company The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be was 309.5m 2015: 336.3m.
held at the InterContinental Hotel, One Hamilton Place, Park Lane, London W1J 7QY commencing at 9.30am Going concern on Thursday, 14July 2016.
The Notice of this years The going concern statements for the Group and Annual General Meeting will be available to view on Company are set out on pages 126 and 176 of the financial the Companys website at www.
statements and are incorporated by reference and shall be deemed to be part of this report.
The directors consider that each of the proposed resolutions to be considered at the Annual General Independent auditors Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its In accordance with section 418 2 of the Companies Act shareholders and are most likely to promote the success of 2006, each of the Companys directors in office as at the the Company for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole.
date of this report confirms that: The directors unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each of the proposed resolutions, as the so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant directors intend to do in respect of their own shareholdings.
audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Directors he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought The names and biographical details of the directors as at to have taken as a director in order to make himself or the date of this report are set out on pages 64 and 65 and herself aware of any relevant audit information and to are incorporated by reference into this report.
establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
At the 2016 Annual General Meeting, all of the current directors will offer themselves for election or re-election.
The Groups auditors are  LLP.
The Notice of this years Annual General Meeting sets out Aresolution to reappoint  LLP why the Board believes the directors should be elected asauditors to the Company will be proposed at the or re-elected.
Details of the directors service agreements forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Note 7 of the and letters of appointment are given in the Directors financial statements states the auditors fees both for Remuneration Report on pages 83 to 105. audit and non-audit work.
106 Board and Governance Directors Report Directors insurance and indemnities Share capital The Company maintains directors and officers liability Details of the issued share capital, together with details insurance which gives cover for legal actions brought ofmovements in the issued share capital of Burberry against its directors and officers.
In accordance with Groupplc during the year are shown in note 22 which section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, qualifying thirdis incorporated by reference and deemed to be part of party indemnity provisions are in place for the directors thisreport.
inrespect of liabilities incurred as a result oftheir office, tothe extent permitted by law.
Both the insurance and The Company has one class of ordinary share which indemnities applied throughout the financial year ended carries no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the 31March 2016 and through to the date of thisreport.
right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
The ordinary shares are listed on the Official List and Directors share interests traded on the London Stock Exchange.
As at 31 March The interests of the directors holding office at 31 March 2016, the Company had 445,037,254 ordinary shares in 2016 in the shares of the Company are shown within the issue.
TheCompany does not hold any shares in treasury.
Directors Remuneration Report on page 98.
There were no changes to the beneficial interests of the directors In order to retain maximum flexibility, the Company between the period 31 March 2016 and 17 May 2016. proposes to renew the authority granted by ordinary shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in 2015, to Dividends repurchase up to just under 10% of its issued share capital.
The directors recommend that a final dividend of 26.8p It is the Groups intention to commence a share buyback per ordinary share 2015: 25.50p in respect of the year to programme of up to 150m starting in FY 2017, with future 31 March 2016 be paid on 5 August 2016 to those persons returns to be kept under regular review.
Further details on the Register of Members as at 8 July 2016. are provided in the Notice of this years Annual General Meeting.
No such purchases have taken place in the year.
An interim dividend of 10.20p per ordinary share was paid to shareholders on 22 January 2016 2015: 9.70p.
At the Annual General Meeting in 2015, shareholders This will make a total dividend of 37.0p per ordinary share approved resolutions to allot shares up to an aggregate in respect of the financial year to 31 March 2016.
The nominal value of 73,380 and to allot shares for cash other aggregate dividends paid and recommended in respect than pro rata to existing shareholders.
Resolutions will be of the year to 31 March 2016 total 163.7m 2015: 155.2m.
proposed at this years Annual General Meeting to renew these authorities.
Substantial shareholdings As at 31 March 2016, the Company had been notified under No person has any special rights of control over the Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully following major interests in its issued ordinary share capital: paid.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of holding or on the transfer of shares which are both Number of % of total governed by the general provisions of the Articles of ordinary shares voting rights Association and prevailing legislation.
The directors are BlackRock, Inc. 26,983,661 6.06 notaware of any agreements between holders of the The Capital Group Companies, Inc 26,868,502 6.04 Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the Thornburg Investment Management 21,910,655 4.94 transfer of securities or voting rights.
The directors have FMR LLC 21,867,513 4.98 nocurrent plans to issue shares other than in connection Schroders plc 21,666,352 4.99 with employee share schemes.
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 21,664,800 4.97 JP Morgan Chase & Co 21,578,580 4.99 Details of employee share schemes are set out in note Massachusetts Financial 20,073,645 4.61 ServicesCompany 26.
The Burberry Group plc ESOP Trust has waived all dividends payable by the Company in respect of the ordinary shares held by it.
In addition, the Burberry As at 17 May 2016, the Company had not received any Group plc SIP Trust has waived all dividends payable further notifications under Rule 5 of the Disclosure and by the Company in respect of the unappropriated ordinary Transparency Rules of major interests in its issued shares held by it.
The total dividends waived by the trusts ordinary share capital.
in the year to 31 March 2016 were in aggregate 1.2m 2015:1.2m.
Interests in own shares Details of the Companys interests in its own shares With regard to the appointment and replacement are set out in note 22 to the financial statements.
of directors, the Company follows the UK Corporate Governance Code and is governed by its Articles of Association, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
The Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
107 Board and Governance Directors Report Significant contracts change of control Pursuant to the Companies Act 2006, the directors disclose that in the event of a change of control, the Companys borrowings under the Groups 300m Revolving Credit Facility dated 25 November 2014 could become repayable.
Details of the service agreements of the executive directors are set out on page 90 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
The provisions of the Companys employee share plans may cause options and awards granted under such plans to vest upon a change of control.
Corporate Responsibility Disclosures Environment Environmental Targets and Progress Report Burberry is committed to reducing its environmental impacts of its global supply chain and internal operations.
Following a 2012 independent baseline assessment, key targets were set to reduce Burberrys environmental impacts arising from materials, energy, water, chemical inputs and waste measured in CO equivalent.
Focused on resource efficiency and 2 mitigating climate change, all 15 environmental targets are owned and monitored by members of the Senior Leadership Team.
2017 Targets Progress Product Raw materials Burberry continues to Improve the environmental and social impacts of how we source: On plan On plan invest in the design and Cotton quality of every product, Cashmere On plan Behind plan and is committed to Reduce the environmental impact of: dramatically reducing the Leather impact of itsproducts.
PVC Chemical use in manufacturing Eliminate chemicals from use that have a negative impact on the environment, On plan beyond legal limits Packaging 100% of point of sale packaging to be sustainably sourced where alternatives On plan are available Process Internal Manufacturing Behind plan Burberry is committed Reduce the energy use from Burberrys two UK manufacturing sites by 25% toensuring its future Suppliers Behind plan resilience byintegrating Work with key suppliers to assist them in reducing their energy use by up to 20% sustainability decisions Mills across the business Behind plan Work with key mills to assist them to reduce their water consumption by up to 20% andcollaborating Transport withsuppliers.
On plan Reduce carbon emissions from the transport of Burberry products by 10% Distribution centres Achieved Reduce energy use in Burberrys five third-party distribution centres by 10% Property Energy use reduction Behind plan Burberry continues Reduce Burberry controlled store and office energy usage by up to 15% toexpand its global Sustainable consumables Behind plan footprint in existing 60% of office consumables to be sustainably sourced where available andnew markets to Renewable energy enable the growth All Burberry controlled stores and offices to be powered either by on site or green Behind plan ofthebusiness, tariff renewable energy where available andiscommitted to Build certifications minimising the impact All new builds will be sustainable build certified LEED silver, BREEAM very good On plan ofthis expansion.
or Greenmark silver Sustainable construction materials 30% of wood by spend is either recycled materials or sourced from certified Achieved supplychains Construction waste recycling Achieved 30% of construction waste to be recycled for global major projects LED lighting Achieved 75% of lighting is LED or energy efficient in new concept stores When normalised by a relevant productivity factor.
108 Board and Governance Directors Report For those targets that are Behind plan, action plans are in Ethical Trading place to drive further progress.
For additional information The following indicators illustrate Burberrys ethical on performance against the above targets and related trading activities during the year.
Number of audits and assessments Energy and global greenhouse gas emissions The disclosures required by the Companies Act 2006 548 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 are included below.
2015 16 548 2014 15 541 Year to 31 March Current reporting Comparison Comparison 2013 14 713 Emissions from: year FY16 year FY15 year FY14 Combustion of fuel and 2,013,350 2,203,611 1,956,313 As Burberrys Ethical Trading Programme has evolved, operation of facilities Scope 1 Kg CO e 2 theCompany has focused on how it can make the most Electricity, heat, steam 40,274,835 42,203,278 40,227,239 meaningful, positive impacts on the lives of people and cooling purchased throughout its supply chain rather than increasing the for own use Scope 2 Kg CO e 2 number of audits.
Auditing remains, however, an important Total emissions 42,288,185 44,406,889 42,183,532 tool to help Burberry and its manufacturers identify areas Scope 1 & 2 Kg CO2e that are in need of improvement.
Intensity measurement 17 18 18 Kg CO2e per 1,000 sales revenue Number of training and engagement activities Renewable energy 1,266,062 1,247,270 produced on site KWH 217 Note: Burberry applies an operational control approach to defining its organisational 2015 16 217 boundaries.
Data is reported for sites where it is considered that Burberry has the ability to influence energy management.
Data is not reported for 2014 15 205 sites where Burberry has a physical presence, but does not influence the energy management for those sites, such as a concession within a department 2013 14 142 store.
Overall, the emissions inventory reported equates to 95% of our sq.
The Company uses the Greenhouse Gas Protocol using a location based approach to reporting Scope 2 emissions to estimate Burberry continued to drive improvements in its supply emissions and applies conversion factors from DEFRA and IEA guidance.
chain through a number of engagement activities, including All material sources of emissions are reported.
Refrigerant gases and fuels consumed in Company vehicles were deemed not material and are new training programmes and the provision of confidential not reported.
Burberry has updated greenhouse gas data for 2013 14 and 2014 15 to account for improvements in data availability and estimation worker hotlines in local languages.
A further restatement to 2014 15 Scope 1 emissions has been made to account for natural gas consumption at two locations that were not previously reported.
Further detail is available within Burberrys basis Ready to Wear, Accessories and Shoe Supply Chain of reporting at www.
2015 16 second half External assurance of Corporate Responsibility Disclosures 2015 16 first half Burberry appointed Ernst & Young LLP to provide limited 2014 15 second half external assurance over selected statements relating to 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% environmental targets, 2015 16 performance and ethical Rejected Acceptable with improvements Satisfactory trading activities.
The statements and data that formed part of the review are denoted with a on pages 108 to 109.
Results of the 2015 16 audit programme show an overall The full independent assurance statement and Burberrys positive shift in ethical trading performance by Burberrys basis of reporting are available at www.
Manufacturers who did not meet key requirements as outlined in Burberrys Ethical Trading Code of Conduct were rejected, others were found to meet key requirements but were asked to implement further improvements.
109 Board and Governance Directors Report Human Rights Statement Employee share ownership The Group recognises its responsibility to respect human The Group encourages share ownership at all levels and rights wherever it operates and has conducted a materiality runs incentive schemes and share ownership schemes for analysis to identify its principal human rights impacts.
The the benefit of employees.
Further details of these schemes Group believes that these impacts arise in relation to its are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on own workforce, its supply chain and communities, and its pages 83 to 105. customers.
Burberrys Human Rights Policy sets out the Companys commitments to respecting these stakeholders The Group again intends to grant free share awards human rights.
The Policy is informed by the International Bill or equivalent cash-based awards to all eligible of Human Rights and reflects the UN Guiding Principles on employees during 2016 17.
The Group also intends, Business and Human Rights framework to Protect, Respect where possible, to invite eligible employees to take and Remedy.
Responsibility for the Policy lies with part in the Sharesave Scheme.
Burberrys Chief Creative & Chief Executive Officer.
Further information regarding the Groups approach Burberry has an established global team who work to to employee involvement and communications are promote human rights and good labour practices in the provided in Build our Culture on pages 44 to 46.
Burberry workplace as well as in the Companys supply chain as identified and prioritised through Human Rights Employment policies Impact Assessments.
Burberry has established grievance Diversity and inclusion mechanisms, including hotlines in its supply chain where The Group takes a very inclusive approach to diversity.
local labour laws are weak, absent or poorly enforced, as As a global business, Burberry values people of all cultures, well as globally for its own employees.
nationalities, races, religions and ethnicities, regardless of characteristics such as gender, gender identity and or This year Burberry has produced its first Modern Slavery expression, age, disability or sexual orientation.
Burberry Statement in line with the UK Modern Slavery Act.
This is passionate about attracting, developing and rewarding can be found at www.
the most talented and skilled individuals, regardless of background.
The Group encourages its employees to work Employee involvement across functions, geographies and cultures to enhance Employee communication understanding and create a connected global community.
The Group believes that employee communication As the Group continues to grow globally, it is building is important to enhance the Company culture and on its long-term commitment to diversity and inclusion connectivity, and to motivate and retain its employees.
embracing the cultures of all the countries where we do A global communications programme, incorporating business.
Burberry is committed to making the necessary various physical and digital methods and channels, adjustments to support the employment of people with enables all employees to connect and collaborate closely, disabilities and provide training and development to ensure and to understand the Companys key strategies, financial they have the opportunity to achieve their potential.
performance and other matters of interest and importance, quickly and efficiently.
Further information regarding the Groups employment policies are provided in Build our Culture on pages Social media platform Burberry World is the key digital 44 to 46. channel used by the Company to communicate internally.
However, other methods and channels are also used, including face-to-face briefings, open discussion forums with senior management, email and instant messaging.
Burberry Chat Live global video broadcasts are hosted by Christopher Bailey and provide real-time communications to highlight the Groups performance and its ongoing strategic initiatives.
The Company also uses videos and digital web pages to communicate key initiatives, events and other brand messages, to enhance internal communication, employee connectivity and the Burberry culture.
110 Board and Governance Directors Report Health and safety Burberry is monitoring these developments closely.
There The Group has a health and safety policy approved by is a risk that the distribution of Burberry beauty products the Board.
Governance of the health and safety strategy is and the business of the Burberry branded franchise stores maintained through a Global Health and Safety Committee in these markets will be adversely affected and may not which is chaired by the Chief People and Corporate Affairs continue in their current form.
Burberry is considering its Officer.
Health and safety is also considered at the Group options in connection with these events, including potential Risk Committee and Audit Committee.
Each region has alternative routes to market.
The financial implications, local Committees which assist with the implementation of were these arrangements to come to an end, are not the health and safety strategy.
Strategic direction on health considered to be material on the basis that annual sales and safety matters is provided by the Director of Health to Grupo Wisa S. A. over the past three years have been & Safety and is supported by a global team.
The global under 10m per annum.
Health & Safety team aims to visit each location worldwide approximately every three years to provide advice, The Strategic Report from pages 7 to 61 and Directors assistance and support.
In addition, occupational health Report from pages 106 to 111 have been approved by and safety compliance is formally audited every five years the Board on 17 May 2016. in stores and annually in our Regent Street flagship, our corporate offices and our internal manufacturing and By order of the Board distribution sites.
Information relating to Burberrys business interests Catherine Sukmonowski in Central and Southern America Company Secretary On 5 May 2016, the US Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Control imposed sanctions on Burberry 17 May 2016 Limiteds franchisee and beauty distributor, Grupo Wisa S. A. which operates seven Burberry branded franchise Burberry Group plc stores in Colombia, Chile, Barbados, Panama, Aruba and Registered Office: distributes Burberry beauty products across Central and Horseferry House Southern America.
As a consequence of these sanctions Horseferry Road all assets of Grupo Wisa S. A. that are under the jurisdiction London of the United States or in the control of US persons are SW1P 2AW frozen and banks are generally prohibited from or likely to implement prohibitions in respect of accepting, receiving Registered in England and Wales or transferring monies to or from Grupo Wisa S. A. or Registered number: 03458224 any associated persons.
Grupo Wisa S. A. represents a significant number of international luxury brands in the sale and distribution of products in Central and Southern America.
Grupo Wisa S. A. rejects any allegation of wrong doing and states they are cooperating with the authorities.
111 Financial Statements 114 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 125 Analysis of Net Cash 115 Independent Auditors Report to the 126 Notes to the Financial Statements Members of Burberry Group plc 170 Five Year Summary 121 Group Income Statement 172 Independent Auditors Report to 122 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income the Members of Burberry Group plc 123 Group Balance Sheet 174 Company Balance Sheet 124 Group Statement of Changes in Equity 175 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 125 Group Statement of Cash Flows 176 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 113
