Strategic Report Burberry Group Overview MARKET OVERVIEW Macro environment Socioeconomic and environmental Economic The year was marked by a number of socioeconomic In the 2015 calendar year, the global economy declined and environmental events including the migrant crisis in by 3.1%, a slight deceleration versus 2014. Notable factors the Eurozone, geopolitical concerns in the Middle East, over the year were the slowdown of the Chinese economy, the terrorist attacks in Paris and Brussels, MERS epidemic increased geopolitical concerns in the Middle East in Korea and the El Nio weather phenomenon which made and Russia, and uncertainty in the Eurozone.
In addition, 2015 one of the warmest years on record.
commodity prices fell significantly during the year, notably oil, leading to low inflation in EMEIA and the US.
Luxury sector Markets Across the major economies, the US grew by 2.4%, with This challenging global backdrop had a significant impact robust domestic consumer spending buoyed by high on the performance of the luxury sector.
At constant employment rates, partially offset by lower exports due exchange rates, sector sales grew 1 to 2%, a slowdown to the strength of the dollar.
In Asia, Chinas economy grew versus the 3% growth experienced in 2014.
The key by 6.9%, a continued deceleration from 7.3% in 2014 and drivers of sector growth were Japan and Europe, the slowest growth in 25 years, driven by weaker investment which grew at 9% and 5% at constant exchange rates and manufacturing activity and turbulence in the Chinese respectively.
The performance of these markets offset stock market.
Hong Kong was more stable with GDP decelerating growth in Mainland China and the rest of growth of 2.4% in line with 2014, with resilient domestic Asia, and flat growth in the Americas.
In Japan, the weak demand but declining exports.
The Japanese economy Yen fuelled inbound tourism mainly from China, with visitors returned to growth at 0.5% for the year, however, trends favouring Japan over Hong Kong.
It was a similar story were uneven with growth moderating after a strong start in Europe where strong Chinese tourist flows, attracted to the year.
Korea GDP growth was lower in 2015 at 2.6% by the weak Euro, drove luxury consumption in Germany, compared with 3.3% in 2014 impacted by the MERS France and Italy, alongside recovering local demand in these epidemic.
The Eurozone improved to 1.6% with rising markets.
The UK was robust but negatively impacted by a growth rates in Spain, Italy and France but a slight strong GBP.
Eastern Europe was weak, notably in Russia slowdown in Germany.
In the UK GDP growth fell to 2.2% in due to the volatile macro environment.
Across key developing markets, growth continued to be weak most notably in Russia and Brazil.
The Middle East economy also slowed due to depressed oil prices.
26 Strategic Report Burberry Group Overview Mainland China experienced a second year of declines, Products driven mainly by unfavourable price differentials compared For the sector, accessories was the fastest growing with other global markets and decreasing local consumer product category, at 3% growth, with strong momentum confidence impacted by the turbulent Chinese stock from shoes and leather goods.
The apparel category grew market.
Despite the slowdown in Mainland China, the by 2%, with similar trends across both mens and womens.
Chinese travelling consumer continued to drive luxury Within mens, the outerwear and cashmere categories growth globally.
Hong Kong, one of the most profitable outperformed, however, outerwear in Q4 was significantly luxury markets in the world, was down 25%, a significant impacted by the unseasonably warm weather.
Within deceleration from 2014, due to its decreasing popularity womens, denim and outerwear were the key growth as a travelling destination for Chinese tourists.
Beauty grew by 1% driven by increasing grew by 4% at constant exchange rates with a strong first Chinese and Middle Eastern demand.
half of the year driven by Chinese tourism partially offset by MERS in the third-quarter.
Finally, the US market Outlook underperformed, driven by soft local demand and the Industry analysts forecast that the luxury sector will strengthening US dollar, which impacted tourist flows.
grow by low single-digit percentage in the medium term at constant exchange rates, driven by the continued In addition, the behaviours and preferences of luxury growth of the Chinese consumer.
Japan is expected to customers continued to evolve as they seek more remain strong with both tourists and locals driving luxury experiences, newness, and story telling, as well as consumption.
The outlook in Hong Kong continues to be increased service-driven personalised contact in a uncertain.
Long term, the luxury market should benefit from time-efficient way.
evolving global demographics, continued urbanisation, increased centralisation of wealth in global destination Channels key cities, improving macro and socio-economic trends, Globally, the retail channel continued to outperform strong luxury consumer travel flows and the continued wholesale, and now accounts for 34% of luxury increasing penetration of digital commerce.
This channel grew by low single-digit Note: percentage driven by like-for-like store sales as space References are to calendar years, unless otherwise stated.
B ain & Company and Fondazione Altagamma 2015 growth decelerated with a slowdown in store openings Luxury Goods Worldwide Market Report October 2015. for the second consecutive year.
Digital commerce M ainland China excludes Hong Kong, Taiwan and Macau.
remained the fastest growing channel, up 22% at constant exchange rates, moderating slightly from the 30% growth experienced in the prior year.
Key drivers of this digital commerce growth included the emergence of direct shopping on social platforms and the continued momentum of mobile commerce.
Travel retail continued to outperform the sector and grew by 18%, driven by increasing passenger flows and infrastructure improvements expanding and enhancing the retail space available.
Wholesale continued to decline, driven by the ongoing rationalisation across the channel.
27 Strategic Report Strategic Report Core Strategies Against a challenging macro-environment, Burberry has focused on delivering against its strategies during the year and has identified significant growth opportunities for the future across its existing channels, products and regions.
Burberrys future plans and strategic progress are set out on the following pages.
