Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Q&A with Frank van Zanten Q&A Q Who is Frank van Zanten?
with Frank van Zanten the Companys new Chief Executive I am 50 years old and I was born and raised in the Netherlands.
I have spent who was appointed in April 2016 after almost 20 years with the Bunzl Group in a variety of different roles.
a period of 10 years as the Managing After completing my Masters degree in Director of Continental Europe.
business, I took the opportunity to go into our family business, Hopa Disposables, assuming the role of Managing Director in 1991.
In 1994, after an approach by Bunzl, we decided it was time to sell the business and Hopa became the first Bunzl business in Continental Europe.
Following the acquisition I had the opportunity to work in Denmark, spend time in our German business and I also worked in the UK for two years.
Frank van Zanten Chief Executive 06 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 In 2001, after seven years with Bunzl, Q Will the Group continue to grow Q What do you think is Bunzls I became the Chief Executive of a listed organically as well as by acquisition?
distribution company in the Netherlands.
Bunzl approached me again in 2005 and I subsequently rejoined the Group as the Managing Director of the Continental Yes, growing the Group organically I have to say that without any doubt it is our Europe business area based in Amsterdam.
continues to be a key part of our strategy.
Across the Group in all areas of the At that time we had operations in only four By partnering with market leading business we have incredibly dedicated, loyal countries but by 2015 had expanded to customers, we grow as the markets in and hardworking employees.
Some of them 14 countries, having doubled the size of which we operate grow.
However, we also have been with us for a long time and some the business to more than 1.5 billion in aim to increase our share of those markets are new to the Group but their continued revenue and increased the operating profit by selling more products to our existing commitment to improving our business almost five times to 144 million.
customers, what we call filling the gap, on a daily basis and servicing the needs of as well as by expanding our product ranges our customers is what makes Bunzl the After 10 years managing Continental Europe and winning new customers.
fantastic business that it is.
I became Chief Executive of Bunzl plc in April 2016.
It has been an incredible journey.
I believe it is a great story for all the people Q Do you have any other specific Q In your opinion what makes in the Bunzl Group that if you work hard and areas you want to focus on?
Bunzl more than just a you want to develop anything is possible.
Q When you first took over as I have two areas I have spoken about before Chief Executive what were your that I am particularly passionate about, Our business model offers so much initial observations?
namely our investment in IT and digital more than just a set of wheels.
We not projects and the sharing of best practice only partner with many leading global across the Group.
In the last couple of branded suppliers but through our Far East years, we have rolled out state-of-the-art sourcing operations we are able to provide Having worked within the Group for a long digital platforms across Continental Europe our extensive own brand product offering.
time, it was not all new to me but I have and UK & Ireland which have enhanced our Our field sales teams work with our spent a lot of time travelling around the customers experience when interacting customers across all of our sectors to world to visit many of our businesses.
with our businesses and we plan to make identify specific products to suit their I strongly believe that Bunzl has an excellent similar investments elsewhere in the near needs and we offer varying delivery business model with an experienced future.
Intensifying the sharing of best solutions such as direct to store, crossmanagement team that is successfully practice across our businesses globally dock and warehouse replenishment.
is also a key area of focus for me.
We have With our global sourcing and procurement successfully established a global forum capabilities, our international warehousing across our fast growing safety business, and distribution infrastructure and our Q Do you anticipate continuing the bringing together the world leading industry range of delivery options, we are able acquisition strategy that has knowledge of our management which to provide a comprehensive and complete includes many former business owners.
contributed to the strong growth one-stop-shop solution for all of our I want to expand this type of collaboration customers non-food consumables of the Group?
to other businesses within the Group as the requirements.
By providing this benefits to those involved can be significant.
consolidated offering we are able to simplify and improve the efficiency of their own supply chains.
I am incredibly committed to the acquisition strategy.
I compare our acquisition spend Read the full Chief Executives review to capex in a manufacturing business: on page 18 purchasing businesses and integrating them into our existing operations is part of our DNA.
We often buy family owned businesses that require a trigger to sell, and therefore the timing of transactions is difficult to predict, but our strong balance sheet and consistently high cash conversion means we have the firepower to act quickly Our strong balance sheet and when the opportunities arise.
consistently high cash conversion means we have the firepower to act quickly when the opportunities arise.
