Strategic Report Core Strategies OPTIMISE CHANNELS Optimise all routes to market, both online and offline, owned and third-party, with a clear emphasis on enhancing retail productivity and service.
During the year as customer traffic to stores softened, To further improve the user experience, Burberry Burberry intensified its focus on driving performance in continued to invest in Burberry.
The improved its retail stores through increasing loyalty and conversion, mobile platform launched last year and delivered enhancing the service offering and more effectively strong growth for the year.
Burberry increased the availability of stock in all 44 online countries by rolling out the single pool Key focus areas during 2015 16: of inventory model in EMEIA and the US following Driving retail productivity a successful implementation in China.
This provided With the customer at the centre of all activity, Burberry customers and store associates with full visibility continued to focus on improving service and productivity of all stock within the country, and improved product online and in-store.
Comparable sales were down -1%, as availability online and in-store, and meaningfully the business invested in customer insight to drive product reduced delivery times, enhancing the customer and service initiatives, helping an increase in conversion.
To better understand and connect with the core luxury To complement Burberry.
com, Burberry continued customer, the use of data and analytics was further to partner with third-party digital leaders, to provide embedded throughout the organisation.
The customer an authentic, consistent brand experience and to database increased by 10% in the year.
enable Burberry products to reach a wider audience.
Burberry launched an online presence on over The Customer Value Management CVM programme 18 different platforms for both fashion and beauty, a loyalty and retention tool enabling more targeted, with existing wholesale partners as well as pure relevant and personalised contact with key customers digital and social commerce players.
was extended to just under 400 stores globally, contributing to increased conversion.
Store investment The Burberry Private Client BPC teams grew by 30% Burberry focused on strengthening its store network to provide an enhanced service to more customers through openings in key locations, as well as globally, and increased the number of BPC appointments the optimisation of the existing portfolio through in the year.
relocations, renovations and some closures.
Data and analytics were leveraged to inform marketing Burberry opened 18 mainline stores and closed 17 decisions and refine merchandising activities, helping during the year.
Openings included stores in Dubai, to ensure that Burberry provides a compelling product London, Moscow, New York, Seoul and Tokyo.
Wholesale Investing in digital Burberry continued to elevate its department store Burberrys digital first approach runs throughout the presence, with over 175 dedicated spaces at year organisation.
Focusing on offering a seamless and end in US department stores.
personalised experience wherever customers encounter Burberry continued to elevate distribution in EMEIA, the brand, Burberry refined how online and in-store while growing with key accounts.
Digital outperformed during the year, delivering strong growth in all regions.
The EMEIA Childrenswear licence expired in December and Burberry began servicing those Burberry.
com was the fastest growing retail channel, wholesale customers directly.
servicing over 40 countries in 11 languages.
38 Strategic Report Core Strategies Unlock market opportunity Fully realise Burberrys opportunities among key consumer groups and geographic markets developed, young and newly opened.
Burberry is continually evolving its footprint and positioning From September, the global collection became the only in both developed and younger markets.
Future opportunities Burberry branded product available in the mainline channel for the brand in China and Japan are an important part of this, across Japan, through the directly operated stores, along with other areas of geographic focus including the travel concessions and Burberry.
This was complemented retail strategy and continued elevation of the business in the US.
by Burberry Beauty, distributed by Shiseido.
Key focus areas for 2015 16: Burberry built strong brand awareness and digital engagement in Japan through targeted marketing, Engaging the Chinese luxury consumer PR and digital activity.
Burberry continued to develop Burberry continued to focus on engaging and improving the its partnership with LINE, the countrys leading social service offering to the Chinese luxury customer both in China platform, offering users access to real-time content such and while shopping abroad, helping to drive brand recognition as the livestreaming of shows and key brand moments.
and desirability consistent with core luxury peers.
In Mainland In September, Burberry was the first luxury brand to China, which accounts for about half of the retail spend of launch on LINE Mall, LINEs shopping channel.
Burberrys Chinese customers, growth for the year was weighted towards the second half.
Conversion improved as Burberry began its new Beauty distribution partnership Burberry invested in sales associate training to improve with Shiseido in Japan.
Burberry Beauty was introduced service in-store.
in September with the opening of the first three Burberry Beauty Box counters in department stores in Tokyo and Consistent with the luxury sector trend, comparative sales Osaka.
Shiseido will continue to open additional counters in the Hong Kong market decreased by over 20% in the year in Japan, helping to build the Beauty business and expand as footfall continued to decline.
However, all stores in this the brand momentum in this market.
important market remained profitable as Burberry focused on ongoing initiatives to drive conversion, marketing, Elevating Americas presence product and customer service, while evolving the store Burberry continued to elevate the brand across its distribution portfolio and controlling costs.
channels and leveraged the strong digital opportunities in this market.
Burberry continued to evolve and elevate its store portfolio in China, to ensure the best representation ofthe brand.
In the US, Burberry invested in elevating its retail footprint Closing a net five stores in the year, the portfolio currently in the keyNew York city market.
Looking ahead to 2016 17, Burberry Burberry reinforced its department store presence in the is planning about a net three store openings in China, with rapidly developing Canadian luxury market, supported square footage remaining broadly flat, with a particular by new space in Toronto and Vancouver.
focus on Beijing, Burberrys largest market in China.
Advancing Travel retail To celebrate Lunar New Year and Golden Week, Burberry The travel retail channel remained a key focus for Burberry launched festive campaigns and bespoke product as global tourist travel continues to grow.
assortments in China, key tourist destinations and on Burberry.
The campaigns were supported by social Burberry continued to expand its footprint in key airports, media initiatives, including an exclusive WeChat messaging opening a new retail store in Dubai, and wholesale stores experience that resulted in the highest level ofcontent in Paris CDG and Amsterdam.
engagement on the platform for a Burberry campaign todate.
Marketing initiatives continued to target travelling luxury Transforming Japan customers in key transport hubs and global tourist 2015 16 was a significant year for Burberry in Japan with the destinations.
expiry of the Burberry Japanese licences in June.
Burberry Building young markets opened its sixth free-standing store in Shinjuku, Tokyo and a Burberry continued to build its presence in early stage further seven department store concessions, bringing the total growth markets.
to six stores and 30 concessions including ten childrenswear concessions.
The business serves a predominantly domestic Burberry moved to direct operations in Russia and Bahrain, luxury customer base and doubled its retail revenue in the opening three mainline stores in Moscow and one in year off a small base.
Bahrain and closing the franchise stores in these markets.
An additional franchise store was opened in South Africa.
