Strategic Report Core Strategies Driving future growth and productivity Burberry has identified significant growth opportunities across its existing channels, products and regions.
The external environment for the luxury sector has Retail: driving retail productivity online and offline remained challenging and underlying cost inflation Burberrys business model has evolved from licensing, pressures persist see Market Overview on page 26. to wholesale to retail, which now accounts for 73% of In this context, Burberry has been accelerating Group revenue.
There is a significant opportunity to its productivity and efficiency agenda, especially improve Burberrys end-to-end retail disciplines as part looking at its ways of working.
Burberry has also been of a broader push towards omni-channel excellence as the addressing how to optimise future organic revenue next stage of its evolution.
This includes a greater focus on growth opportunities and the resulting investment plans.
local customers with the aim of driving loyalty by leveraging Burberrys customer insight capabilities, with investment The Burberry brand is strong, driven by a blend of prioritised in selected cities.
Improving sales densities, heritage and innovation, expressed through its iconic conversion and customer retention will be among the products and fashion newness.
Looking ahead, there key measures of success.
is opportunity to enhance this existing brand strength through greater consistency and clarity across customer Priority retail initiatives will include the following.
Retail excellence The implementation of a major retail excellence programme centred on all aspects of service Burberry has identified significant growth opportunities and training, customer cultivation and retention, in-store across its existing channels, products and regions.
operations and targeted product offering.
In 2016 17, Central to this are plans to enhance growth and to this will include increased investment in training, the improve productivity in the following areas: development of an improved digital selling tool for sales Product: associates and the aim to increase by 20% the number Retail, including targeting omni-channel excellence: of private client sales associates.
and Extending digital prowess into e-commerce leadership Process, including changing the Groups ways While Burberry is recognised as a digital leader in the of working.
luxury sector, it plans to ensure that digital remains the The key output from this work is summarised below.
clear point of differentiation for Burberry with scope to be even more ambitious commercially.
The focus will be Product: clear opportunity in product on continuing to grow Burberry.
com through increasing Great product is the foundation of Burberrys growth and conversion, particularly mobile, driving penetration of productivity goals.
Burberry has a broad product offer, with e-commerce, particularly in Asia, while integrating and strength in both heritage and fashion, across genders and improving customer experiences across online and age groups.
However, the assortment is generally wider offline.
Burberry will also actively grow with third-party than its peers and there is an opportunity to simplify this to digital players.
In 2016 17, this will include the re-launch of give greater visibility to fashion and newness, while tailoring Burberry.
com improving content and functionality, the it more effectively for local needs.
To address this, Burberry introduction of a customer app and further investment is introducing end-to-end category management for key in localisation of sites in Asia.
Following the successful re-launch of Burberrys heritage trench coat and cashmere scarves, the next area of focus is bags, where Burberry is under-penetrated compared to its peers.
In 2016 17, the collection will be re-invented around a new pillar and shape strategy, with marketing targeted around the Patchwork and Banner bags and the Rucksack, ahead of major new product launches in 2017 18.
Burberry will employ a phased approach to other core product categories.
30 Strategic Report Core Strategies Process: improving efficiency through changes Burberry has also identified a programme of actions to in ways of working deliver at least 100m of annualised cost savings by To capitalise on the opportunities set out above Burberry FY 2019.
This is equivalent to about 10% of the Groups plans to change its ways of working, its processes and operating expenses excluding fixed rent and depreciation.
Burberry has undertaken an in-depth review of Broadly half of the cost savings are expected to come its operating model, including benchmarking, to ensure that from significant changes in the Groups ways of working, the organisation is fit to deliver its ambitious plans and can by reducing complexity, simplifying processes and fund growth.
In this regard Burberry will do the following.
Reduce complexity and inefficiency by The plan is to deliver around 20m of cost savings simplifying processes.
Improve both global consistency and local insight, The associated one-off costs, which are largely cash, are by removing duplication across Group functions expected to total about 60m across the first two years.
and between the regions and corporate centre.
Prioritise investment behind the biggest Assuming these ambitious targets for growth are met, growth opportunities.
Burberry will also start to rebuild the charge for new performance-related pay, at a cost of about 20m, in Financial ambition to FY 2019 addition to the existing charge of about 20m in FY 2017.
Looking forward, Burberry believes that these initiatives will enable Burberry to again outperform sector growth Strategic progress during 2015 16 in the 200bn global luxury market, creating further Progress on the Groups core strategies during 2015 16 shareholder value.
is set out in the following pages.
It is expected that these product and retail initiatives will deliver strong organic growth, with outperformance accelerating over time including the following.
Improvements in mainline retail productivity which are expected to drive about half the revenue growth over the three-year period.
E-commerce initiatives which are expected to account for about another third of revenue growth.
The continued improvement of the quality of Burberrys business, further rationalising traditional wholesale distribution while growing with key partners and reducing the weight of outlet stores.
To drive this outperformance, Burberry will invest about 10m in FY 2017 and then about 20m 25m per annum for the next two years in retail, digital and enhancing critical capabilities.
