Strategic Report Core Strategies REALISE PRODUCT POTENTIAL Reinforce Burberrys outerwear leadership while continuing to realise the brands potential across all apparel and accessory categories.
Burberry celebrates its British heritage of craftsmanship Beauty and innovation in everything it does, from the British-made Continuously linking Beauty and fashion, Burberry heritage trench coats and cashmere scarves to the runway developed increasingly personalised and interactive collections.
Burberrys focus on accessories in recent years ways to engage customers globally.
Beauty delivered has contributed to the growth of this product category, 8% underlying growth in the year.
which will be an important future growth driver.
Beauty distribution was expanded through global partnerships with Sephora in 13 markets and with During the year, Burberry reinforced its strong position Shiseido in Japan.
Burberry make-up launched on in cashmere with the introduction of the Scarf Bar and Sephora.
com in August and was subsequently rolled lightweight cashmere trench coats.
Heritage remained out to an initial 39 Sephora stores and six online a key focus, and new product launches in the large leather platforms.
The global launch included online Beauty goods category were well received by customers.
tutorials viewed over 1.5 million times to date, engaging new audiences on one of the most important global Key focus areas during 2015 16: beauty platforms.
Outerwear Three Burberry Beauty Box counters were opened in Following the successful Heritage relaunch last year, Japan with Shiseido, and a new stand-alone Burberry Burberry introduced new colours and lengths to the Beauty store opened in Hong Kong.
British-made heritage trench coat range, together with a new monogramming offer.
Lightweight cashmere Burberry continued to focus on building fragrance trench coats were also introduced in 14 colours.
pillars with product extensions such as the My Burberry Eau fide Toilette.
Momentum in the category was further Scarf Bar supported with the April 2016 launch of Mr. Burberry, Celebrating the British-made icon, the Scarf Bar initiative a new fragrance, with the first advertising campaign by was launched both online and in-store in September.
Oscar and Turner Prize winning director Steve McQueen.
The service offers over 30 colours across both signature The marketing campaign also highlights mens tailoring and lightweight cashmere fabrications, all available for and outerwear.
monogramming online and in-store via iPads.
The launch was supported with new visual merchandising in-store During the year, Burberry won a number of prestigious and online, and a dedicated personalised marketing Beauty awards including the following: strategy, including online scarf styling tutorials.
In mainline FiFi DOr Award for Best Female Fragrance retail, scarves outperformed other accessories, posting My Burberry France.
Marie Claire Prix du Parfum France My Burberry Fashion Marie Claire France.
Burberry responded to demand for womens fashion product with dresses and ponchos delivering strong growth for the year.
The launch of the monogrammable runway rucksack, which featured in the September womenswear show, was an immediate success and sold out on Runway Made to Order within 24 hours of the show, generating a waiting list globally.
The replenishment of best-sellers, such as the Banner bag, further drove growth in the category and Burberry introduced new shapes for large and small leather goods, including the Bucket bag and Barrow bag.
