Strategic Report Core Strategies INSPIRE WITH THE BRAND Speak to consumers with one equally authentic and inspiring brand voice, wherever they encounter the brand.
As a young, old company Burberry has always embraced Music remained central to the expression of the brand, innovation and responded to new technologies and with live performances at Burberry shows featuring opportunities while staying true to its 160 year old heritage.
In September, Burberry became This way of thinking underpins how Burberry connects the first global luxury brand to launch a dedicated with its customers globally, whether through its runway channel on Apple Music.
shows, marketing innovations, campaign talent or music, In January, Burberry became the first luxury brand to using digital and customer insight to enhance customer stream its fashion show live on Apple TV by giving the experiences.
In the year, Burberry continued to focus on platform access to its menswear show.
the brand, which further resonated strongly with customers around the world, placing Burberry among the top five In February, Burberry announced changes to its runway luxury brands globally for unaided awareness.
From September 2016, we will move from four runway shows a year to two.
These shows will be Key focus areas during 2015 16: in September and February in London, will combine both the womenswear and menswear collections, and be Unified Burberry label seasonless, designed with a global audience in mind, To provide customers with a more consistent brand as about a third of Burberrys stores are now in warm hot experience and to reinforce its distinct British identity, climates.
The runway collections which are about Burberry announced plans to unify its Prorsum, London 5% of Burberrys retail revenue, will be available to and Brit collections under a new single Burberry label.
purchase in-store and online directly following the The transition is being phased in during 2016 17. show, responding to customers desire for newness The move to a single Burberry label reflects the way and immediacy.
luxury customers shop, blending formal and informal styles and designs into one wardrobe.
Celebrating Heritage Over the year, Burberry celebrated its heritage of Runway Shows craftsmanship and innovation in key flagship markets Burberry runway shows continued to inspire with critically with city-wide events and extensive marketing and acclaimed collections, innovative digital partnerships and social media campaigns.
The global reach of the shows was further extended with live-streaming on new digital In October, Burberry launched a new format for the channels.
Over the year, show content received over openings of the new Shinjuku and Seoul stores with 700 million views across ten global platforms.
live demonstrations of the craft skills involved in the making of the brands most iconic products.
In September, Burberry followers on Snapchat were able to see a preview of the womenswear collection the day Through its digital platform Art of the Trench, Burberry before the official runway show.
Looks from the collection celebrated the creative communities in a number of key were shared live as finishing touches were being made flagship markets.
During the year, Burberry launched in Burberrys headquarters in London, generating 200 Art of the Trench Middle East and Art of the Trench million views on Snapchat.
Since its launch in 2010, the Art of the Trench platform has been viewed over 28 million times globally.
Burberry also launched on the Korean social media platform Kakao for the September womenswear show The brands global flagship store, 121 Regent Street, and offered Korean audiences the chance to purchase was extended to feature an exclusive area dedicated runway inspired beauty sets immediately after the show.
to gifting and Thomass, a British caf.
Personalisation is a key focus in the new gifting space with in-store monogramming services offered.
34 Strategic Report Core Strategies Marketing Innovation Technology partnerships Burberrys digital mindset is a fundamental and To generate further excitement and connect audiences integral part of the brand and way of thinking across with the Festive campaign, Burberry partnered with the organisation.
Burberry again finished the year as Google, creating an interactive film experience using one of the most followed luxury platforms on social media, real-time video technology.
The Burberry Booth enabled with a 30% increase in followers for the year reaching over customers to star in the Burberry Festive Film alongside 40 million across all the brands social platforms.
the cast members in a personalised edit which was shareable on YouTube, via Twitter or by email.
Festive As the first luxury brand to partner with DreamWorks Burberry launched its global festive campaign with Animations newly formed technology company NOVA, the Burberry Festive Film, paying tribute to the Burberry launched an interactive marketing campaign BAFTA-winning British film, Billy Elliot, and featuring featuring new 3D visualisation technology.
Burberry a cast of actors, musician and models.
The Festive provided audiences with the opportunity to personalise film was viewed over 37 million times across YouTube, and engage with computer-generated versions of its Facebook, LINE and Youku.
iconic heritage scarf on the largest digital screen in The distribution of the Burberry Book of Gifts was Piccadilly Circus, London.
also expanded with the introduction of two physical formats, an online version, increased store distribution External recognition and partner outreach, leading to a threefold increase Burberry was recognised externally for both its in circulation year-on-year.
creative, digital and commercial leadership in the sector.
Key accolades include the following: Campaigns Ranked first in L2s 2015 Digital IQ: Fashion.
Burberry became the first brand to shoot and publish its advertising campaign live through Snapchat.
Creative Campaign of the year at the 2015 British The campaign was shot in October by Mario Testino, Fashion Awards.
providing viewers with unprecedented access to the Listed in Interbrand Top 100 Global Brands for creative process behind a campaign.
the seventh consecutive year, and ranked as the In February, Burberry was the first brand to shoot strongest UK luxury brand globally.
its advertising campaign live on Instagram.
The latest campaign for the Brit fragrance collection was photographed and published live by Brooklyn Beckham throughout the day as part of his takeover of Burberrys Instagram account.
The content was also shared across Burberrys Twitter, Sina Weibo, Facebook, Google, LINE, WeChat and Kakao accounts.
