Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Business model and strategy Business model and strategy For many years we have followed a well-established and successful business model and pursued a consistent and proven strategy in order to create value for our stakeholders.
By doing so we have delivered strong growth across our selected international markets as we have looked to develop both in existing and new geographies.
Our business model Strength and resilience through our scale, balance and diversity We have a geographically diversified business portfolio operating across 30 countries, serving six core fragmented market sectors, many of which are growing and resilient to challenging economic conditions.
This allows us to withstand shifts and changes in demand.
A one-stop-shop for non-food consumables We source We consolidate We deliver We source and procure By applying our resources Our delivery options branded, own brand and consolidating a broad include direct store delivery, and unbranded products range of products into our cross-dock and warehouse globally, working with extensive warehousing replenishment programmes both multinational and infrastructure, we are able on a local, regional, national local suppliers, to give to offer our customers an and international basis our customers access efficient one-stop-shop to get products to our to the best and most solution, thereby customers when and suitable products to allowing them to focus where they are needed.
on their core businesses more effectively.
08 Foodservice Grocery Cleaning & hygiene Safety Retail Healthcare Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Our sources of Our strategy competitive advantage 1 Organic growth International scale We are constantly looking to grow Bunzl Relationships with both multinational organically, both by expanding and and local suppliers and our extensive developing our business with existing distribution networks mean we can deliver customers and by gaining new business to customers on a local, regional, national with additional customers.
and international basis, giving them complete flexibility.
2 Acquisition growth Operational focus With a decentralised operational structure, We seek out businesses that satisfy key our enthusiastic, experienced and criteria, including having good financial knowledgeable management, including returns in resilient and growing markets, many former business owners, are able while at the same time providing to focus on our customers needs while opportunities to extract further value retaining full responsibility for the financial as part of the Bunzl Group.
Strong financial discipline 3 Operating model Over many years we have delivered consistently good results with high returns improvements on capital and cash conversion.
We continually strive to improve the Global sourcing quality of our operations and to make Our global sourcing capabilities allow us our businesses more efficient and to provide a very broad range of products, environmentally friendly.
We do this by including an extensive number of own investing in new IT systems, digital brand items.
projects and warehouse facilities as well as implementing and sharing best Acquisition track record practice operational procedures.
We have a strong track record of successfully integrating acquisitions, helping us to extend our geographic footprint while at the same time enabling our acquired businesses to continue to feel local.
Read more about our KPIs Read more about our strategy on pages 16 and 17 on pages 11 to 14 Creating value for stakeholders Customer benefits Employee benefits Our customers benefit from a lower We provide our employees with career cost of doing business by reducing or development opportunities and meet eliminating many of the hidden costs of their training needs while providing in-house procurement and distribution opportunities for advancement within and reducing carbon emissions.
Shareholder returns Environmental awareness We seek to deliver good returns Our continued focus on operational for our shareholders over time excellence allows us to reduce both with sustained improvement in profits our and our customers environmental and earnings which drive long term impact by reducing our warehouse growth in Bunzls share price and footprint, introducing more sustainable year-on-year increases in dividends.
products and business practices and providing a one-stop-shop consolidated product offering.
09 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Business model and strategy depth of knowledge... breadth of product 10 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Organic growth Growing Bunzl organically, either by expanding and developing our business with existing customers or by gaining new business with additional customers, is an integral part of our strategy to enhance shareholder value.
Building relationships One of the greatest opportunities for organic sales growth comes from building long term relationships with existing customers.
By being both flexible and reliable and by providing excellent levels of service, we gain our customers trust and confidence to meet their future needs over a sustained period of time through a broad and effective product and service offering.
Acquiring new customers We are constantly striving to expand and gain market share by winning business with new customers.
Our well-established business model allows us to show potential customers that we can apply our resources and expertise to reduce or eliminate many of the hidden costs of in-house procurement and distribution or satisfy their requirements more costeffectively than their current suppliers.
We build strong relationships with each Expanding our offering of our customers to understand their Once we have established a good needs and identify where we can support relationship with a particular customer, them, while continually looking for new we endeavour to increase our level of ways to help make their businesses run business with that customer.
This can be more smoothly.
achieved by expanding our offering to parts of their operations where we might not have Larry Baker North America previously been a recognised supplier or by increasing the type and variety of products that are available, whether branded or own brand.
We do this either by extending the range of products within a particular category or adding new categories of products to those already supplied, often by optimising cross-selling opportunities across other Bunzl businesses.
11 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Business model and strategy Acquisition growth Expanding and developing the Group through acquiring businesses is also a key component of our growth strategy.
Historically, approximately three quarters of our year-on-year growth has been achieved through an ongoing programme of focused and targeted acquisitions in both new and existing market sectors and geographies.
existing Since 2004 we have completed more than 130 acquisitions with a total committed spend of 2.5 billion and have expanded the Groups operations from markets 12 to 30 countries.
12 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016... new targets Acquisition types There are two different types of acquisition that we undertake depending on whether we are already present in the country or market sector in which the target business is operating: Anchor new geographies: or new market sectors.
Bolt-on existing geographies: or existing market sectors.
Growth in existing countries Unlike many industries that are characterised by a relatively small number of large businesses, the markets in which we compete are very fragmented.
As a result, there are numerous opportunities for us to develop through acquisitions in those countries where we already have a presence.
We do this either by extending our existing operations in a particular market Key acquisition parameters sector or by acquiring a business in a sector In considering potential acquisition in which we do not currently operate within opportunities, we only target those that country.
businesses that meet the specific parameters that fit our business model and Growth in new countries growth strategy.
These include businesses: We are a truly international business with that sell business to business B2B : operations in 30 countries but there are a with a consolidated not for resale number of potentially attractive countries product offering: where we do not yet have a presence.
in resilient and growing markets: In evaluating whether to enter a new country through acquisition, we consider that operate in markets with scope for further consolidation and synergies: a number of different criteria.
These include whose products represent a small a detailed analysis of our market sectors, percentage of total customer spend: the local macroeconomic indicators and the that have opportunities for own label ease of doing business in, and the political products: and risks and business practices associated with attractive financial returns.
with, the particular country under review.
13 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Business model and strategy Operating model improvements We are continually looking to refine and develop our processes and procedures to improve our operations and make our businesses more efficient.
By doing so, we are able to gain a competitive advantage, by offering our customers more cost-effective solutions, while at the same time improving our profitability.
Consolidating warehouses Sharing best practice As warehouse lease terms come to an As we have continued to expand end, we are often able to consolidate our internationally, we are increasingly making warehouse footprint in a particular area use of our collective resources, experience by closing a number of smaller and less and expertise to share best practice across efficient facilities and relocating our the Group and collaborate between our operations into a single, larger and different businesses.
IT systems Routing and safety systems Systems are an important part of our By installing state-of-the-art routing ability to serve our customers in the most and safety systems in our facilities and cost-effective and efficient manner and, delivery vehicles, we are able to plan accordingly, we are continually improving our delivery routes to minimise the and upgrading our IT systems in order distances travelled and encourage safe to increase functionality and improve and efficient driving practices, thereby customer service.
reducing fuel and other transport costs.
Digital capabilities Warehouse lighting The implementation of a variety of digital Recent improvements in lighting technology projects throughout the Group, such as have meant that we are able to make web-based ordering portals, has increased significant savings in electricity costs by the efficiency of our operations while at installing energy efficient and the same time provided an enhanced environmentally friendly lighting systems.
experience for our customers when interacting with our businesses.
Global purchasing With the annual cost of the goods we sell exceeding 5.6 billion, our global scale provides substantial purchasing synergies with our international suppliers that we are able to share with our customers in the form of more competitive selling prices.
Through careful planning and by being flexible and working together efficiently as a team, we ensure that our customers get their orders where and when they need them.
Nick Howe UK & Ireland 14 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 ordering online... delivering on time 15
