Strategic Report Core Strategies BUILD OUR CULTURE Build and nurture a culture that strengthens our brand through its purpose and values, globally.
As the Burberry business continues to evolve in an Exceptional employee performance across retail, offices, ever-changing environment, building and nurturing manufacturing and distribution was recognised through its authentic culture is ever more important.
Guided the annual Burberry Icon Awards.
Live streamed on the by its core values Protect, Explore, Inspire Burberry Companys internal communications platform for the is dedicated to fostering a distinct culture with a global first time, the events brought employees together globally team mindset andapioneering spirit, underpinned by in celebration of contributions to the brand, business a commitment toresponsibility.
Burberry was listed by LinkedIn as the 12th most soughtAlongside a continued focus on engaging and after employer in the United Kingdom and 29th in Europe, cultivating our talent, this year saw enhanced emphasis Middle East and Africa.
on sustainability and the pursuit of positive social and environmental change.
Burberry will be establishing Connecting and engaging teams globally Key Performance Indicators for the Build our Culture Burberry enhanced communications and ways of working, strategy in the future.
building stronger connections amongst global teams, and increasing engagement.
Key focus areas for 2015 16 included: Burberry explored new digital ways to connect teams Nurturing and rewarding talent and share information in real-time, hosting its first Burberry believes that its people are fundamental to digital annual strategic offsite.
Replacing previously the success of its business.
The Company continued to held regional conferences, the Company leveraged focus on nurturing and rewarding teams, fostering a culture technology to connect different areas of the business of recognition to support high performance and retention more effectively and engage employees globally.
Chat Live video broadcasts featuring Christopher With a focus on cultivating high potential talent, the Bailey and members of the Senior Leadership Team Burberry Leadership Council contributed to the growth took place each month.
With over 50,000 views and strength of the Companys globally connected globally, the interactive question and answer broadcasts network of leaders through dedicated training, mentoring increased employee connectivity and engagement and networking opportunities.
Since 2012, the Council around the brand.
has supported the development of about 250 employees.
Burberry continued to enhance communications with To support the development of talent in merchandising retail teams, implementing a weekly global Retail Update and planning, Burberry recruited graduates from to streamline and consolidate key information.
key universities to participate in an 18-month trainee programme.
Enhancing connectivity with internal manufacturing teams, the Company implemented interactive engagement methods with employees, to regularly gather and incorporate feedback on development plans for its new trench coat manufacturing and weaving facility.
44 Strategic Report Core Strategies Promoting fair and responsible employment practices Investing in our communities Burberry is committed to supporting diversity and equal Burberry remains committed to supporting the communities opportunities within the Company, as well as improving where its employees live and work by giving financial support, employment practices and working conditions at employee time and in-kind donations, with a particular focus manufacturing sites.
on helping young people achieve their potential.
Burberry employees span 34 countries, representing Burberry continued to donate 1% of Group Adjusted over 112 different nationalities and with an age range of Profit Before Tax 4.2 million in 2015 16 to charitable 16 to 74 years.
As at 31 March 2016, of a global employee causes, for example supporting innovative youth charities population of 10,613, approximately 67% 7,164 were through the Burberry Foundation UK registered charity female and 33% 3,449 male, with women occupying number 1154468 and nurturing emerging creative talent 40% of senior management roles.
through the Burberry Design Scholarship at the Royal College of Art and an apprenticeship programme at the Supporting the importance of diversity in business and British Fashion Council.
society, Burberry proudly became a corporate member of OUTstanding, a not-for-profit professional network The Company launched Burberry Apprentices with for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender executives a vision to support the development of young people in the UK.
globally through apprenticeships and work-based training opportunities.
The first phase saw participants The Companys trading activities are guided by its join retail, internal manufacturing and distribution Responsible Business Principles, which are underpinned teams in the UK.
by the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Fundamental Conventions of the International The Company encouraged employees to take part Labour Organization and the Ethical Trading Initiative Base in impactful community projects during working Code.
Targets to promote and build fair and responsible hours, believing that volunteering strengthens teams, employment practices have been set and integrated into enhances workplace skills and contributes to motivation the performance objectives of the Companys sourcing and fulfilment.
Activities included career inspiration teams as well as at an individual level.
events, employability workshops, long-term mentoring programmes and community revitalisation projects.
Burberry became a Principal Partner of The Living Wage In total, 2,300 employees in 74 cities dedicated Foundation, increasing its support for the initiative as nearly 12,000 hours.
In-kind donations ranged from one-off gifts of In order to reach and benefit more workers, the non-trademark fabric and materials to assist young Companys Ethical Trading Programme comprising people enrolled in creative courses, to donations of announced and unannounced audits, monitoring of business clothing supporting over 1,000 people and improvement programmes was extended to enrolled in employability programmes.
cover key raw material, Beauty, fragrance, make-up and leather suppliers.
F or definition of Adjusted Profit Before Tax see note 2 of the Financial Statements.
Results of the 2015 16 audit programme showed an overall positive shift in ethical trading performance by the Companys apparel and non-apparel vendors.
For more information, please see www.
Improvement programmes have been implemented across the supply chain to support factories in building stronger human resource management systems, increase individual productivity, reduce working hours and sustain and enhance unique knowledge, skills and expertise.
Where access to grievance mechanisms was a particular challenge, confidential non-governmental organisation run hotlines were introduced, providing almost 20,000 workers across 33 factories with confidential support.
45 Strategic Report Core Strategies Driving environmental sustainability Committed to improving its operational efficiencies, Burberry is strongly committed to reducing its Burberry has taken a holistic approach to energy environmental impact globally through its supply chain management.
For example, all new builds and modern and internal operations.
Following an independent baseline concept refurbishments are fitted with LED lighting.
assessment of the Company in 2012, key targets were 37% of electricity is generated on site or sourced through developed to reduce environmental impacts arising from green tariffs.
Burberry distribution centres achieved an materials, energy, water, chemicals and waste.
For further absolute energy reduction of 17% from 2014 15 levels detail of these targets and progress made to date, see and energy reductions have been realised at over pages 108 and 109.
Cotton, leather and cashmere are three of the External recognition Companys key raw materials, representing around Burberry was recognised externally for its sustainability 30% of its greenhouse gas GHG emissions.
Burberry performance and desirability as an employer.
focused on improving the traceability and sourcing of these materials, partnering closely with supply chain Key accolades included the following: and industry stakeholders.
Key steps included joining the Better Cotton Initiative to promote sustainable Included in the 2015 Dow Jones Sustainability Indices cotton farming beyond Burberrys farmer engagement DJSI for the first time, Burberry was listed as one of the programme in Peru, spearheading an initiative to engage top performing companies in the world for sustainability key industry stakeholders in sustainable grassland in the Consumer Durables & Apparel sector.
management in cashmere farming communities Recognised in RobecoSAMs 2016 Sustainability in Mongolia, and actively promoting environmental Yearbook as Industry Mover, Bronze Class in the best practice and innovation at leather tanneries.
Textiles, Apparel and Luxury Goods category, for To drive further environmental improvements in its having achieved the largest proportional improvement supply chain, Burberry increased efforts to engage over in its sustainability performance.
100 of its manufacturing partners and benchmark their environmental performance.
In addition, 20 key partners were supported to identify and manage their resource consumption.
The Company also continued to work with its partners to eliminate the release of chemicals that may have an adverse environmental impact by improving chemical management practices in the supply chain and supporting extensive research into new technology.
Recognising that waste plays a key role in resource depletion and climate change, Burberry is prioritising the reduction and repurposing of waste.
Examples include recycling pre-consumer textile waste into new yarns in Italy, repurposing damaged garment waste into insulation and using textile waste for home furnishings in the UK.
Additionally, over 85% of construction waste from major projects globally was recycled.
46 Strategic Report Core Strategies 47 Strategic Report Strategic Report Performance The following pages set out the highlights of the Group financial performance during the year to 31 March 2016 and the outlook for the coming financial year.
The principal risks facing the Group during the year, including the nature and extent of these risks, are also set out in this section.
