Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Directors report | Other statutory information Other statutory information Annual General Meeting Bunzl Group General Power to issue and allot shares Employee Benefit Trust The Annual General Meeting will be held at The directors are generally and The Park Suite, The Dorchester, Park Lane, unconditionally authorised under the Bunzl Employee Trustees Limited is trustee London W1K 1QA on Wednesday 19 April authorities granted at the 2016 Annual of the Bunzl Group General Employee 2017 at 11.00 am.
The Notice convening the General Meeting to allot shares or grant Benefit Trust the EBT which holds shares Annual General Meeting is set out in a rights to subscribe for or to convert any in respect of employee share options and separate letter from the Chairman to security into shares of the Company up awards that have not been exercised or shareholders which explains the items of to a maximum nominal amount of 35.92 vested.
The current position is that the EBT business which are not of a routine nature.
At the same meeting authority was abstains from voting in respect of these also granted to the directors to allot the shares.
The trustee has agreed to waive the Companys shares for cash, up to a Dividends right to dividend payments on shares held maximum nominal amount of approximately within the EBT.
Details of the shares so held An interim dividend of 13.00p was paid on 5.39 million, without regard to the are set out in Note 16 to the consolidated 3 January 2017 in respect of 2016 and the pre-emption provisions of the Companies financial statements.
directors recommend a final dividend of Act 2006.
No such shares were issued or 29.0p, making a total for the year of 42.0p allotted under these authorities in 2016, per share 2015: 38.0p.
Dividend details are Rights and obligations nor is there any current intention to do so, given in Note 17 to the consolidated financial attaching to shares other than to satisfy share options under statements.
Subject to approval by the Subject to the provisions of the Companies the Companys share option schemes and, shareholders at the Annual General Meeting Act 2006 and without prejudice to any rights if necessary, to satisfy the consideration on 20 April 2016, the final dividend will be attached to any existing shares, the payable for businesses to be acquired.
paid on 3 July 2017 to those shareholders Company may resolve by ordinary on the register at the close of business on resolution to issue shares with such rights These authorities are valid until the 26 May 2017. and restrictions as set out in such conclusion of the forthcoming Annual resolution or if there is no such resolution General Meeting.
The directors again Share Capital or so far as it does not make specific propose to seek equivalent authorities at The Company has a single class of share provision as the Board may decide.
Subject such Annual General Meeting.
to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 capital which is divided into ordinary shares 1 of 32 p each which rank pari passu in and of any resolution of the Company 7 Restrictions on transfer of shares passed pursuant thereto and without respect of participation and voting rights.
Dealings in the Companys ordinary shares The shares are in registered form, are fully prejudice to any rights attached to existing by its directors, persons discharging shares, the Board is duly authorised to issue paid up and are quoted on the London Stock managerial responsibilities, certain Exchange.
In addition, the Company and allot, grant options over or otherwise employees of the Company and, in each dispose of the Companys shares on such operates a Level 1 American Depositary case, any persons closely associated with Receipt programme with Citibank N. A. terms and conditions and at such times as them, are subject to the Companys it thinks fit.
If at any time the share capital under which the Companys shares are Dealing Code.
traded on the over-the-counter OTC of the Company is divided into different classes of shares, the rights attached to any market in the form of American Depositary Certain restrictions, which are customary Receipts.
class may be varied or abrogated by special for a listed company, apply to transfers of resolution passed at a separate general shares in the Company.
The Board may Details of changes to the issued share meeting of such holders.
Subject to the refuse to register an instrument of transfer rights attached to any existing shares, capital during the year are set out in Note 16 of any share which is not a fully paid share to the consolidated financial statements.
rights attached to shares will be deemed and of a certificated share at its discretion to be varied by the reduction of capital paid unless it is: up on the shares and by the allotment of Substantial shareholdings further shares ranking in priority in respect As at 31 December 2016 the directors had lodged, duly stamped or duly certified, at of dividend or capital or which confer on the the offices of the Companys registrar or been notified by the following shareholders holders more favourable voting rights than that they were each interested in 3% or such other place as the Board may specify the first-mentioned shares, but will not and is accompanied by the certificate for more of the issued share capital of the otherwise be deemed to be varied by the Company.
the shares to which it relates and such creation or issue of further shares.
other evidence as the Board may As at 27 February 2017 no further reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: notifications have been received since the year end.
in respect of only one class of shares: and in favour of not more than four transferees.
Date of Number of % of issued Shareholder notification shares share capital Massachusetts Financial Services Company 27.12.16 33,540,043 9.99 Cascade Investment L. L. C. 15.10.15 23,503,182 7.02 Invesco Limited 26.08.14 16,645,696 4.97 BlackRock, Inc. 12.12.16 16,370,044 4.87 APG Asset Management N. V. 24.06.15 10,265,263 3.06 88 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Registration of a transfer of an this authority or the authority granted at the is prohibited by law from being a director: uncertificated share may be refused in the 2015 Annual General Meeting and no shares or circumstances set out in the uncertificated have been purchased between 31 December ceases to be a director by virtue of any securities rules, and where, in the case of a 2016 and 27 February 2017.
The Company is provisions of company law or is removed transfer to joint holders, the number of joint therefore currently authorised to buy back from office pursuant to the Articles.
holders to whom the uncertificated share is 33,520,000 of its own shares pursuant to the to be transferred exceeds four.
existing shareholders authority which is Biographical details of all the directors who due to expire at the conclusion of the served throughout the year are set out on In addition, no instrument of transfer for forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Lloyd Pitchford has been appointed certificated shares shall be registered if the The directors again propose to seek the to the Board with effect from 1 March 2017. transferor has been served with a equivalent authority at such Annual Notwithstanding the retirement by rotation restriction notice as defined in the General Meeting.
provisions in the Articles, each of the Companys Articles of Association the directors will retire and offer themselves Articles after failure to provide the for re-election at the forthcoming Annual Directors Company with information concerning General Meeting in accordance with the Directors may be elected by ordinary certain interests in the Companys shares UK Corporate Governance Code apart resolution at a duly convened general required to be provided under the from David Sleath who retires from the meeting or appointed by the Board.
Under Companies Act 2006, unless the transfer Board at the conclusion of the Annual the Articles, the minimum number of is shown to the Board to be pursuant to an General Meeting.
directors shall be two and the maximum arms length sale.
The Board has the power shall be 15.
In accordance with the Articles, to procure that uncertificated shares are Directors interests in ordinary shares are each director is required to retire at the converted into certificated shares and kept shown in Note 19 to the consolidated Annual General Meeting held in the third in certificated form for as long as the financial statements.
None of the directors calendar year after which he or she was Board requires.
was materially interested in any contract of appointed or last appointed and any director significance with the Company or any of its who has held office with the Company, other The Company is not aware of any subsidiary undertakings during or at the than employment or executive office, for a agreements between shareholders that end of 2016.
Information relating to the continuous period of nine years or more may result in any restriction of the transfer directors service agreements and their at the date of the Annual General Meeting of shares or voting rights.
remuneration for the year and details of the is subject to annual re-appointment.
directors share options under the The Board may also appoint a person willing Companys share option schemes and Restrictions on voting rights to act as a director during the year either awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan A member shall not be entitled to vote, to fill a vacancy or as an additional director and Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme unless the Board otherwise decides, at any but so that the total number of directors are set out in the Directors remuneration general meeting or class meeting in respect shall not at any time exceed 15.
However report on pages 60 to 87. of any shares held by them if any call or such appointee shall only hold office until other sums payable remain unpaid.
the next Annual General Meeting of Powers of the directors Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
In addition, no member shall be entitled to Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act vote if he has been served with a restriction In addition to any power to remove a director 2006 and any directions given by the notice after failure to provide the Company from office conferred by company law, the Company by special resolution, the business with information concerning certain Company may also by special resolution of the Company is managed by the Board interests in the Companys shares required remove a director from office before the who may exercise all powers of the to be provided under the Companies Act expiration of his or her period of office Company.
Votes may be exercised in person or under the Articles.
attorney or otherwise, appoint any person by proxy.
The Articles currently provide a or persons to be the agent or agents of the deadline for submission of proxy forms of The office of a director shall also be vacated Company for such purposes and on such 48 hours before the relevant meeting, pursuant to the Articles if the director: conditions as the Board determines.
24 hours before a poll is taken if such poll is taken more than 48 hours after it was resigns by giving notice to the Company Directors indemnities demanded or during the meeting at which or is asked to resign by all of the other Indemnities were in force throughout 2016 the poll was demanded if the poll is not directors who are not less than three in and remain in force as at the date of this taken straight away but is taken not more number: or report under which the Company has than 48 hours after it was demanded.
is or has been suffering from mental or agreed to indemnify the directors and the physical ill health and the Board resolves Company Secretary, in addition to other that his or her office be vacated: or Purchase of own shares senior executives who are directors of is absent without permission from Board At the 2016 Annual General Meeting, subsidiaries of the Company, to the extent meetings for six consecutive months and shareholders gave the Company authority permitted by law and the Articles in respect the Board resolves that his or her office to purchase a maximum of 33,520,000 of all losses arising out of, or in connection be vacated: or ordinary shares.
During the year ended with, the execution of their powers, duties becomes bankrupt or compounds with his 31 December 2016 the Company did not and responsibilities as a director or officer or her creditors generally: or purchase any of its own shares pursuant to of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
89 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Directors report | Other statutory information Other statutory information continued Amendment of articles Significant agreements Strategic report and Directors report Any amendments to the Articles may be The Companys wholly owned subsidiary, made in accordance with the provisions of Bunzl Finance plc, has a number of bilateral Pages 1 to 47 inclusive consist of the the Companies Act 2006 by way of special loan facilities with a range of different Strategic report and pages 48 to 90 inclusive resolution of the Companys shareholders.
counterparties, all of which are guaranteed consist of the Directors report.
These by the Company, are in substantially the reports have been drawn up and presented same form and are prepayable at the option Environmental and in accordance with, and in reliance upon, of the lender in the event of a change of applicable English company law and any social responsibility control of the Company.
Similar change of liability of the directors in connection The directors recognise that the Company is control provisions in relation to the with these reports shall be subject to the part of a wider community and that it has a Company are included in the US dollar, limitations and restrictions provided by responsibility to act in a way that respects sterling and euro US private placement such law.
the environment and social and community notes which have been entered into by Bunzl issues.
Further information relating to the Finance plc and the Company and are also Under the Companies Act 2006, a safe Companys approach to these matters is set guaranteed by the Company.
harbour limits the liability of directors in out in the Corporate responsibility report on respect of statements in and omissions pages 38 to 47.
Political donations from a strategic report and a directors report.
Under English law, the directors During 2016 no contributions were made Employment policies would be liable to the Company, but not to for political purposes.
The employment policies of the Group have any third party, if the Strategic report or the been developed to meet the needs of its Directors report contain errors as a result Disclosures required under UK different business areas and the locations in of recklessness or knowing misstatement listing rule 9.8.
4 which they operate worldwide, embodying or dishonest concealment of a material fact, the principles of equal opportunity.
The Apart from the dividend waiver which but would not otherwise be liable.
Group has standards of business conduct has been issued in respect of shares held with which it expects all its employees to by the Bunzl Group General Employee The Strategic report and the Directors comply.
Bunzl encourages involvement of Benefit Trust referred to in Note 16 to report were approved by the Board on its employees in the performance of the the consolidated financial statements on 27 February 2017. business in which they are employed and page 120, there are no disclosures required aims to achieve a sense of shared to be made under UK Listing Rule 9.8.
On behalf of the Board commitment.
In addition to a regular magazine and the Companys intranet, Paul Hussey External auditors which provide a variety of information on Secretary Each of the directors at the date of approval activities and developments within the 27 February 2017 of this report confirms that: Group and incorporate half year and annual financial reports, announcements are so far as the director is aware, there is no periodically circulated to give details of relevant audit information of which the corporate and staff matters together with Companys auditors are unaware: and a number of subsidiary or business area the director has taken all steps that he or publications dealing with activities in she ought to have taken as a director in specific parts of the Group.
order to make the director aware of any relevant audit information and to It is the Groups policy that disabled establish that the Companys auditors applicants should be considered for are aware of that information.
employment and career development on the basis of their aptitudes and abilities.
This confirmation is given and should Employees who become disabled during be interpreted in accordance with the their working life will be retained in provisions of section 418 of the Companies employment wherever possible and given Act 2006. help with rehabilitation and training.
Resolutions are to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting for the re-appointment of  LLP as auditors of the Company at a rate of remuneration to be determined by the directors.
90 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Financial statements In this section 92 Consolidated income statement 93 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 94 Consolidated balance sheet 95 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 96 Consolidated cash flow statement 97 Notes 132 Company balance sheet 133 Company statement of changes in equity 134 Notes to the Company financial statements 139 Statement of directors responsibilities 140 Independent auditors report to the members of Bunzl plc 146 Shareholder information 152 Five year review 91
