Strategic Report Working Responsibly Introduction Working responsibly to deliver our strategy Our commitment to working responsibly is a How we assess key part of our strategy, material issues which is to deliver value One of our CR objectives this year was to The rankings for importance to for our stakeholders further improve the transparency of the stakeholders were based on objective by building a balanced methodology used to identify our material criteria which include Cairns experiences issues for the year.
To do so we compiled and communications with stakeholders portfolio of exploration, a list of 15 potentially material issues to during the course of the year.
In 2015 Cairn and our stakeholders based on a cohort of stakeholders was used to development and IOGP, UN Sustainable Development validate the stakeholder classifications: Goals and GRI international reporting this will be repeated every other year production assets within requirements.
Each of those 15 issues based on specialist advice.
the oil and gas lifecycle.
has linked sub-issues each of which was 1 ranked to indicate its level of importance An external specialist reviewed the to Cairn and to stakeholders high, issues in 2016 and feedback from the Ensuring we work responsibly is embedded significant, medium, low, insignificant.
review of methodology and stakeholder in our strategy.
This means delivering value expectations was incorporated with in a safe, secure and environmentally and The importance to Cairn used the latest actions for improvement into our socially responsible manner.
risk register and Cairn risk criteria.
worst-case sub-issue linked to an issue In order to deliver our strategy we set a series ranking was used as the overall ranking of Key Performance Indicators KPIs annually.
There are elements of working responsibly in each of those KPIs with one of them, the Maintain Licence to Operate KPI, dedicated to working responsibly.
In order to support achievement of the Maintain Licence to Operate KPI, we have The materiality process is discussed 1 Julie McDowell, former head of Standard Life a series of Corporate Responsibility CR in more detail on our website Sustainability team.
objectives: CR is how we describe our www.
com materiality working responsibly practices.
Our CR objectives are set annually and are grouped under four themes, being: Business Relationships: Society and Communities: Stakeholder Engagement us to identify and assess issues amongst People: and Environment.
These are Delivering value for our stakeholders our stakeholders and then address and illustrated on page 54. is at the core of our approach to working respond to them.
We do this through responsibly.
Therefore understanding who tailored engagement with specific Working responsibly means identifying our stakeholders are and engaging with stakeholders, disclosure of information issues that are material not only to the them to understand what their concerns and monitoring of stakeholder opinions business but also to stakeholders.
We do and priorities are is important.
this through our risk management process which identifies the issues that are material We have well-structured stakeholder When considering a new project and to the business and our stakeholder engagement procedures in place at a involvement in a country where we have engagement processes which identify corporate and project level which enables not worked previously, identifying our those material to stakeholders.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 52 Seven issues were found to be of high or significant importance to both Cairn and stakeholders and thereby deemed material.
These issues are analysed in detail in this Working Responsibly section.
Materiality Matrix We plot issues important to Cairn The 15 potentially material issues Compared to 2015 we have seen an and important to stakeholders on appearing on the materiality matrix increasing emphasis on business ethics, a materialitymatrix.
are listed on page 54, grouped into the human rights, climate change and social How we assess four themes identified in our business and economic benefits for our business material issues principles.
This has changed some of and stakeholders.
High materiality the issue titles from last year.
Medium materiality Low materiality Economics and Funding Contractors and Major Accident Prevention Communities Supply Chain and Safety Employees Health and Well-being Human Rights Ethics, ABC Security Social and and Transparency Economic Benefit Equality and Diversity Climate Change, Emissions and Discharges Resource Use Biodiversity Product Stewardship Insignificant Low Medium Significant High Importance to Stakeholders stakeholders is one of our priorities and identify actions to mitigate those risks Accountability Principles Standard we undertake a stakeholder identification and this also forms part of the PCDP.
We draw on the knowledge of Stakeholder engagement plans are global organisation providing solutions our local staff, corporate staff and external bespoke to each project and regularly to challenges in corporate responsibility agencies, partners and consultants to updated to reflect changing stakeholders and sustainable development.
Using this knowledge we then and their concerns around a project.
that we engage with internal and external develop a Public Consultation and stakeholders, identify and assess our most Disclosure Plan PCDP.
PCDPs identify Our stakeholder engagement model important CR issues, and address and stakeholder concerns and issues, the follows the principles of Materiality, respond to them in a structured way.
materiality of issues and the associated Inclusivity and Responsiveness as risks to the business.
This enables us to defined in AccountAbilitys AA1000 53 Importance to Cairn Insignificant Low Medium Significant High Strategic Report Working Responsibly continued Our Corporate Responsibility Priorities 15 potentially material issues 7 were found to be of high or significant importance The fifteen potentially material issues are listed below, grouped into the four themes.
Business Society and People Environment Relationships Communities Economics Social and Major Accident Climate Change, H H H H and Funding Economic Benefit Prevention Emissions and and Safety Discharges Funding Shared value Investment Benefits and impacts Asset integrity Energy use and alternative sources Reserves valuations to communities Major accident prevention GHGs and capital expenditures Local content Major oil spill prevention Other emissions Social investment Workplace safety Flaring and venting Government relations Strategic carbon risk Contractors H Discharges disposals to and Supply Chain Health and water and land M Human Rights Well-being Culture and leadership H Spills Working conditions T&Cs Selection Reuse.
recycling and waste Workplace health Freedom of association Competency, training and education Infectious diseases management Modern slavery security Stranded assets Well-being and health support Complicity Ethics, ABC and Grievance H Biodiversity Transparency Non-discrimination Security M M ESIA, environmental surveys Principles, policies, CRMS Office and ecosystem services Risk and material issues Personnel Communities Biodiversity action plans Strategy and operations M Local assets Local community Accountability and responsibility Travel Stakeholders Advocacy and lobbying Cyber security Resource Use Indigenous peoples Cairn ABC practices M Local labour Water abstraction and use Contractors and suppliers Employees Community health Local resources Government and authorities M Cultural heritage Materials Whistleblowing Culture and leadership Displacement Selection Communications Remuneration Succession Product Workforce planning Tax and payments to government L Stewardship Fines and prosecutions Oil and gas sales and impacts Non-operated joint ventures and Equality international investments M and Diversity Anti-discrimination Equal pay Equal opportunities and diversity Materiality significance see page 53 Key: High Medium Low Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 54 Business Relationships Material issue 1 of 7: Economics and Funding Maintaining CR standards In September we opened a new supply Success in this area directly contributes The sustained low oil price continues to be base in Dakar to meet our operational to deliver against the following one of our principal risks.
This means that needs in Senegal.
This supply base, which Strategic Objectives the business remains focused on delivering is developed to a UK regulatory standard, Shown in bold opportunities to cut costs across operations.
could have been completed at a lesser cost However, in pursuing cost reductions in this but at the expense of meeting the standards Delivering exploration environment we do not compromise our we set for ourselves.
Previously our supply and appraisal success commitment to working responsibly.
base arrangements were focused around a number of storage yards and shared facilities Portfolio management In Senegal we identified and implemented with associated road hazards, access and Deliver operational excellence initiatives during the year to reduce our handling issues.
The new base not only Maintain licence to operate operational cost.
These included extensive reduces safety and environmental risks assessment of rig and other contractors associated with our previous supply base Deliver a sustainable business to achieve the most cost-effective solution arrangements, but will also improve for further exploration and appraisal of equipment handling and save time, Read more: Business Model and Strategy 4 on P4-5 our Senegal blocks.
However, before ultimately being cost-effective.
commercial bids were assessed, CR and technical requirements had to be fulfilled.
Read more: Establishing a permanent facility, 28 Our joint venture partners in the North Sea, P28 Cairn in Senegal These issues have the potential to EnQuest and Premier Oil, were also diligent impact our mitigation of these in delivering cost reductions on our Kraken Evaluating new opportunities Principal Risks and Catcher projects by taking advantage We continue to assess new venture Shown below of improved contractor market conditions opportunities within the context of our all the while maintaining a focus on safe existing financial commitments to our key Operational and project performance delivery and working responsibly.
We projects in Senegal and the North Sea and Delay in Catcher and Kraken monitor this through formal joint venture in a low oil price environment which means production start-up schedule meetings and special working groups, restricted funding is an issue for the oil and promoting our business principles and gas industry as a whole.
Some opportunities Securing new venture opportunities sharing lessons learned.
may be financially attractive, but Sustained low oil and gas price unacceptable due to associated ethical, Access to internal or external funding safety or environmental concerns.
Political and fiscal uncertainties Read more: Risk Management 41 on P41-47 Our 2017 plans to manage this material issue are set out in these 2017 CR Objectives Strengthen link between CRMS and business risk management Improve CR risk register Annual CRMS audit Enhance CR content of Investment Proposals and support new ventures 55 Strategic Report Working Responsibly continued Our Corporate Responsibility Priorities continued Business Relationships continued Material issue 1 of 7: Economics and Funding continued Evaluation process for new ventures Using high standards In 2016 we were Through our CRMS we rigorously assess new to secure opportunity venture opportunities.
As part of the Cairn Investors continue to scrutinise not only awarded operatorship Operating Standards we develop Investment our financial position, but also our working of one block and Proposals IPs which identify and evaluate responsibly practices and we continue to the risks associated with the investment: communicate how we achieve this and how non-operated these risks include any CR related concerns.
we manage CR and the benefits of doing interests in additional All significant new venture projects require so.
Our commitment to working responsibly, Board approval and are considered relative and our strong track record in this area, blocks in Norway, to the Group strategy and risk appetite.
All IPs assists in retaining investment and securing which has stringent submitted in 2016 included appropriate opportunities when considering a new assessment of CR considerations.
In 2016 we were awarded operatorship of one block and non-operated interests in additional blocks in Norway, which has stringent HSE regulatory requirements.
We hold exploration interests in the Republic of Ireland where as an oil and gas operator we are required to meet the high environmental management standards of the Oslo Paris Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the North-East Atlantic OSPAR as a licence to operate prerequisite, and under which we retained our verification to OSPAR recommendation 2003 5 in 2016.
Stena drillMAX drill ship contracted for Cairns 2017 drilling campaign offshore Senegal.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 56 Business Relationships continued Material issue 2 of 7: Contractors and Supply Chain Our business is highly reliant on the use of Rigorous selection process Success in this area directly contributes specialist contractors and suppliers, typically We continue to consider responsible to deliver against the following not retained in house due to variation in working in the entire contracting lifecycle Strategic Objectives demand and high cost, and as such they from selection and management of our Shown in bold contribute to the delivery of our strategy.
contractors to applying lessons learned in In 2016 61% of our workforce were contractor new programmes.
In 2016 we concluded Deliver exploration personnel amounting to 64% of hours the second phase of our exploration and and appraisal success worked.
Good management of contractors appraisal programme in Senegal and and suppliers, and ensuring they meet our planning commenced for the third phase.
Portfolio management high standards of responsible working Our contractor selection process was Deliver operational excellence practices, is therefore critical in maintaining reviewed at the end of phase two and Maintain licence to operate those standards.
Where we can we seek to lessons learned were applied by further maximise local participation in the workforce embedding CR matters, including human Deliver a sustainable business and supply chain.
rights issues see also Human Rights, as pre-qualifying requirements for all key Read more: Business Model and Strategy 4 on P4-5 Wherever we operate we look to work contractors.
Based on IOGP good practice with local companies as part of our the phase three contractor assessment commitment to delivering value for process consisted of initial review against key our stakeholders.
This commitment to criteria and the issue of a CR questionnaire These issues have the potential to maximising local participation where possible alongside invitations to tender ITTs.
impact our mitigation of these is made without compromising our high Returned ITTs were assessed to determine Principal Risks standards of CR.
Our recruitment policies whether our standards were met.
Contractors Shown below seek to employ personnel local to our host which passed this assessment progressed countries where they are suitably qualified to the next round and were subject to further Health, safety, environment and we encourage our contractors to do follow-up including site visits to verify and security the same.
We also give preference to local responses before further assessment Operational and project suppliers through our contracting and and selection.
performance procurement policies and procedures where they are able to meet our CR requirements.
Read more: Risk Management In addition, we are looking to build local 41 on P41-47 capacity through partnership with local organisations and academic institutions see also Social and Economic Benefit.
Our stakeholders continue to take an interest in Our 2017 plans to manage this material issue are set out in these 2017 opportunities for local contracting services CR Objectives and we anticipate that this interest will grow in the coming years.
We are pleased to be able to report, at these early stages of the Senegal Run contractor workshops project, that local personnel in Senegal in Senegal with themes including represented 22% of our workforce.
Life-Saving Rules and MSA Support other programmes planned across the Group 57 Strategic Report Working Responsibly continued Our Corporate Responsibility Priorities continued Business Relationships continued Material issue 2 of 7: Contractors and Supply Chain continued Effective management and control Health and safety triangles, Senegal operations We commissioned independent specialists October 2015 June 2016 to audit rigs, vessels and aviation before we contracted them for the phase three Senegal programme to ensure effective management Number of preventative was in place before operations commenced health and safety in January 2017.
Some operational activities actions undertaken are managed directly by Cairn whereas others are the responsibility of the contractor, 36 although the contractor remains accountable HSE Audits to Cairn at all times.
For example rig contractors perform drilling activities under agreed procedures whereas Cairn retains 44 assurance processes including, reporting, Management Visits performance measures, audits and reviews.
The allocation of duties and responsibilities is part of our Project Delivery Process and 597 bridging arrangements.
These are in place Safety Drills & Training to ensure our CR management systems and those of our contractors remain effective and clarify which party maintains primacy 8,881 over an activity.
Job Risk Assessments | Time Outs for Safety | Toolbox Talks We continue to encourage our contractors where performance can be improved 53,379 including proactive engagement and Safety Observations follow-up of incidents and issues.
This included a comprehensive review of accident and emergency incidents during the construction of the Catcher and Kraken FPSO units.
Findings from this review were Number of health shared with the Board, which allowed lessons and safety incidents to be learned and shared across the Group.
that occurred 0 Fatalities 1 Lost Work Day Case 0 Restricted Work Day Cases | Medical Treatment Cases 0 First Aid Cases 35 Near Misses Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 58 Business Relationships continued Material issue 3 of 7: Ethics, Anti-bribery and Corruption and Transparency Our ability to do business relies on Code of Business Ethics Success in this area directly contributes developing trust with our stakeholders We have a Group Code of Business Ethics to deliver against the following including investors, governments, business the Code, which describes our standards Strategic Objectives partners, suppliers and broader society.
This of business ethics and conduct expected of Shown in bold means we work in an ethical and transparent everyone who carries out work for us on our way and take a zero-tolerance approach to behalf, including contractors.
The Code is Deliver exploration bribery and corruption.
We are committed regularly updated along with our Business and appraisal success to ensure that those who work for us or on Principles, which identify the behaviours we our behalf do not, in any way, offer to give or expect from our personnel.
These were both Portfolio management receive bribes.
Moreover this commitment updated at the end of 2016 and reissued.
Deliver operational excellence extends to being transparent in all our Application of the Code throughout the Maintain licence to operate payments.
We are also obliged under UK business is ensured by the highest level of legislation to implement anti-bribery and management, the Board.
The Boards Audit Deliver a sustainable business corruption ABC mechanisms.
This approach Committee is responsible for appointing an is defined in our values and business internal auditor to regularly conduct internal Read more: Business Model and Strategy 4 on P4-5 principles to which we hold ourselves audits of Cairns compliance with the Code.
accountable, and within the procedures All levels of management at Cairn, including we adopt and the people who work executive and non-executive directors, on our behalf as described on pages regional directors, general managers and These issues have the potential to 10 and 11 Our Culture.
heads of departments, are responsible for impact our mitigation of these ensuring consistent application of the Code.
Principal Risks All personnel must abide by the Code and Shown below Read more: Our Culture 10 on P10-11 promote its use in all business activities.
All employees are required to sign up to the Stakeholder reaction Code as part of their employment conditions.
to operations Fraud, bribery and corruption Read more: Risk Management 41 on P41-47 Our 2017 plans to manage this material issue are set out in these 2017 CR Objectives Continue to improve our Code of Business Ethics and Business Principles Enhance the gifts and hospitality register ABC training targeted at high risk areas Simon Thomson, Chief Executive, and Ian Tyler, Chairman, on board Ocean Rig Athena drill ship used during Cairns 2015 2016 Senegal drilling campaign.
59 Strategic Report Working Responsibly continued Our Corporate Responsibility Priorities continued Business Relationships continued Material issue 3 of 7: Ethics, Anti-bribery and Corruption and Transparency continued The Code includes our commitments to: Monitoring and responding In June 2016, the Norway Government Global Legal and regulatory compliance: to ethical Issues Pension Fund announced its decision to A zero-tolerance approach to bribery Throughout the year we tracked emerging exclude both Cairn and Kosmos Energy from and corruption: ethical issues of importance to our business their fund.
The decision on exclusion was Respect human rights: and the industry by monitoring: emerging made on the basis of the recommendation of Not make contributions to political parties, legislation: guidance and agreements: press the Council on Ethics.
In October 2016, BMO organisations or individuals engaged in commentary: stakeholder enquiries: and Global Asset Management an investment politics or political lobbying, as a way through focused stakeholder engagement.
fund management organisation decided, of obtaining advantage in business: on the basis of the same report, to exclude Provide a workplace free from In 2016 we reviewed our potential Cairn from the investible universe of BMOs discrimination and harassment: and contribution towards the UN Sustainable Responsible Fund range.
Development Goals see Sharing benefits in Senegal p30, our readiness to report Western Sahara has been classified since Through our whistleblowing procedure, against The Modern Slavery Act 2015 see 1961 as a Non-Self-Governing Territory, by employees are encouraged to report any Human Rights p64 and the implications the United Nations.
Both Morocco and the incident they believe may compromise our of the COP21 Climate Change agreement Saharawi Arab Democratic Republic claim Code of Business Ethics.
see Climate Change, Emissions and Western Sahara as their sovereign territory.
Cairn believes that hydrocarbon exploration Read more information at offshore of the territory is consistent with www.
com responsibility Western Sahara international law.
Resolution of the territorial In 2016 a key focus of stakeholder enquiries status is not required for exploration as the and activity was our involvement in Western UN 2002 Legal Opinion views Morocco as Measuring performance Sahara, although in 2016 we had no active the territorys administering authority and operations in the region.
We hold a 20% as such it can issue permits for resource 0 non-operated interest in the Boujdour development.
The UN continues to mediate Maritime contract area offshore Western a process to resolve the dispute between Incidents of non-compliance with the Code Sahara with a commitment for 3D seismic to Morocco and the Saharawi Arab Democratic be acquired by 2020 which will be conducted Republic.
In 2013, Moroccos Economic, by the operating partner, Kosmos Energy.
Social and Environmental Council, an 0 independent constitutional body, launched Employee dismissals for non-compliance with the Code Anti-bribery and corruption As part of our ongoing commitment to establishing a culture of zero tolerance to bribery and corruption, in 2016 we required all personnel, including contractors, to complete a bespoke e-learning module to ensure their continued understanding and application of our anti-bribery and corruption policies and procedures.
Read more information at www.
com responsibility ABC Management System Measuring performance 90.6% Employees trained in Cairns anti-corruption policies and procedures Ocean Rig Athena drill ship used during Cairns 2015 2016 Senegal drilling campaign.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 60 In 2016 we required all personnel, including contractors, to complete a bespoke e-learning module to ensure their continued understanding and application of our anti-bribery and corruption policies and procedures.
intensive consultations in the region on informed of any issues raised by We also acknowledged the rising importance how to properly manage the development shareholders through Board papers of climate change to some of our of the region.
Initial oil and gas industry where shareholder concern is a standing stakeholders as significant and rising given activities in the area are focused solely on agenda item, through feedback at prethe outcome of COP21.
Our position was exploration and do not involve the removal of Board meetings and following significant ground-truthed with a cohort of stakeholders, resources.
The region remains economically announcements.
In addition, we maintain an as reported in 2015, and the overall underdeveloped.
Cairn believes that the investor relations database, which details all assessment of climate change in terms of CR exploration for hydrocarbon resources will meetings between Cairn and its investors.
materiality was rated as medium based on enhance economic development prospects our assessment criteria.
Consequently, we for all people of the territory, with the Transparent reporting believe that at the close of 2015 the potential possibility of greater private sector We are committed to responsible and impact of climate change on the Company investment and job creation.
transparent reporting and have been was fairly considered and appropriately recognised for the quality of our work in this represented in our 2015 Annual Report.
Responsible resource development area, being nominated in 2014 and 2015 by can proceed in parallel with the UN-led the Investor Relations Society in the Best We normally report on climate change discussions on the regions future and Annual Report category among FTSE 250 in the working responsibly section of the 2002 UN Legal Opinion provides for companies and in 2015 shortlisted for Best our Annual Report and on our website resource development to co-exist with Audit and Risk disclosure in the FTSE 250 www.
This the political process, as long as any such at the Institute of Chartered Secretaries year is no exception and assessment of risk resource development is conducted for and Administrator CSA Excellence in and CR materiality in 2016 is reported in the the benefit of the people of the territory.
In 2016, our 2015 section on Climate Change, Emissions and Annual Report was highly commended in Discharges on page 69.
The Joint Declaration of Principles signed the PwC Building Trust in Corporate Report by Kosmos Energy and the Government Awards for excellence in reporting in the Payments to governments of Morocco states that local populations FTSE 250.
We apply global standards to Cairn supports transparency around how will benefit efficiently, effectively and ensure our reporting is of the highest quality.
revenues from the natural resources extractive 1 transparently from production of We use the Global Reporting Initiative industry are used and the transparency of hydrocarbons if commercially viable Sustainability Reporting Standards at a tax contributions and other payments to reserves are discovered.
We follow the content principles governments by oil and gas companies.
Cairn of materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness, reports payments to governments annually, Read more information at sustainability context and completeness: which are published in its Annual Reports, www.
com responsibility and its quality principles of balance, in compliance with EU legislation and as part comparability, accuracy, timeliness, clarity of its voluntary commitment to the Extractive Transparency and reliability.
See our Responsibility Industries Transparency Initiative EITI.
The Cairn is committed to being open and webpages.
EITI is a voluntary international initiative which transparent in all aspects of its business governments commit to.
It requires companies and this includes in its communications We received a series of questions from to publish what they pay to governments, and with stakeholders and in its reporting.
FRC in response to the ClientEarth complaint governments to publish what they receive in late 2016 alleging we had failed to from companies.
We became a participating Communicating with shareholders adequately disclose climate change risks company of the EITI in September 2013.
Shareholders are important stakeholders, to our investors along with routine questions and they are key to our funding position, in other areas.
We responded in full to all FRC As a listed company operating within the consequently we invest significant resource questions in January 2017.
European Union, the EU Accounting Directive in effective shareholder communications.
applies to Cairn and requires companies to We respond promptly to correspondence In terms of transparency on climate change disclose certain payments to governments from shareholders and our website risk in 2015 we judged the risk to Cairn on a country-by-country basis.
com includes a business as medium based on exposures report in this area was issued in July 2016. dedicated investor relations section.
This included consideration of the absence of production, 1 GRI is an international independent organisation In order to ensure that the Board maintains fully funded nature of non-operated that helps businesses, governments and other an up-to-date understanding of the views developments and economic and social organisations understand and communicate the of major shareholders, there is a focused benefit to our countries of operation such as impact of business on critical sustainability issues and structured programme of regular Senegal, in combination with the status of such as climate change, human rights, corruption shareholder dialogue.
The Board is kept external developments on climate change.
61 Strategic Report Working Responsibly continued Our Corporate Responsibility Priorities continued Society and Communities Material issue 4 of 7: Social & Economic Benefit Delivering social and economic benefit In addition we make non-economic Success in this area directly contributes Our strategy is to deliver value for our contributions which can lead to local to deliver against the following stakeholders through the oil and gas life benefits and include: Strategic Objectives cycle.
This means generating social and Shown in bold economic benefit through our presence in Capacity building amongst our any given area.
Our stakeholders are a broad contractors and suppliers, in particular Delivering exploration group and there are many ways in which we amongst local companies or individuals and appraisal success can deliver value for them, both economic to help them meet the technical, HSE and and non-economic.
Our key stakeholders CR standards required to work with us Portfolio management associated with a project include host Training and development of our Deliver operational excellence governments which grant our oil and local workforce Maintain licence to operate gas licences and regulate our activities, Sharing of knowledge e. g. environmental, communities affected by our operations geological with national and local bodies Deliver a sustainable business and those who work on our behalf including for the benefit of local communities and personnel and contractors.
national authorities Read more: Business Model and Strategy 4 on P4-5 Capacity building within government The economic contributions which can institutions to develop understanding and be associated with our activities include knowledge of the oil and gas industry the following: Upholding high standards of governance, These issues have the potential to ethics and anti-corruption through, for impact our mitigation of these Affordable energy and revenue for example, our commitment to the UN Principal Risks local populations through the discovery, Global Compact and the Extractive Shown below appraisal and delivery of oil and gas to Industries Transparency Initiative EITI.
meet energy demands Stakeholder reaction Read more information at Distribution of operating expenditure to operations www.
com responsibility through exploration and appraisal phases of a project and through payments to our Read more: Risk Management 41 contractors and suppliers including locally In 2015, world leaders committed to the on P41-47 and internationally based companies UN Sustainable Development Goals SDGs fide-risking state oil company investments which set out 17 prioritised areas including by paying all exploration costs on ending poverty, ensuring access to energy, Our 2017 plans to manage this material behalf of state oil companies who protection of ecosystems, addressing climate issue are set out in these 2017 are only required to invest if and change and responsible working practices.
CR Objectives when a commercial discovery We recognise a responsibility to look at our is confirmed activities to identify both where our business Continue to develop our impact Payments to our workforce, including adds value for society and where we may benefit plan in Senegal local employees need to mitigate for potential negative Payments to government which may impacts across environmental, social and Standardise our approach to impact include licence fees, taxes, duties and governance related issues.
In June 2016, we benefit planning across the group training allowances commissioned a review based on the SDGs and linkage to UN SDGs Investment in local institutional and to identify where our activities could impact community development on or support any of these goals.
This helped to inform our approach to delivering benefits for our stakeholders in Senegal.
See Sharing Benefits in Senegal on page 30.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 62 Our stakeholders are a broad group and there are many ways in which we can deliver value for them.
During 2016, we continued to support social Developing entrepreneurship in young investment programmes, which are part of people through sponsorship of the Great the Impact Benefit Plan for Senegal.
Those Entrepreneur Competition, an initiative programmes included: of the British Council in Dakar Supporting a previous winner of the Great Promoting understanding and awareness Entrepreneur Competition to establish of the oil and gas industry to Senegalese a plastics recycling business through institutions through awareness seminars, provision of equipment and mentoring English language training and support Supporting a women-led microfinance to national emergency planning project in rural communities by partnering Developing English language skills and with an international NGO called The awareness of the oil and gas industry Hunger Project.
among students of the University of Dakar More information about our Social Investment Programme is available at www.
com responsibility Contractors Workforce Communities Government Shareholders & Suppliers Economic Contributions 2016 Capital Sta Social Payments Value Spend Costs Investment to Government Growth 1 2 3 US$428.4 million US$38.6 million US$137,839 US$25.7 million Non-economic Contributions 2016 Capacity Training and Knowledge Capacity Building Development Sharing Building 25 trained 36 average hours 162 trained employee EITI Support Notes: 1 Net share across the Group.
2 Excludes share-based payment charges which are non-cash.
3 Refunds from governments, in 2016, were US$40.4 million.
63 Strategic Report Working Responsibly continued Our Corporate Responsibility Priorities continued Society and Communities continued Material issue 5 of 7: Human Rights Respecting human rights is part of our human rights issues are identified we Success in this area directly contributes commitment to delivering value for consider the most effective way to manage to deliver against the following all stakeholders.
We are committed to them through engagement with potentially Strategic Objectives respecting human rights in all our activities affected communities.
When considering a Shown in bold and this commitment is embedded in non-operated joint venture, we identify and our Business Principles and includes our check any human rights issues and establish Deliver exploration support for the United Nations Universal any risks requiring management by the and appraisal success Declaration of Human Rights.
Human rights operator before proceeding.
are particularly important to certain of our Portfolio management key stakeholders including our employees Respect for our employees Deliver operational excellence and communities in which we operate.
We believe that by promoting a work Maintain licence to operate environment in which people are treated Our rights aware approach with dignity and respect, we can maintain Deliver a sustainable business In order to ensure respect for human a loyal, motivated and effective workforce.
rights in all our activities we have a human This includes ensuring fair and just rewards Read more: Business Model and Strategy 4 on P4-5 rights policy which is integrated within for employees contributions and supporting our Corporate Social Responsibility CSR opportunities for professional development Policy.
It requires us to respect and support see Human Resources page 72. internationally recognised human rights These issues have the potential to standards: identify, assess and manage We also have policies in place covering impact our mitigation of these human rights risks, and: ensure that recruitment, grievance, harassment and Principal Risks appropriate mechanisms are in place equal opportunities, which seek to ensure Shown below for those affected by our operations that all current and potential employees are to raise and address grievances.
We expect our contractors to Stakeholder reaction treat their employees in the same way.
to operations Our Corporate Responsibility Standard Operating Procedures and Human We respect the rights of freedom of Read more: Risk Management 41 Rights Guidelines clarify what needs to be association and collective bargaining.
on P41-47 done, and the tools available to support Although we do not have any employees implementation of our human rights policy who are unionised or have any collective across the business.
agreements in place, we do consult our Our 2017 plans to manage this material workforce on organisational issues on a issue are set out in these 2017 Over the years we have implemented regular basis and through a variety of means.
CR Objectives a rights aware approach which means We respect those contract employees who identifying potential human rights issues in work with us and their membership of unions Further develop MSA safeguards our activities, assessing if we have influence which we consider during our contracting over the issues and defining appropriate activities see Our culture on page 10.
Deliver MSA training action to be taken by the business.
Develop MSA statement for 2017 In 2016 we undertook a revision of Before entering a new country as an operator our People Management Policies we apply human rights screening as part of and Procedures and we aim to roll our comprehensive due diligence process.
out the updated requirements in 2017.
Before operating activities we assess human See also Human Resources page 72. rights impacts as part of an Environmental and Social Impact Assessment ESIA or where necessary, we undertake a Human Rights Impact Assessment HRIA.
If, following these assessments, any potential Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 64 Employees or contractors can raise any concerns they might have around human rights, and indeed any other issues, through a variety of means including the Companys whistleblowing procedure.
Respect for communities However, we recognised the potential for our Employees or contractors can also raise any A fundamental respect for human rights activities to limit the ability of local fishermen concerns they might have around human is critical to maintaining good working to exploit the waters in which we work.
We rights, and indeed any other issues, through relationships with the local communities with worked with local fishermen to minimise a variety of means including the Companys which we interact.
Our CRMS sets out our disruption through communication of our whistleblowing procedure.
approach to managing potential community day-to-day and forward operations and impacts in accordance with the International implemented a mechanism whereby they In 2016, there were no reported grievances Finance Corporations IFC Performance were able to provide us with feedback.
In or breaches reported through the whistle- 1 Standard 5, requiring the development of addition, and as part of the development blowing procedure.
action plans in cases where activities could of our Impact Benefit Plan in Senegal see lead to economic or physical displacement.
Social and Economic Benefit page 62, Modern Slavery Act 2015 we continue to work with an international In 2016 the Modern Slavery Act came into Our operated and non-operated assets NGO in Senegal to engage with and identify force in the UK.
This Act requires companies are principally based offshore.
As such, specific challenges facing fishermen along with turnover greater than 36 million to the potential for our activities to impact the coastal areas closest to our operations.
produce a statement of their assessment and negatively on the human rights of local management of their supply chain in respect communities is limited.
In 2016, our operated Grievances of forced, compulsory, bonded and child drilling operations were carried out offshore Occasionally, during the lifetime of a labour or any form of human trafficking.
Senegal, with relatively limited onshore project, unforeseeable human rights or other Although Cairn was not required, under the support operations in established ports.
We provide and Acts turnover qualification level, to produce a No physical displacement of individuals, promote a grievance procedure by which statement in 2016, preparations commenced or any identified economic displacement individuals or representatives of communities to better understand the objectives and of individuals or communities resulted from affected by our operations can present their implications of the Act.
We analysed our our operations.
grievances and to which we aim to respond current Corporate Social Responsibility policy within 30 days.
and procedures against the requirements of the Act to identify any discrepancies.
Although we do not foresee any major risks in this area it has been discussed by 1 IFC Environmental and Social Performance the board and our CSR policy adjusted Standard 5 Land Acquisition and Involuntary www.
We have also started work to better assess any vulnerable areas within our supply chain and will implement any required improvements in 2017.
Measuring performance 0 Total human rights grievances and incidents of discrimination More information about our Approach to protecting Human Rights is available at www.
com responsibility Team at Cairn supply base in Dakar port.
65 Strategic Report Working Responsibly continued Our Corporate Responsibility Priorities continued People Material issue 6 of 7: Major Accident Prevention and Safety Prevention Each stage gate has defined actions and Success in this area directly contributes Preventing major accidents and ensuring that deliverables, which must be available to deliver against the following our assets are fit to carry out their intended and signed off by a gatekeeper who is Strategic Objectives purpose, in this case preventing escape of independent of the project.
In this way, Shown in bold fluids or other hazardous substances from project integrity and performance are wells and equipment, remains a material reviewed throughout the process and, where Delivering exploration issue industry wide.
We ensure effective they deviate from standards, corrective and appraisal success engineering control barriers are in place and actions are identified and implemented.
maintain our capability to respond in the Portfolio management event of a major accident or emergency.
Emergency and oil spill Deliver operational excellence As in previous years our focus remains on response preparedness Maintain licence to operate major accident risk avoidance and prevention, Cairn continues to maintain emergency a key part of which includes the assurance and oil spill response preparedness over Deliver a sustainable business of well design and contractor competence.
a wide range of scenarios which could The assurance process is detailed in our occur.
Oil spill in particular remains a Read more: Business Model and Strategy 4 on P4-5 Operating Standards and in the Project high-profile stakeholder concern, and Delivery Process.
we remain committed to applying the 1 IPIECA-IOGP Joint Industry Practice Project Delivery Process which continued to issue good practice These issues have the potential to Our Project Delivery Process PDP is the guides in 2016.
These are described in impact our mitigation of these well-established method by which we our Annual Report and Accounts 2015 on Principal Risks can ensure we understand and can control page 56 and the Oil Spill Resources website Shown below risks at key stages in our projects.
the oil and gas life cycle the PDP helps This initiative is recognised across Health, safety, environment us maintain focus on what is important the industry as the most effective and and security to the Company and apply good practice up-to-date response guidance on oil spill.
through the application of local and Read more: Risk Management 1 The IPIECA-IOGP Oil Spill Response JIP OSR-JIP 41 international standards.
on P41-47 was set up to implement learning opportunities in respect of oil spill preparedness and response We use the Cairn PDP to manage CR issues following the April 2010 well control incident in the and apply these standards for all operated Gulf of Mexico.
As part of this effort, the OSR-JIP Our 2017 plans to manage this material projects under our control.
Specific project has produced more than 20 good practice guides.
issue are set out in these 2017 types e. g. seismic, drilling must meet IPIECA is the global oil and gas industry association CR Objectives for environmental and social issues.
defined criteria at designated stage gates.
Implement safety campaigns on Life-Saving Rules Further train our crisis and emergency personnel, improve Project Delivery Process plans and perform exercises Why How Ready Finished Learn Identify Assess Define Execute Evaluate Why are we How could Are we Have we What do doing this we do this ready to finished all we learn project?
sanction we needed and achieve?
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 66 Our focus remains on major accident risk avoidance and prevention.
Changes to response capability Engaging with partners UK authorities required our partners in In 2016 we completed the second phase We continued to work closely with our joint Kraken to submit a Safety Case.
As a prudent of our exploration and appraisal drilling venture partners, in a non-operator capacity, partner we supported and reviewed the programme in Senegal and commenced on our Kraken and Catcher North Sea development of the Safety Case information planning for the third phase.
With a change development projects and progressing them and document to assure ourselves, of in contracting arrangements for rigs, vessels towards first oil and cash flow in 2017.
This progress and completion, and also to identify and aviation, we required revision of our included working closely with the operators lessons learned.
Lessons learned from the emergency response arrangements.
This of both projects on the development of process were shared with our partners for included increasing local capability in our their Safety Cases.
These document and development of the Safety Case for the Dakar office by improving the management demonstrate that safety and environmental Catcher development.
Such lessons learned of our Senegal Incident Management Team critical risks of any installation production will also prove helpful should an FPSO IMT and also improving the management of platform or rig have been reduced to As be the solution of choice, subject to our Edinburgh-based Crisis and Emergency Low As Reasonably Practicable ALARP.
Senegalese legislation, for a development Response Team CERT.
We revised our All fixed and mobile installations in the North scenario in Senegal.
Senegal Emergency Response and Oil Spill Sea must hold a Safety Case, a requirement Contingency Plans and also made revisions of the 2015 UK Offshore Installation Offshore We continued to progress development to a number of documents previously Safety Directive Safety Case Regulations, of the management systems for our other submitted to Senegal regulators including: which came into force following the operated and non-operated activities in Environmental and Social Impact implementation of the EU Offshore the UK and Norway with ongoing dialogue Assessment: hazard study: hazardous Safety Directive in 2015. with Norwegian regulators who require installation document: and, emergency plan that non-operators assure themselves description.
In the Dakar office we have an of the adequacy of their partners Emergency Co-ordination Centre from which operating standards.
the IMT operates: this centre was refitted to improve communications, including communication with our new supply base in Dakar and head office in Edinburgh, and improved communications technology.
Measuring performance 4 spills totalling 167 litres Oil fuel spills in 2016 We continued to run CERT and IMT exercises for various emergency scenarios during the year increasing the range of potential situations to which our personnel may be exposed.
Prior to commencing the third phase of our activities in Senegal the IMT personnel were given role specific training, including desk-top training and a scenariobased exercise involving the drilling rig and the CERT.
Our supply base personnel and our vessel and helicopter crews were also given specialist training for oil spill On board the Ocean Rig Athena drill ship used during management purposes.
67 Strategic Report Working Responsibly continued Our Corporate Responsibility Priorities continued People continued Material issue 6 of 7: Major Accident Prevention and Safety continued Occupational safety Lost Time Injury Frequency LTIF Management of occupational safety, Lost time injuries per million hours worked which refers to the management of dayto-day safety hazards, uses a number of 4.0 mechanisms to promote the implementation and effectiveness of working procedures.
This includes management visits, audits, 3.0 2.52 permit to work, toolbox talks, safety drills and training which are monitored through 2.0 our leading safety indicators.
1.04 The lagging data below shows we 1.0 1 0.65 experienced a Lost Time Injury in which 0.48 0.45 0.36 0.29 0.00 0.00 n a a member of our Senegal supply base contract crew suffered damage to three 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 fingers as a result of entrapment during pipe handling in April.
A thorough investigation Cairn total for employees and contractors was completed and findings were discussed IOGP benchmark by the Board in May alongside incidents suffered in non-operated assets and in the industry as a whole.
Our new supply base operations have been designed to reduce Total Recordable Injury Rate TRIR occupational safety risks e. g. lifting based Total recordable injuries per million hours on industry good practice and lessons learnt worked from our operations at our previous supply base.
see Establishing a permanent facility 8.0 on page 28.
As part of this revision we placed emphasis on application of the IOGP Life-Saving Rules and in 2017 intend to hold 6.0 5.04 focused sessions on application and auditing.
3.88 4.0 See also Our culture on pages 10 and 11.
Our web pages discuss Health 1.74 2.0 1.60 1.54 and Well-Being: Security: Equality 1.21 1.04 & Diversity, and Employees 0.00 0.00 n a www.
com responsibility 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Cairn total for employees and contractors IOGP benchmark Notes: IOGP is the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers.
We have included overall IOGP benchmark figures average of onshore and offshore for employees and contractors.
IOGP benchmark figures are not yet available for 2016.
1 A fatal injury or any work related injury, which Cairn TRIR and LTIF statistics can be higher than the results in a person being unfit for work on any day IOGP benchmark after only one incident, or a small after the day of occurrence of the occupational number of incidents, because our exploration activities injury.
Any day includes rest days, weekend days, often last for only a short time period, so there are leave days, public holidays, or days after ceasing relatively few hours worked compared with on-going employment IOGP.
production and other long term operations.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 68 Environment Material issue 7 of 7: Climate Change, Emissions and Discharges Climate change review This included a review of the Intended 1 Success in this area directly contributes Our industry as a whole recognises the Nationally Determined Contribution INDC to deliver against the following potential risks as global energy transitions reports for all locations in our portfolio.
Strategic Objectives to a less carbon intense economy.
This Potential strategic issues include emissions Shown in bold includes issues such as the potential for: control restrictions e. g. trading and future restriction of funding shareholder permitting, levies, potential for stranded Delivering exploration position and, stranded assets.
We also assets, securing access to finance, licence and appraisal success recognise that balancing the need for to operate and adaptation by countries and energy and reducing GHG emissions will communities e. g. due to rising sea levels, Portfolio management require efficient use of energy and the full or change in environmental conditions Deliver operational excellence utilisation of both conventional and innovative affecting communities to the impact from Maintain licence to operate sources of energy into the foreseeable future, climate change.
Our review was presented particularly if this is to remain affordable and to the Board in September and actions Deliver a sustainable business accessible in developed and developing for inclusion in our 2017 CR Objectives countries.
Other global factors too remain were identified.
Climate change in the Read more: Business Model and Strategy 4 on P4-5 important in relation to our industry including context of the oil and gas industry is further growing demand for energy and provision discussed in the Industry Overview section of energy security in individual countries.
Cairn continues to track risk in all locations in which These issues have the potential to The International Energy Agency IEA World we operate including climate change and impact our mitigation of these Energy Outlook 2016 considers a number of believes that for the foreseeable future oil Principal Risks transition scenarios to a low carbon economy, and gas will be important in the energy mix Shown below the most challenging of which IEA 450 to meet demand and of particular benefit for restricts global temperature rise to 1.5C.
wealth generation and delivery of affordable Health, safety, environment In this instance nearly 60% of the power energy if managed in an ethical manner.
and security generated in 2040 is projected to come from Operational and project performance renewables, almost half of this from wind and We acknowledge the rising importance of solar photovoltaics.
Even in this scenario, IEA climate change to some of our stakeholders Read more: Risk Management considers there to be no reason to assume and, in 2016, we have assessed this as high 41 on P41-47 widespread stranding of upstream oil assets, within our CR materiality assessment see as long as governments give clear signals Materiality matrix page 53.
This year, of their intent and pursue consistent policies we have continued to judge the risk to the to that end.
IEA goes on to indicate that Cairn Business from climate change as Our 2017 plans to manage this material issue are set out in these 2017 Investment in developing new upstream medium based on exposures across the CR Objectives projects is an important component of a portfolio, which cover mature basins and least-cost transition, as the decline in output developinglocations.
from existing fields is much larger than the Provide baseline work and impact anticipated fall in demand.
assessment for other blocks in our Senegal portfolio One of our 2016 CR Objectives was to further Support environmental work examine the implications arising from the UN 1 Countries across the globe adopted a historic in other assets in support of Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change international climate agreement at the UN applications and activities IPCC Conference of the Parties which took Framework Convention on Climate Change UNFCCC Conference of the Parties COP21 Continue to track risks arising place in Paris at the end of 2015 as described in Paris in December 2015.
In anticipation of from Climate Change treaties in our 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
this moment, countries publicly outlined what and legislation including COP21 We have followed the progress of ratification post-2020 climate actions they intended to take and COP22 during 2016 by major greenhouse gas under the new international agreement, known as emitting countries such as the USA and their Intended Nationally Determined Contributions INDCs.
The climate actions communicated in China, among others, and we recognise these INDCs largely determine whether the that climate change issues present potential world achieves the long-term goals of the Paris risks to our future activities.
In 2016 we Agreement: to hold the increase in global average conducted a review to better understand temperature to well below 2C, to pursue efforts those potential risks.
to limit the increase to 1.5C, and to achieve net zero emissions in the second half of this century.
69 Strategic Report Working Responsibly continued Our Corporate Responsibility Priorities continued Environment continued Material issue 7 of 7: Climate Change, Emissions and Discharges continued Mature basins The likelihood of stranded assets due are unlikely to be a significant issue in respect In areas where the oil and gas industry is to climate change in mature areas is not of climate change alone.
There are likely to considered mature, such as the UK and regarded as an issue in the short or medium be more significant issues relating to cost Norway, there is clear legislation around term.
There continues to be considerable of delivery of a project in remote or poor climate change and the oil and gas industry promotion of exploration and production in infrastructure areas affecting the overall including EU Emissions Trading Scheme mature areas due to the benefits, including value of the project.
2 Regulations with ongoing emission economic and social, and recognition that reduction targets by individual countries the transition will take some decades.
In At the end of 2016 our principal asset of this and collectively by the EU.
As such climate the short to medium term, asset risks such type is the Senegal appraisal and exploration change risks pertaining to our assets in as proximity to infrastructure and size of project.
The project is still relatively early in the UK and Norway, which include our discovery outweigh most other risks to the value chain but has substantial potential non-operated development projects Kraken project viability and delivery of shareholder both economically and socially for Senegal.
and Catcher, are well understood.
Longer-term climate change is also Development and delivery will be less than exploration in the UK and Norway appears to likely to drive innovation and improvement 10 years and in the medium term the climate be secure against the background of UK and in equipment including during the design change risks relating to investment, stranded Norwegian reduction commitments and cost and selection stages of projects to remove assets and carbon cost are considered low.
of carbon carbon allowances are allocated and optimise emissions.
For example, This is due to the need for development and under trading schemes to restrict emissions, long-term innovation may take the form affordable reliable energy in Senegal linked allowances can be traded at market rate.
A of low emissions technology and carbon to its status as a United Nations Least short-term challenge is economic downturn capture.
We do not use an internal cost of Developed Country.
and its impact on oil price with implications carbon on the basis that it is not material for the industry as a whole see Economics to our projects at this time but we continue In 2016 we reviewed the potential risks, and Funding pages 55 and 56.
Ongoing to factor costs into our due diligence and status under the Kyoto Protocol and the monitoring of risk will be required as these investment proposal processes as necessary.
Intended National Determined Contributions mature locations seek to continue oil and gas It is an area we continue to monitor to ensure INDCs submitted as part of COP21 in activity and reduce emissions simultaneously we understand trends and implications.
developing locations in which we have an while providing energy security in an interest such as Senegal.
Senegal aims to affordable manner.
Given that much of the UK HSE related generate income to improve infrastructure legislation is based on EU Regulations and and deliver benefits to communities and Access to funding is not seen as an issue in Directives, including the area of climate society.
The Senegal National Committee the short to medium term given government change, the UKs exit from the EU following on Climate Change has identified priorities policies and known legislation and the 2016 referendum has also been identified such as the energy sector describing timescales for the sector, indeed our Kraken as an event to monitor.
This may impact not mitigation and adaption aspects from a and Catcher non-operated developments only climate change issues but other CR climate change perspective.
Key actions remain fully funded.
Short term the marginal issues of interest, as the details of Brexit identified are replacement of solid fuels, cost of carbon is not seen as a significant become clearer.
rural electrification, use of renewable energy issue, although it may play a part as assets sources and infrastructure improvement in age and production declines in the medium Senegal and developing locations particular.
A successful oil and gas industry to long term, precipitating marginally earlier Transition risks in developing locations could assist in generating significant income, decisions to cease production.
We do not are closely tied to the need for economic which could aid country development, foresee funding or carbon cost as impacting growth to provide local benefits such as provide affordable energy and inward shareholder value overall in our mature area employment and social and economic investment in the medium term, and reduce portfolio at the end of 2016. development.
Such countries tend to have reliance on solid fuels.
much lower aspirations in terms of carbon reduction and will be dependent on investment funds.
Market based mechanisms also tend to play a less central role e. g. projects under the Clean Development 2 The EU Emissions Trading Scheme Regulations Mechanism of the Kyoto Protocol.
Access require regulated activities such as many offshore to investment for companies is often linked installations to restrict emissions of carbon as to demonstrating a responsible position in carbon dioxide and methane emissions among terms of both environmental and social others.
This is achieved by allocation of allowances performance e. g. under IFC guidance.
Again which must be maintained and surrendered in line with strict requirements of the regulations.
in the short to medium term stranded assets Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 70 Tonnes CO e per 1,000 hours worked 2 Physical risks levels of activity and provides a mechanism At the end of the phase two exploration and Physical risks include potential for extreme for engaging with our contractors on energy appraisal campaign in Senegal, unanticipated weather, sea level rise and water scarcity.
The quantity of GHG emissions residual wastes from the drill rig tanks The likelihood of impact on Cairns business from our activities has reduced in 2016 from required specific treatment as hazardous as with other companies is highly location 2015 despite an increase in hours worked.
waste in accordance with EU classification.
In terms of our Consequently, GHG intensity per thousand We achieved successful treatment by filter infrastructure, as at the end of 2016 Cairn had hours worked has improved substantially.
pressing and dry residues were packaged no permanent installations: all our activities and sent ashore, prior to onward shipment to involved offshore mobile equipment.
We experienced four minor spills of Spain under the Basel Convention due to the hydrocarbon in 2016, which arose for absence of suitable waste management sites Local people in our areas of activity may flare-out incidents during well testing in Senegal.
be adversely affected by sea-level rise in the phase two drilling programme in Biodiversity, product stewardship and resource or degradation in fishing quality quantity, Senegal.
These arose as a consequence of use are discussed on our website availability of water or farming.
These are ineffective rig orientation to the prevailing www.
com responsibility social issues which are essentially in the weather, seawater salting of the flare nozzle government domain: however, Cairn has and setting the water deluge too high.
These a long history of both social responsibility issues were addressed early in the campaign and social investment.
For example, water and no further problems occurred.
A total of supply issues in India in the location of our 167 litres we spilled to sea, however, the oil land operations were the subject of a major dispersed and evaporated rapidly and was aquifer management programme developed considered to have a low environmental by Cairn.
All escapes were reported to the authorities.
Emissions, discharges and wastes In March 2016 we completed the second Total and normalised GHG emissions scopes 1, 2 and 3 phase of our exploration and appraisal programme in Senegal and commenced planning for the third phase which started 53 60,000 60 in 2017.
As such our operations in 2016 were relatively limited in terms of emissions, 41 discharges and wastes.
We expect 45,000 45 36 33 emissions, discharges and wastes to be broadly similar to 2016 based on an 30,000 30 anticipated programme of two firm wells in 2017.
However, the third phase programme 9 includes a number of optional wells, which, 15,000 15 if executed, would increase our emissions, discharges and wastes.
It remains difficult 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 0 to set specific reduction targets when levels of activity vary from year to year, but we are 1 3 Scope 1 tonnes CO e Scope 3 tonnes CO e committed to minimising our environmental 2 2 2 Scope 2 location-based tonnes CO e Scope 1, 2 location-based and impact from operations and to reporting fully 2 3 normalised tonnes CO e per and transparently on this matter.
2 1,000 hours worked GHGs form a part of our operational environmental footprint.
We monitor and We calculate our GHG emissions in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
manage the GHGs emitted during our activities and disclose them in accordance 1 For calculating Scope 1 direct GHG emissions we use emission factors from the API Compendium 2009 with industry requirements and standards.
fuel combustion, EEMS 2008 flaring and the GHG Protocol 2014 waste incineration.
In 2016 we carried out a review of our Scope 1 GHG emissions calculations.
As a result of this we updated to the In 2016, we conducted a review of the latest published Global Warming Potentials GWPs for CO, CH and N 0 from the Intergovernmental Panel methods and factors used in the calculation 2 4 2 on Climate Change IPCC Fifth Assessment Report AR5.
We also made minor changes to the emission factors of our GHG emissions, and adjustments were we use from API 2009 by selecting ones that align more accurately to the fuel types we use, and introduced an made in line with best practice.
We disclose additional two categories to our waste incineration data.
We applied these changes across all of our Scope 1 GHG on an operational control basis, which data, past and present, and so are restating all Scope 1 GHG figures in this report.
In addition to this, we have means we report emissions from those updated our 2015 Scope 1 GHG emissions figure to incorporate flaring data that was not available when we produced our 2015 end of year reports.
Our 2015 normalised GHG emissions have increased in line with this.
assets that are operated by us and not those N. B.
2015 flaring data was included in Cairns 2016 Half Year Corporate Responsibility Update but has since controlled by our partners.
With no operated been recalculated with amended gas densities and is restated in this report.
production facilities in 2016, our direct GHG 2 We report Scope 2 purchased electricity GHG emissions in line with GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance, i. e. in two emissions occurred primarily from the ways: according to a location-based method and a market-based method.
Transmission and distribution losses combustion of fuel on the rig, vessels and are excluded.
For the location-based method we use emission factors from the IEA International Energy Agency aviation, and from flaring during well testing.
Report CO emissions from Fuel Combustion Highlights 2013 Edition.
These are grid average emission factors for 2 each country.
For district heating and cooling we use location-based emission factors from DEFRA 2015.
For the market-based method we use emission factors, where available, in the following order of preference: The graph Total and normalised GHG a. Supplier-specific emission factors obtained from Cairn offices electricity suppliers.
Residual mix emission factors obtained from the RE-DISS II document European Residual Mixes 2014, that our GHG emissions over the last five last updated in June 2015. years are heavily dependent on the level of c. Location-based emission factors.
These are the same IEA and DEFRA emission factors that we use for operational activity in any given year given calculating location-based emissions.
the absence of any steady state production.
We have provided location-based Scope 2 figures in this report.
Our market-based Scope 2 figures, and further details about our GHG emissions data and calculations, are available on our website.
This makes it difficult to identify baseline 3 For calculating Scope 3 business travel GHG emissions we use the DEFRA methodology, including its information and set meaningful targets for recommendation to include an uplift for the influence of radiative forcing in air travel emissions.
We updated total GHG reduction over time.
We have to DEFRA 2016 emission factors this year see http: www.
therefore chosen to adopt a methodology 4 Limited assurance of our 2016 GHG data Scopes 1, 2 and 3 and normalised has been provided independently for calculating GHG emissions intensity with by RPS which, within the scope of the limited assurance engagement, has found that the GHG emissions reported are materially correct and a fair representation of available information.
A full assurance statement detailing the reference to the number of hours worked, verification undertaken and its limitations is available on our website.
