Strategic Report Human Resources Focused on leadership We recognise that the actions and behaviours of senior leadership are key to our success.
As such we focused on a number of initiatives during the year to strengthen the skills of people in senior leadership and management positions as well as continuing to work on succession planning.
Senior Leadership Team 360 feedback At Cairn we have a Senior Leadership Team SLT which includes our Chief Executive, Helping people Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Director of Exploration and our Regional Directors ensuring that the key to deliver strategy management get together at least six times a year to discuss delivery of strategy and provide leadership throughout the business.
We understand that those on our SLT are role models for our company values the We remain committed to supporting and 3Rs and our High Performance Behaviours incentivising our people in their delivery of and that championing these, along with clear Group strategy, all the while ensuring that a culture of working responsibly is embedded The 3Rs in everything that they do in their pursuit of the Building Companys strategic objectives.
Respect Nurturing We do this by ensuring that we have the right Relationships people in place with the right competencies, Acting that they have the right training and development Responsibly opportunities and that the right systems and tools Read more: Our Culture 10 on P10-11 are at their disposal.
We insist that our people exhibit the high performance behaviours which we have identified as part of our culture of working responsibly.
In our pursuit of strategy we also Diversity within need to make sure Cairn is an attractive place the workforce to work in order to retain talent and attract new We are committed to equality and diversity and understand the talent, to ensure we are preforming to the best importance of a diverse workforce in broadening our skill base, bringing of our abilities.
different approaches, perspectives and ideas, challenging norms and encouraging creativity, all of which support the business in delivering its strategy.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 72 and regular communication and clarity of Management Bootcamp Managing succession planning strategy, remains fundamental in maintaining Work continued on our Management As part of our annual succession planning both a strong company culture and high Bootcamp throughout 2016 with the aim of review, the Board was presented with an level of employee engagement.
The 3Rs further developing the management skills updated Group Succession Plan in June.
stand for building respect, nurturing of all our managers in the business to best The review confirmed that we had made relationships and acting responsibly and deliver results through people by providing good progress in several of the development our High Performance Behaviours are the practical how to management tips and areas identified through the prior years behaviours we have identified as part of techniques.
The Bootcamp is structured to succession planning, with the Group talent our commitment to working responsibly be energising, inclusive, challenging and pool enhanced during the year through a in a safe, secure, environmentally and thought provoking.
It considers the effect combination of external resourcing and socially responsible manner.
As a means of behaviour on people and performance, internal promotions.
of achieving against their goal of being role the skills and tools needed to encourage the models, specifically in listening and personal right behaviours and how these will impact While we recognise that some succession development, and showing commitment to positively on the performance of Cairns risks exist, the review provided a crucial acting upon feedback received from across teams and business deliverables.
The means of identifying where the key focus the business, each member of the SLT programme consists of seven modules: areas are and the resource, skills and participated in a 360 feedback exercise recognition and feedback, coaching, capability gaps that need to be addressed in 2016 which was facilitated by an building relationships, delegation and to mitigate these risks.
empowerment, developing teams, managing change and managing conflict.
Other positive outcomes of the review The exercise aimed to identify strengths Delegates are also provided with a preincluded: and development areas both for individual course 1-1 coaching session to help set out leaders and for the leadership team as their objectives for the course and to put The new regional structure, as finalised a whole.
Each member was required to the development into a personal context.
solicit feedback from a range of internal Staff retention remains strong, providing stakeholders with whom they interact The feedback from those who have stability and consistency in the delivery including their own line managers, their attended the course has been very positive.
of current and future projects.
peers from across the Group, and those We have been able to benefit from reporting to them.
Feedback was then A s the Management Bootcamp quality, external talent available as a provided to each SLT member on a 1-1 basis, programme has been developed for Cairn result of the challenges being faced by with individual action plans derived from this.
based on feedback from managers within the industry as a whole, and this proved The next step, which we are now focusing the business, the training sessions are advantageous for us in building some on, is to review the feedback holistically to targeted to cover areas relevant to our in-house capacity where our internal understand both strengths and areas for business right now and this is extremely resource pool had historically been low.
development for the team as a whole and beneficial following a period of significant Our Management Bootcamp programme communicate the feedback to staff across change within the company.
I like the short, will support the business in developing the Group.
modular in-house approach as this gives the future succession pipeline.
me an opportunity to take some time out of a busy schedule to focus on my professional development which will be of benefit to me, my team and the company.
At year-end 2016: 48% 4% of Cairn staff were women of Cairn staff had a disability 10% 43 of Cairn staff worked part-time average age at Cairn 100% 33% of employees that took parental leave returned of management roles were held by women towork 16 11% different nationalities were employed at Cairn 1 member of the Board was a woman 73 Strategic Report the business from exploration, a reflection Human Resources continued of our Group strategy to deliver value for stakeholders by building and maintaining a balanced portfolio of exploration, development and production assets within the oil and gas lifecycle.
We also ran an e-learning training course on anti-bribery and corruption ABC which all of our staff were required to complete and pass.
This ABC training course is part of ensuring our strategy to deliver value in a safe, secure, environmentally and socially responsible manner and was designed to further raise awareness and understanding of bribery and corruption.
The training course covered all of the key issues relating to bribery and corruption, including the UK Bribery Act 2010.
Technical conference: We believe the revisions will: From Volumes to Value Linking performance In addition to our suite of annual geological to strategy Develop more cohesive teams which fieldtrips which included Utah, Ireland and are clear on their annual objectives, one in the local Edinburgh area in 2016, the We recognise the importance of linking through the implementation of a team Company held a Technical Conference the performance of our people to the performance element in September 2016, attended by our delivery of strategy to ensure our people Encourage, reward and emphasise the geoscience, engineering, commercial and are aligned with our strategic objectives importance of project management, new ventures functions from across our and incentivised to deliver them.
Changes collaboration and teamwork business.
The conference was designed to our performance management process Ensure that all staff have an element of to ensure alignment in the way we work, during the year included measuring High their reward based on their own individual with a particular focus on the methods of Performance Behaviours and linking them performance and merits, including their assessing value.
Workshop sessions were to remuneration, further strengthening our application of our High Performance organised utilising industry software aimed working responsibly culture.
Behaviours and People Management at identifying the value of information Accountabilities critical for optimising investment decisions Revisions to Discretionary in exploration, appraisal and development Cash Bonus scheme Feedback so far from staff on the revisions activities, such as seismic surveys, wells and In April, the Company rolled out some has been positive.
enhancements to our Performance Management process and related Mixed teams from across the business Discretionary Cash Bonus scheme.
The Learning and worked together to critically assess our Company wanted to adopt a standardised development areas of relative strength and weakness in approach, ensuring consistency in how Learning and development is a key, each of five areas New Ventures, Asset performance is assessed and rewarded ongoing part of human resources activity & Licence Management, E&A Decision through the application of a common, and is clearly an important part of supporting Making, Value Creation and Data & Tools.
open and transparent system for all staff, our delivery of strategy.
During the year The aim was to identify key actions in our irrespective of location.
we focused on two key learning and drive to continually improve in all that we development initiatives.
We held a technical do and to explore ways to collaborate and The proposed solution is a powerful conference focused on creating value for share knowledge and techniques across combination of: Group KPIs, which set out the strategic objectives for the company as a whole Project performance objectives, recognising the importance of collaboration within a team, collective problem solving to meet an objective and project management skills to deliver these objectives in a timely manner Personal performance objectives, recognising individual achievement against objectives including the importance of demonstrating the right behaviours consistently and working to the Groups standards to achieve their objectives Cairn team at 2016 Geological Society Careers Day, Edinburgh.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 74 the geoscience, engineering, commercial, exploration and new ventures functions.
The results have been shared with the External recognition Management Team and Senior Leadership of our people management Team and are being incorporated in to our 2017 plans.
The conference was hosted by It is important to us to ensure we are Other key areas of best practice Paul Mayland, Chief Operating Officer and managing people in the right way and highlighted by the assessment Richard Heaton, Director of Exploration.
It in line with international standards.
As included: was attended by over 60 members of staff such we are pleased to have external including our regional directors and staff validation in the form of accreditation Staff are very loyal to the Company based in our Stavanger and London offices.
from the internationally recognised and are committed to its future standard Investors in People IIP.
There is a sense of Equipping our people ownership and pride in working with the right tools Investors in People is a global standard for the Company for people management held by over The Company is very clear on its As well as having the right people in place 14,000 organisations in 75 countries.
future strategy and the business and ensuring they have access to the right The standard defines what it takes to planning process is very sound training to perform to the best of their lead, support and manage people The Company is very committed abilities, we need to have the right tools in well for sustainable results.
We are to the learning and development of place.
In late 2015, management requested delighted to have been an accredited its staff and the on-the-job training, a review of the suitability of our current Investor in People since 2004, and in including shadowing and informal business systems with a view to moving April, to have been reaccredited by coaching of staff, are of a high to a single Group-wide business system.
an independent assessor from IIP standard This was on the basis that multiple systems Scotland.
This accreditation identifies The Companys revised appraisal were in use across the Group which had both what we are doing well and areas and informal feedback process is the potential to create risks and process for improvement.
By business system we mean Members of staff feel very valued the system used throughout the business As part of the assessment our assessor and appreciated for the work they to manage day-to-day functions.
met with a randomly selected 10% of undertake in the Company.
There employees from across the Group and is a strong culture of praise, thanks At the end of 2015 a project commenced we were delighted that following her and encouragement to formally define, document and review review, our assessor found that she Decision-making and team working Cairns Enterprise Resource Platform was satisfied beyond any doubt that are major strengths in the company ERP requirements.
Requirements were Cairn Energy PLC continues to meet Members of staff believe that the assessed against available platforms, the requirements of the Investors in company is a great place to work.
future strategy and the risks and process People Standard.
inefficiencies we had already identified.
The one key area for development At the end of that review, a decision was The assessment found that there was highlighted by the assessment was a reached to move to a single, new ERP more a tremendous team spirit, a clear sense greater focus needed in the area of suited to Cairns current business.
Work of company strategy and the Group return on investment in learning and remains underway to design and build the KPIs with a focus on creating value, an development, to be able to more fully new system with planned implementation understanding and appreciation of the appreciate the full impact of learning during 2017. new structure of the business into three and development in the company.
defined geographical regions and a This will be considered through 2017. clear sense of staff willing to share knowledge and information with each other so that they can continuously improve.
This Strategic report has been approved by the Board and is signed on their behalf by.
SIMON THOMSON Chief Executive 7 March 2017 Book Cliffs, Utah field trip.
