Strategic Report A culture based on working responsibly Our Culture means having the right values, principles and policies in place, that they are embedded throughout the organisation in our systems and processes and that they are upheld by our people.
At the heart of Delivering value in a safe, our culture are our core values which are known as the 3Rs, and which stand for secure, environmentally and building respect, nurturing relationships and acting responsibly.
socially responsible manner These core values are underpinned by our for our stakeholders is a key part Business Principles, our Code of Business Ethics and a number of Corporate of our strategy and ensures we Responsibility policies.
Read more information at maintain our licence to operate.
com responsibility The Business Principles identify the behaviours we expect and the Code of At the heart of this is our culture which is based around Business Ethics identifies the standards a commitment to working responsibly.
We measure of business ethics and conduct which we expect.
Both the Business Principles and the our ability to work responsibly through our Key Code of Business Ethics must be applied not Performance Indicators, one of which Maintain licence only by employees but by all other parties that work on the Companys behalf including to operate is dedicated to working responsibly.
It is contractors, suppliers and partners.
They are also measured through our people management integrated into our systems and processes of which the key ones include the Corporate process which incorporates certain behaviours Responsibility Management System CRMS, identified as critical to ensuring this culture exists.
the Cairn Operating Standards, the Group Risk Management Procedure and the Internal Control and Assurance Framework.
Our core values Our behaviours At the heart of our culture are our core values which are known as the 3Rs, The behaviours we expect from our people and which stand for: are based on the 3Rs: Be Safe Building Be Entrepreneurial Respect Be Focused Be a Leader Nurturing Be Collaborative Relationships Be Open Acting Be Empowered Responsibly Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 10 The behaviours we expect from our people We uphold and support the ten principles This culture of are based on the 3Rs and are known as our of the United Nations Global Compact, High Performance Behaviours.
They identify an initiative for businesses committed to working responsibly the behaviours we expect to see exhibited aligning their strategies with ten universally is also built upon by our people in everything that we do, day accepted principles in the areas of human to day.
They are well promoted throughout rights, labour, environment and antiglobal standards the organisation and they ensure that corruption.
We are also committed to which we uphold and everyone understands how they are working to International Finance Corporation expected to contribute to the success IFC Performance Standards on Social and which consequently of the business.
Environmental Sustainability which are in line inform how we with the UN Global Compact principles.
Be Safe The Board has ultimate responsibility Be Entrepreneurial for ensuring this culture of working Be Focused responsibly exists within the organisation Be a Leader and our assurance processes help the Be Collaborative Board to ensure this.
We have three levels Be Open of assurance within the organisation: firstly, Be Empowered our values, policies and principles and our processes and systems with which all To further ensure these behaviours are employees are required to comply: secondly, adopted by our people and embedded internal oversight of their application by key in our culture, this year we included them committees including our Senior Leadership as part of our performance management Team which includes our Chief Executive, process with all individuals in the Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating organisation measured on their performance Officer: and thirdly, external assurance against each of these behaviours.
Our culture of working responsibly is embedded at the very heart This culture of working responsibly is of this assurance process in our values, also built upon global standards which policies and principles.
we uphold and which consequently inform how we deliver strategy.
These standards are part of valuable, global initiatives which promote responsible corporate behaviour and working practices.
The IFC, a member of the World Bank Group, is the largest global development institution focused exclusively on the private sector in developing countries.
