Leadership and Governance Board of Directors Simon James Ian Todd Iain Alexander M. Jacqueline Keith Peter Nicoletta Thomson Smith Tyler Hunt McLaren Berger Sheppard QC Lough Kallos Giadrossi Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director 51 40 56 64 Non-Executive Director 50 61 58 57 50 66 Committee membership Senior Leadership Team Chair Senior Leadership Team Nomination committee Chair Attends remuneration committee Audit committee Chair Audit committee Remuneration committee Chair Audit committee Remuneration committee Remuneration committee by invitation Nomination committee Governance committee Governance committee Nomination committee Governance committee Governance committee Chair Nomination committee Nomination committee Attends remuneration Attends audit committee Remuneration committee Remuneration committee Governance committee committee by invitation by invitation Attends audit committee Attends part of each audit Group Risk Management by invitation committee by invitation Committee Group Risk Management Committee Chair Term of office Simon was appointed to the James was appointed Ian was appointed as an Todd was appointed as an Iain was appointed as an Alexander was appointed as Jackie was appointed as an Keith was appointed as an Peter was appointed as an Nicoletta was appointed as an Board in November 2006 as to the Board in May 2014 independent non-executive independent non-executive independent non-executive an independent non-executive independent non-executive independent non-executive independent non-executive independent non-executive Legal and Commercial Director as Chief Financial Officer.
director in June 2013 and director in May 2003.
Given director in July 2008. director in May 2010. director in May 2010. director in May 2015. director in September 2015. director in January 2017. and became Chief Executive became non-executive his length of tenure, he is in July 2011.
Chairman in May 2014. no longer considered to be independent in terms of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Independent Not applicable Not applicable Yes No Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Skills and experience LLB Hons, Aberdeen University BA Hons, University of Oxford Bachelor of Commerce, Batchelor of Business BA in Accountancy and Finance, Masters in Petroleum BA, Memorial University MA Economics, University Degree in Applied Physics, BA in Mathematics and Birmingham University Administration, University Heriot Watt University Engineering, Delft University of Newfoundland of Edinburgh Strathclyde University Economics, Yale University Diploma in Legal Practice, of Texas Glasgow University MBA Rotterdam School BA and MA in Jurisprudence MSc in Finance, London Degree in Petroleum Engineering, MBA, Harvard Business School of Management from University of Oxford Business School Heriot Watt University LLB, McGill University Simon Thomson was James Smith joined Cairn in Ian Tyler qualified as a Todd Hunt has more than Iain McLaren is a chartered Alexander Berger is Jackie Sheppard was executive Keith Lough was Finance Director Peter Kallos has held a number of Nicoletta Giadrossi spent 10 years appointed Chief Executive March 2014 from Rothschild chartered accountant with 40 years experience in the oil accountant and was formerly chief executive officer of vice president, corporate and of British Energy PLC from 2001 posts at Enterprise Oil including at GE where she became General in July 2011 having been Legal where he was a director of the Arthur Andersen in 1987, and gas industry.
He is president senior partner of KPMG in Oranje-Nassau Energie B. V. legal at Talisman Energy Inc to 2004 before becoming a Head of Business Development, Manager for GEs Oil and Gas, and Commercial Director since energy and power team with subsequently holding a and joint owner of Atropos Scotland.
He is also a past a private Dutch exploration from 1993 to 2008 and appointed founder shareholder and Chief CEO Enterprise Italy and General Refinery & Petrochemicals 2006 and holding various posts 15 years experience advising number of senior finance Exploration Company and president of the Institute and production company Queens Counsel for the Province Executive of Composite Energy Manager of the UK business Division.
Subsequently, she spent across the organisation including E&P companies, oil majors and and operational positions Atropos Production Company of Chartered Accountants based in Amsterdam.
Ltd, a privately owned coal-bed before his appointment in 2002 a number of years in private head of assets.
Simon originally national oil companies on their within listed companies based in Dallas, Texas.
He as Executive Vice President equity ahead of being appointed joined Cairn in 1995.
M&A transactions and equity before being appointed held this post until 2011, when International and Offshore at VP and General Manager, EMEA and debt market financing.
chief executive of Balfour Composite was divested to Petro-Canada.
She later joined Beatty plc from 2005 to 2013.
became Chief Executive of Aker for two years before taking During this time, he took the Buried Hill Energy.
up the role of President Region company from being primarily A, Europe, Africa, Middle East, a UK construction business, Russia & India at Technip, a role to a global infrastructure she held from 2014 to 2016. services business.
Key external appointments Non-executive director No external appointments Non-executive director President and joint owner Chairman of Investors Chief executive officer of Non-executive chair Senior Independent nonChief Executive of Non-executive director of Grahams The Family of BAE Systems plc of Atropos Exploration Capital Trust plc Oranje-Nassau Energie B. V. of Emera Inc. executive director of Buried Hill Energy of Fincantieri S. p. A.
Dairy Limited Company and Atropos and a director of Oranje-Nassau Rockhopper Exploration PLC Non-executive chairman Non-executive director of Director of the general partner Non-executive director Production Company Energie UK Limited and Member of the advisory Board of Bovis Homes Group PLC Baillie Gifford Shin Nippon plc of Pacific NorthWest LNG LP Non-executive director of or Bureau Veritas Group Oranje-Nassau Energy of the Winning Scotland the UK Gas and Electricity Independent chairman of Non-executive director of Founder, lead director and chair Non-executive director Petroleum Limited Foundation until March 2017 Markets Authority AWE Management Limited Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc of the audit committee of Black of Faively Transport Non-executive director of Swan Energy Inc. Non-executive director of Senior independent Non-executive director of Ecofin Discover Exploration Limited Gulf Keystone Petroleum Ltd. non-executive director of Water & Power Opportunities plc Director of Seven Generations Mediclinic International plc Energy Corporation Non-executive director of Papau Non-executive director of until February 2017 Mining PLC until November 2016 Jadestone Energy Inc Non-executive director of Rock Solid Images Inc. until November 2016 Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 76 Alexander M. Jacqueline Keith Peter Nicoletta Berger Sheppard QC Lough Kallos Giadrossi Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director 50 61 58 57 50 Audit committee Remuneration committee Chair Audit committee Remuneration committee Remuneration committee Governance committee Governance committee Chair Nomination committee Nomination committee Governance committee Alexander was appointed as Jackie was appointed as an Keith was appointed as an Peter was appointed as an Nicoletta was appointed as an an independent non-executive independent non-executive independent non-executive independent non-executive independent non-executive director in May 2010. director in May 2010. director in May 2015. director in September 2015. director in January 2017.
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Masters in Petroleum BA, Memorial University MA Economics, University Degree in Applied Physics, BA in Mathematics and Engineering, Delft University of Newfoundland of Edinburgh Strathclyde University Economics, Yale University MBA Rotterdam School BA and MA in Jurisprudence MSc in Finance, London Degree in Petroleum Engineering, MBA, Harvard Business School of Management from University of Oxford Business School Heriot Watt University LLB, McGill University Alexander Berger is Jackie Sheppard was executive Keith Lough was Finance Director Peter Kallos has held a number of Nicoletta Giadrossi spent 10 years chief executive officer of vice president, corporate and of British Energy PLC from 2001 posts at Enterprise Oil including at GE where she became General Oranje-Nassau Energie B. V. legal at Talisman Energy Inc to 2004 before becoming a Head of Business Development, Manager for GEs Oil and Gas, a private Dutch exploration from 1993 to 2008 and appointed founder shareholder and Chief CEO Enterprise Italy and General Refinery & Petrochemicals and production company Queens Counsel for the Province Executive of Composite Energy Manager of the UK business Division.
Subsequently, she spent based in Amsterdam.
Ltd, a privately owned coal-bed before his appointment in 2002 a number of years in private methane focused business.
He as Executive Vice President equity ahead of being appointed held this post until 2011, when International and Offshore at VP and General Manager, EMEA Composite was divested to Petro-Canada.
She later joined Dart Energy.
became Chief Executive of Aker for two years before taking Buried Hill Energy.
up the role of President Region A, Europe, Africa, Middle East, Russia & India at Technip, a role she held from 2014 to 2016.
Chief executive officer of Non-executive chair Senior Independent nonChief Executive of Non-executive director Oranje-Nassau Energie B. V. of Emera Inc. executive director of Buried Hill Energy of Fincantieri S. p. A. and a director of Oranje-Nassau Rockhopper Exploration PLC Director of the general partner Non-executive director Energie UK Limited and of Pacific NorthWest LNG LP Non-executive director of or Bureau Veritas Group Oranje-Nassau Energy the UK Gas and Electricity Founder, lead director and chair Non-executive director Petroleum Limited Markets Authority of the audit committee of Black of Faively Transport Non-executive director of Swan Energy Inc. Non-executive director of Discover Exploration Limited Gulf Keystone Petroleum Ltd. Director of Seven Generations Energy Corporation Non-executive director of Papau Mining PLC until November 2016 Non-executive director of Rock Solid Images Inc. until November 2016 Non-Executive Directors 77
