Strategic Report Industry Overview Putting our Frontier exploration industry in context This industry overview provides an independent view of the industry Activity in the context in which Cairn operates.
North Sea Introduction Energy intensity will increase and accelerate, World economic growth remained weak such that each energy unit will produce ever in 2016, with uncertainties such as the US more output, but also the mix of energy elections, the UK Brexit vote, Eurozone carriers will shift towards those emitting less financial fragility and Chinese economic carbon.
It is expected that renewables will rebalancing weighing heavily on the system.
grow fastest among all the energy carriers This in turn constrains the demand for oil, but that, given the much higher starting point, with oil supply continuing to exceed demand fossil fuels will be the largest contributors to and producing another year of weak oil the required growth in energy supply.
Gas, prices, with Brent crude averaging US$44 emitting the least carbon per energy unit, per barrel over 2016 after reaching a 12-year is therefore expected to be the main source low of US$28 in January.
of this, at the expense of coal, and to a lesser 1 extent oil.
The end of the year saw a response to this in the form of an agreement in November Oil consumption is expected to continue to to restrict production by both OPEC and grow, but at a lower rate than total energy certain non-OPEC producers, delivering consumption, such that its relative share cuts of 1.2 million barrels per day over the in the energy mix continues its long-term next 6 months almost 1.5% of global output.
This is not a view shared by all in Commencing in January 2017 this heralds a late 2016 Royal Dutch Shell issued another return to market price management, rather warning of peak oil over the next 5 to 15 than share management.
Futures prices for years, signalling an important switch to 2017 rose by more than US$10 per barrel in demand becoming the binding constraint, reaction to this potential crude deficit.
Overall, therefore, the COP21 uncertainties around climate change and stranded assets 2016 saw significant policy movement geopolitical considerations evolved rapidly towards a reduction in global carbon through 2016, with the implications for the emissions, with the Paris agreement gaining oil and gas industry still open to debate.
sufficient signatories to enter force by November.
Although unlikely to be enough to deliver the target global warming ceiling of 2C, suggesting more policy changes to follow, this marks an important step change in the energy transition.
With global energy demand expected to rise by over 30% in the next two decades, government and market incentives will be required to reduce the carbon impact.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 12 The recovery in The current oil price, and the future of oil Despite this gloomy background those North Sea production demand, have continued to suppress the companies with the balance sheet and visible in 2015 exploration spend, with 2016 levels down risk appetite to open up new acreage are by 20% against the previous year and taking advantage of the opportunities continued into 2016, 60% against the high of 2014.
The push associated with low contracting costs.
for capital discipline and portfolio risk Significant finds have been made in reduction has driven down exploration the US in shale oil, indeed the largest costs, such that the net effect on activity ever single US deposit of oil and gas is not as deep as these numbers suggest.
was reported, but elsewhere the gas However almost all of this expenditure dominance of recent years has continued.
was on activity already contractually fixed with very little new, discretionary, spend.
The recovery in North Sea production This is also reflected in the significant About the authors visible in 2015 continued into 2016, proportion of assets up for sale with rising by over 6% year on year, driven by relatively few interested parties, partly Dr Julian Fennema several new fields coming on stream and a reflection of the complex challenge Honorary Associate Professor a reduction in maintenance downtime of apportioning the costs of end-of-life at Heriot-Watt University.
However it is more decommissioning.
appropriate to look behind the production Erkal Ersoy numbers since a new regulatory regime The new regime brings in a more requiring stakeholders to maximise powerful regulatory body as well as Assistant Professor economic recovery, rather than simply closer collaboration with government at Heriot-Watt University total volume, came into force in 2016. on fiscal terms, but also will require, to a Centre for Energy Economics considerable extent, companies operating Research and Policy.
Total operating costs for the North Sea in the UK sector of the North Sea to make have fallen by almost 27% since the highs investment decisions for the benefit Heriot-Watt University is one of the of 2014, the most visible effect of which is of the oil province as a whole and not UKs leading universities for business the reduction in industry headcount.
This solely their own economic benefit.
This and industry and has a reputation for reduction in expenditure, combined with will mean companies cooperating and innovative education, enterprise, and the increase in production, resulted in a collaborating to maximise recovery or leading-edge research.
Energy research is 45% fall in operating costs per barrel.
minimise costs throughout the project a core activity within Heriot-Watt University, cycle in order to improve the longand the Centre for Energy Economics On the other hand, total capital termoutlook.
Research and Policy CEERP is the latest expenditure has also fallen, and by further evidence of the Universitys commitment 40% since 2014, such that the mediumto research in energy, economics, and to long-term outlook is less positive.
CEERP is based within the Institute of Petroleum Engineering at Heriot-Watt University, but forms a key point of support and collaboration among the Universitys Schools with affiliates from the School of Energy, Geoscience, Infrastructure, and Society: School of Social Sciences: and The increasing policy stance to limit global Over the longer term, however, current 4 the Energy Academy as well as honorary temperature rise creates considerable estimates are that already discovered academics outwith the University.
uncertainty over the long term, but the fossil fuel reserves would produce almost medium-term effect is muted.
The key three times more carbon than permissible target date of the Paris agreement is under the scenario for a maximum 2C 2030, but IHS estimates suggest that of global warming.
This implies that 80% of the market value of the large a significant proportion will remain international oil companies results from unexploited, or unexploitable the the proved reserves to be produced in problem of the stranded asset.
Similarly, these oil much debate has focused on the global companies control a minority of world oil energy mix required to meet the COP21 reserves, with an average , the real complexity for policy reserves ratio of 13 years as compared to makers will lie in the inherent tension 3 a global average of 50 years.
Therefore, between these objectives and the role 1 BP Energy Outlook 2035, January 2017. the main production and value proposition that fossil fuel extraction and consumption 2 IHS Energy, Do Investments in Oil and Gas of these oil and gas companies lies within can play in the economic growth of Constitute Systemic Risk?, October 2016. the transition period to a low carbon future developing countries.
3 Stevens, P. International Oil Companies rather than after it.
The Death of the OId Business Model, Chatham House, May 2016, page 24.
4 McGlade, C & Elkins, P. The geographical distribution of fossil fuels unused when limiting global warming to 2C, Nature, Vol.
