Strategic Report Key Performance Indicators 2016 2016 Key Performance Indicators KPIs Cairn has both financial and non-financial KPIs in place which are used to monitor progress in delivering the Groups strategy.
The 2016 KPIs, which were set out on page The final scoring of the 2016 KPIs was made 24 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2015, at the Remuneration Committee meeting in related to delivering exploration and appraisal March 2017 and subsequently approved by success, portfolio management, delivering the Board.
operational excellence, maintaining licence to operate and delivering a sustainable business.
Strategic objective: Deliver exploration and appraisal success Purpose Grow the resources and reserves base to provide a basis for future growth KPI Remuneration 2016 KPI and measurement 2016 performance Committee decision Progress the Senegal SNE discovery through the Four wells successfully drilled and evaluated on the SNE Substantially prudent investment of capital funds, fide-risking field for a cost within the original three well budget: achieved the path to commerciality in a cost-effective Net resources upgraded from 155.1 mmboe to 201.4 mmboe and timely manner.
at year-end: 2C resource valuation: P10 P90 gross resources ratio narrowed: 3C 1C ratio: E&A investment level at $4 bbl.
Cumulative E&A investment divided by the 2C resources US$ bbl.
Read more: CEOs Review 14 on P14-21 Invest in exploration opportunities with due Bellatrix-1 dual-target exploration and appraisal well Not achieved consideration to finding efficiency.
was unsuccessful at primary target but discovered gas Invest E&A funds within budgetary guidance to in shallower horizons: add new volumes at industry leading finding costs.
Laverda exploration well encountered 13ft net oil pay in a single Tay sand with recoverable P50 volumes estimated at between 2 and 3 mmbbls.
The deeper Fulmar play was dry: Farm-in to the Aurelia prospect in Barents Sea.
The well failed on reservoir quality and hydrocarbon type.
Read more: CEOs Review 14 on P14-21 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 34 Strategic objective: Portfolio management Purpose Active portfolio management and acreage optimisation KPI Remuneration 2016 KPI and measurement 2016 performance Committee decision Develop an inventory of exploration and appraisal Awarded seven blocks, including two as operator, in the 2016 Partially opportunities, including prospects and leads which APA offshore Norway : achieved meet Cairns technical and commercial criteria Award of one licence option in 2015 Atlantic Margin Oil and and can provide drilling opportunities for the Gas Exploration Licensing Round in the Porcupine Basin, period 2017 onwards.
offshore Ireland: Mature a minimum of four new independent drill-ready prospects which meet investment criteria and which Target of securing maturing four or more new independent could be considered for drilling in 2016 or 2017. opportunities that met our investment criteria was not achieved.
Read more: CEOs Review 14 on P14-21 Strategic objective: Deliver operational excellence Purpose Deliver operational excellence in all 2016 activities KPI Remuneration 2016 KPI and measurement 2016 performance Committee decision Deliver all operated and non-operated E&A projects Four wells successfully drilled and evaluated on the SNE field Substantially technical studies, surveys and seismic on schedule for the original budgeted price of three: achieved and budget, with full data recovery.
Sangomar-Rufisque 3D seismic on schedule for delivery in Projects and products delivered to the quality required, Q12017: on schedule and within budget.
Boujdour Maritime 3D seismic completed: Final interpreted volumes for the Horda 3D in Norway and the West of Kraken 3D in UK completed.
Read more: CEOs Review on P14-21 14 and Financial Review on P48-51 Progress North Sea development projects, Kraken development remains on schedule with first oil Substantially on time and budget.
The latest capex estimate is over achieved Ensure projects remain within capital guidance and 10% lower than the sanction estimate US$300m : first oil schedule remains within base case estimates Key milestones on Kraken set for 2016 have been with key milestones met.
accomplished including the completion of four producer and four injector wells: full subsea installation: safety case approval: and the FPSO sail-away from the shipyard in Singapore for UK waters: Operator is targeting first oil in H2 2017 on Catcher: Significant progress has been made on Catcher including the completion of eight wells with further drilling ongoing: substantial completion of the offshore installation: and the FPSO hull has been delivered and fabrication of the topside modules is progressing well: Provided input and assurance to Operator on concept selection decision on Skarfjell.
Read more: CEOs Review on P14-21 14 and Financial Review on P48-51 35 Strategic Report Key Performance Indicators continued 2016 continued Strategic objective: Maintain licence to operate Purpose Deliver value in a safe, secure and environmentally and socially responsible manner KPI Remuneration 2016 KPI and measurement 2016 performance Committee decision Minimise injuries and environmental incidents TRIR of 1.04: Partially in 2016 operated activities: achieved Approximately 1 bbl of oil was released to the environment Total Recordable Injury Rate TRIR target during testing of SNE appraisal wells in Senegal.
of less than 2.0 TRI million hours.
Read more: Working Responsibly No oil spills to the environment.
52 on P52-71 Achieve targets for HSE leading performance Improvements made to the CRMS with revision of Substantially indicators LPIs linked to elements of the HSE CR policies, emergency and business continuity plans achieved culture framework.
and travel risk assessments, security and support: Progress against HSE LPIs.
OSPAR reverification completed without issue: Further embedding of HSE culture and behaviours.
Work ongoing on HR People Management Manual and roll out of management training.
Read more: Working Responsibly 52 on P52-71 Strategic objective: Deliver a sustainable business Purpose Maintain a self-funding business plan KPI Remuneration 2016 KPI and measurement 2016 performance Committee decision Maintain liquid reserves including undrawn Funding headroom cushion maintained at all times: Substantially committed banking facilities to meet planned achieved Significant cost reductions or deferrals achieved from original funding commitments plus a cushion at all times.
2016 work programme will allow enlarged drilling programme Development of a funding strategy to ensure ability and pursuit of new venture opportunities to be fully funded.
to execute value-generative plan, maintaining liquid reserves to meet planned commitments whilst Read more: Financial Review retaining a funding cushion.
48 on P48-51 Make tangible progress on Cairn India Limited Statement of claim submitted on schedule: Substantially CIL shares freeze by progress of action under achieved Indias statement of defence submitted in February 2017: the UK-India Investment Treaty.
Milestones in the arbitration including filing of the Agreement of Indian tax office in December 2016 that Statement of Claim and Indias filing of its Statement dividends are not restricted.
Read more: Financial Review 48 on P48-51 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 36 Key Performance Indicators continued 2017 2017 Key Performance Indicators KPIs The 2017 Group KPIs in the table below were set by the Board in December 2016 and are based on the Groups current portfolio, prospects and objectives set out in the 2017 Business Plan.
Strategic objective: Deliver exploration and appraisal success Purpose Grow the resources and reserves base to provide a basis for future growth Objective 2017 KPI Risks to the achievement of KPI Maximise value Safely, cost effectively and successfully drill, evaluate and flow test Exploration and appraisal in Senegal appraisal wells on the SNE field in Senegal to allow preparation of Operational and project performance the Evaluation Report and update our estimate of resources and capital required to develop the field in a timely manner.
Political and fiscal uncertainties Achieve exploration Efficiently discover commercial quantities of hydrocarbons through Reliance on JV operators for asset performance success through maturation and drilling of select exploration and appraisal wells Staff recruitment and retention discovery or addition across the portfolio.
of commercial Read more: How We Manage Risk 39 hydrocarbons in 2017 Measured by: new commercial discoveries based on 2C resources on P39-47 found: cumulative net volumes found versus group target: and finding efficiency expressed in US$ bbl versus industry benchmarks.
Strategic objective: Portfolio management Purpose Active portfolio management and acreage optimisation Objective 2017 KPI Risks to the achievement of KPI Portfolio optimisation Develop an inventory and timeline of exploration and appraisal Securing new venture opportunities and replenishment opportunities which meet Cairns technical and commercial criteria.
Access to internal or external funding Measured by increasing the prospect inventory by securing or Sustained low oil and gas price volatility maturing new independent opportunities from within or outwith our portfolio.
Read more: How We Manage Risk 39 on P39-47 37 Strategic Report Key Performance Indicators continued 2017 continued Strategic objective: Deliver operational excellence Purpose Deliver operational excellence in all 2017 activities Objective 2017 KPI Risks to the achievement of KPI Successfully Successfully progress our development and production projects Delay in Kraken and Catcher production complete operated against key milestones including, as appropriate, capex, opex and start-up schedule and non-operated sales volume targets.
Operational and project performance 2017 work programme Reliance on JV operators for asset performance Staff recruitment and retention Read more: How We Manage Risk 39 on P39-47 Strategic objective: Maintain licence to operate Purpose Deliver value in a safe, secure and environmentally and socially responsible manner Objective 2017 KPI Risks to the achievement of KPI Deliver activities with Achieve leading HSSE indicators linked to four categories within the Health, safety, environment and security a focus on the safety Groups Corporate Responsibility Management System Business Stakeholder reaction to operations of people and the Relationships, Society & Communities, People and the Environment.
environment Fraud, bribery and corruption Achieve lagging HSSE indicators linked to the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers IOGP targets and guidelines.
Staff recruitment and retention Investing in People & Systems.
Read more: How We Manage Risk 39 on P39-47 Strategic objective: Deliver a sustainable business Purpose Maintain a self funding business plan Objective 2017 KPI Risks to the achievement of KPI Manage balance Develop and implement a funding strategy that allows a value Political and fiscal uncertainties sheet strength generative plan to be executed and ensures a minimum headroom Delay in Kraken and Catcher production cushion from existing sources of funding is maintained.
start-up schedule Make tangible progress under the UK-India bilateral treaty arbitration.
Access to internal or external funding Sustained low oil and gas price Restriction on ability to sell CIL shareholding Read more: How We Manage Risk 39 on P39-47 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 38
