Strategic Report Cairn in the UK & Norway Nearing production and cash flow When the Kraken development comes on stream in 2017, it will be the culmination of a project that began more than 30 years ago.
Dave Beck, Cairns Development Manager, explains some of the history behind the Kraken development and Cairns role in bringing it on stream.
Operator, EnQuest: Cairn 29.5% Working Interest.
Tell us about the history of exploration company, Nautical Petroleum, How did Cairn get involved the Kraken development.
in Kraken and what is your role?
The field was first discovered by Nautical farmed out a majority stake in the Occidental Petroleum in 1985, but it was Nautical drilled the first new appraisal project to EnQuest in 2012, and later the by accident rather than by design.
That was a success but was same year, Nautical itself was acquired by not the discovery they were chasing.
followed by another one that was not.
I think Cairn, which assumed its stake and became Occidental were targeting something that was the point when there was doubt a partner working with EnQuest, as operator, deeper and drilled through the shallower about whether Kraken could be developed, to develop the project.
Kraken discovery while looking for it.
Their but we went ahead and drilled a further target turned out not to be there and so two appraisal wells with side tracks of both.
As Cairn is non-operator, my role is to the well was abandoned.
This was a time Fortunately, those were very successful protect our investment and to make sure when companies were looking for the and proved to us that the field could be that Cairns interests are aligned with big, easy discoveries and heavy oil was commercial, and could be profitably and the operator.
In practice that means considered difficult.
collaborating with them, discussing options and priorities, making sure that More recently a combination of By this time, the technology that the industry the development and the construction fiscal incentives by the government to had access to had moved on significantly of the FPSO Floating Production Storage encourage investment and activity on and with most of the bigger fields already and Offloading vessel in Singapore is smaller licences in the UK North Sea as operating, there was a lot more focus on proceeding well and according to schedule.
well as the development of new industry other overlooked parts of the North Sea technology have made the Kraken project where there had been significant finds very attractive and resulted in a small in the past.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 22 What have been some of the greatest What is the significance of Kraken to How does Kraken compare to other challenges in bringing Kraken on stream?
Cairn and to the UK Continental Shelf?
developments that you have worked on?
One of the greatest challenges for the Kraken sits in the East Shetland basin, I am a petroleum engineer by profession and project was the development of the FPSO, approximately 125 km east of the Shetland have been in the industry for more than 30 the Armada Kraken.
Each vessel is made Islands, and it is currently one of the biggest years.
During that time I have worked on bespoke to the field and the conditions it will developments in the UK North Sea.
The developments as far afield as Syria, Ukraine, be operating in and each is a fantastic feat of project features 25 wells on the seabed in Kazakhstan, Sakhalin, and Venezuela.
Making sure we got that right four clusters, which will collectively pump the striking things about working back in the was a key part of the development.
around 50,000 barrels of oil per day to the UK has been the stringent regulations and FPSO at peak production.
That will present a the resources available that ensure such The Kraken vessel will be one of the largest significant contribution to UK oil production, developments meet strict health, safety operating in the North Sea, with 90 beds and currently running at around 750,000 barrels and environmental requirements.
around 60 crew members aboard at any one of oil per day.
The vessel, When the project comes on stream, there which has already left the yard in Singapore Its a shallow reservoir, which means the will be a feeling of pride in a job well done.
where it was built, will remain in the same pressure is relatively low.
Thats why this Of all the people currently working on the spot for the whole 25-year life of the Kraken will be only the second field in the world to project, Im the one who has been on it the field until all the recoverable oil has been use hydraulic submersible pumps.
To add to longest, so yes it will be a real achievement extracted.
The vessel can store 600,000 that, when completed it will be the first fully when the project is completed.
barrels of oil in its tanks at a time, ready for subsea heavy oil development anywhere in onward transportation once at capacity.
What are the next big opportunities in the North Sea?
The field will also have a meaningful Im confident in the future prospects for economic impact.
It is estimated that the the North Sea.
There are plenty of areas Kraken development will support more particularly in the Norwegian North Sea than 20,000 UK jobs during the construction and in the Barents that are underexplored.
period of the project and an average of There is still a lot to play for.
K raken is currently approximately 1,000 operational jobs in the UK for each year of the projects 25-year life.
one of the biggest developments in the UK North Sea.
