Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Business model and strategy Business model Caledonia is a self-managed investment We aim to deliver long term growth to both shareholder capital trust company with net assets of and income by investing in a balanced, risk managed range of asset classes, across diversified sectors and regions.
Our heritage can be traced established businesses, where return on capital employed is a back to the shipping empire established differentiator of longer term performance and where underlying real assets provide risk mitigation to the balance sheet.
We use by Sir Charles Cayzer in 1878. gearing judiciously and focus it within the Unquoted pool, where We have the backing of the Cayzer the investment case includes strong cash generation to support a resilient repayment plan.
Our Funds pool targets investments that family, which owns some 48.5% of employ little or no gearing in structuring their returns.
the share capital and provides both We have funding flexibility, through a 125m revolving credit facility in the company, which is used to mitigate any short term illiquidity support for our long term value within the portfolio, facilitating the bridging of short term investment horizon and a foundation investment flows.
We also have a 50m revolving credit facility in a subsidiary treasury company.
to our culture of conservative Our business model has been tested over many years to deliver generational wealth management.
long term growth in capital and an increasing annual dividend to shareholders.
Pools of capital We manage our portfolio through distinct pools of capital, each headed by an experienced, specialist investment executive.
Each pool invests to achieve differentiated capital and income returns, combining to provide a balanced total return for Caledonia.
The Quoted pool focuses on identifying opportunities to build meaningful positions in long term value businesses.
The Income & Growth pool provides an exposure to global companies offering higher dividend yield and dividend growth expectations.
This pool provides both a reliable platform for our overall income requirements and a source of readily accessible liquidity.
The Unquoted pool targets direct majority, and in exceptional cases minority, stakes in private companies, where an opportunity exists to partner a strong management team with capital, without the traditional restrictions of short term private equity financing.
We take board seats in all significant private company investments.
The Funds pool contains investments in both private equity and quoted market funds, providing Caledonia with diversified overseas reach in areas where our investment model would make direct investing more difficult to manage.
The Funds pool is primarily focused on investment in North America and Asia.
Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc 7 PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Business model and strategy continued Investment principles The key principles we apply in building and financing our portfolio are: Principles Where we are now We allocate our capital predominantly amongst quoted equities, Strategic Allocation allocation 2016 private companies and funds.
We identify a strategic allocation Pool Investment style % % range to each of these classes commensurate with our overall Quoted Large equity holdings in 25-40 27 risk return objectives.
These allocation ranges are reviewed high quality companies regularly to ensure they remain consistent with our strategy Income & Growth Global equity portfolio, 15-20 12 and market conditions.
4.5% net yield Unquoted 8-10 direct stakes in private 35-45 39 companies 25m Funds Private equity and quoted 15-20 19 market funds US and Asia focus Cash and other 10 -10 3 Net assets 100 We look to achieve a diverse investment portfolio, managed Pool distribution Business sector distribution through distinct investment pools.
Consumer Quoted Industrial We achieve geographic exposure outside the UK through the Income & Growth Financials global reach of our direct investments and particularly in Asia Unquoted Funds Funds TMT and North America through the Funds pool.
Cash and other Other Overall exposures to geography, currency and asset classes are Cash and other actively monitored and managed by our executive management, Currency distribution Geographic distribution under the supervision of the board.
The portfolio is further diversified through investing in international companies with revenues generated throughout the world.
Pound sterling United Kingdom US dollar Europe Euro North America Asia Other currencies We have a concentrated investment portfolio, but look to mitigate Investment concentration concentration risk by managing the value of an investment in any % 31 March 2016 31 March 2010 one company to less than 10% of our net asset value and will look 100 for appropriate market opportunities to recycle value throughout the portfolio to achieve this in an appropriate timeframe.
In recent 67 years, our investment concentration has reduced.
33 0 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 Cumulative number of investments We maintain portfolio liquidity to provide both risk mitigation Portfolio liquidity and increased flexibility in opportunistic markets.
% 31 March 2016 31 March 2010 75 Our portfolio is focused on large, established businesses.
Investments in the Quoted and Income & Growth pools can 50 be realised quickly to provide liquidity when required.
25 0 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 Months We maintain borrowing facilities primarily to provide additional temporary liquidity between buying and selling investments.
We would not expect gearing to exceed 10% of net assets.
8 Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan:  281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Investment process Our investment process is built from a disciplined series of steps, individual investments and the portfolio as a whole are periodically leveraging Caledonias reputation and the experience of our measured against a number of risk control metrics, including investment team.
We look to identify long term value through each concentration, liquidity, volatility and sector and geographical stage, including sourcing opportunities and initial reviews, through diversity.
In addition, we ensure that we have formal representation due diligence, approval and deal execution.
The performance of on the boards of all our core private company investments and, our investments is subject to a formal review process and both where we have a significant holding, some listed investments.
Identify best opportunities We adopt a disciplined process of research and due diligence to identify value Attract preferential deal flow Make significant investments opportunities in well-managed, long term Our reputation, network of deal originators We invest directly in both listed and unlisted businesses with established business and family tradition enable us to access opportunities around the world.
Our models and strong cash flows.
Such premium investment opportunities not minimum investment size is 10m and we opportunities are typically not reliant on always available to others.
This derives from aim to invest between 25m and 100m for leverage for returns and offer long term both tracking quality management teams in significant equity interests in companies.
proven businesses and through the contacts we make through our extensive board representation network.
Identify best opportunities Attract preferential Make significant deal flow investments The Caledonia team At its heart, our investment process is focused on recruiting and retaining high quality investment executives to maintain deal flow and investment continuity, who understand and are able to execute Develop business Manage and Caledonias investment philosophy.
network support investees Monitor and Manage and support investees Develop business network control risk We manage our investments as pools Maintaining our reputation as a supportive of capital, focusing ownership and and  long term responsibility on our executive team.
investor enables us to develop our network Monitor and control risk Where we take a board seat, we can both of contacts, who will give us priority Individual investments and the investment actively monitor the development of our consideration when new deal portfolio as a whole are monitored for risk investment and contribute long term opportunities arise.
is given to concentration exposure, volatility levels, liquidity and geographical and industry sector diversity.
Private company performance is closely monitored through monthly reporting of key metrics.
Target returns Our investment approach is aimed at delivering high single digit We target real return and the chart below shows Caledonias total annual returns, over rolling ten year periods.
This investment annualised ten year rolling net asset value total return growth, horizon provides the time frame for businesses to grow and compared with the FTSE All-Share Total Return index.
accumulate value in a controlled manner, within both the public and private markets, whilst mitigating some of the volatility inherent Annualised ten year rolling performance in short term trading investment strategies.
Caledonia NAVTR FTSE All-Share TR % 15 Over rolling ten year periods, we believe such an investment approach both optimises risk return characteristics and 10 outperforms most markets.
Over a ten year investment horizon, we target a sustainable annual yield from portfolio assets, providing 5 a balance to total return between income and capital appreciation.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016
