Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Board of directors 1 2 3 4 5 1 3 5 Rod Kent Stephen King David Stewart Chairman Finance Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed a non-executive director of He joined Caledonia in 2009 as Finance Appointed a non-executive director of Caledonia in 2011 and Chairman in 2012, Director.
He was Group Finance Director Caledonia in 2015, he is a member of the he is also Chairman of the Nomination of fide La Rue from 2003 to 2009, prior to Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
He was Managing Director which he was Group Finance Director of Committees.
Having begun his career at of Close Brothers Group for 28 years until Midland Electricity and before that held Swire Pacific in 1981, he joined James Capel 2002 and then a non-executive director senior financial positions at Seeboard, in 1986 and then Fidelity Investments in and later Chairman from 2006 until 2008.
He is currently 1995, where he was Head of Emerging His non-executive roles have included the a non-executive director and Chairman Markets and subsequently European Chairmanships of M&G Group, Bradford of the Audit Committees of Bristow Group President.
From 2005 until 2013, he was & Bingley and BT Pension Trustees, Senior and TT Electronics and is a Fellow of the Chief Executive Officer of Odey Asset Independent Director of Whitbread and Institute of Chartered Accountants in Management before assuming a nona Governor of the Wellcome Trust.
executive director role until 2014. currently Chairman of the Trustees of He is currently Chairman and co-founder of Mr King brings to the board extensive Calthorpe Estates.
IMM Associates and Chairman of Hermes financial oversight and risk management Investment Management.
Mr Kent brings to the board considerable experience.
senior board level experience and detailed Mr Stewart brings to the board extensive knowledge of banking, corporate finance 4 experience of international business and and asset management.
Jamie Cayzer-Colvin asset management, both in the UK and in Executive Director Asia and emerging markets.
2 He joined the Caledonia group in 1995, Will Wyatt initially working at its Amber speciality Chief Executive chemicals subsidiary before becoming an He joined the Caledonia group in 1997 from investment executive at Caledonias head Close Brothers Corporate Finance, working office in 1999.
He was appointed a director at Sterling Industries before transferring in 2005 and has held board positions at to Caledonias head office in 1999 as an numerous Caledonia investee companies.
He was appointed a He is currently Chairman of The Henderson director in 2005 and Chief Executive in 2010 Smaller Companies Investment Trust and and is also a member of the Nomination a non-executive director of Polar Capital Committee.
He has held board positions Holdings.
at numerous Caledonia investee companies Mr Cayzer-Colvin brings to the board broad and is currently a non-executive director senior management experience and of Cobehold and Real Estate Investors.
He is also a trustee of the Rank Foundation and a director of Newmarket Racecourses.
Mr Wyatt brings to the board corporate finance and investment expertise, broad senior management experience and team leadership skills.
26 Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan:  281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information 6 7 8 9 10 6 8 10 Stuart Bridges Harold Bol Shonaid Jemmett-Page Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed a non-executive director of A Belgian national, he was appointed a Appointed a non-executive director of Caledonia in 2013, he is Chairman of the non-executive director of Caledonia in Caledonia in 2015, she is a member of the Audit Committee and a member of the 2014 and is a member of the Audit and Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Governance and Nomination Committees.
She spent the first 20 years of A chartered accountant, he is Group Finance sciences engineer by training, he has been her career at KPMG in London and Tokyo, Director of ICAP, which he joined in 2015 Chief Executive Officer of Sofina, a quoted rising to the position of Partner, Financial after some 16 years as Chief Financial Belgian financial holding company, since Services.
In 2001, she moved to Unilever, Officer of Hiscox.
Prior to Hiscox, he held 2008, prior to which he held a number of where she was Senior Vice President, positions in various financial services operational and managerial roles within Finance and Information for Asia, based companies in the UK and US, including Corus, now part of Tata Steel.
He is a in Singapore, before returning to the UK Henderson Global Investors.
He is a member non-executive director of Suez as Finance Director for Unilevers global of the Audit Committee of the Institute Environnement Company and bioMrieux, non-food business.
In 2009, she joined CDC of Chartered Accountants in England and in which Sofina has interests.
Group as Chief Operating Officer, a position Wales and of the Finance Committee of she held until 2012.
Since then, she has Mr Bol brings to the board industrial The Royal Institution.
focused on non-executive appointments and investment experience, particularly in and is currently Non-executive Chairman Mr Bridges brings to the board a wide Europe, as well as a deep understanding of Origo Partners, Deputy Chairman of knowledge of both the insurance and of the management dynamics of familyMS Amlin and a non-executive director investment markets, as well as financial controlled businesses.
of GKN and Greencoat UK Wind.
9 Mrs Jemmett-Page brings to the board 7 Charles Gregson extensive financial oversight and The Hon Charles Cayzer Senior Independent Non-Executive international business experience, in Non-Executive Director Director particular in the Far East.
Having gained experience of merchant Appointed a non-executive director of banking, commercial banking and corporate Caledonia in 2009, he is Chairman of the and project finance with Baring Brothers, Governance and Remuneration Committees Cayzer Irvine and Cayzer Ltd, he was and a member of the Nomination appointed an executive director of Committee.
He spent his business career at Caledonia in 1985, becoming non-executive United Business Media and its predecessor in 2012.
He is a member of the Nomination companies in a number of divisional and Committee, Chairman of The Sloane Club head office roles and has served on a and Senior Independent Non-Executive number of boards in the financial service Director of LondonMetric Property.
In the sector, including St Jamess Place, Provident past he has held board positions at Financial, MAI and International Personal numerous Caledonia investee companies.
Finance, and in the media sector, including United Business Media and PR Newswire The Hon C W Cayzer brings to the board Europe.
He is currently non-executive broad commercial experience and also Chairman of ICAP and a non-executive extensive knowledge of the commercial director of Non-Standard Finance.
Mr Gregson brings to the board extensive senior board level experience, as well as experience of managing relationships with the media, regulators and the institutional investor community.
Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc 27 PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan:  281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016
