Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Remuneration policy Introduction Objectives Set out below are the material elements of the directors remuneration The key objectives of the Remuneration Committee in setting the policy which was approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting companys remuneration policy are as follows: of the company held on 17 July 2014.
The policy came into effect on that remuneration of executive directors should be linked to the companys date and is next due to be put for approval by shareholders in 2017, unless long term performance and its business strategy the Remuneration Committee wishes to implement any changes earlier.
performance related remuneration should seek to align the interests There have been no changes to the policy since its implementation and of executive directors with those of the shareholders the extracts shown below are for information only and to provide context a significant proportion of executive directors remuneration should for the 2016 annual report on directors remuneration which follows.
The be linked to the performance of the company and only receivable if performance conditions for the deferred bonus plan and the performance demanding performance targets are achieved share scheme described in the policy table and the notes thereto have been updated to reflect the new performance measures adopted by remuneration packages for executive directors should be competitive, the Remuneration Committee since the original policy was approved.
but not excessive, in terms of market practice in order to attract, retain References to share awards held by executive directors at the date of and motivate executive directors of the quality needed to manage approval of the policy which have since been exercised have been and grow the company successfully.
removed and it has also been noted where share awards have met their performance targets since implementation of the policy.
The full directors remuneration policy is contained on pages 38 to 44 of the companys annual report 2014, which is available in the Literature section of Caledonias website at www.
Remuneration structure Executive directors The table below sets out Caledonias policy in relation to each component of executive director remuneration, with further explanations in the notes that follow.
Salary fixed pay Purpose and link to strategic objectives To support the recruitment and retention of executive directors of the calibre required to manage and grow the company successfully.
The basic salaries of the executive directors on implementation of the policy were as follows: W P Wyatt 506,480 J M B Cayzer-Colvin 303,890 S A King 359,380 The current salaries of the executive directors are set out in the Annual report on directors remuneration.
Opportunity and recovery or Salary increases are normally awarded by reference to any increase in the cost of living, but may take into withholding provisions account other factors such as external market positioning, change in the scope of the individuals responsibilities or level of experience, development in the role and levels of pay elsewhere in the company.
Other than in exceptional circumstances or where there is a change in role or responsibilities, year on year increases in basic salaries will not exceed inflation by more than 5%.
No recovery or withholding provisions.
Performance measurement framework Not applicable.
Benefits fixed pay Purpose and link to strategic objectives To provide a range of benefits alongside basic salary to recruit and retain high calibre executive directors.
Operation Executive directors are provided with family private medical insurance cover, death-in-service insurance, and permanent health insurance and, in the case of Mr Wyatt and Mr Cayzer-Colvin, a cash allowance in lieu of a company car.
They are also entitled to receive minor benefits that are available to other Caledonia staff.
The executive directors are also covered by the companys directors and officers liability insurance policy and have the benefit of an indemnity under the companys articles of association.
Where there is a valid business reason for doing so, the company may pay for the cost of spouses accompanying directors on business trips and reimburse directors for hotel accommodation and travel expenses including payment of any tax thereon.
Executive directors are also eligible to receive other minor benefits and expenses payments again including payment of any tax thereon.
Opportunity and recovery or A taxable benefits package that is competitive with the marketplace.
withholding provisions The value of taxable benefits provided, other than ad hoc items incurred in connection with Caledonias business that may be deemed taxable benefits such as travel and other expenses, will not in aggregate exceed 10% of basic salary.
Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc 37 PDF Page: v3 Caledonia PG37-39 New.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy Short term incentives variable pay Purpose and link to strategic objectives To reward performance on an annual basis against key financial, operational and individual objectives.
Operation Discretionary annual bonus scheme and deferred bonus plan under which a proportion of bonus may be compulsorily or voluntarily deferred into shares.
Opportunity and recovery or The maximum potential bonus is 100% of basic salary.
Any bonus over 50% of basic salary is compulsorily withholding provisions deferred into shares and up to half of any remaining cash bonus may be voluntarily deferred, each for a period of three years.
Shares derived from compulsory or voluntary deferral of bonus are matched on a one for one basis, subject to performance conditions as described under long term incentives below.
All bonus payments are subject to the overriding discretion of the Remuneration Committee, which also retains discretion to amend the proportions of bonus subject to compulsory or voluntary deferral or not to require or offer any deferral.
In order to be entitled to an annual bonus, an executive director must normally be in the groups employment and not under notice of termination either given or received at the time the bonus is paid.
The Remuneration Committee has the right to cancel or reduce any bonus compulsorily or voluntarily deferred into shares which have not yet vested in the circumstances described under long term incentives below.
Performance measurement framework By reference to a combination of company performance against external benchmarks and individual performance against personal objectives.
Executive directors with responsibility for pools of capital will have a proportion of bonus determined by reference to pool performance and objectives.
Long term incentives variable pay Purpose and link to strategic objectives To motivate executive directors to deliver long term shareholder value, thereby aligning the interests of management with those of shareholders.
To encourage long term retention of key executives.
Operation Caledonia operates a performance share scheme under which participants are awarded nil-cost options over the companys shares.
The performance share scheme replaced an executive share option scheme under which market value options were awarded to senior executives.
The last awards under the executive share option scheme were made in 2010, although Mr Wyatt and Mr Cayzer-Colvin retain options under this scheme which have yet to be exercised.
Under the companys deferred bonus plan, matching share awards are granted in respect of compulsory and voluntary deferral of pre-tax bonus.
The current deferred bonus plan replaced an earlier plan introduced in 2005 under which there are no matching share awards still outstanding.
Opportunity and recovery or The maximum value of nil-cost options that may be granted in any year under the performance share scheme withholding provisions rules is 200% of basic salary, although the companys policy is to grant annual awards of no more than 125% of basic salary.
Matching shares are granted on a one for one basis for shares derived from bonus deferral.
On exercise of nil-cost options or calling of matching share awards, participants will also receive an amount equivalent to the dividends and any associated tax credits that would have accrued on the shares during the relevant performance measurement period.
The Remuneration Committee has the right, in respect of awards granted after 1 April 2014, to cancel or reduce long term incentive awards which have not yet vested, in the event of a material misstatement of the companys financial results, miscalculation of a participants entitlement, individual misconduct or an event resulting in material loss or reputational damage to the company or any member of the group.
In the event of a change of control before the expiry of the performance measurement period of a long term incentive award, the vesting level of the award will be determined by the Remuneration Committee based on the extent to which the performance targets have been achieved and vested shares will then be scaled down to reflect the shortened measurement period.
The Remuneration Committee may modify such vesting levels if it considers that the performance target would be met to a greater or lesser degree at the testing date and or if the application of time pro rating would be inappropriate in the circumstances.
Performance measurement framework For Mr Wyatt and Mr King, nil-cost options awarded under the 2011 performance share scheme are subject to the performance, on an absolute basis, of the companys diluted net asset value per share on a total return basis NAVTR measured on an annualised basis over three or five years.
For Mr Cayzer-Colvin, the nil-cost options are subject to a combination of the performance of the companys NAVTR as above and the total returns achieved by the Funds pool, for which he is responsible, again measured on an annualised basis over three or five years.
Matching share awards granted under the deferred bonus plan are subject to the performance, on an absolute basis, of the companys NAVTR, measured on an annualised basis over three years.
The rules of each scheme provide discretion to the Remuneration Committee to amend the performance targets or impose different performance targets.
The performance targets for all outstanding options granted under the companys executive share option scheme have been met.
38 Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc PDF Page: v3 Caledonia PG37-39 New.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Pension related benefits fixed pay Purpose and link to strategic objectives To provide a means of retirement saving as part of a range of benefits alongside basic salary to recruit and retain high calibre executive directors.
Operation Executive directors are offered defined contribution funding, based on a percentage of salary, to a personal pension scheme or a cash salary supplement or a combination of both at their choice.
Opportunity and recovery or The percentage of basic salary for the Chief Executive is 22.5% and for other executive directors 17.5%.
If a withholding provisions director chooses to take a cash supplement in lieu of some or all of his or her pension entitlement, the payment is reduced by such amount as is necessary to make the cash supplement cost neutral for the company after taking into account National Insurance contributions.
The Remuneration Committee will retain the discretion to increase the percentage of salary relating to pension benefits from time to time in line with market conditions, up to a maximum of 30% of basic salary.
Performance measures and targets Long term incentive plans Annual bonus Performance share scheme For the Chief Executive and the Finance Director, a maximum of 50% of For nil-cost options granted prior to the 2014 financial year under the bonus is determined by reference to company performance and 50% by performance share scheme, one-third of the shares comprised in an reference to individual performance objectives.
For executive directors award were subject to a performance condition which compared the responsible for a specific pool of capital, 25% of bonus is determined by performance of Caledonias NAVTR against the FTSE Actuaries UK reference to the companys performance, 25% to pool performance, 35% Index-linked Gilts all stocks Total Return index Gilts index over three to pool objectives and 15% to individual performance objectives.
For the other two-thirds, NAVTR was measured against the FTSE cases, the company performance element is determined by reference to All-Share Total Return index FTSE index, also over three years.
Awards the relative performance of the companys NAVTR against RPI.
For bonus vested on a graduated basis, with 10% vesting on 0.5% outperformance of awards for the 2016 and subsequent financial years, RPI will be taken as the relevant benchmark, rising on a straight line basis to maximum vesting the higher of actual RPI over the bonus year or 3%, being broadly in line on 3.5% outperformance.
There was no re-testing of either performance with its historic long term average.
Bonus payments for this element target and, to the extent a performance target was not met, the relevant commence with a 10% pay-out if NAVTR matches RPI, increasing award would lapse.
For the purpose of calculating the performance incrementally to the maximum entitlement payable if outperformance of measures, averages of the companys NAVTR and the two benchmark 7% or more is achieved.
Pool performance is judged by the Remuneration indices over the three months prior to the start and end of the Committee by reference to the return achieved by the pool against a set performance period were used to reduce volatility.
To the extent that the target return and by objectives such as deal flow and delivery of portfolio performance targets were met, awards may be exercised between the strategy.
Individual performance is assessed by reference to personal date of vesting and the tenth anniversary of the date of grant, except that objectives set at the start of the year, including non-financial measures only two-thirds of the shares that have vested may normally be exercised such as risk management, marketing of the company, team leadership, after three years, with the remaining one-third normally becoming management skills and promotion of Caledonias corporate culture and exercisable after five years.
The nil-cost options granted in the 2013 image both internally and externally.
financial year were tested by reference to Caledonias NAVTR over the three years to 31 March 2015.
Maximum vesting was achieved against The Remuneration Committee retains discretion to amend or adopt both benchmark indices.
alternative annual bonus targets in order to achieve better alignment with the companys strategic objectives.
For nil-cost options granted in the 2014 financial year, the performance criteria were as above, except that one-half of the shares comprised in Compulsory and voluntary deferral of bonus an award would be measured against the Gilts index over three years and Shares comprised in a compulsory deferral will normally only vest if the the other half against the FTSE index over five years, with shares that vest director remains an employee of the Caledonia group for a three year in each case becoming exercisable immediately.
Those shares measured period commencing on the first day of the financial year in which the against the Gilts index were tested by reference to Caledonias NAVTR award is made.
performance for the three years to 31 March 2016 and achieved maximum vesting.
Shares comprised in a voluntary deferral are not subject to any conditions and will normally vest at the earlier of three years from the first day of For nil-cost options granted to Mr Wyatt and Mr King in the 2015 financial the financial year in which the award is made or the date that the director year and subsequently, awards will vest on a graduated basis, with vesting ceases to be an employee of the Caledonia group for any reason.
commencing at 10% on the achievement of an annualised NAVTR of 3%, rising incrementally to 100% vesting on achievement of an annualised NAVTR of 10%, measured over three and five years.
For Mr Cayzer-Colvin, who is head of the Funds pool, 60% of his performance share scheme awards will be measured against the annualised total returns achieved by the Funds pool, measured over three and five years.
Awards will similarly vest on a graduated basis, with vesting commencing at 10% on achievement of an annualised Funds pool total return of 6%, rising incrementally to 100% vesting on achievement of an annualised total return of 13.5%.
The remaining 40% of Mr Cayzer-Colvins performance share scheme awards will be measured against Caledonias NAVTR as above.
Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc 39 PDF Page: v3 Caledonia PG37-39 New.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy For nil-cost options granted in the 2015 financial year, one-half of the For awards under the performance share scheme and matching shares shares comprised in the awards will be measured over three years and under the deferred bonus plan, the Remuneration Committee has chosen one-half over five years.
For subsequent financial years, one-third will be Caledonias NAVTR on an annualised basis as the performance measured over three years and two-thirds over five years.
In all cases, measurement, as it believes that this is the most effective method of shares that vest will become immediately exercisable and will lapse aligning directors rewards with the long term strategic objective of the if not exercised within ten years of grant.
company of delivering annualised returns over rolling ten year periods of between RPI 3% and RPI 6%.
For Mr Cayzer-Colvin, the Remuneration Deferred bonus plan matching awards Committee believes that a significant proportion of his variable pay The performance targets for matching shares awarded under the should be weighted towards the annualised total return performance deferred bonus plan in the 2015 and prior financial years were the of the Funds pool of capital for which he is responsible and has therefore same as those described above for the nil-cost options granted under determined that 60% of his performance share scheme awards should the performance share scheme prior to the 2014 financial year, except be tested by reference to this.
that shares that vest can be called immediately following the end of the measurement period and will lapse if not called within twelve The targets for each component of the long term incentive plans have months thereafter.
been set by the Remuneration Committee with the aim of delivering increasing reward for greater outperformance.
The Remuneration Matching awards granted in the 2016 and subsequent financial years are Committee keeps these measures and the levels at which incremental subject to performance measurement by reference to Caledonias NAVTR and maximum entitlements are earned under review in order to ensure on an annualised basis over three years, with vesting commencing at 20% that they remain sufficiently challenging and aligned with the companys on achievement of an annualised NAVTR of 4%, rising incrementally to strategy and key performance indicators.
100% vesting on achievement of an annualised NAVTR of 10%.
Again, shares that vest can be called immediately following the end of the New components introduced into the new remuneration policy performance measurement period and will lapse if not called within There are no new components included in the above policy table which twelve months thereafter.
were not a part of the remuneration framework previously operated for executive directors by the company.
Rationale for choice of performance measures for the short and long term incentive plans Changes to components included in the previous remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee has chosen NAVTR as the basis of The only changes to the remuneration policy operated for the year to performance measurement for the company for both its short term 31 March 2013 were the adoption of RPI as the measure of the company and long term incentive arrangements as it regards this as the best performance element of the annual bonus scheme, the phased adoption indicator of the success or failure of management decisions in terms of a five year performance measurement period for a significant of creating value for the company.
proportion of awards under the companys performance share scheme and the introduction of malus provisions for long term incentive awards For the company performance element of the annual bonus scheme, the and bonus deferral.
board has taken the view that benchmarking against a stock market index or indices over a short period is not relevant given Caledonias long term Since its approval by shareholders at the 2014 annual general meeting, investment horizon and the nature of its portfolio.
The Remuneration there have been no changes to the policy, although new performance Committee has therefore instead chosen RPI as the comparator, as on measurement conditions for the performance share scheme and the this basis executives will only be rewarded to the extent that they are deferred bonus plan matching shares have been adopted within the able to deliver positive real returns for shareholders.
The Remuneration terms of the policy, as described above.
Committee will review the rate of increase in RPI at the start of each How the remuneration policy for executive directors relates financial year and may adjust the level of outperformance required for the to remuneration of Caledonia group employees generally incremental and maximum bonus payments in order to ensure that they Caledonias executive directors remuneration packages tend to be higher remain a fair measure of performance.
than those of other group employees, but also include a higher proportion of variable pay.
40 Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Chairman and non-executive directors The table below sets out each component of the Chairmans and the non-executive directors remuneration and the approach taken by the company in relation thereto.
Component Approach Chairmans and The Chairmans fee is determined by the Remuneration Committee and the non-executive directors fees are set by the board.
non-executive These are reviewed periodically taking into account the responsibilities and time commitments required and non-executive directors fees director fee levels generally.
The Chairman receives an annual fee, which includes his basic non-executive directors fee, but does not receive any other remuneration.
Non-executive directors receive basic fees, which are subject to an annual limit for non-executive directors ordinary remuneration contained in the articles of association, currently 350,000.
In addition, special fees are paid for the chairmanship and membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and also for the role of Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and chairman of the Governance Committee.
The fees of the Chairman and the non-executive directors on implementation of the policy were as follows: Chairman 184,500 Basic non-executive directors fee 39,900 Audit Committee chairman 5,600 Audit Committee member 2,300 Remuneration Committee chairman 4,900 Remuneration Committee member 1,600 Senior Independent Director Governance Committee chairman 5,100 The current fees paid to the Chairman and non-executive directors are set out in the Annual report on directors remuneration, but are unchanged from the above.
Additional fees payable Exceptionally, non-executive directors may receive fees from companies for services provided to them.
The Hon C W Cayzer for services to other receives such a fee, currently 60,000, for his chairmanship of The Sloane Club, a position which he held as an executive director group companies of Caledonia prior to becoming non-executive.
Fees for services provided to subsidiary companies are set and reviewed by the boards of those companies, but will not exceed 100,000 per annum in aggregate for any non-executive director.
Other benefits The Chairman and the non-executive directors are all covered under the companys directors and officers liability insurance policy and have the benefit of an indemnity under the companys articles of association.
The Chairman is also provided with an office and some secretarial support.
The company may, where appropriate, pay for the cost of spouses accompanying non-executive directors on trips where there is a business reason for doing so and reimburse non-executive directors for hotel accommodation and travel expenses in each case including payment of any tax thereon.
Remuneration policy for new appointments In order to attract and retain suitable executives, the Remuneration Executive directors Committee retains discretion, in exceptional circumstances, to offer In the case of the appointment of a new executive director, the service contracts with up to an initial 24 month notice period, which then Remuneration Committee would typically seek to align the remuneration reduces to 12 months at the end of this initial period.
If it considers it package with the above remuneration policy.
The Remuneration appropriate, the Remuneration Committee may also offer a lower salary Committee however retains the discretion to make special remuneration initially, but with a series of increases to achieve the desired salary commitments on the appointment of a new executive director, including positioning over a period of time, as the individual develops into the role.
the use of awards made under Rule 9.4.
2 of the Listing Rules, if such were If a new appointment is the result of an internal promotion, the absolutely necessary to ensure the recruitment of an exceptional Remuneration Committee would expect to honour any pre-existing candidate.
In doing so, the Remuneration Committee would take into contractual arrangements or benefits package agreed with the relevant consideration all relevant factors, including, but not limited to, overall individual.
In the event that a new director resides overseas, the quantum, type of remuneration offered and comparability with the Remuneration Committee may agree a reasonable relocation package packages of other Caledonia senior executives and the total variable pay and tax equalisation arrangements.
would not exceed the maxima stated in the policy table for executive director remuneration above.
In recruiting any new executive director, the Remuneration Committee would apply the overall policy objective that executive directors The Remuneration Committee may in addition make bonus commitments remuneration should be competitive, but not excessive.
In the event or share awards on the appointment of an external candidate to that the Remuneration Committee agreed that it was necessary for compensate for remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a special commitments or sign-on arrangements to be offered to secure previous employer, taking into account factors such as any performance the recruitment of a new executive director, an explanation of why conditions attached to these awards, the form in which they were these were required and details thereof would be announced at the granted, for example cash or shares, and the time over which they time of appointment.
The aim would be to ensure that replacement awards would be made on no greater than a comparable basis.
Chairman and non-executive directors Terms for the appointment of any new Chairman or non-executive director would also be determined by the Remuneration Committee or the board within the above remuneration policy.
Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc 41 PDF Page: v3 Caledonia PG41 New.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy Legacy arrangements Policy on external non-executive directorships held The policy is essentially forward looking in nature.
In view of the long term by executive directors nature of the companys remuneration structures including obligations It is the companys policy to allow executive directors to hold nonunder service contracts, pension arrangements and incentive schemes executive directorships unrelated to the companys business to broaden a substantial number of pre-existing obligations will remain outstanding their commercial experience, provided that the time required is not at the time that the new policy is approved, including obligations that material.
Normally the company will retain any fees arising from such are grandfathered by virtue of being in force at 27 June 2012.
It is the non-executive directorships, but may permit the executive director companys policy to honour in full any pre-existing obligations that have to retain fees on a case by case basis.
been entered into prior to the effective date of this policy.
Details of any fees from external non-executive directorships Executive directors service contracts and the Chairmans retained by executive directors are disclosed in the Annual report and non-executive directors letters of appointment on directors remuneration.
Executive directors Policy on payments for loss of office Executive directors have service contracts with Caledonia Group Services Executive directors Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company, details of which are It is the policy of the company that, other than in exceptional summarised below: circumstances on recruitment as stated above, no executive director should be offered a service contract that requires more than one years Notice period for the company Unexpired notice of termination or which contains provision for predetermined Date of contract and the director term compensation in excess of one years total emoluments.
In the event W P Wyatt 2 June 2005 12 months 12 months of a termination, the Remuneration Committee will consider a directors S A King 19 November 2009 12 months 12 months past performance and the circumstances of the departure in exercising J M B Cayzer-Colvin 19 April 2005 12 months 12 months any discretions relating to the arrangements for loss of office, including contractual obligations, prevailing best practice, the reason for the If notice is served by either party, the director can continue to receive departure and any transition or handover required.
basic salary, benefits and pension payments for the duration of the notice period, during which time the company may require the individual to The termination provisions in executive directors current service continue to fulfil his current duties or may assign a period of gardening contracts are described above in the section on executive directors leave.
Alternatively, the company may, in its discretion, terminate the service contracts.
It is the Remuneration Committees intention that all contract without notice and make a lump sum payment in lieu of notice.
future executive directors service contracts should include provisions This lump sum would include an amount equivalent to the basic salary enabling the company to reduce compensation payments in the event and benefits based on a fixed percentage of salary specified in the that the director takes up alternative employment within the notice service contract for the unexpired period of notice to which the payment period.
However, if a new director is appointed internally, the relates.
Mr Wyatts and Mr Cayzer-Colvins service contracts provide that Remuneration Committee would expect to honour any existing an amount equivalent to 80% of the average of the annual bonuses contractual arrangements agreed with the relevant individual before paid for the previous three financial years would also be included in the he or she becomes a director.
payment in lieu of notice.
Mr Wyatts and Mr Cayzer-Colvins service In applying the companys right to make a lump sum payment in lieu of contracts also include provisions whereby a liquidated sum is payable notice, the Remuneration Committee would normally expect to pro rate in the event of termination within one year following a change of control.
the lump sum for the unexpired period of notice to which the payment The payment would be calculated on the same basis as a payment in relates.
In appropriate circumstances, the Remuneration Committee may lieu of notice, except that an amount equivalent to 100% of the average make a payment in respect of the full twelve months notice period, even of the annual bonuses paid for the previous three financial years would if the director works under notice for part of it.
The companys annual bonus scheme provides that an employee must Mr Kings service contract contains provisions whereby, as an alternative be in the groups employment and not under notice of termination to the payment of a lump sum in lieu of notice, the company may elect either given or received in order to be entitled to receive a bonus for to pay the equivalent amount in equal monthly instalments, such the relevant financial year.
The Remuneration Committee would expect instalments to be reduced by 50% of one-twelfth of the basic salary in to apply this principle to executive director terminations, but retains excess of 20,000 per annum that Mr King receives from any alternative discretion to make bonus payments on termination if it believes it employment that he takes up during the notice period.
Executive directors service contracts may be terminated without notice Executive directors would also be entitled under their service contracts to and without any further payment other than in respect of amounts be paid on termination for any accrued, but untaken, holiday entitlement.
due at the date of termination on the occurrence of certain events such The Remuneration Committee may, where it considers it appropriate in as gross misconduct.
the circumstances, make payments for loss of statutory rights or waiver Chairman and non-executive directors thereof and a contribution towards legal and outplacement fees.
The The Chairman and the non-executive directors do not have service Remuneration Committee may also make a payment to ensure that any contracts, but are appointed under letters of appointment, which provide restrictive covenants remain enforceable.
for termination without notice or compensation.
Inspection Executive directors service contracts and the Chairmans and nonexecutive directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the registered office of the company.
42 Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Where the director holds unvested awards under the companys long term incentive schemes, the Remuneration Committee would exercise its discretions as to vesting in accordance with the relevant scheme rules.
In good leaver circumstances, for example where cessation of employment is by reason of death, retirement, injury, disability, ill-health, redundancy, or such other reason as the Remuneration Committee may decide, the Remuneration Committee will normally determine the level of vesting based on the attainment of the performance targets, either at the time of cessation or at the normal test date if permitted by the scheme rules, but in the case of the former may decrease or increase the level of vesting if the Remuneration Committee considers that the targets would have been met to a lesser or greater extent at the end of the performance period.
The number of shares that vest will normally be reduced to reflect the proportion of the performance period that the director was in employment, although the Remuneration Committee has discretion not to scale down the number of shares if it believes it appropriate in the circumstances.
Following termination, the Remuneration Committee may agree to pay a director consultancy fees and continue insurance related benefits until the end of the policy period.
The companys directors and officers liability insurance policy also provides for a six year period of run-off cover for former directors.
In limited circumstances, the company may permit a director to remain in employment after ceasing to be a director for a limited period to allow time for an effective handover or for a successor to be appointed.
Chairman and non-executive directors The Chairman and the non-executive directors have no entitlement to any compensation on termination of their appointments, although they would have the benefit of run-off cover under the directors and officers liability insurance policy as described above.
Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc 43 PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on directors remuneration The following report sets out details and explanations of remuneration paid to directors over the financial year to 31 March 2016 and describes how Caledonias remuneration policy will be implemented for the 2017 financial year.
Single total figure of remuneration for each director audited Executive directors The table below provides an analysis of total remuneration of each executive director for the financial year ended 31 March 2016 and a comparison with the previous financial year.
Taxable benefits The total bonuses awarded to Mr Wyatt, Mr King and Mr Cayzer-Colvin for the Taxable benefits comprised private medical insurance cover and a small Christmas year were therefore determined as follows: supplement paid to all Caledonia staff.
Mr Wyatts and Mr Cayzer-Colvins taxable W P Wyatt S A King J M B Cayzer-Colvin benefits also included a cash allowance of 15,024 in lieu of a company car.
Award Max Award Max Award Max In addition to taxable benefits, other non-taxable benefits were provided to % % % % % % executive directors, including death-in-service insurance 4x basic salary, permanent health insurance, directors and officers liability insurance and certain Performance other benefits of minor value provided to all of Caledonias staff.
Short term incentives Pool n a n a n a n a nil 25 In accordance with the rules of the companys deferred bonus plan, the following Objectives amounts included in the total of short term incentives were compulsorily deferred, Pool n a n a n a n a 33.25 35 satisfied by share awards made shortly after the announcement of the companys final results for the relevant year: Individual 45 50 45 50 15 15 Total 45 100 45 100 48.25 100 2016 2015 CompulCompul- 3.
Long term incentives sorily sorily The long term incentive awards whose performance measurement period ended deferred Cash Total deferred Cash Total during the year were all of the matching share awards granted in 2013 under the 000 000 000 000 000 000 companys deferred bonus plan and half of the awards granted in that year under the performance share scheme.
The vesting of the awards under the deferred W P Wyatt 230 230 253 253 506 bonus plan was dependent on the performance of the companys NAVTR over S A King 164 164 179 180 359 the three financial years ended 31 March 2016 measured against two separate J M B Cayzer-Colvin 148 148 152 152 304 performance benchmarks.
For two-thirds of the shares comprised in an award, Caledonias NAVTR was measured against the FTSE All-Share Total Return index For Mr Wyatt and Mr King, a maximum of 50% of bonus was determined by FTSE index and for the remaining one-third against the FTSE Actuaries UK reference to company performance and 50% by reference to individual Index-linked Gilts all stocks Total Return index Gilts index.
In each case, performance objectives.
For Mr Cayzer-Colvin, who has specific responsibility for vesting was on a graduated basis, with 10% vesting on achievement of 0.5% the Funds pool of capital, 25% of his bonus was determined by reference to the outperformance of the relevant benchmark index, rising on a straight line basis to companys performance, 25% to his pools performance, 35% to his pools 100% vesting on 3.5% outperformance of the relevant index.
For the purpose of objectives and 15% to individual performance objectives.
For the 2016 financial calculating the performance measures, averages of the figures for the companys year, the company performance element was determined by reference to the NAVTR and the two benchmark indices published over the three months prior to relative performance of the companys NAV per share on a total return basis the start and end of the performance period were used to reduce volatility.
Under NAVTR against the Retail Prices Index RPI, which for bonus purposes was the performance share scheme, half of the shares comprised in the awards granted taken as 3%, or actual RPI if greater, with bonus payments for this element in 2013 were to be measured against the Gilts index over three years and the commencing with a 10% pay-out if the companys NAVTR matched RPI, increasing otherhalf against the FTSE index over five years, with graduated vesting and use incrementally to the maximum entitlement payable if outperformance of 7% or of average figures being on the same basis as for the deferred bonus plan awards more was achieved.
Mr Cayzer-Colvins pool performance was assessed by as described above.
reference to the return achieved by the Funds pool over the year, with payments The companys NAVTR increased by 34.7% over the three year performance period, commencing on achievement of a total return of 6%, rising to a maximum pay-out compared with increases of 10.2% for the FTSE index and 19.8% for the Gilts index.
against a total return of 13.5% and pool objectives, by measures such as deal flow Accordingly, both of the performance targets for the deferred bonus plan matching and delivery of portfolio strategy.
Individual performance for each executive awards granted in 2013 and the Gilts index referenced performance share scheme director was assessed by reference to personal objectives set at the start of the awards granted in that year vested in full.
year, including non-financial measures such as risk management, marketing of the company, team leadership, management skills and promotion of Caledonias The amounts shown in the table above under long term incentives therefore corporate culture and image both internally and externally.
comprised the value of the vested deferred bonus plan matching awards and performance share scheme awards granted in 2013, based on the companys share The companys NAVTR was 2.6% over the year and therefore below the minimum price at 31 March 2016 of 2285p, together with the value of dividends and RPI target set by the Remuneration Committee of 3.0%.
Accordingly no bonus was associated tax credits that would have accrued on the vested shares during the awarded for the company performance related element.
The Fund pools return performance measurement period and also the value of dividend equivalents that over the year was 5.9%, below the minimum payment trigger of 6% and therefore would have accrued on the compulsory deferred bonus plan awards granted in no bonus was awarded to Mr Cayzer-Colvin for this element.
In recognition of the 2013, that gave rise to the matching share awards.
These are analysed as follows: continued progress made by the Funds pool in identifying, and gaining access to, high quality private equity funds in Asia and the US and building a pipeline of Value of potential new fund commitments, the Remuneration Committee awarded long term Value of Mr Cayzer-Colvin 33.25% out of a maximum 35% for attainment of his pool incentive dividend objectives.
Based on an assessment of their individual performance objectives over awards equivalents Total the year, the Remuneration Committee awarded Mr Cayzer-Colvin his maximum 000 000 000 bonus for that component of 15% and Mr Wyatt and Mr King 45% out of their W P Wyatt 696 90 786 maximum of 50%.
S A King 494 64 558 J M B Cayzer-Colvin 417 55 472 44 Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Chairman and non-executive directors Defined benefit Fees and other remuneration paid to the Chairman and the non-executive The Hon C W Cayzer has deferred pension entitlements under the directors during the year ended 31 March 2016 and the previous year Caledonia Pension Scheme, a defined benefit pension scheme.
He ceased were as follows: to be an active member of the scheme in December 2012 and therefore has not accrued any further pensionable service since then, nor have Fees any contributions been made on his behalf into the scheme.
The 2016 2015 Hon C W Cayzers normal retirement age is 60, however early retirement 000 000 can be taken from age 55 with the companys consent.
In such R D Kent 185 185 circumstances, the accrued pension would be reduced to take account 1 H Y H Bol of its early payment.
S J Bridges 46 46 Hon C W Cayzer 100 100 Details of The Hon C W Cayzers accrued pension benefits were as follows: C H Gregson 50 47 Row 4 S C R Jemmett-Page 31 ref 5 D C Stewart 44 2 Accrued pension at 31 March 2016 a 190,768 R B Woods 42 42 Accrued pension at 31 March 2015 b 184,434 1.
Mr Bol has waived his entitlement to all fees arising from his appointment.
Increase in accrued pension during the year c 6,334 2.
Mr Bridges non-executive directors fees were paid to Hiscox Group Underwriting Transfer value of accrued pension Services Ltd until his employment with Hiscox terminated on 31 August 2015. at 31 March 2016 d 3,840,816 3.
The Hon C W Cayzers fees for 2016 and 2015 included 60,000 paid by a subsidiary in respect of his services as Chairman of The Sloane Club.
Transfer value of accrued pension 4.
Mrs Jemmett-Page was appointed a director on 1 July 2015. at 31 March 2015 e 3,653,745 5.
Mr Stewart was appointed a director on 17 March 2015.
Change in transfer value over the year f 187,071 Total pension entitlements audited 1.
The accrued pensions shown in rows a and b represented the deferred pension Defined contribution that would be paid at normal retirement age, ignoring any revaluation.
The increase in accrued pension during the year shown in row c represented the increase in Pension benefits paid to executive directors during the year, either as deferred pension in accordance with the revaluation of pension provisions of the contributions to personal pension arrangements or as cash supplements, Caledonia Pension Scheme applicable to all deferred members.
The transfer values shown in rows d and e were the present values of the accrued pension revalued to normal retirement age and associated benefits at the relevant date.
Transfer values were calculated using the transfer value basis Pension Cash as determined by the trustees of the Caledonia Pension Scheme, which reflected contribution supplement Total market conditions at the relevant date.
The change in transfer value over the year shown in row f calculated as row d less row e, also reflected the impact on transfer values of factors beyond the W P Wyatt 101,141 100,139 101,141 100,139 control of the company and the directors, such as movements in financial markets.
These changes can cause transfer values at different points in time to fluctuate S A King 55,819 55,265 55,819 55,265 significantly.
Disclosed changes in transfer values may therefore be subject to a J M B Cayzerlarge degree of volatility and may even be negative.
In particular, the Caledonia Colvin 26,310 31,022 24,071 19,472 50,381 50,494 Pension Schemes transfer value assumptions have been updated to allow for changes in market conditions.
Scheme interests awarded during the financial year audited The table below sets out the awards made to each executive director during the year under the companys performance share scheme and share awards made under the deferred bonus plan.
Receivable if minimum Face value Shares performance End of 2 of award Share price comprised achieved performance 1 Scheme Type of award Basis of award 000 at grant in award % period W P Wyatt Performance Share Scheme Nil-cost option 125% of salary 640 2435p 26,260 10 31.03.20 Deferred Bonus Plan Compulsory award % of bonus in excess of 50% 253 2435p 10,400 100 31.03.18 Deferred Bonus Plan Matching award 1:1 253 2435p 10,400 10 31.03.18 Total scheme interests awarded 1,146 47,060 S A King Performance Share Scheme Nil-cost option 125% of salary 454 2435p 18,633 10 31.03.20 Deferred Bonus Plan Compulsory award % of bonus in excess of 50% 179 2435p 7,379 100 31.03.18 Deferred Bonus Plan Matching award 1:1 180 2435p 7,379 10 31.03.18 Total scheme interests awarded 813 33,391 J M B Cayzer-Colvin Performance Share Scheme Nil-cost option 125% of salary 384 2435p 15,756 10 31.03.20 Deferred Bonus Plan Compulsory award % of bonus in excess of 50% 152 2435p 6,240 100 31.03.18 Deferred Bonus Plan Matching award 1:1 152 2435p 6,240 10 31.03.18 Total scheme interests awarded 688 28,236 1.
The number of shares comprised in the awards under the performance share scheme and the deferred bonus plan was determined by reference to the companys share price at the time that the awards were made.
The performance targets for awards under the performance share scheme and matching awards under the deferred bonus plan are set out under the statement of directors share scheme interests below.
Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc 45 PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on directors remuneration External directorships For the Chief Executive, the minimum guideline shareholding has been set The table below sets out details of external directorships held by at 200% of basic salary and for other executive directors 150% of basic executive directors where it had been agreed that they could retain salary.
All of the executive directors have attained the minimum guideline the fees arising therefrom.
The values of the relevant shareholdings of each executive director as at 31 March 2016, calculated Fees by reference to Caledonias closing share price on that date of 2285p, and 2016 2015 the percentage level by which the value of the minimum guideline Name Position 000 000 shareholding has been achieved were as follows: S A King Non-executive director, TT Electronics plc 48 47 Value of Attainment of J M B CayzerNon-executive Chairman, shareholding guideline m % Colvin The Henderson Smaller W P Wyatt 25.8 2,522 Companies Investment Trust plc 33 29 S A King 1.1 193 J M B Cayzer-Colvin 9.2 1,978 Payments to past directors audited There were no payments made to former directors during the year.
Directors shareholdings Payments for loss of office audited The interests of the directors who served during the year and their There were no payments for loss of office made during the year to any connected persons in the ordinary share capital of the company as at director or former director.
31 March 2016 were as follows: Statement of directors shareholdings and scheme interests Beneficial Non-beneficial audited 1 1 2016 2015 2016 2015 No No No No Executive directors minimum shareholding guidelines In order to align the interests of executive directors with those of R D Kent 10,000 10,000 2 shareholders, the Remuneration Committee has adopted guidelines for W P Wyatt 1,083,654 1,060,365 28,418 28,293 minimum shareholdings, which executive directors will be expected to S A King 15,889 4,054 2 attain through the retention of all post-tax share awards vesting under the J M B Cayzer-Colvin 374,320 364,314 65,953 65,953 companys long term incentive plans until the minimum shareholding is H Y H Bol met.
For these purposes, shareholdings include those of connected S J Bridges 5,222 5,112 persons and also the value, net of any exercise costs, income tax and 2 Hon C W Cayzer 40,092 40,092 14,500 21,500 National Insurance contributions, of unexercised options granted under C H Gregson 610 610 the companys executive share option scheme and awards granted under 3 S C R Jemmett-Page its performance share scheme for which the performance targets have D C Stewart 4,072 been met.
Also included are bonuses deferred, compulsorily or R B Woods 2,000 2,000 voluntarily, under the companys deferred bonus plan and any uncalled bonus matching shares for which the performance targets have been 1.
Or date of appointment, if later.
Mr Wyatts beneficial interests included 972,066 shares 2015 953,066 shares met, again net of income tax and National Insurance contributions.
held by The Dunchurch Lodge Stud Company, a private family company controlled by Mr Wyatt and certain of his connected persons, and his 2015 beneficial interests included 9,000 shares in which The Hon C W Cayzer held a non-beneficial interest.
The Hon C W Cayzers beneficial interests included 4,200 shares 2015 4,200 shares in which Mr Wyatt and Mr Cayzer-Colvin had non-beneficial interests and his non-beneficial interests included 12,500 shares 2015 12,500 shares in which Mr Wyatt also had a non-beneficial interest.
Mrs Jemmett-Page was appointed a director on 1 July 2015.
On 1 April 2016, Mr Bridges acquired a further 87 shares in the company as a result of a standing election to reinvest dividends received on his shareholding.
There have been no other changes in the directors interests shown above notified up to the date of this report.
Directors share scheme interests The interests of directors as at 31 March 2016 in the share-based incentive schemes operated by the company are set out in the following table.
Unvested Share price Unvested with without at date performance performance Vested but of award conditions conditions unexercised Total W P Wyatt Executive share options Granted 29.05.09 exercise price: 1446p 1446p 12,707 12,707 12,707 12,707 Performance share scheme awards Granted 28.05.12 nil-cost 1267p 15,776 15,776 Granted 12.06.13 nil-cost 1802p 17,137 17,138 34,275 Granted 27.11.14 nil-cost 2294p 27,598 27,598 Granted 26.05.15 nil-cost 2435p 26,260 26,260 70,995 15,776 17,138 103,909 46 Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Unvested Share price Unvested with without at date performance performance Vested but of award conditions conditions unexercised Total Deferred bonus plan compulsory awards Granted 12.06.13 nil-cost 1802p 13,310 13,310 Granted 06.06.14 nil-cost 2186p 11,302 11,302 Granted 26.06.15 nil-cost 2435p 10,400 10,400 21,702 13,310 35,012 Deferred bonus plan matching awards Granted 12.06.13 nil-cost 1802p 13,310 13,310 Granted 06.06.14 nil-cost 2186p 11,302 11,302 Granted 26.06.15 nil-cost 2435p 10,400 10,400 21,702 13,310 35,012 Total share scheme interests 92,697 37,478 56,465 186,640 During the year, Mr Wyatt exercised executive share options and performance share scheme awards over a total of 38,342 shares at a pre-tax gain of 790,166.
Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc 47 PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on directors remuneration 1.
Performance conditions Performance graph of total shareholder return and Executive share option scheme table of Chief Executives total remuneration Options outstanding under the executive share option scheme have all met their The graph below shows the companys total shareholder return TSR performance targets.
against that of the FTSE All-Share Total Return index for the seven Performance share scheme Nil-cost options awarded under the performance share scheme on 28 May 2012 financial years ending on 31 March 2016.
TSR has been calculated and 12 June 2013 are subject to targets related to the companys NAVTR assuming that all dividends are reinvested on their ex-dividend dates.
The performance against two benchmark indices, the FTSE index and the Gilts index.
FTSE All-Share Total Return index has been chosen as it is the benchmark Awards vest on a graduated basis, with 10% vesting on 0.5% outperformance of the relevant benchmark, rising to maximum vesting on 3.5% outperformance.
There is by which the company measures its delivery of value over the longer no re-testing of either performance target and, to the extent that a performance term.
For comparison, the table below the graph shows the total target is not met, the relevant award will lapse.
For the purpose of calculating the remuneration received by the Chief Executive in each of the seven years performance measures, averages of the companys NAVTR and the two benchmark indices over the three months prior to the start and end of the performance period to 31 March 2016, prepared on the same basis as in the single total figure is used to reduce volatility.
To the extent that the performance targets are met, in the table on page 44, and the percentage of the maximum potential vested awards may be exercised between the date of vesting and the tenth short and long term incentives received in those years.
anniversary of the date of grant.
For nil-cost options granted on 28 May 2012, two-thirds of the shares comprised in an award were tested against the FTSE index and one-third against the Gilts index.
TSR growth over seven years In each case the performance period was a period of three years commencing with Caledonia TSR FTSE All-Share TR the financial year in which the awards are granted and both targets were met in full.
For the nil-cost options awarded on 12 June 2013, one-half of the shares comprised 250 in an award were measured against the Gilts index over three years and the other half against the FTSE index over five years.
The shares measured against the Gilts 200 index have met their target in full.
For nil-cost options granted to Mr Wyatt and Mr King on 27 November 2014 and 26 June 2015, shares will vest on a graduated basis, with vesting commencing at 150 10% if the company achieves an annualised NAVTR of 3%, rising incrementally to 100% vesting on achievement of an annualised NAVTR of 10%.
For Mr CayzerColvin, who is head of the Funds pool, 60% of his performance share scheme 100 awards granted on 27 November 2014 and 26 June 2015 will be measured against 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 the annualised total returns achieved by the Funds pool.
Awards will similarly vest on a graduated basis, with vesting commencing at 10% on achievement of an annualised Funds pool total return of 6%, rising incrementally to 100% vesting Year ended 31 March on achievement of an annualised total return of 13.5%.
The remaining 40% of Mr Cayzer-Colvins performance share scheme awards for these grants will be 2011 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 measured against Caledonias NAVTR as above.
For the nil-cost options granted on Chief T C W W P W P W P W P W P W P 27 November 2014, the relevant performance conditions will be tested over three Executive Ingram Wyatt Wyatt Wyatt Wyatt Wyatt Wyatt years for one-half of the shares comprised in an award and over five years for the other half of the shares comprised in an award.
For the nil-cost options granted on Total 26 June 2015, the relevant performance conditions will be tested over three years remunerfor one-third of the shares comprised in an award and over five years for the ation 000 215 669 585 1,077 1,196 2,285 1,648 remaining two-thirds of the shares comprised in an award.
Short term Deferred bonus plan matching awards The performance targets for the matching awards granted on 12 June 2013 incentives and 6 June 2014 are the same as those for nil-cost options granted under the vested as a performance share scheme on 28 May 2012.
For the matching awards granted on percentage of 26 June 2015, shares will vest on a graduated basis, with vesting commencing at 20% if the company achieves an annualised NAVTR measured over three years of maximum % 67.5 100.0 100.0 100.0 45.0 4%, rising incrementally to 100% vesting on achievement of an annualised NAVTR Long term of 10%.
Shares that vest must be called within 12 months of vesting.
Other exercise conditions Performance share scheme vested as a For nil-cost options granted under the performance share scheme on 28 May 2012, percentage of to the extent that a performance target is met, two-thirds of the shares that vest maximum % 1.5 50.0 10.1 100.0 100.0 may normally be exercised three years after grant, with the remaining one-third normally becoming exercisable five years after grant.
Mr Ingram served as Chief Executive until his retirement on 21 July 2010, at which on 12 June 2013, 27 November 2014 and 26 June 2015, shares that vest following time Mr Wyatt was appointed as his successor.
The remuneration shown for 2011 the three or five year performance testing become immediately exercisable.
represents the amounts paid to each in the period that they served as Chief 3.
Vested but unexercised Executive in that financial year.
The long term incentives held by Mr Ingram which Shares vested but unexercised represent those awards that are immediately vested in 2011 were HMRC approved executive share options granted in 2008, exercisable without any conditions.
which the Remuneration Committee determined should vest based on the measurement of the performance targets up to the date of his retirement.
The percentage of short term incentives shown as vesting for Mr Wyatt in 2011 relates to his annual bonus for that year, the total amount of which has been included in the corresponding single figure for total remuneration.
Subsequent to his retirement, Mr Ingram exercised further share options at a pre-tax gain of 119,413 in the 2014 financial year.
48 Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Percentage change in remuneration of Chief Executive Chairmans and non-executive directors fees The following table shows the percentage change in the basic salary, value The Chairmans and the non-executive directors fees are reviewed of taxable benefits and short term incentives paid to the Chief Executive triennially.
The last review was in April 2014 and therefore the fee scale in the year to 31 March 2016 against the previous financial year, is unchanged since that date, as follows: compared with the average percentage changes in those components Fees for years to of pay of Caledonias other staff on a per capita basis.
Caledonias senior 31 March 2017 executives, including the Chief Executive, received a standard increase in and 2016 basic salary of 1.0%, although other grades of staff were awarded a Chairman 184,500 standard increase of 3.0%.
The average per capita percentage change for Non-executive director basic fee 39,900 staff taxable benefits reduced over the year principally due to lower rates Chairman of the Audit Committee 5,600 and extended cover options negotiated for the companys private medical insurance plan, which enabled some members of staff to benefit from Member of the Audit Committee 2,300 lower renewal premiums.
The Chief Executive was awarded a bonus of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 4,900 45% of basic salary, based on the companys performance and individual Member of the Remuneration Committee 1,600 objectives, compared with the maximum entitlement in the previous year.
Senior Independent Director The average per capita percentage change in staff bonuses reflected Chairman of the Governance Committee 5,100 a variety of factors, such as company performance, pool performance, individual objectives and increases in the basic salaries on which the Annual bonus scheme and long term incentive schemes bonus awards were based.
No changes to the companys annual bonus or long term incentive schemes are anticipated for the 2017 financial year.
Staff average Chief Executive per capita Approach change change The Remuneration Committee will keep the implementation of the % % remuneration policy under review in order to take account of any Basic salary 1.0 3.0 changes in the companys business environment and remuneration Taxable benefits 0.5 4.5 practice generally, but with the overall aim of ensuring that Caledonias Short term incentives 54.6 38.5 remuneration arrangements continue to support the companys strategy and deliver long term shareholder value by attracting and Relative importance of spend on pay retaining talent and rewarding executives appropriately in the light The graph below shows the personnel expenses for the year of group of the companys performance.
companies consolidated under IFRS 10, compared with amounts distributed to Caledonias shareholders by way of dividends and share Consideration by the directors of matters relating to purchases.
directors remuneration The current members of the Remuneration Committee are Charles Relative importance of spend on pay Gregson Chairman, David Stewart and Shonaid Jemmett-Page.
Mr Gregson and Mr Stewart served throughout the year and 2016 2015 Mrs Jemmett-Page served from the date of her appointment as a m directoron 1 July 2015.
Robert Woods also served as a member of the 45 Remuneration Committee until his retirement from the board on 9.6% 31 March 2016.
30 31.9m 29.1m During the year, the Remuneration Committee received advice from 21.7% Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, the companys main legal advisers, 15 15.7m in relation to the preparation of the 2015 Directors remuneration report 12.9m and emerging practice in relation to the adoption of clawback provisions 0 by other UK listed companies.
The Remuneration Committee also Personnel expenses Dividends share purchases consulted with the Chairman and the Chief Executive in relation to the remuneration of the executive directors and internal support was Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the provided to the Remuneration Committee by the Company Secretary.
2017 financial year The company expects to operate the remuneration policy as described Statement of voting at general meetings in the previous section without any changes in the financial year ending At the annual general meeting of the company held on 16 July 2015, the 31 March 2017. proxy votes lodged for the resolution relating to directors remuneration were as follows: Basic salaries of executive directors In respect of the 2017 financial year, the Remuneration Committee has Number % maintained the Chief Executives basic salary at the same level as the 2016 To approve the 2015 directors remuneration report financial year and has awarded the other executive directors inflationother than the directors remuneration policy based increases in basic salary of 1.0%, as follows: Votes in favour 37,495,633 99.6 Votes against 152,545 0.4 Salary for year to 31 March 2017 2016 Total votes cast 37,648,178 Votes withheld 4,770 W P Wyatt 511,550 511,550 S A King 366,610 362,980 This report was approved by the board on 19 May 2016 and signed on J M B Cayzer-Colvin 310,000 306,930 its behalf by: Charles Gregson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc 49 PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016
