Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Responsibility statements Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the Disclosure of information to auditors annual report and the financial statements Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the report confirms that: Directors remuneration report and the financial statements in 1. so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant information accordance with applicable law and regulations.
of which the companys auditor is unaware Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements 2. the director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as for each financial year.
Under that law, the directors have prepared the a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant group and parent company financial statements in accordance with audit information and to establish that the companys auditor is aware International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the of that information.
Under company law, the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true This confirmation is given, and should be interpreted, in accordance and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and the company and with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. of the profit or loss of the group for that period.
In preparing these Responsibility statements under the Disclosure and financial statements, the directors are required to: Transparency Rules and The UK Corporate Governance Code select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 26 and 27 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent 1. the group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union has been of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the group followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the group and parent company financial statements respectively 2. the strategic report contained on pages 1 to 25 includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it of the group, together with a description of the principal risks and is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of Signed on behalf of the board by: the company and the group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Will Wyatt Stephen King Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding Chief Executive Finance Director the assets of the company and the group and hence for taking reasonable 19 May 2016 19 May 2016 steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy.
Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc 53 PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016
