35 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts DIVISIONAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED CUSTOMER MANAGEMENT B oth underlying operating profit and W e continue to invest in insight and Divisional overview margin were impacted by contract analytical tools and capability, such This division works with clients to grow step downs.
as Engage voice of the agent tool the value of their customer base, and VScreen technology, delivering supporting them with voice and digital U nderlying operating profit in 2016 continuous innovation for our contact centre services including includes an impairment of accrued existing clients.
customer acquisition, customer services, income following the review performed order fullment, upsell and collections.
by the Board as part of the year-end W ith customer contact continuing to Our commercial model allows us to seek close process 14.9m.
move online, we are re-purposing voice routes to drive channel shift and deliver contact to support our clients sales and Trading summary value back to our clients.
Every year, customer advocacy campaigns.
Our W e continue to see a strong interest we handle over 100 million customer insight and analytics capability and across the outsourced customer service contacts through our UK and offshore Voice business, which we acquired in market in longer-term transformational contact centres and operate across April 2015, provides the necessary skills partnerships as clients seek providers a wide variety of sectors including to drive sales and retention on behalf who can reduce revenue leakage, telecoms, retail and utilities.
scale personalised content delivery, D uring the year, we introduced a accelerate go-to-market strategies Financial summary programme of colleague engagement and integrate multi-platform 2016 2015 to drive continued service customer engagement.
We used Capitas Underlying C ontract wins: during the year we broader Group capability to support revenue 503.7m 580.8m secured a five-year engagement with staff retention, including Capitas Underlying Tesco Mobile valued at 140m and a Resourcing Team, ThirtyThree operating profit 27.4m 57.5m seven-year contract with Three to run employee attraction and engagement, their UK customer services, expected Brightwave digital learning and Blue Underlying to be worth 70m.
Contract extensions Sky driving service improvement operating margin 5.4% 9.9% were secured with Debenhams and through coaching.
have already had a positive impact with T ransformational customer services attrition reducing in both the UK and Performance summary contracts: notably O2, TV Licensing, South Africa.
Reve nue reduced in 2016 primarily npower and Dixons Carphone, are due to the planned step down in the operationally performing well, Telefnica UK O2 contract, following irrespective of contract step downs.
the completion of our transformation programme.
The end of transformation on a number of other contracts was partly offset by account growth and a new contract with Tesco Mobile.
140m VALUE OF CONTRACT WITH TESCO MOBILE 70m VALUE OF CONTRACT WITH THREE
