62 Capita plc Strategic report G Go ov five er rna nanc nce e Accounts BOARD MEMBERS As at 31 December 2016, the Board CHAIRMAN EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS comprised ten Directors, made up of the Chairman, Chief Executive, three other Executive Directors and five independent Non-Executive Directors.
We have an experienced team in place to support our strategy and to meet the opportunities and challenges that the Group faces.
As the Group develops, we will regularly review the Board composition to ensure it meets the needs of the business.
At 31 December 2016 we had two female Sir Ian Powell Andy Parker Directors and eight male Directors.
Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive from January 2017 Joined Capita: 2001 Date appointed to Board: September 2016 Date appointed to Board: January 2011 Independent at appointment: Yes Board responsibilities: Key skills and experience: Managing and developing Capitas business to Chartered Accountant: Previously Chairman achieve the Companys strategic objectives.
and Senior Partner of PwC responsible Additional Group responsibilities: for expertise management and board Group charitable approach: Group IT: chairmanship of PwC UK: Member of the Strategic Communications: Mergers and PwC five-person network leadership team: acquisitions strategy.
Leader of PwCs EMEA network.
Previous experience in Capita: Other current appointments: Deputy Chief Executive June 2013March Chairman Police Now: Trustee The Old 2014 : Joint Chief Operating Officer 2011 Vic: Trustee Wellbeing of Women: Member 2013 overseeing non-financial services of the Development Committee The operations: Divisional Director for Capitas National Gallery.
LENGTH OF TENURE ICT, Health and Business Services Division: Committee memberships: Senior Divisional Finance Director.
AS BOARD DIRECTORS Nomination Chair.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Sir Ian 6 months Powell Andy 3 years 3 years Parker Nick 2 years Greatorex Vic 6 years Gysin Chris 2 months Sellers Gillian Sheldon Paul Bowtell Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Gillian 4 years Date appointed to Board: September 2012 Date appointed to Board: June 2010 Sheldon appointed Senior Independent Director on Independent: Yes Paul 1 January 2013 Key skills and experience: Chartered 7 years Bowtell Independent: Yes Accountant: Extensive experience across the UK Leisure sector: Significant financial and Key skills and experience: Andrew commercial knowledge: Previously on the Board 2 years Substantial experience of advising boards Williams of TUI Travel PLC as Chief Financial Officer and across a wide range of complex situations also on the Board of First Choice Holidays PLC and transactions: previously worked at John and SThree PLC.
Other senior positions held 1 year NM Rothschild & Sons.
Cresswell with British Gas, WHSmith and Forte.
Other current appointments: Other current appointments: Chief Financial Matthew Senior banker at Credit Suisse: Trustee of BBC 0 months Officer of Ladbrokes Coral Group plc from Lester Children in Need.
Previously CFO of Committee memberships: Gala Coral Group until the merger with Joined the Board 1 March 2017 Ladbrokes : Non Executive Chairman of Audit and Risk: Nomination: Remuneration.
Key privately owned entity, Alua Hotels.
Chairman CEO Executive Director Committee memberships: Audit and Risk Non-Executive Director Capita role pre-Board Chair until 31 May 2017 : Nomination: Remuneration.
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 63 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts BOARD MEMBERS CONTINUED EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Nick Greatorex Chris Sellers Vic Gysin Group Finance Director Group Business Development Director Group Operations and Performance Director Joined Capita: 2006 Joined Capita: 2010 Joined Capita: 2002 Date appointed to Board: March 2015 Date appointed to Board: January 2017 Date appointed to Board: January 2011 Board responsibilities: Board responsibilities: Board responsibilities: Working with Divisional Overall control and responsibility for all Head of Group sales and driving forward Executive Ofcers and their management financial aspects of the businesss strategy.
business development across the Group.
teams to ensure service excellence and client satisfaction across the Group.
Additional Group responsibilities: Additional Group responsibilities: Property: Environment: Health and safety: Community, third sector and SME Additional Group responsibilities: Group Legal and commercial relationships: Trustee engagement.
Transformation and Procurement Services: of the Capita Pension and Life Assurance Group HR and Talent: Maintaining strategic Previous experience in Capita: Scheme: Supplier relationships.
Director of Joint Venture with Staffordshire Previous experience in Capita: County Council: Technology-enabled Previous experience in Capita: Joint Chief Executive Director for Life & Pensions, transformation specialist for public and Operating officer: Executive Director Insurance & Benets Services: Commercial private sectors: Intellectual Property asset for Insurance and Investor Services and Director on major bids and contract commercialisation specialist.
Integrated Services divisions: Successful implementations.
implementation and delivery of a number of Other external appointments: None.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Andrew Williams John Cresswell Matthew Lester Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Date appointed to Board: January 2015 Date appointed to Board: November 2015 Date appointed to the Board: March 2017 Independent: Yes Independent: Yes Independent: Yes Key skills and experience: Key skills and experience: Key skills and experience: Chartered Accountant: Chief Financial officer of Chartered Engineer: Chief Executive of Chartered Accountant: Substantial board a FTSE 100 company: Previously Group a FTSE 250 company, and a number of level and commercial experience: Extensive Finance Director at ICAP plc, Group Financial senior management positions within the knowledge and experience of the TMT Sector.
Controller and Group Treasurer at Diageo plc.
Other current appointments: Other current appointments: Chief Financial Other current appointments: None.
officer of Royal Mail plc: Non-Executive Chief Executive of Halma plc since 2005.
Committee memberships: Director of Man Group PLC.
Committee memberships: Audit and Risk: Nomination: Committee memberships: Audit and Risk Chair Audit and Risk: Nomination, Remuneration.
Changes in the year Martin Bolland Maggi Bell Dawn Marriott-Sims Non-Executive Chairman Group Business Development Director Joint Chief Operating officer Retired from the Board 31 December 2016 Retired from the Board 31 December 2016 Resigned from the Board 9 November 2016 Date appointed to Board: March 2008 Joined Capita: 1999 Joined Capita: 2000 Chairman from 1 January 2010 Date appointed to Board: August 2008 Date appointed to Board: January 2014
