49 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts RISK MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Divisional risk and compliance CONTROL FUNCTIONS teams support their divisional and business unit management with The Group Risk and Compliance Director has access to all members of their risk management ownership the Board Executive and Non-Executive Directors and supports their and responsibilities under the risk ongoing training plan.
He also has regular meetings with Executive management framework.
The divisional Ofcers, Executive Directors and senior managers throughout the risk and compliance teams are: year, ensuring the appropriate management of risks for Capita by: O wned by the businesses within which they sit, but have escalation routes to The development and maintenance Strategic leadership and advice the Group Risk and Compliance Director.
of appropriate risk management to the business on compliance S tructured and resourced depending on policies and frameworks on behalf and risk, reecting the Groups the complexity regulatory footprint of of the Board.
The provision, through oversight and Supporting business development The Audit and Risk Committee approves effective challenge, of an ongoing bids, acquisitions, service and both Group internal audit and Group risk assessment of risk across the Groups strategy development.
and compliances annual plans and in entities and informative reporting to turn is provided with regular updates Ensuring honest, open and effective Group governance.
on progress throughout the year, with relationships with all of our regulators.
regular reports on findings, issues, risk incidents and themes for their attention.
Managing our bids and acquisitions We continue to maintain a disciplined To provide a top down assessment of applied to a particular area of risk.
approach to assessing our bid and risks to the overall Group, we further To focus risk reporting, emphasis is acquisition targets.
These structured operate a set of 12 Corporate Risks clearly given to the reporting of risks assessments consider the pricing and risk which are higher level articulations of that are categorised at uncomfortable prole in depth.
Multidisciplinary teams the key risks which the Board can track.
or critical limit to ensure appropriate are involved from finance to property, Four of these represent areas which, if action is being taken.
operations to tax and external advice crystallising to a significant degree, could sought where appropriate.
Risk and The Group internal audit function has have an immediate, material detrimental compliance teams assist businesses with free and full access to all activities, impact on the corporate health of this due diligence and are standing invitees records, properties and employees Capita.
Eight are risks which can hamper to the key decision-making meetings.
These Corporate Risks The measure of the effectiveness of this are reviewed and confirmed by the Board The Group Internal Audit Director has work is the extent to which the outcome annually and hence help populate our access to and regular meetings with the of our assessment has led us to not Principal risks on page 50.
Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee proceed where we have identied and members of the Board.
The remit Our risk appetite contractual terms which we believe are of the Group internal audit function In our Risk Management Framework we contrary to our best interests, material includes: define risk appetite as the degree of risk levels of residual operational risk and the Group is prepared to accept in the Rev iewing the adequacy and issues with sustainable profits.
pursuit of its objectives before specic effectiveness of the Groups Group Risk and Compliance maintains action is deemed necessary to reduce it.
governance, processes, controls and risk oversight over the businesses bid In determining this, Capita reconciles management strategies.
pipelines to monitor key risk indicators, two thresholds: Prov iding the Board, the Audit and Risk such as changes to the regulatory Committee and all levels of management A r isk tolerance: dened as the bearable footprint of the business and non-core with an objective opinion based on the level of variation Capita is willing to activity, maintains effective challenge results of its reviews and managements accept around specic objectives.
through risk-based oversight and support awareness and responsiveness to risk.
of bids and acquisitions and continues to A risk critical limit concern: dened D elivery of the Group internal audit promote disciplined standards of due as the maximum risk Capita can bear plan as approved by the Audit and diligence and integration.
and remain effective in delivering Risk Committee.
Re porting regularly to the Audit and Capita has established the tolerance and Risk Committee and the Executive Risk critical limit concern risk appetite to help Committees on significant issues, risks the business to understand the relative and themes and management progress signicance of any of the business risks on addressing them.
faced and better prioritise risk monitoring and control activities.
specifically, risk appetite helps determine the degree of control that needs to be
