56 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts DEVELOPING OUR TALENT From single services to transformational partnerships, we are able to draw on the knowledge and resources from across the Group to deliver compelling solutions in a cost-effective way.
The breadth of our capability is In 2016, our ethical code was updated In 2016, we developed our training fundamental to our major sales in line with our values setting out our programmes for senior leaders including propositions, allowing us to draw on a commitments and ensuring that our our leadership induction day and the range of assets and ensure we have the employees speak up if they see masterclass programme.
This right resources in place to create bespoke behaviours that are not consistent programme gives employees the solutions, tailored to our clients needs.
opportunity to develop the skills to create and sustain high performing Our strategy of controlled and profitable Transitioning employees teams and navigate some of the growth has allowed us to invest and Over 70% of our employees transfer into challenges they may face within their develop a highly rened set of assets and our business from either acquisitions or business.
In 2016, our retention rate for resources that underpin this offering.
an outsourcing arrangement and so were senior managers across the Group experienced at managing large scale was 96%.
Attracting and retaining talent employee integrations.
We have Our people are our biggest asset.
We have a twice yearly succession dedicated teams working closely with We employ 73,000 people and to recruit planning cycle, which ensures we have the clients teams from the beginning and retain the best talent we need to robust succession plans in place for all of the transfer process to date of service provide a workplace that is inclusive, our keys roles in the top three layers of commencement.
Transferring new staff inspiring and supportive.
We want our our organisation and we will continue to gives us a constant ow of new skills.
employees to be empowered and cascade this throughout our business motivated, enabling them to make better during 2017.
Talent management decisions and respond to our clients We work hard to build and retain strong, These processes allow us to support needs effectively.
Our Leadership internal mobility so that managers can Framework details a clear set of share their skills and innovation in Embedding our values behaviours that define what makes different areas of the business, and this We have a common set of values open, a great leader at Capita.
We use this will continue to be one of our focus areas ingenious, collaborative and effective in conjunction with our performance for 2017. which are reected in our policies and management system to identify high embedded right across our business.
These values and their associated behaviours shape who we are as a business and underpin our success.
19m 96% INVESTED IN RETENTION RATE FOR TRAINING SUPPORT SENIOR MANAGERS 57 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts DEVELOPING OUR TALENT CONTINUED Development and training Health and safety Reward and recognition Training and development is not limited By making sure that we take care of the We want to retain the best talent across to senior leaders.
We recognise that to health and safety of our people we our business and believe in recognising and deliver excellent service to our clients we reduce risks across our business, rewarding our employees.
One way we do need to ensure that our employees in our protecting our reputation and that this is through the Capita People Awards operations are equipped with the right of our clients.
We have an established scheme, recognising those employees who skills.
In 2016, we continued to deliver Group-wide health and safety put our values into practice.
training support, investing 19m across management system and all our the Group.
We also want to ensure our employees have to complete training as Employee engagement people are managed in a consistent way part of their induction.
Our health and Listening to and valuing the opinions of and in 2016 we revitalised our training, safety team works with individual our people is good for productivity and developing a new Managing the Capita managers to assess risks on specic it helps us shape our future business.
way workshop, designed for managers to contracts, for example, with our network We engage with our employees through understand their role and responsibilities engineers, and implement tailored a number of different ways, ensuring that and where they can get support.
In 2016, our they receive regular updates including accident rate was 1.41 per 1,000 those relating to the performance of our We have continued our Lead the Way employees 2015: 1.48, showing a 38% business.
We actively encourage their graduate programme, giving graduates reduction in reported accidents from feedback as they have a clear view of the opportunity to have placements our baseline.
our operations and their ideas can help within different areas of our business us deliver for our clients.
Our next and develop their career path.
Employee wellbeing employee survey, structured around our We recognise that a healthy, motivated values, will be conducted in early 2017.
Diversity and inclusion workforce is good for business, reducing Having a diverse workforce brings fresh sickness absence and increasing retention Supporting people through change perspectives and helps us to create truly rates.
In 2016, we ran a campaign Step So we can help our clients be more innovative solutions that benefit our Challenge to encourage our employees efficient and meet future business clients and help improve our own market to be active, whilst at the same time requirements it is sometimes necessary competitiveness.
We are committed to raising funds for our corporate charity to reduce the headcount on a particular developing an inclusive culture that partner.
We are repeating this initiative contract.
Where this is the case, Capita reects the diversity of our clients, their in 2017 as well as a number of health take a proactive approach in seeking customers and the communities in which awareness campaigns.
alternative employment options for we work.
In 2016, we have continued to those affected employees in order focus on embedding diversity in our We provide opportunities for exible to redeploy them into other areas of business.
We have improved our data working where it is operationally our business.
analytics tool which allows us to better possible, allowing employees to achieve understand the diversity prole of our a healthy work-life balance.
We have Where suitable opportunities are not people and areas that we may want to also developed smarter ways of working, available we are open and honest focus on in 2017.
In 2016, our gender split providing employees with the technology about the situation.
We go through a for senior managers was 78% male: 22% they need to do their job remotely.
full redundancy consultation process female, and for all employees 52% male: involving individuals and their recognised 48% female.
trade union and employee representatives.
Consultation with our trade unions is key to securing the most appropriate outcomes for affected employees.
38% 22% REDUCTION IN REPORTED EMPLOYEES FROM ACCIDENTS PER 1,000 ETHNIC MINORITIES EMPLOYEES RIDDOR
