Board of Directors Executive Directors IAN HAWKSWORTH Chief Executive Age 51 Ian has led Capco since inception, shaping strategy and driving performance.
He has over 30 years experience inglobal real estate investment, development, asset and corporate management, having been a senior director of Hongkong Land and a managing executive of Liberty International.
Ian is a Chartered Surveyor and a member of leading international industry bodies.
2 SITUL JOBANPUTRA Chief Financial OfficerAge 43 Situl leads the Capco finance function, which includes reporting, treasury, corporate finance and tax.
Having joined Capco in 2014, he became finance director for Earls Court and Lillie Square in 2015 and was appointed as CFO in 2017.
Situl is an experienced corporate financier having led Deutsche Banks UK real estate investment banking team before joining Capco.
GARY YARDLEY ManagingDirector & Chief Investment OfficerAge 51 Garyleads Capcos real estate investment and development activities.
He is a Chartered Surveyor with over 30 years experience in UK real estate.
He is a former CIO of Liberty International and former partner of King Sturge.
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP KEY Audit Committee 1 Nomination Committee 2 Remuneration Committee 3 Committee Chairman 56 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Chairman and Non-executive Directors IAN DURANT Chairman Age 58 External appointments Ian is responsible for the leadership of the Board, ensuring Chairman of Greggs plc its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
Ian is a Chartered Accountant with a background in international financial and commercial management.
Ians career includes leadership roles with the retail division of Hanson, and Jardine Matheson, Hongkong Land, Dairy Farm International, Thistle Hotels, Sea Containers and Liberty International.
2 HENRY STAUNTON Independent Non-executive Director and Senior Independent External appointments Chairman of Brighthouse Group Non-executive Director Age 68 PLC, Phoenix Group Holdings Henry was appointed to the Board in June 2010 and became and WH Smith PLC Chairman of the Audit Committee shortly after in July 2010.
A Chartered Accountant, he was Finance Director of Granada and ITV, Chairman of Ashtead Group and Vice Chairman 1 2 3 of Legal & General.
GRAEME GORDON Non-executive Director Age 53 External appointments Graeme was a Non-executive Director of Liberty International Director of Creative Investments for 14 years before joining the Board of Capco in 2010.
He is the Limited and Mymarket Limited son of Sir Donald Gordon, the founder of Liberty International, and represents the Gordon Family Interests on the Board.
GERRY MURPHY Independent Non-executive Director Age 64 External appointments A former Deloitte LLP partner with direct industry experience Non-executive Director of Dixons in consumer business, retail and technology, media and Carphone plc, Non-executive telecommunications.
Gerry was a member of the Deloitte Board member of the Department of for a number of years and is aDirector of Dixons Carphone and Health Board a member of the Department of Health Board.
1 2 3 DEMETRA PINSENT Independent Non-executive Director Age 42 External appointments A former partner of McKinsey & Co, Demetra was leader of CEO of Charlotte Tilbury McKinseys European Apparel, Fashion and Luxury Goods Beauty Limited, and Director Practice for five years and has also acted as an adviser to emerging of The Diana, Princess of Wales British luxury businesses.
Demetra is CEO of Charlotte Tilbury Memorial Fund Trustee Company Beauty.
and The Royal Foundation of the 2 3 Duke and Duchess of Cambridge and Prince Harry ANTHONY STEAINS Independent Non-executive Director Age 50 External appointments Anthony Steains is the CEO of Comprador, a strategic corporate CEO of Comprador Limited and finance advisory firm based in Hong Kong, and has over 20 years Chair of the FilmAid Asia Board ofcorporate finance experience.
A Chartered Accountant, prior to founding Comprador, Anthony was a Senior Managing Director and Head of Blackstone Advisory Partners in Asia and held senior positions 2 in Asia at Lehman Brothers, Deutsche Bank and ING Barings.
ANDREW STRANG Independent Non-executive Director Age 64 External appointments Andrew is a Chartered Surveyor and was Managing Director of Member of the Investment and Threadneedle Property Investments Limited for 17 years until Governance Committees of AEW January 2008.
He was Executive Chairman of Hermes Real Estate UK, Non-executive Director of Investment Management until 2011.
Intu Properties plc and member ofthe Norges Bank Investment 1 2 3 Management Real Estate Advisory Board www.
