55 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts RISK MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE CONTINUED As noted on page 50, the Directors have Over the three-year forecast period, Viability statement carried out a robust assessment of the in all but the most extreme case the In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the principal risks facing the Group including stress testing assumed the Group had 2014 revised Code, the Directors have those that would threaten its business continued access to external funding for assessed the viability of the Group over model, future performance, solvency or its businesses and was concentrated on the three-year period to 31 December liquidity.
The principal risks and actions the immediate cash ow impacts, as well 2019, taking into account the Groups to mitigate them are discussed above.
as longer-term impacts on revenue and current position and the potential impact Our risk management and robust sales growth and business attrition.
of the principal risks set out in the processes are also set out on pages strategic report above.
Based on this The Directors considered mitigating 4654. assessment, the Directors have a factors that could be employed when reasonable expectation that the Group Our assessment of the Groups prospects reviewing these scenarios and the will continue in operation and meet its is based on its current position including effectiveness of the actions at their liabilities as they fall due over the period the outcome of the going concern disposal, which were applied to the to 31 December 2019. assessment included within these models.
The main actions identied financial statements on page 73, its were the postponement or halting of The Directors continue to believe this prospects as underpinned by the business the Groups acquisition programme: period to be appropriate as it is supported planning and forecasting processes taking to adjust its investment in discretionary by our strategic, business and budgetary into account Group strategy and risk and maintenance capital projects having planning cycles.
Within the overall Group appetite and management.
given due regard to the need to ensure strategic plan, detailed divisional business that the integrity of the Groups IT systems plans and budgets are prepared annually We have also conducted stress testing is not compromised nor the security for a 12-month period and, in addition, and sensitivity analysis of the impact of of the data held therein: to identify and financial models and projections are various severe but plausible potential dispose of other non-strategic businesses prepared for longer periods.
A period of scenarios involving the threats posed by and at the extreme end of the testing three years has been chosen because, our critical principal risks in order to test spectrum to reduce or remove distributions although forecasts are prepared for the resilience of the Group taking into under the Groups dividend policy.
longer periods, there is inevitably more account the efcacy of possible uncertainty associated with a longer mitigating actions.
These have included time frame and the Directors have a but not limited to scenarios in respect of reasonable confidence over this time information security and regulatory risks, horizon.
The period chosen also aligns the efcacy of systems and controls and with the long-term incentive plan LTIP at the more extreme end a wider performance element of the Directors economic impact on Group funding or remuneration policy which is based on an impact on the ability of the Group performance periods of three years.
to draw new or replace existing debt.
