40 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts DIVISIONAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED COMMERCIAL SERVICES Sup plier Assessment Services which Divisional overview Trading summary includes Constructionline, a provider This division comprises a number of our A XELOS, our joint venture with the of procurement and supply chain businesses operating in growth markets Cabinet Ofce to promote and grow management services, has successfully and those with partnership models, the Best Management Practice launched its new digital platform for including the leader in global best portfolio, has continued to grow in its dynamic data verication services.
This practice qualications, travel and events, global markets, with revenues and platform will underpin the continued learning and training services, supply margins improving.
The RESILIA growth of the business into new sectors chain management, and food and Awareness Learning Programme, which beyond construction, including agriculture science solutions.
25% has been developed to improve cyber suppliers to Capita, delivering the of the divisions revenues were outside resilience for organisations, was second consecutive year post the UK in 2016. recognised at the prestigious Mega acquisition of 30% annual growth.
Financial summary T he Fire Service College has continued C apita Learning Services successfully to grow its international activity, with 2016 2015 integrated the acquisition of an increasing number of international Brightwave, which specialises in Underlying re authorities and corporate clients providing technologies such as mobile revenue 289.0m 263.0m seeking accreditation.
A transformation learning, bespoke learning solutions and Underlying programme has been undertaken to online training.
The acquisition added operating profit 63.9m 52.1m ensure the business continues to meet increased scale and specialist expertise the increasing international and digital to the existing digital learning business.
Underlying learning demand, with a greater C apita Learning Services also focused operating margin 22.1% 19.8% focus on the broader emergency on the impending launch of the Capex 5.6m 13.0m services sector.
Apprenticeship Levy during 2017, F era Science, our joint venture with the putting in place the people, platforms Performance summary Department for Environment, Food & and infrastructure to capitalise on this Reve nue increased by nearly 10% due Rural Affairs, had its first full year of changing landscape, and established to continued strong performance from trading since joining the Group in a European service centre in Krakow.
our high growth businesses, in particular March 2015.
It has successfully C apita Travel and Events maintained its Constructionline and AXELOS.
increased its commercial activity and position as the UKs leading specialist U nderlying operating profit and margin operational efficiencies achieved during provider in business travel and meeting improved, benefiting from the above as the year will provide a solid platform for services.
Customer retention has been well as restructuring and cost initiatives future growth.
strong at 98%, in what is an across a number of transactional increasingly challenging market as businesses.
clients seek continued travel cost Incl uded within non-underlying charges savings.
A market leading behavioural in 2016 is 6.6m in relation to the change programme was launched to impairment of goodwill 2015: nil.
enhance our service offering and provide invaluable data insights on traveller behaviour to inform clients policies and drive further efficiencies for them.
98% CUSTOMER RETENTION AT CAPITA TRAVEL AND EVENTS 30% GROWTH FOR CONSTRUCTIONLINE
