38 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts DIVISIONAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED DIGITAL & SOFTWARE SOLUTIONS T he need by our NHS and local Divisional overview Trading summary government clients to identify cost Capita is a leading supplier of specialist C apita SIMS continues to deliver value and efficiency savings has led to them software and wider solutions to the through the use of technology within embracing big data, business process education, local government, justice the classroom for teachers, pupils and automation and mobility services.
To and emergency services, financial parents and is well positioned to meet support this need, our Integra finance services, health, utilities and central the needs of the increasing influence of suite has delivered new mobile and government markets in the UK and Multi Academy Trusts.
analytics modules, which will be further increasingly overseas.
C apita Mortgage Software Services is enhanced in 2017. investing in and already delivering the Financial summary C apita One, our social care system, latest customer focused technologies developed a new solution incorporating 2016 2015 in preparation for disruption in their predictive analytics and machine market caused by automation and new Underlying learning, to allow authorities to digital mortgage offerings.
We now revenue 521.6m 494.1m identify the most vulnerable, reduce offer an end-to-end mortgage services Underlying the costly impact of late intervention, solution, covering: origination, services, operating profit 139.1m 131.5m ensuring interventions can have the administration and recovery.
A MT-Sybex, our mobile solutions Underlying O ur online payments service Pay360s business, is supporting HTML5, enabling operating margin 26.7% 26.6% latest development provides merchants them to support a wider range of mobile Capex 30.8m 19.0m with the ability to prioritise the devices.
The shift to a data-driven collection of customer information at environment is providing new Performance summary an early stage in the service, allowing opportunities for the business across T he division continued to grow revenues them to make more informed business its core markets.
due to a number of strategic acquisitions decisions and improve services to W e acquired Orange Bus, an awardand organic growth in the education, their customer.
winning specialist digital agency that justice, cyber security consulting and I n response to new employee designs solutions to complex problems software testing businesses.
regulations, our Workforce for clients across the private and public W e continued to focus on opportunities Management Solutions business will sector.
Their work includes designing to reduce cost through rationalisation be first to market with a compliant applications, testing and optimising of our property portfolio and creating e-solution to verify employee identity websites and improving user experience.
additional offshore development and their Right to Work.
T echnology and innovation is playing capacity to complement our an increasing role in the operations of onshore teams.
our clients in the emergency services.
Working in partnership with West Midlands Fire Service, we have been able to create and bring our 999Eye emergency streaming service to market within three months.
300 NICHE SOFTWARE PRODUCTS AND MODULES
