37 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts DIVISIONAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED LOCAL GOVERNMENT, HEALTH & PROPERTY Choo seCare launched: a new adult Trading summary Divisional overview social care digital solution developed by O ur local government business This division brings together our local Capita, that will allow people seeking performed well in 2016 and was government, health partners, real estate, care to self-assess and self-manage awarded a number of new deals with property and infrastructure businesses.
their own care options and budgets, new clients and extensions from It provides a wide range of business enabling councils to gain better control existing clients, including: process management, regulatory and over their stretched adult social property services across the public and A new nine-year contract with Five care budgets.
private sectors and is the largest provider Councils in the West of England, for the of revenue and benets administration, D elivering value for Barnet Council: in delivery of a exible shared services IT, finance and accountancy, HR and October a major Council cross-party platform, valued at 139m.
customer-facing services to local review of the Customer and Support A new exible partnership with government, including the operation Group contract between Barnet Blackburn with Darwen Borough of larger strategic partnerships.
Council and Capita has demonstrated Council.
Our innovative place based that, three years in, the contract is partnership model is focused on Financial summary delivering significant benets to the creating new opportunities around the Borough, with savings of 31m to 2016 2015 development of land, local assets and date achieved alongside increased skills to generate income and transform Underlying user satisfaction.
revenue 639.6m 650.3m O ur ability to support the growth of T he extension of our Urban Vision Underlying new housing has made good progress technical services joint venture with operating profit 64.1m 65.2m in 2016, providing multidisciplinary Salford City Council and Galliford Try services including development Underlying for a further three years.
management, quantity surveying and operating margin 10.0% 10.0% S outhampton City Council digital general property-related services.
transformation partnership: has used Capex 4.9m 7.8m A new digital platform is in technology to transform almost 200 development for Entrust, our end-to-end customer journeys, which Performance summary Staffordshire County Council education has secured significant efficiencies in T he reduction in revenues in 2016 was joint venture, which will allow schools the first nine months.
The programme primarily due to the reduced volume to view their performance and take was awarded the Best Use of Agile in of large infrastructure work in our real instant actions to address issues and the Public Sector by a Team at the estate and infrastructure business, monitor performance over time.
industry Agile Awards and was which is expected to improve in 2017.
Re cognising that the local government shortlisted for the Digital Council This was offset to a degree by the full market has changed due to immediate of the Year at the LGC awards and year impact of the GL Hearn acquisition funding challenges, we have Digital and Technology category at made in 2015. implemented a new regional operating the MCA awards.
I mproved trading performance in local model within our local government C apita has grown signicantly in the government offset the real estate and business.
This recognises the regional area of adult social care, delivering infrastructure business, with underlying nature of many of our discussions with information and advice at the first point operating margins being maintained.
customers and is designed to support of contact, and the capability to carry wider transformation within our out full assessment and reviews.
partnerships and generate organic transactional growth.
9 year SHARED SERVICES PLATFORM CONTRACT FOR FIVE COUNCILS
