19 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts DRIVING OUR GROWTH OUR MARKETS Targeting growing markets We operate in the growing market of BPM and customer management, where structural drivers of growth continue to be strong.
Organisations are facing increased In the private sector we are seeing Focused on our growth markets challenges from the speed of technology increased engagement across all sectors, Capita operates in the growing business change, which is driving engagement with in particular financial services, travel & process and customer management providers as they seek to take advantage transport and telecoms.
Historically, services market, maintaining the UK of the opportunities technology change periods of economic pressure, number one market position for the last brings, whilst mitigating the risk of uncertainty and market instability can 16 years, with 29.2% market share disruption in their market.
drive opportunities for Capita as we help 2015: 28.4%.
The market is well clients with the changing landscape.
established with plenty of scope for 2016 was a year of increased uncertainty growth across our 11 target vertical and change for our clients in our core UK The competitive landscape varies widely sectors.
Industry analysts Ovum were markets.
During the year we saw a across the breadth of services in which commissioned to size the current market reduction in new opportunities coming we operate but in the majority of and market opportunity and have valued to market across the public sector and, markets remains stable.
Across large the UK outsourced market at 13.9bn to a lesser extent, in the private sector, outsourcing opportunities, we compete in 2016 2015: 13.7bn, with a potential and a delay to client decision-making with companies ranging from large annual market valued at 140bn in general.
This was compounded by the consultancies, IT system integrators, 1 2015: 132bn.
UKs referendum decision to leave the offshore service specialists, and support EU, which impacted the financial services peers, but rarely compete with Structural drivers of growth continue services sector and added to the lack the same provider across more than to be strong and include: of decision-making.
10% of the opportunities we pursue.
T he transformation and modernisation The breadth of our digital, software and The slowdown in new opportunities of services support services portfolio, and each across central government is expected to T he growing shift to digitisation of of our trading businesses, competes continue into 2017 but we anticipate this services and enhanced customer with a unique set of competitors in each improving from 2018 onwards as the UK experiences market segment.
Governments timetable for exiting the Pu blic service funding challenges EU becomes clearer.
Other areas of the G rowing regulation and competition public sector such as health, police and for our clients defence are expected to grow at a healthy rate, and local government is expected to A n eed to commercialise and maximise focus on shorter, smaller opportunities.
the value of their assets.
See Public sector on page 22.
TOTAL UK BPM AND CUSTOMER MANAGEMENT MARKET 2016 PUBLIC SECTOR TOTAL UK BPM 28% TOTAL UK LET POTENTIAL MARKET 29.2% 13.9bn 140.2bn CAPITA MARKET PRIVATE SHARE SECTOR 72% 20 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts DRIVING OUR GROWTH OUR MARKETS CONTINUED Private sector Accounting for over half of our 2016 According to industry analysts Ovum, Our private sector revenue mix revenue, the private sector has been an the private sector accounted for 72% of The private sector now accounts for important driver for Capitas growth over the total UK BPO market spend in 2016 53% of Capitas revenue, and our clients the last two decades.
and is expected to grow at a compound are spread across a broad range of annual growth rate of 2.7% to 2020, with vertical markets.
Our capability significant potential for future growth.
Whether it is through our fully 1 outsourced business process or customer Customer management 2 management solutions or our specialist Nelson Hall predicts the global customer professional support services or management services market growth to software, we help our private sector be 4.5%, with factors such as: increased 3 clients remain competitive in their adoption of digital services, pressure to industries by reducing their operational improve customer experience, ability to 53% costs, introducing efficient processes and drive demand for higher value services technology, transforming their digital and revenue generating service lines.
4 capabilities, attracting and retaining Conversely, automation and self-service customers and driving new revenue will reduce some of our traditional 5 growth, whilst ensuring regulatory revenue streams.
In the UK & Ireland the adherence.
We work with a wide range customer management market is valued of clients across the sector, including O2, at 5.2bn, where Capita is the largest BBC, Zurich, Swisscom, Tesco Bank, provider with 16.4% market share.
1 Life, Pensions and Insurance 11% nPower and John Lewis.
In Germany, Capita is the third largest provider with a 4.5% share of the 3.2bn 2 Financial Services 9% Our private sector experience extends 1 customer management market.
back to the late 1990s when we added 3 Utilities and Telecoms 11% payroll and pensions administration to 4 Retail, Travel and Transportation 6% our public sector capabilities, enabling us 1 Source: Nelson Hall 2016. to target larger corporates.
This was soon 5 Other private sector 16% followed by the acquisition in 2000 of IRG plc, a market leading share registrar.
Our entry into the life and pensions outsourcing market in 2002, followed by our move into large-scale customer management through the acquisition of Ventura in 2011, have provided the platforms for our wider penetration of the private sector business process and customer service management market.
In 2015 we extended our customer management expertise into Europe with the acquisition of avocis, a leading customer management provider in Germany and Switzerland.
avocis is UK BPM MARKET SIZE PRIVATE SECTOR our largest ever acquisition to date and provides us with a platform to take our transformation outsourcing solutions into another growing market.
Performance in Germany during the MARKET SIZE year was impacted by changes in the 2016 PA CAPITA MARKET minimum wage and increased SHARE 2016 competition for our Telco clients, 10.0bn see page 44.
21 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts DRIVING OUR GROWTH OUR MARKETS CONTINUED Sector drivers, opportunities and challenges Private sector organisations are facing challenges in 2017 across a number of fronts.
The demand from customers for personalised customer experiences across multiple platforms, alongside increasing ease of customer switching is forcing organisations to look to providers to help them transform their companies and delivery channels to be truly customer centric.
This customer expectation has been a driver for telecom companies and retailers but has more recently broadened across to financial services, insurance and life and pensions sectors.
With a growing volume of customer data available, organisations need to be able to tap into this rich data source to understand their customer needs and behaviours.
In 2016 the uncertainty created by the EU referendum result impacted our clients decision-making.
However, as with the public sector, the fundamental pressures facing the private sector remain in place and we are already seeing an increase in opportunities from private sector clients.
Drivers, opportunities and challenges Telecoms: Driver: In the telecoms sector the main demand for outsourced services in Opportunity and challenge: There are strong market opportunities for recent years has come from providers looking for customer-facing support providers who can provide scalable, digital solutions and manage customer given the highly competitive nature of their markets and the relative ease with engagement and retention across multiple channels.
Capita has already which users can switch providers.
It is anticipated that the next generation seen this shift in demand from clients and we have adopted our customer of Business Process Management BPM across the sector will seek to reduce management model to move relationships to an outcome based model, revenue leakage, scale personalised content delivery, accelerate go-towhere our outcomes and compensation are aligned with achieving our market strategies, integrate multi-platform customer engagement and utilise clients goals.
The customer management market in the UK and Europe automation and low complexity transactions.
is increasingly competitive as niche players look to gain a share of this growing market.
Retail and e-commerce: Driver: Technology is profoundly changing the way we shop and managing Opportunity and challenge: Capita is already providing multi-channel customer engagement across multiple devices is the biggest challenge for customer management for retailers such as John Lewis, Debenhams and retailers.
The proliferation of devices and access to information has raised Marks & Spencer.
Our existing client relationships are circa 10% focused customer expectations around their brand experience.
This shift to online on the non-voice channel web, web chat and email and we actively seek shopping has also increased the volume of customer contacts across channels, routes to drive this shift to digital channels based on our commercial model, with the contact centre becoming a revenue channel for retail rather than a where we share the benets of automating contact or moving it to selfservicing channel.
Over time this shift will change the role of voice to a channel serve.
In a market which is under-penetrated we can deploy these resources of choice for escalated complaints, sales and customer advocacy campaigns.
The rate with which we can maintain this shift and continue to create value-generating propositions for clients will enable us to remain competitive against existing and new providers.
Utilities: Driver: Utilities are facing increased energy costs due to the weakened Opportunity and challenge: The need to deliver on customer expectations sterling, ongoing regulatory pressures and increased competition from entry while managing increased costs will drive further demand for digitally of new suppliers.
Improving customer experience will remain a critical issue enabled transformation.
Capita has been at the forefront of taking clients for utilities.
on their digital transformation journey, reducing their customer service cost base and improving on their Net Promoter Scores NPS.
Financial services: Driver: Banks and insurers are facing customer demands for real time data and Opportunity and challenge: 2016 saw a weakening in activity in the sector analytics and increasing competition from new entrants, against a backdrop following the EU referendum, and uncertainty remains over the longer of regulatory change and increased risks.
They are mid-way through major term post-EU regulatory environment across the sector.
In the shorter structural transformation programmes as they need to improve IT capability term we expect the sector to engage with providers as they tackle digital and modernise legacy systems.
They are also looking to improve efficiency transformation of their organisations and to act with urgency to the rapidly and increase resources allocated to client and market-facing processes shifting customer expectations and evolving markets.
technologies at scale offers the potential for enormous gains in productivity and cost reduction.
Capita is already developing a proprietary scale solution in the life sector which will have application across financial services.
Life and pensions: Driver: Life companies are facing the challenge to transform their Opportunity and challenge: There is a huge opportunity for providers who organisations digitally.
They accept the urgent need to act in response to can deliver digital transformation for life insurers.
The provision of online changing customer expectations and rapidly shifting markets, but what is less portals are key initiatives to enable self-service, multi-platform functionality clear is how to achieve this change in a pragmatic and sustainable way against for policy holders.
Robotics also presents an opportunity for life insurers a backdrop of an uncertain regulatory environment.
to re-engage with their customers with more affordable financial advice, but against a backdrop of managing this risk in the current regulatory environment.
Capita is the largest provider to life companies, administering 21 million policies.
We have an opportunity to deploy new platforms and automation to both new and existing clients, transforming their cost base and meeting the self-service demands from policy holders.
Travel and transport: Driver: Traditionally focused on buying single, discreet services, the sector has Opportunity and challenge: Our experience in helping our clients across yet to fully embrace the outsourcing model.
The growing customer expectation telecoms and retail to transform their customer experience will enable us is focusing airline, rail and travel companies on the need to differentiate its to target new opportunities across travel and transport.
The use of insight customer service experience beyond its traditional frontline service.
and analytics for data-driven decision-making will be a differentiator in this sector as clients seek to gain a competitive edge.
22 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts DRIVING OUR GROWTH OUR MARKETS CONTINUED Public sector Capitas roots are in the public sector, According to industry analysts Ovum, Our public sector revenue mix having started as a provider of IT and in 2016 the public sector accounted for In 2016, 47% 2015: 47% of the Groups support services to UK local authorities 28% of the total UK outsourced market, revenues were generated from our in 1984.
Since then we have consistently with local and central government still work in the public sector, with local grown our service offering, increased our accounting for the largest share of spend.
government remaining our largest market share and grown revenues across 2016 was a quieter year but this market market overall.
is expected to pick up from 2018.
1 Our capability Market drivers, opportunities Whether it is through our fully and challenges outsourced solutions, software or Whilst our revenues from public sector 2 specialist professional services, we help clients remained at 47% during the year, our public sector clients respond to their the UKs decision to leave the EU and the growing budgetary pressures and the weaker economic environment led to 3 service expectations of citizens.
47% delays in buying decisions across the We achieve this by either transforming sector, impacting our expected revenues and modernising their existing public and profits in the second half of 2016.
4 service provision, supporting a new It was a relatively quiet year for major 5 service or benefit, releasing value in new outsourcing opportunities, 6 existing property assets or IP or jointly especially from central government, seeking new sources of revenue to help but we believe the drivers for change fund their organisations.
Our clients still remain strong across the sector, across the sector include Barnet Council, 1 Local Government 16% with added impetus from the increased Birmingham City Council, Blackburn with pace of technology advancements and 2 Central Government 9% Darwen Council, Salford City Council, funding challenges affecting the The Cabinet Ofce, Department for 3 Education 7% services sector.
Work & Pensions, Ministry of Justice, 4 Health 6% the NHS and the Ministry of Defence.
5 Justice and Emergency Services 5% 6 Defence 4% UK BPM MARKET SIZE PUBLIC SECTOR MARKET SIZE 2016 PA CAPITA MARKET SHARE 2016 3.9bn 5 YEAR CAGR 41% 3.5% Sour Sourc ce e:: O Ov vum um 20 2016 16.
23 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts DRIVING OUR GROWTH OUR MARKETS CONTINUED Drivers, opportunities and challenges Local government: Driver: The devolution of powers to regions and the move to Opportunity and challenge: Capitas capability across people, finance, property and full business rate retention for local government by 2020 means infrastructure and experience of already putting new generation partnerships in place with that local authorities have more scope to generate income and Blackburn with Darwen Council, and also our Urban Vision partnership in Salford, positions exibility to develop innovative service offerings, but this brings us strongly to shape new place-based opportunities in this market.
Our service solutions have with it more demand for supporting administration of these adapted to the shorter-term funding focus of our clients and we are working with existing clients services.
Local authorities are seeking help to shape a place-based and targeting new opportunities to help shape new, sustainable revenue streams.
agenda for their region by attracting skilled people, housing, The wider place-based agenda may potentially attract new entrants from the construction sector, infrastructure and trade, therefore generating new revenue or small niche players looking to carve out new opportunities.
However, we do not believe that streams.
The immediate funding gap authorities are facing, they have the operational breadth or scale to address major place-based opportunities.
and uncertainty about their future funding, is focusing them on shorter-term solutions rather than long-term partnerships.
Driver: The need to invest in digital technology is recognised Opportunity and challenge: Having worked across local government for the past 30 years, across local government but many are struggling with how to we know that a depth of knowledge of the processes and back ofce systems and front end do it due to the size of the task, stretched management and a integration which underpin service delivery is essential to deliver an end-to-end digital service cautious environment.
and have a meaningful impact on cost of delivery.
Driver: The funding gap in Adult Social Care is estimated by Opportunity and challenge: Capita is well positioned to help local authorities manage their the Local Government Association to reach 1.3bn by the care budgets.
Our new adult social care digital solution and payment platform, ChooseCare, end of the decade, putting additional pressure on councils will allow people seeking care to self-assess and self-manage their own care options and to manage their care budget more tightly and ensure only budgets.
Local authorities who use the platform will be able to manage all direct payments, appropriate care services are funded.
providing complete visibility, simplied administration and potential cost savings.
Central government: Driver: The Governments Autumn Statement revealed increased Opportunity and challenge: Capita is a strong player in the housing sector, both as adviser investment in infrastructure and housing, in particular construction and technology partner, and can provide key support for the housing sector.
As a strategic of new homes and support of Housing Association spend, partner to Transport for London, we are already working to support planned programmes to investment to tackle congestion and ensuring the UKs transport reduce emissions and further tackle congestion in London.
Our real estate and infrastructure networks are t for the future.
The launch of its Industrial Strategy business is well placed to benefit from increased investment in the UKs transport to build a successful, modern economy includes plans to invest infrastructure.
We have the required experience and expertise to manage large, complex in infrastructure, technology skills and research to drive up change programmes.
productivity, and build up our technical education.
Driver: Cost cutting remains a critical driver across central Opportunity and challenge: Capita has a deep understanding of the challenges of working in government as austerity continues and departments need public service provision and is well positioned to help our public sector partners through the to take a more radical approach to digital transformation digital transformation challenges.
Clients can benefit from our experience of implementing of citizen services to realise the level of cost savings and complex digital programmes in other sectors including local government, telecom and productivity improvements needed.
The uncertainty felt across the public sector in the second half of 2016 may continue throughout 2017, with UK Governments timetable for exiting the EU constraining its ability to procure significant new outsourcing projects until exit negotiations have concluded.
Education: Driver: All UK education sectors are facing funding Opportunity and challenge: The Schools funding gap is likely to open up new opportunities challenges.
Mainstream schools will have to make 3bn for outsourcing as schools are forced to reduce stafng costs.
efficiency savings will increase in efficiency savings by 201920 despite growing pupil demand for cloud services and new technologies to improve teaching and administrative numbers and a real-term reduction in funding per pupil.
There will be an increased demand amongst colleges and universities for new funding formula for schools, to take effect from 2018, consultancy, CRM and marketing to attract and retain pupils.
They will also need to look to will redistribute monies from urban schools to areas which their existing assets to release new sources of revenue as funding is under threat.
The higher education sector is becoming more extensive experience and relationships across the schools and higher education sector and competitive and commercial in outlook.
Universities may lose can leverage these relationships to create solutions to address long-term funding challenges.
access to EU research funding following the exit from the EU, This is not a market used to strategic partnerships and as such our challenge is to nd those forcing them to rely more heavily on tuition fees and making institutions with appropriate experience and leadership.
them work harder to attract and retain candidates.
Health: Driver: The NHS is facing a crisis in delivery of care against a Opportunity and challenge: Exiting the EU will have little impact on NHS procurement backdrop of growing patient numbers, demand for seven-day as this activity is done at a local level, enabling the sector to look at partnering and digital working and stafng shortages.
The NHS Five Year Forward technologies to support their front and back ofce transformation activities.
The new Health View sets a clear direction, dening new models of care and and Social Care Network HSCN, a data network for health and care organisations, will setting out a savings challenge of 22bn.
While the spending provide the underlying network arrangements to support the integration and transformation review provided welcome additional funding for the NHS, it of health and social care services.
Whilst demand for services will grow, implementing change also established additional challenges, especially for those in the sector does come with a higher level of complexity, challenge and scrutiny and will need central bodies outside the NHS ring-fence.
robust oversight is in place to govern these challenges.
Justice, emergency services and defence: Driver: The 2015 spending review requires The Ministry Opportunity and challenge: We work across 40 police forces, 36 re services and all 10 of Justice to achieve savings of 15% by 201920, whilst all ambulance services and our existing relationships position us well to provide transformational emergency services are mandated to look for opportunities to services and to support the increased use of technology across the sector.
The focus for growth in work together.
The National Audit Ofce NAO has already the defence sector will be on improving the capability to manage risk, to better enable operations, stated its belief that a transformation in policing is required in an environment of significant and continuing budgetary challenge.
This is an area in which we to meet the cost cutting challenge which cannot be met by have considerable expertise and a considerable track record across the wider public sector.
The Ministry of Defence MoD is committed to cutting its civilian staff by 30% over the coming years as resources are focused on delivering military capability.
