15 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts DRIVING OUR GROWTH OUR SOLUTIONS Delivering value for our clients through our unique solutions Our strategy and focus is on providing the expertise and capability to deliver technology-enabled business process and customer management solutions and professional support services, creating value for clients across the private and public sectors in the UK and Europe.
We drive growth through helping Our software, digital, IT and professional Clients objectives in working with an our clients to deliver services more support services provide business critical outsourcing provider align to their own effectively, become more efficient, solve services to clients.
Whether it is business ambitions, and can include challenges and enhance and maintain optimising their workforce, providing elements, such as: their competitive positions.
By applying specialist operational software, IT, Service transformation: These are our talent, technology and expertise, networking or cyber security, solutions that completely re-engineer we make their processes smarter, their transforming their digital capability, how services are delivered.
This often organisations more efficient and their running their core corporate functions involves reviewing existing activities to customer experiences better.
or rationalising their property portfolio, redene how services are shaped and we strive to improve the efficiency of the way we interact with customers, Delivering value through their organisation and reduce their resulting in streamlined, more efficient innovative solutions operational overhead.
processes, upgraded IT, new service Transforming business processes to drive delivery channels, modernised work down administration costs while also Evolving nature of service delivery environments and improvements improving the end-user experience is The market continues to evolve beyond to the overall customer experience.
a key goal of the majority of work we the conventional outsourcing of services Revenue opportunities and do for our clients.
based on cost reduction alone.
commercialisation: These are Clients and service providers are Through our outsourced solutions, typically delivery models where there increasingly focusing on service we support private and public sector is a shared growth objective.
In the improvements and wider service clients to improve customer and citizen public sector, we have enabled clients transformation.
We deliver them at a lower cost to commercialise their existing assets.
longer-term view, moving towards a by using the insight provided by data and These solutions can deliver a revenue partnership-based model to deliver analytics to develop appropriate ways to stream, return funds to taxpayers and shared aims.
The type of commercial engage, digitally and otherwise.
For our create new jobs as well as protect model we use to engage with our clients private sector clients, our focus is on existing employment.
In the private is increasingly driven by the changing improving customer attraction and sector, our solutions are increasingly nature of their procurement objectives.
retention and keeping our clients at designed around financial models We are leading this change as we seek the forefront of their industries.
which incentivise revenue growth for ways to ensure we are remunerated and the client and result in mutual benefit incentivised in line with the commercial to both the client and Capita.
outcomes for our clients, ensuring we both achieve mutual benefit and we are an integral and valued partner.
KEY NEW CLIENTS IN 2016 Client Service Contract value Term years Five District Councils Shared services platform 139m 9 Tesco Mobile Customer management 140m 5 Three UK Customer management 70m 7 mobilcom-debitel Customer management 197m 7 transformation Germany 16 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts DRIVING OUR GROWTH OUR SOLUTIONS CONTINUED Customer experience: Clients 3 Additional opportunities below Business growth increasingly recognise that services 25m total contract value are Our growth is primarily driven by new that are easy to use deliver managed within our trading contract wins and extensions alongside downstream savings.
By understanding businesses sales teams.
growth in our transactional businesses, customers experiences, expectations supported by targeted acquisitions of In 2016, we announced 15 contract wins and behaviours, we can proactively smallto medium-sized organisations.
and extensions, generated from the tackle the frustration and points of New contracts are secured from Group Pipeline, valued at 1.34bn failure customers experience from three sources: 2015: 13 wins, 1.8bn.
This was lower a service, reducing the need for than anticipated, translating into a win 1 Our market-focused Group business additional contact and improving rate of one in three 2015: one in two development team works across our customer loyalty.
and reecting a quieter market across 11 target sectors, identifying new Digitisation and technology: We public and private sectors.
opportunities and developing apply our own proprietary technology propositions in order to secure See pages 3445 Divisional Performance for and business solutions, alongside more details on contracts won or extended long-term multi-service contracts, during the year.
bespoke and off-the-shelf solutions, usually valued in excess of 50m.
to improve our clients services with These propositions are brought Opportunities for growth come from immediate effect and build in future together drawing on expertise, assets across our 11 target markets spread proong to ensure we can take and services from across the Group.
across the public and private sector.
Our revised organisational structure, 2 The Group business development Shared platforms and the introduction effective from 1 January 2017, comprising team also drives the campaigns of of proprietary software solutions six market-facing divisions, will help opportunities of between 25m and enable us to re-engineer and better focus the organisation on 50m, which are of strategic value streamline administrative processes.
generating organic growth across the or provide opportunity for future Analysing big data along with other Group.
Acquisitions will remain at the growth.
We measure the success of sources creates highly personalised and lower end of our historic level of activity these sales opportunities through productive customer interactions and as we focus on fide-leveraging the the Group Pipeline, which contains all the latest digital technologies allow balance sheet.
live opportunities greater than 25m us to smoothly follow and analyse total contract value, where we are Our track record of growth has been customer touch points across shortlisted to one in four or better, with consistent, and our potential to grow multiple channels.
We announce remains, and is due to a number this pipeline to the market three times of factors: operating in a growing a year.
market, investing in our people and our infrastructure, winning and retaining new business, anticipating and adapting our solutions to changing client markets, and developing and investing in enabling technologies to support future organic growth.
LEADING PROVIDER OF CONTROL ROOM, CASE MANAGEMENT AND MOBILE SOLUTIONS TO JUSTICE EMERGENCY 1.3bn SERVICES CONTRACTS WINS AND EXTENSIONS IN 2016 17 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts DRIVING OUR GROWTH OUR SOLUTIONS CONTINUED Our IT capability serves both our large Delivery enabled by our resources Information technology IT, outsourcing contracts as well as external Capita is a people-based business, digital and software customers requiring niche IT solutions.
with a strong culture and set of values.
Our inherent skill base is in IT and over We can act as a specialist systems We employ over 73,000 people across our history we have built up extensive integrator, help clients move their our operations, with the majority expertise in IT and software, and more organisation to a cloud platform, having joined us through contracts or recently, digital technology and services.
or provide mission critical software acquisitions.
Over 70% of our employees Our growing capability has been built platforms, IT networks and support.
are based in the UK, with the remainder through in-house investment in our Across our outsourcing contracts located across the Republic of Ireland, product and service portfolio and technology and digitisation underpin Northern Europe, and at our offshore through strategic acquisitions.
We have the back ofce processes and customer locations in India, South Africa and built up a strong position in niche sectors services we run.
Our peoples capabilities, through our market-leading proprietary significant catalyst for change through experience and sector knowledge are key software solutions and platforms.
the life of a contract as we seek new cost to our success.
See Developing our talent and process efficiencies, drive service page 56-57 for more details on our Across education, justice and emergency improvements or gain a competitive people and values.
services, local government, financial edge for our clients.
services, health, utilities and transport Delivery network and central government, our software Our delivery network consists of is supporting mission critical services 98 multi-service centres across our on behalf of our clients.
This sector onshore, nearshore and offshore knowledge and expertise provides a locations and these are complemented competitive edge when bidding for larger by 450 business sites, with additional opportunities in these sectors, enabling smaller satellite ofces in global us to use our proprietary technology and locations supporting specic businesses unique market understanding to shape and financial jurisdictions.
broader innovative solutions for clients.
Our network of multi-service centres means we are able to leverage a mixture of service delivery options to offer our clients maximum exibility, quality and cost-effectiveness through onshore, nearshore and offshore locations.
We also leverage our own experience as a large organisation to rationalise our property and associated back ofce functions where appropriate and to drive down costs through our procurement expertise.
LEADING SUPPLIER OF 98 SOFTWARE, DIGITAL & IT KEY MULTI-SERVICE SOLUTIONS CENTRES 18 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts DRIVING OUR GROWTH OUR SOLUTIONS CONTINUED Digitisation Embedding new technology As technology continues to evolve at Capita is increasingly helping clients Technology underpins service delivery speed, we seek to nd ways to smartly deliver digital transformation across across the majority of our long-term combine technologies to deliver the best their organisations.
We use smarter large outsourced contracts and outcomes for our clients.
technologies which help us to analyse short-term contracts, supporting the and understand customer interactions, people and business process engage our staff in more creative ways transformations we undertake: whether and make them more productive, and it is a new telephony system or customer drive efficiencies through introducing relationship management CRM system self-serve channels and automation.
in our customer management operations, a processing platform in our Software life and our pensions businesses, a Our portfolio of over 300 niche software revenues and benets system for our products, modules and platforms are local authority clients, or a payments critical to the running of our clients system to collect the London Congestion operations from curriculum planning Charge.
Coupled with these core IT and timetabling or supporting learning platforms, we constantly look for attainment in schools, connecting opportunities to introduce new emergency services with their control technology innovation and digitisation rooms, delivering critical intelligence to bring about further cost savings and to government agencies or enabling the service improvements for our clients.
timely collection of taxes and distribution of benets by local authorities.
Both our We deploy our broad range of off the shelf products sold to multiple proprietary software, automation and clients and our bespoke client digital solutions, and the best of applications are delivered across multiple established and emerging third party platforms and as a service.
software and technology in our client solutions and our own operations.
EMBEDDING TECHNOLOGIES ACROSS OUR OPERATIONS 1 EMBEDDED 2 SCALED 3 PROVEN 4 EXPLORING 5 UNDERSTOOD PLATFORMS SECURE PCI DSS ROBOTIC PROCESS PAYMENTS COMPLIANCE DATA & AUTOMATION ANALYTICS DATA SCIENCE OPEN DATA API IOT MACHINE LEARNING AVR DECISION ENABLED ROBOTIC PROCESS AUTOMATION VIRTUAL ASSISTANT AI BLOCKCHAIN POTENTIAL OPPORTUNIT Y FOR CAPITA: COGNITIVE COMPUTING LARGE MEDIUM SMALL
