44 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts DIVISIONAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED EUROPE W e have been harnessing automation Divisional overview Trading summary and AI technologies to improve the This division provides multilingual W e were awarded our first quality and efficiency of the services we customer management, back ofce transformational customer service can provide to our clients customers: administration and BPO services from contract in Germany by mobilcomusing Robotic Process Automation RPA its operations in Germany, Switzerland, debitel, valued at 197m 210m, to automate back ofce processes, Austria and Poland, primarily to the which commenced in March 2017. using chat bots to automate elements telecommunications, utilities, financial The contract is designed to focus on of web chat and messaging forums and services, retail and healthcare markets.
valuable outcomes, rather than the utilising visual and natural voice transactional model traditionally used Interactive Voice Response technology Financial summary across the German customer IVR to automate voice channels.
2016 2015 O ur social media analytics tools enable S ecured our first client in the airline Underlying us to identify trends that are emerging sector, with the signing of a three-year revenue 205.4m 178.5m before traditional media channels contract with airberlin.
Underlying and tools know that something is I n July we signed an agreement for operating profit 6.1m 19.8m happening.
Joining data together from 200 FTE spread across Rostock and different sources and different customer Leipzig for another leading German Underlying channels enables Capita to signicantly telecommunications provider.
operating margin 3.0% 11.1% enrich the customer experience.
In September the initial training Capex 3.4m 8.8m started and the first calls were taken from October.
Performance summary W e signed a contract with another Reve nue increased due to the full year leading utility provider and we now benefit of the acquisition of avocis, work for three of the big four utility acquisition of 3C and a new contract companies in Germany.
I n difficult market conditions we were H owever, operating profit and margin able to deliver ongoing high class were negatively affected by the indirect customer service for one of the most impact of the introduction of the important German telecom providers minimum wage in Germany, making and defended our premium ranking alternative jobs more attractive, and against the competition.
We managed increasing staff attrition.
further growth and negotiated Incl uded within non-underlying charges improved terms and conditions with in 2016 is 5.8m from the impairment the client for 2017. of goodwill 2015: nil.
197m VALUE OF MOBILCOM-DEBITEL TRANSFORMATIONAL CUSTOMER SERVICES CONTRACT
