60 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts MANAGING OUR BUSINESS RESPONSIBLY CONTINUED Running a resource-efficient business Our carbon footprint Delivering for our clients We are committed to tackling climate In 2016, our carbon footprint was 108,613 We create value for our clients by making change and protecting our natural tonnes CO eq scopes 1,2 and 3 down processes smarter, organisations more 2 1 resources and so we take a proactive from 111,173 tonnes CO eq in 2015, efficient and customer experiences better.
2 approach to good environmental representing a year-on-year decrease of We do this by using smart technology and management.
This decrease was based on reductions the skills and expertise of our people.
environmental performance is important in our energy usage in the UK and India, and We listen and respond to what our clients to our clients, our employees and other a reduction in our business mileage.
tell us, understanding their changing needs stakeholders and can create financial and working with them to ensure we meet At the start of 2016 we set ourselves a savings to support the long-term their expectations.
target to reduce energy usage across all of sustainability of our business.
It also our sites that are within scope of the CRC We strive to deliver operational allows us to manage potential risks Energy efficiency Scheme.
We achieved an excellence and are committed to to our operations related to the 8% energy reduction, equating to 1m in maintaining and improving the services environment, ensuring we have business savings.
This was mainly through better we provide to our clients.
continuity plans in place if, for example, data analysis, identifying where savings our employees were prevented from To provide us with an understanding of could be made and providing training to getting to work.
key client satisfaction, we undertake a our facilities managers.
survey of key clients across our divisions, As a predominately ofce-based In 2010, we set ourselves a target to reduce looking at both how we work with them business, our main environmental impact our carbon intensity scopes 1 and 2 by on an operational and strategic level.
comes from carbon emissions generated 4.5% a year.
In 2016, our carbon intensity This survey, along with our regular from energy use in our ofces and was 16.2 2015: 17.5, a reduction of 7.4%.
feedback mechanisms, helps us to through business travel and so this is identify where we need to work harder where we concentrate our efforts.
and where there is the potential to add We also manage our resource use and value to our clients operations.
In addition, although our water usage is This survey provides a baseline to focus our not significant, we have made efforts operational performance improvement towards conserving this resource.
efforts and we will use the themes that emerge from this to create divisional action plans to drive ongoing performance improvement across the base.
Progress against this will be measured through this annual client survey.
For more information about how we deliver for our clients see pages 1517 1 2015 restated based on updated data.
5% EMPLOYEES DONATE VIA PAYROLL GIVING 2m 98 TOTAL COMMUNITY MULTI-SERVICE INVESTMENT DELIVERY CENTRES
