36 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts DIVISIONAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED INTEGRATED SERVICES W e continue to provide a high quality Divisional overview Trading summary Electronic Monitoring Service EMS to This division brings together a number D WP PIP extended: we secured a the Ministry of Justice MoJ.
Following of public service business process two-year extension of our PIP the MoJ delays to the new world management contracts providing assessments contract in England and programme, involving the provision services to both central government Wales worth in the region of 210m to of GPS tagging from another supplier, departments and the NHS including: 2019.
We have invested in building our we are working collaboratively with Department of Work and Pensions, productive capability and substantially the MoJ on the transition from legacy Department for Communities in improving the quality of the service service and infrastructure to the Northern Ireland, Ministry of Justice, throughout 2017. new world.
Transport for London and NHS England.
C ommenced delivery of PIP The division also includes our Parking T ransport for London TfL congestion assessments on behalf of the Services business.
charging: the enhanced and upgraded Department for Communities in solution went live in September 2016, Northern Ireland DfC.
Following Financial summary later than the original date of May complex preparations, recruitment 2016.
The overrun on the 2016 2015 and training, Capita successfully implementation led to additional compressed this work into a six-month Underlying one-off costs and penalties in the year period to meet DfCs requirements revenue 269.7m 203.2m of 25m.
We have experienced teething and continued to deliver high quality Underlying issues, but overall the service is assessments during the remainder of operating profit 8.8 m 16.3m performing well and will run until the year.
We are currently in mature September 2021, with an option to discussions with DfC to extend the Underlying extend for a further five years.
service contract for an additional two operating margin 3.3 % 8.0% years until 2019.
A n umber of other initiatives are Capex 3.5m 14.4m underway with TfL in support of their M ajor transformation for NHS England: increasing cost challenges and need to we are in the early stages of a Performance summary drive efficiencies.
We commenced work programme to deliver primary care Reve nue increased due to the full year on the implementation of the Emission administration support services for impact of the NHS PCSE contract, Surcharge scheme, due to be NHS England.
Over the past year we which started in September 2015, introduced in London in 2017.
Work is have moved the breadth of historic, increased volumes on our DWP PIP also planned around the expansion of locally agreed services and disparate contract and growth in parking services.
the Emission Surcharge into the Ultra processes from over 40 to three Under lying operating profit was Low Emission Zone ULEZ due to be locations and launched a new national impacted by the one-off costs of 25m introduced during 2019 20. service for supplies.
2016 has been an from the TfL system go-live overrun.
intense period of change for staff and O ur parking business has continued to U nderlying operating profit in 2016 users, with some initial challenges, and perform well, delivering organic growth includes an impairment of accrued in 2017 we look forward to making of 22% year-on-year.
It won a number income following the review performed further improvements and progress of new contracts in 2016, including a by the Board as part of the year-end towards realising NHS Englands five-year deal with Asda to manage close process 2.3m.
2 year CONTRACT EXTENSION FOR DWP PIP
