06 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts OUR BUSINESS MODEL HOW WE UNLOCK VALUE FOR ALL STAKEHOLDERS Our business model is straightforward.
We generate revenue and profits and focus on unlocking value for all stakeholders by designing and delivering services which can solve challenges and enhance services for our clients and their end-customers.
Services can be delivered under long-term contracts or partnerships or through our short-term contracts and trading businesses.
What we do APPLYING TALENT AND TECHNOLOGY LONG-TERM CONTRACTUAL c60% SOURCE OF REVENUE SERVICE EXCELLENCE AND VALUE ROBUST GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL CO SHORT-TERM CONTRACTUAL AND TRADING BUSINESSES c40% SOURCE OF REVENUE MEETING CLIENT NEEDS SUPPORTED BY ROBUST GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL CONTROL 1.
Maintaining our scale and What drives our profit in two main ways position in a growing market competitive advantage business model We generate revenues and profits Capita is the leading provider of With a growing share of the UK BPM in two ways: technology-enabled customer market, our service offering remains service and business process attractive and competitive across our a.
Long-term contractual: source management BPM and professional 11 target markets.
Our operational of 61% of revenues in 2016. services in the UK.
In 2016 we scale across our business centres and Good visibility of forward revenues maintained our position as number operational sites, unique breadth of from long-term private and public one BPM provider in the UK with capabilities and track record of sector contracts and partnerships 29.2% market share, despite a year solution design and delivery positions to deliver customer-facing, middle of slower growth for the Group.
us well for future growth.
We have or back ofce services, with The UK market had an annual value strong credentials, with an increasing contract lengths ranging from 1 of 13.9bn and grew by just over 1% emphasis on the enabling role of two years to 15 years.
The total UK BPM technology in our solutions across b. Shor t-term contractual and market potential is estimated at the Group, alongside our trading businesses: source of 39% 140bn and annual growth is development of proprietary of revenues in 2016.
Revenues are expected to return to 5% per annum technology, process re-engineering generated from annual or rolling by 2020.
In Germany we are number and wider capabilities.
contracts, particularly in areas three in the customer management such as software, employee market with a 4.5% market share 2 benets, outsourced resourcing in a market valued at 3.2bn.
partnerships, business travel, and shareholder solutions.
Shorter-term transactional revenue is generated from property and real estate services, IT reseller 1 Source: Ovum 2016. and recruitment businesses.
Find out more page 16 Find out more page 19 Find out more page 17 07 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED The cash generated from operations allows us to maintain a good dividend HIGH QUALITY, whilst also funding investment in the RECURRING, future growth of the business.
DELIVERING REVENUE VISIBILITY Over the last 10 years we have SHAREHOLDER RETURNS returned 614m to shareholders.
WIDER STAKEHOLDER Our wider stakeholders benefit from L BENEFITS SUSTAINABLE, our application of smarter thinking PROFITABLE through deploying our talent and GROWTH technology to solve business and service challenges for our clients and the communities in which we work.
Running a needs of our clients with a disciplined approach to and culture responsible business financial and risk management Meeting and anticipating the needs Our 73,000 people are a core asset At Capita, being a responsible business of our clients is an important reason to the Group.
We work hard to foster means that we operate with integrity We are focused on running an why we have a high renewal and efficient business with a disciplined an open culture where we act and transparency, with security a key retention rate and continue to grow with integrity and transparency.
We aim to create a culture for approach to managing and the business, achieving an increased controlling costs and allocating Individuals are encouraged to do things our employees that is inclusive, inspiring UK BPM market share for the last 16 differently and smarter, and we seek and supportive.
This allows us to capital investment.
We have a deep consistently generated strong ways to combine talent and capability innovate and deliver smarter services for understanding of the market from across the business to benefit our our clients.
We are also able to make underlying free cash ow from our dynamics and the competitive and operations, generating over 1.1bn clients.
2016 was a challenging year a positive contribution to society, both cost challenges and customer service and we have taken the opportunity to indirectly through the services we over the last three years.
As we needs that our clients face.
deliver complex services, risks are re-focus the organisation on our core provide and directly through our We understand what it takes to business, streamline and strengthen community investment programmes.
inherent across a number of areas deliver a truly transformational of our businesses and contracts.
our management and ensure We also work collaboratively with our service encompassing people, comprehensive accountability.
clients to support their own corporate We have therefore embedded strong processes, technology and property.
governance and risk management Delivering what we promise and responsibility agendas.
During economic cycles we have believing that great service can always principles and procedures across our a track record of anticipating and operations, and regularly review their be better is a core principle of the adapting to changes in our clients business, from senior management appropriateness and evolve them buying behaviour and market as necessary.
conditions, helping them adapt to their altered landscape.
Find out more page 15 Find out more pages 2831 Find out more pages 5657 Find out more pages 5860
