42 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts DIVISIONAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED IT ENTERPRISE SERVICES U nderlying operating profit in 2016 W e secured the re-tender of the Divisional overview includes an impairment of accrued Connect Plus Service Balfour Beatty This division is a cloud, IT services and income following the review performed Joint Venture M25 Managed Service specialist solutions provider, delivering by the Board as part of the year-end Contract and the successful bid in transformational IT solutions for more close process 6.0m.
partnership with HCL to Transport than 3,800 clients and Capitas largefor London for an additional two years scale contracts and trading businesses.
Incl uded within non-underlying charges Hosting Service.
in 2016 is 30.0m from the impairment Financial summary of goodwill 2015: nil.
I n local government, we signed new contracts with two Northern Ireland 2016 2015 Trading summary councils, Mid and East Antrim Council Underlying W e made significant management and Derry and Strabane District Council revenue 616.7m 534.9m and organisational changes toward to deliver infrastructure services and an the year-end to address challenges in Underlying Ofce 365 solution.
Business operating profit 30.0m 49.7m T he cyber security threat is growing development resources have been exponentially for businesses due to Underlying refocused and strengthened and the digitalisation and Capita is able to operating margin 4.9% 9.3% cost base signicantly reduced, and it support businesses in the auditing is anticipated that these changes will Capex 7.8m 34.2m of their systems, the build of their return the division to profitable growth protection plan and the monitoring in the medium term.
Performance summary of any incoming attack.
Capita Cyber T he acquisition and integration of U pdata signicantly enhanced Security was named as a nalist in Trustmarque Solutions in 2016 into its service portfolio, bringing the 2016 Computing Security Awards Technology Solutions and Enterprise together the provision of intelligent for Security Reseller of the Year.
Services, the full year benefit from infrastructure services, enterprise To further increase our capabilities in Pervasive and Electranet, both acquired mobility, customer engagement and cyber resilience services, we acquired in 2015, and contract wins helped grow unied communications solutions and WestPoint Ltd. underlying revenue by 15%.
our Cisco solutions team during 2016.
D espite the progress above, trading I mproved profitability in our networks I n November, Capita, Updata and SSE in the second half of the year proved business was offset by reduced Enterprise Telecoms signed a major challenging across the division, profitability in Technology Solutions xed line network sharing deal in a particularly in Technology Solutions, and Enterprise Services and the cost seven-year strategic partnership our reseller business.
of restructuring during 2016. valued at 45m.
T ighter controls over capital A key strategic partnership was secured expenditure led to a marked decline in this year with Smartschools, a leading the capex spend for the division, which ICT service and hardware provider to we expect to continue at this lower schools and colleges in the Republic level for the foreseeable future.
The partnership will better support ICT learning and education in schools throughout Ireland and provide Capita with access to a new geographic market.
45m VALUE OF SEVEN-YEAR STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIP WITH UPDATA AND SSE ENTERPRISE TELECOMS
