41 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts DIVISIONAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED STRATEGIC SERVICES I ncluded within non-underlying O ur Indian and Middle East offshore Divisional overview charges in 2016 is 41.9m in relation operations are in a position to take This division contains a number of central to non-current asset impairments advantage of technology automation government services and commercial 2015: nil, and 1.6m from the as it continues to be advanced in the businesses delivering key services impairment of goodwill nil.
Our range of services and including estates strategy for the history of excellent customer service Ministry of Defence MoD, the roll out Trading summary have been key differentiators for of Smart Metering across the utilities M oD Defence Infrastructure the operations.
sector, enforcement services, print and Organisation DIO : we have delivered managed services, and procurement O ur continued partnership with the the Estate Optimisation Plan Footprint supply chain management.
NHS Business Services Authority Strategy to reduce the size of the resulted in a new dentist contract military estate, making it smaller and Financial summary management and payment system cheaper to service while creating an being implemented.
We also extended 2016 2015 estate that better ts the needs of the our dental claims processing contract Underlying MoD.
We have injected significant for two years, worth 34m.
revenue 434.6m 332.6m industry expertise and we have driven I n our procurement and print solutions efficient, cross-functional management Underlying businesses our advisers have helped of PFI and housing contracts.
The operating profit 72.2m 69.2m clients make significant savings from Department is undertaking a review areas such as holistic supply chain Underlying of how its infrastructure is managed management to bespoke printing operating margin 16.6% 20.8% across all involved parties and solutions for private sector and local considering the role each will play as Capex 32.7m 34.6m government clients.
Savings that have been delivered to date remain W e are on track to deploy the new Performance summary under review with the MoD.
army recruitment IT system in 2017 W e ceased the disposal process of a which will allow further service D CC Smart Meter Communication justice business, which is now included enhancement.
As this deployment has Licence contract: we have designed and in our 2016 results having previously taken longer than anticipated, it has built a smart metering infrastructure been treated as a disposal held for sale inevitably resulted in additional costs, system for the Energy industry.
This distorts year-on-year but has enabled us to evolve the The new national smart meters comparative financial performance.
solution and incorporate current infrastructure went live in November U nderlying revenue improved leading edge technologies.
See page 43 across Britain, enabling energy suppliers year-on-year due to growth across for further information regarding to start rolling out the next generation our central government contracts, our army recruitment.
This is one of the document and print solutions business biggest national infrastructure and procurement.
projects in our lifetime and it will U nderlying operating profits improved enable a more energy-efficient system slightly but margin was down to 16.6%, for Great Britain.
34m EXTENDED CONTRACT FOR NHS DENTAL CLAIMS PROCESSING
