43 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts DIVISIONAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED WORKPLACE SERVICES C apita Resourcing is developing its Divisional overview Trading summary agile resourcing capability ARC This division caters to the needs of clients A rmy recruitment: applications to product as an alternative to an throughout the whole employment life join the British Army have increased outsourced recruitment model.
This is cycle, from pre-employment screening, signicantly and the time to hire designed to work alongside internal search and selection, to temporary has been reduced thanks to the teams and provide an agile solution stafng, payroll administration and improvements we have made to the at all levels of hiring from volume HR advice.
It serves public and private recruitment process.
clients in markets including financial introduced a streamlined application and professional services, transport, process, redesigned recruitment ofces, T he outcome of the UK EU referendum pharmaceutical, telecoms, aviation, and introduced new innovative ways has impacted Capita Resourcings more insurance, logistics, retail, construction, to attract and prepare young people, transactional businesses, with delayed engineering and property, utilities, for example with the use of virtual decisions across private sector clients healthcare, defence and security.
reality technology and a highly popular due to uncertainty regarding the UK tness app.
See page 41 for information exit strategy.
To date the impact on Financial summary regarding the army recruitment IT our publicly funded contracts has system.
2016 2015 S ecurity Watchdog created a dedicated A s the market moves towards ever Underlying aviation division with real growth more global delivery models with revenue 452.3m 498.5m potential for 2017, having taken on multinational deals becoming the Underlying three household aviation sector clients default position, we are responding operating profit 35.0m 46.0m in 2016.
We are experiencing significant to this with a shared sourcing and take up of services following the administrative function with language Underlying emergence of continuous or capability in Krakow, Poland, and have operating margin 7.7% 9.2% in-employment screening as a identied organisations with global Capex 4.4m 4.2m standard annual check and expect capabilities for strategic partnerships.
this trend to continue into 2017.
F ollowing unsolicited approaches, we Performance summary T he education stafng market has been have announced our intention to exit Reve nue was down mainly as a result challenging as a result of the forced our specialist recruitment businesses of a weak performance in our specialist move to Academies and budget education, health and social care.
We recruitment businesses, which were pressure.
Access to the international expect to complete these disposals by impacted by the NHS price caps and talent pool will be crucial for agencies mid-year.
to effectively address a long-term O perating profit and margins were stafng shortage.
To address this, impacted by the above and negative Capita have developed an offshore operating leverage.
sourcing model and an enhanced advertising campaign that will increase candidate attraction.
3 NEW AVIATION SECTOR CLIENTS FOR SECURITY WATCHDOG
