39 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts DIVISIONAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED INSURANCE & BENEFIT SERVICES I ncluded within non-underlying O ur award-winning partnership with Divisional overview charges in 2016 is 16.5m in relation Flood Re winner of Financial Services This division offers business processing to non-current asset impairments Outsourcing Project of the Year 2016 and specialist solutions to regulated 2015: 76.7m, and the impairment at The Global Sourcing Association markets including life and pensions, of goodwill of 5.5m 2015: 28.3m.
awards launched a Flood Reinsurance insurance, and employee benets for all Scheme to make domestic ood types of organisations.
It operates across Trading summary insurance more affordable and available a number of geographical regions, D uring the year, we secured a contract to an estimated 350,000 UK households including the UK, Ireland, the Isle of Man, extension with The Pensions Regulator in high ood risk areas.
mainland Europe, and the Middle East.
TPR for the continued delivery of O ur life and pensions business in pensions auto-enrolment, and Financial summary Ireland, in partnership with Financial extensions with a global insurance Risk Solutions FRS, commenced 2016 2015 client and a global life company for a five-year contract to provide fund Underlying business process management BPM administration for Hawthorn Life.
We are providing secure cloud-based M ore than seven million people have Underlying investment fund management now been put into a pension by their operating profit 15.5m 27.3m administration using FRSs employer as a result of automatic Invest|Pro software.
Underlying enrolment AE which Capita delivers W e are investing in virtual robotics operating margin 3.1% 5.4% in partnership with TPR.
automation to not only drive Capex 38.0m 35.5m W e celebrated the 20th anniversary efficiencies for Capita but also offer of our administration of the Teachers a faster, more robust and seamless Performance summary Pension Scheme on behalf of the experience for our clients customers.
Reve nue fell slightly in the year as Department for Education and closed books in our life business continued our successful digital continued to run off and we transformation programme, reaching experienced a reduction in discretionary the milestone of 500,000 My Online spend by clients in our employee Pension registrations.
O ur employee benets business U nderlying operating profit and margin secured a record level of new contract improved mainly due to cost initiatives wins over the course of 2016 with total and exit fees on the termination of contract values of 68m.
New clients a contract in the year.
included Marks & Spencer, the Mineworkers Pension Scheme, the U nderlying operating profit in 2016 British Coal Staff Superannuation includes an impairment of accrued Scheme and Unilever.
income following the review performed by the Board as part of the year-end close process 16.4m.
500,000 MY ONLINE PENSION REGISTRATIONS 68m VALUE OF NEW CONTRACTS SECURED BY EMPLOYEE BENEFITS IN 2016
