71 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Transforming business processes to Other statutory and Events after the balance sheet date drive down administration costs while regulatory information There are no post balance sheet events also improving the end-user experience that require disclosure.
Strategic report is the goal of the majority of what The Company is required to prepare we do for our clients.
We focus on Appointment, re-appointment and a fair review of the Groups business delivering technology-enabled solutions, removal of Directors during the financial year and its position providing excellent customer service and Directors are appointed and may be at 31 December 2016 and a description operational delivery.
We will combine removed in accordance with the Articles of the principal risks and uncertainties our expertise with technology to of Association of the Company and the facing the Group known as a strategic make processes smarter, organisations provisions of the Companies Act 2006. report.
The purpose of the strategic more efficient and customer report is to enable shareholders to assess All Directors are subject to election at experiences better.
how the Directors have performed their the first Annual General Meeting after A review of the development of the duty under Section 172 of the Companies their appointment and to re-election at Group and its business activities during Act 2006 duty to promote the success intervals of no more than three years the year is contained in the strategic of the Company.
The information that in accordance with the Code and the report on pages 161.
Our divisional fulls the requirements of the strategic Companys Articles of Association.
operations and financial performance report can be found on pages 161.
However, all Directors apart from are detailed on pages 3445.
Details of the Groups business goals, Paul Bowtell will retire and will offer strategy and model are on pages 67. themselves for re-election Sir Ian profits and dividends Powell, Chris Sellers and Matthew Lester The Groups reported profit before Corporate governance report for election at the Annual General taxation amounted to 74.8m The corporate governance statement Meeting in June 2017, in accordance with 2015: 112.1m.
The Directors as required by Rule 7.2.
1 of the Financial the UK Corporate Governance Code.
recommend a final dividend of 20.6p per Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and No person, other than a Director retiring share 2015: 21.2p per share to be paid Transparency Rules is set out on pages at the meeting, shall be appointed or on 3 July 2017 to ordinary shareholders 62105. re-appointed a Director of the Company on the Register on 26 May 2017.
This at any general meeting unless he she is gives a total dividend for the year of Election to apply FRS101 Reduced recommended by the Directors.
Disclosure Framework The parent company continues to No person, other than a Director retiring The employee benefit trust has waived apply UK GAAP in the preparation of at a general meeting as set out above, its right to receive a dividend on the its individual financial statements in shall be appointed or re-appointed unless shares being held within the Trust.
accordance with FRS101 and these between seven and 35 days notice, are contained on pages 171188. executed by a member qualied to vote Conicts policy FRS101 applies IFRS as adopted by the on the appointment or re-appointment, Under the Companies Act 2006, European Union with certain disclosure has been given to the Company of Directors are under an obligation to exemptions.
No objections were received the intention to propose that person avoid situations in which their interests from shareholders.
for appointment or re-appointment, can or do conict, or may possibly together with notice executed by that conict, with those of the Company.
Management report person of his her willingness to be In response to the conicts of interest For the purposes of Rule 4.1.
8R of the Financial Conduct was undertaken in 2008 to identify Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Group activities and disclose any conicts of interest Rules, this Directors report and the Capita is the UKs leading provider of that have arisen or may arise across strategic report on pages 161, comprise technology-enabled business process Capita.
Procedures were implemented the management report.
and customer management services and for evaluating and managing conicts professional services.
We generate the that have been identied in a way majority of our revenues from long-term that ensures that decisions are not contracts and partnerships across the compromised by a conicted Director.
The Groups In addition, the Companys Articles of chosen markets are in the private Association give the Board the power sector life, pensions and insurance, to authorise matters that give rise to financial services, utilities and telecoms, actual or potential conicts.
The Board retail, travel and transport, and other reports annually on the Companys private sector, and in the public sector procedures for ensuring that the Boards central government, local government, powers of authorisation of conicts education, health, justice and emergency are operated effectively and that the services and defence.
A policy for ongoing identication and disclosure of conicts is in place and is kept under regular review.
72 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED The Board has authorised the conict of interest are reviewed on an annual Directors interests of Nick Greatorex being a trustee of basis by the Board and are revisited Details of Directors interests in the share the Capita Pension and Life Assurance as part of the year-end process by the capital of the Company are listed on Scheme and gave specic guidance Directors.
None of the Directors of the page 102. on this conict going forward.
Nick Company had a material interest in Greatorex did not participate in the any contract with the Company or its Share capital discussion or vote on the guidance given.
subsidiary undertakings, other than their As at 17 February 2017, 670,241,242 1 No other conicts of interest declared contracts of employment.
ordinary shares of 2 15p each have been were material to the Board.
All conicts issued and are fully paid up and are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
Major shareholders There are 3,100,242 shares held in At 31 December 2016, the Company had received notications that the following were treasury and the total number of voting interested in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs : shares is 667,141,000.
During the year ended 31 December 2016, options were % of voting exercised pursuant to the Companys rights as at Number of 31 December Number of Number of share option schemes, resulting in the Shareholder shares 2016 shares direct shares indirect allotment of 131,037 new ordinary Veritas Asset 74,851,477 11.22 74,851,477 shares.
No shares have been allotted Management LLP under these schemes since the end of the financial year to the date of Woodford Investment 71,070,139 10.65 71,070,139 this report.
Of the total issued share Management LLP capital, 1,714,041 shares are held within Invesco Asset Management 65,566,578 9.83 65,566,578 an employee benefit trust used for The Capital Group 54,667,036 8.19 54,667,036 satisfying employee share options.
Management LLP The Company renewed its authority to T. Rowe Price 21,888,589 3.28 21,888,589 re-purchase up to 10% of its own issued Standard Life Investments 20,426,845 3.06 20,426,845 share capital at the Annual General Meeting in May 2016.
During the year, This includes the holding of Veritas Funds PLC.
the Company did not purchase any shares 2015: nil.
As at 17 February 2017, the Company had received notications that the following were interested in accordance with the DTRs: Viability statement This statement is detailed in full on % of voting page 55. rights as at Number of 17 February Number of Number of In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Shareholder shares 2017 shares direct shares indirect 2014 revised Code, the Directors have Veritas Asset 81,163,342 12.17 81,163,342 assessed the viability of the Group over Management LLP the three-year period to 31 December Woodford Investment 72,080,139 10.80 72,080,139 2019, taking into account the Groups Management LLP current position and the potential impact of the principal risks set out in Invesco Asset 65,536,317 9.82 65,536,317 the strategic report above.
Based on Management this assessment, the Directors have a The Capital Group 60,297,424 9.04 60,297,424 reasonable expectation that the Group is Companies, Inc. and will continue to be viable.
73 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED The Directors have applied their Accordingly, they consider it appropriate Going concern judgement in the preparation of these to adopt the going concern basis The Groups business activities, together financial statements upon which the in preparing the annual financial with the factors likely to affect its future covenants are based.
There are no material development, performance and position of the calculation the Company has uncertainties to the Companys ability to are set out in the strategic report on calculated the ratios for 2016 by continue to do so over a period of at least pages 161.
The financial position of the applying the same treatment that has 12 months from the date of approval of Group, its cash ows, liquidity position been applied in preparing the financial the financial statements.
and borrowing facilities are described on statements.
In addition, note 26 to the are presented as non-underlying are Disabled persons financial statements on pages 145154 excluded from the covenant denition It is the Groups policy to give full includes the Groups objectives, policies of adjusted EBITDA, with the exception consideration to suitable applications for and processes for managing its capital, of acquisition costs.
The basis of employment of disabled persons and to its financial risk management objectives, calculation is also consistent with the ensure that any reasonable adjustments details of its financial instruments and approach adopted in prior years.
are made to either the workplace or job hedging activities, and its exposures to content to accommodate a persons credit risk and liquidity risk.
The proposed disposal of non-core disabilities.
Employees with a disability trading businesses but excluding The Group has sufficient financial are eligible to participate in career the Asset Services division disposal.
resources and available funding options development opportunities available The expected proceeds from these together with long-term contracts with to all employees and will be supported disposals are assumed to be used to a wide range of public and private sector to do so.
Opportunities also exist for reduce the Companys gearing and clients and suppliers.
As a consequence, employees of the Group who become strengthen the balance sheet in its the Directors believe that the Group disabled to continue in their employment forecast assumptions.
is well placed to manage its business with any reasonable adjustments risks successfully.
In concluding its assessment, the Board being made or to be retrained for other considered the above key measures and positions in the Group.
The Company has not defaulted on, or appropriate sensitivities, the Companys breached the terms of, any material loans principal risks and uncertainties, the Employee involvement during the year.
liquidity position of the Group taking Capita has a real focus on supporting The Group not only assesses the liquidity into account the significant undrawn talent and development within the available to it to meet liabilities as they but committed facilities available, Group.
Capitas approach to employee fall due, it must also assess its position and reviewed compliance with and development ensures that individuals in relation to its debt covenants both availability of headroom in relation to all are offered continual challenges in at the balance sheet date and for the key covenants.
their roles, supported through learning period covered by the going concern opportunities and personal development.
The Board also considered a number statement.
The covenants provided are The Group offers employees a of stress test scenarios to assess the adjusted net debt to adjusted EBITDA comprehensive range of key business robustness of the Groups cash ow and adjusted EBITA to underlying interest and management skills and personal forecasts.
Under such scenarios, and have been provided in respect of the development programmes through our the Board considered the mitigating Groups debt and banking facilities.
The internal training partners, as well as action available to it in managing its certications are bi-annually and cover externally recognised universities and funding these include deferral of 12 months to the June half-year and to learning partners.
At the same time our capital and acquisition expenditure the December full year.
businesses provide business-specic and arrangements with the Groups training for all employees relevant Key judgements are required in making key suppliers.
In addition, the Group this assessment, as set out below, After making enquiries, and having supports the achievement of professional together with the Boards considerations: assessed the principal risks and other qualications including a range of The Companys calculation of adjusted matters disclosed in relation to the National Vocational Qualications Net Debt to adjusted EBITDA at viability statement on page 55, and in and apprenticeships.
31 December 2016 is 2.9 times and is in accordance with the FRCs Guidance on compliance with the ratios.
Headroom Risk Management, Internal Control and has narrowed from previous periods in Related Financial and Business Reporting light of the performance of the Group 2014, the Directors have a reasonable in the year.
expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
74 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Employees receive news of the Group The Group is not generally exposed to Financial instruments through: frequent email notices: internal significant foreign currency risk, except The Groups financial instruments notice board statements: the Group in respect of its overseas operations in comprise primarily bonds, bank loans, employee intranet, Capita Connections, Europe, India and South Africa, which finance leases and overdrafts.
The and regular email updates on business generates exposure to movements in principal purpose of these is to raise performance from both Divisional and the euro, Swiss franc, Indian rupee and funds for the Groups operations.
Capita Connections South African rand exchange rates.
The In addition, various other financial enables employees to nd out what is Group seeks to mitigate the effect of instruments such as trade creditors and happening in the wider Group and to this exposure by entering into forward trade debtors arise directly from its share information within and between currency instruments, including nonoperations.
From time to time, the Group business units and employees are deliverable forward contracts, to x also enters into derivative transactions, encouraged to contribute news, views the sterling cost of highly probable primarily interest rate swaps, currency and feedback.
The Group maintains a forecast transactions denominated in swaps and forward exchange contracts, strong communications network and Indian rupees and South African rand.
the purpose of which is to manage employees are encouraged, through Exposures to the euro and Swiss franc interest risk and currency risk arising its open door policy, to discuss with are mitigated through the use of foreign from the Groups operations and its management matters of interest to exchange derivatives or borrowings in sources of finance.
the employee and subjects affecting those currencies.
Further details of the The main financial risks, to which the day-to-day operations of the Group.
Groups financial instruments can be Group has exposure, are interest rate Employees are also encouraged to share found in note 26 to the consolidated risk, liquidity risk, credit risk and foreign their views through our employee survey financial statements on pages 145154. currency risk.
and as outputs Divisions develop action plans to address any improvements that Qualifying third party indemnity The Group borrows in selected currencies are highlighted.
provisions for the benefit of at xed and oating rates of interest Directors and makes use of interest rate swaps Capita has an established employee Under the Companies Act 2006, and currency swaps to generate the share plan designed to promote companies are under an obligation to desired interest prole and to manage its employee share ownership and to give disclose any indemnities which are in exposure to interest rate uctuations.
employees the opportunity to participate force in favour of their directors.
The in the future success of the Group.
In In respect of liquidity risk, the Group current Articles of Association of the keeping with its belief that employees aims to maintain a balance between Company contain a provision that are the Groups most valuable asset, the continuity of funding and exibility enables the Company to indemnify the Group operates employee recognition through the use of multiple sources of Directors of the Company in respect schemes both at Group and divisional funding including bonds, bank loans, loan of certain liabilities and costs that they level.
The Capita People Awards, for notes, finance leases and overdrafts, over might incur in the execution of their example, celebrate the core values that a broad spread of maturities.
Such provisions have embody the organisation and recognise been in force during the year and are in In respect of credit risk, the Group trades employees for service excellence, force at the date this report is approved.
only with recognised, creditworthy third teamwork, leadership, innovation Copies of the relevant extract from the parties.
It is the Groups policy that and improvement, inter-divisional Articles of Association are available for all clients who wish to trade on credit collaboration and charitable support and inspection at the registered ofce of the terms are subject to credit verication community engagement.
Company during normal business hours procedures.
In addition, receivable on any weekday and will be available at balances are monitored on an ongoing Political donations the venue of the 2017 Annual General basis with the result that the Groups The Group did not make any political Meeting from 15 minutes before the exposure to bad debt is not significant.
donation or incur any political meeting until it ends.
expenditure during the year 2015: nil.
With respect to credit risk arising from All Directors have deeds of indemnity.
the other financial assets of the Group, Greenhouse gas emissions These will be available for inspection at such as cash, financial investments and Details of the Groups greenhouse gas the Annual General Meeting with the derivative instruments, the Groups emissions are set out on page 60 of the service contracts.
exposure to credit risk arises from strategic report.
The Group manages its operations to avoid any excessive concentration of counterparty risk and the Group takes all reasonable steps to seek assurance from the counterparties to ensure that they can full their obligations.
75 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED At any general meeting a resolution put In May 2016, shareholders granted Powers of Directors to vote at the meeting shall be decided authority for the Company to purchase The business of the Company shall on a poll.
On a poll, every member who up to 66,531,995 ordinary shares this be managed by the Directors who is present in person or by proxy shall authority will expire at the conclusion are subject to the provisions of the have one vote for every share of which of the 2017 AGM.
No shares were Companies Act 2006, the Articles of they are the holder.
A resolution Association of the Company and to any to renew this authority will be put directions given by special resolution, No person holds securities in the shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
including the Companys power to Company carrying special rights with repurchase its own shares.
regard to control of the Company.
The The Directors consider that each of the Company is not aware of any agreements resolutions are in the best interests of The Companys Articles of between holders of securities that may the Company and the shareholders as a Association may only be amended result in restrictions on the transfer of whole and recommend that shareholders by a special resolution of the securities or on voting rights.
vote in favour of all of the resolutions.
For other general meetings the notice Restrictions on transfer of shares Change of control given would be 14 working clear days.
The Companys Articles of Association All of the Companys share schemes allow Directors to, in their absolute contain provisions in relation to a Cross references discretion, refuse to register the transfer change of control.
Outstanding options For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4R, the of a share in certicated form unless the and awards would normally vest and following information is located as set instrument of transfer is lodged, duly become exercisable on a change of out below: stamped, at the registered ofce of the control, subject to the satisfaction of any Company, or at such other place as the performance conditions at that time.
Listing Rule Subject Page No.
Directors may appoint and except in the 9.8.
4 1 Capitalisation 115 Capita has a number of borrowing case of a transfer by a recognised person of interest facilities provided by various banks and where a certicate has not been issued other financial institutions.
4 2 n a n a in respect of the share is accompanied bank debt contains a change of control 4-11 by the certicate for the share to which provision under which the banks may and 14 it relates and such other evidence as require immediate repayment in full 9.8.
4 Shareholder 71 the Directors may reasonably require to on change of control.
The bonds issued 12-13 waiver of show the right of the transferor to make by Capita contain a change of control dividends the transfer.
They may also refuse to provision which requires the Group register any such transfer where it is in to offer to prepay the bonds in full if favour of more than four transferees or in a change of control event occurs and respect of more than one class of shares.
Capita does not obtain an investment The Directors may refuse to register grade credit rating.
a transfer of a share in uncerticated There are a number of significant client form in any case where the Company agreements which contain provisions is entitled to refuse or is exempted relating to change of control, which from the requirement under the in some cases could present a right of Uncerticated Securities Regulations to termination of the contract.
Rights and restrictions attaching Annual General Meeting to shares The 2017 Annual General Meeting Under the Companys Articles of AGM of the Company will be held Association, holders of ordinary shares at the London Conrad St James Hotel, are entitled to participate in the receipt 22-28 Broadway, Westminster, London, of dividends pro rata to their holding.
At the AGM Board may propose and pay an interim a number of resolutions will be proposed.
dividend and recommend a final dividend The resolutions are set out in the Notice in respect of any accounting period out of Meeting, which is sent to shareholders of the profits available for distribution with the 2016 Annual Report and under English law.
A final dividend may Accounts and includes notes explaining be declared by the shareholders in a the business to be transacted and is also general meeting by ordinary resolution, available on the Companys website at but no dividend may be declared in www.
excess of the amount recommended by the Board.
