Our Four Pillar Strategy Like-for-like sales growth New store roll out The Group intends to expand its store portfolio The Group has a strong track record of consistently organically from its existing store estate to up to delivering like-for-like sales growth and growing 1,200 stores in total a figure supported by external average basket value ABV'.
The Boards strategy analysis undertaken by OC&C, including up to is to continue this track record, whilst maintaining approximately 100 potential new stores in the the core value proposition, by: Republic of Ireland.
The Board intends to continue continuing to improve overall product quality this future roll out at a similar rate to the Groups and range for both card and non-card products historical rate of organic store openings of c50 net developed by its established design team: new stores per annum.
further developing the Groups in-store merchandising and pricing architecture to increase the number of items sold per basket and or to encourage customers to trade up to A Abbeerd rdee een n higher priced items: and leveraging the recent investment in electronic Existing Card Factory Sites 814 point of sale EPOS' to provide more granular Edinburgh Glas Glasggoow w sales data for analysis of customer purchasing trends, thereby assisting in increasing items sold per basket, for example through identifying and Newcastle stocking non-card products that are more likely to be purchased alongside greeting cards.
L Lee eeddss Belfas Belfastt Ma Man ncch heste esterr Liverpool Liverpool The Group also expects to benefit from ongoing N Notti ottingh nghaam m revenue growth as recent store openings continue N Noorw rwic ich h Bi Birm rmiingh nghaam m to grow their share of the local market in line with 124 the typical maturity curve of four to six years.
At C Caard rdif ifff B Brristo istoll the point of maturity, annual sales in individual L Loond ndoon n stores are typically 30% to 40% higher than in the So Sou utth haamp mpto ton n 124 first year post-opening.
Ply Plym moou utth h Target locations for all of these new stores have already been identified and these locations, together with other potential locations, are kept under regular review.
Although these new opportunities are expected to have, on average, lower sales potential than the average of the Groups existing store locations, primarily due to the new stores typically being in lower footfall locations than the average of the Groups existing stores, the Directors believe these new stores will nevertheless enhance EBITDA and will continue the trend of delivering a strong return on capital.
Management undertakes a formalised appraisal process for new location opportunities which includes an assessment of potential store sales and profitability, the results of which are stored in a database of new store opportunities which is continually updated and refreshed.
8 8 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 S St tr ra ate teg giic R c Re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fin ina an nc cia ialls s Business efficiencies Online development Card Factory has a long-established culture of The Groups online operations are currently strong cost control and a consistent track record focused on Getting Personal, acquired in 2011. of delivering best-in-class margins.
The Board Sales of personalised gifts represent the vast will continue to pursue business efficiency majority of the revenue generated from its website initiatives to further improve the business and www.
The Group aims to maintain and, where possible, enhance its gross margins through continuous improvement in the supply chain process.
In particular, the Group intends to continue to diversify its range of suppliers to reduce reliance on key suppliers and further develop direct sourcing relationships with manufacturers.
Similarly, the Group aims to protect and, where possible, enhance operating margins through the continued strong control of operating costs, The Directors believe there are opportunities to including: the management of overall employee further grow the Groups sales in this complementary costs: negotiation of improved rental terms upon segment through further product development the expiry and renewal of existing leases: and tight eg changes to existing product ranges and control over other costs and expenses.
new product ranges, enhancements to the website including the mobile offering and As the Group continues to grow Iike-for-like sales improved marketing.
and proceed with its new store roll out, the business will continue to leverage the growing While the personalised online segment of the economies of scale when negotiating contracts greeting cards market remains small, according with suppliers and manufacturers.
to OC&C representing just 6.6% of the total single cards market, by value, and 3.5%, by volume, Since 2010, in anticipation of planned long-term in 2014, the Directors believe it provides an growth, the Group has invested heavily in its opportunity for growth.
infrastructure, including: During the year the Card Factory transactional website was relaunched on the responsive a new EPOS system to provide more granular technology platform developed by the team at sales data: Getting Personal.
We continue to enhance, test and expansion of Printcraft as part of a 10 year capital evolve our online proposition and product offering expenditure plan following its relocation to larger on this second site and, in the second half of the premises in 2011: year, introduced a wider selection of personalised cards and gifts, including a small range of photo the relocation of Getting Personals personalised upload products.
gift production facility to Printcraft in 2013: and investment in the Central Distribution Centre and The Directors believe that the Group is well Group head office completed in 2013. placed to capture a greater share of this growing segment of the market.
The Group will continue to leverage the benefits of these recent significant investments over the medium term.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 9 9
