S St tr ra ate teg giic r c re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fin ina an nc cia ialls s Directors Report The Directors present their report together with This Directors Report should be read in conjunction the audited financial statements for the year ended with the Strategic Report, which also contains details 31 January 2016. of the principal activities of the Group during the year.
When taken together, the Strategic Report and this INTRODUCTION Directors Report constitute the management report for This section of the Annual Report and Accounts includes the purposes of DTR 4.1.
additional information required to be disclosed under the Companies Act 2006 the Companies Act, the UK RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code or the The consolidated profit for the Group for the year after UK Corporate Governance Code, the Disclosure and taxation was 66.4m FY15: 33.2m.
The results are Transparency Rules the DTRs and the Listing Rules discussed in greater detail in the Chief Financial the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
Officers Review on pages 16 to 20.
Some of the information we are required to include in A final dividend of 6.0 pence per share FY15: 4.5 pence the Directors Report is included in other sections of this is proposed in respect of the period ended 31 January Annual Report and Accounts and is referred to below.
2016 to add to an interim dividend of 2.5 pence per Where reference is made to these other sections, they share FY15: 2.3 pence paid on 27 November 2015. are incorporated into this report by reference.
The final dividend will, subject to shareholders approval at the AGM on 24 May 2016, be paid on 10 June 2016 to INCORPORATION, LISTING AND STRUCTURE shareholders on the register on 6 May 2016.
The Company was incorporated and registered in England and Wales on 17 April 2014 under the SPECIAL DIVIDEND Companies Act with registration number 9002747.
A special dividend of 15 pence per share was paid to shareholders on 27 November 2015.
The entire issued ordinary share capital of the Company is admitted to the premium listing segment of the POST YEAR END EVENTS Official List of the Financial Conduct Authority and to As previously stated, our current CEO, Richard Hayes, trading on the London Stock Exchange plcs main will step down from his role in mid-April 2016 and, market for listed securities.
The liability of the members following a handover period, retire from the Group at the of the Company is limited.
Karen Hubbard was appointed to the Board as CEO Designate with effect from 22 February The Company is domiciled in the United Kingdom and 2016 andwill formally take over as CEO of the Group in its registered office is at Century House, Brunel Road, mid-April 2016.
Wakefield 41 Industrial Estate, Wakefield, West Yorkshire WF2 0XG.
The telephone number of the There were no other significant post year end events.
SHARE CAPITAL, SHAREHOLDERS AND STRATEGIC REPORT RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFERS OF SHARES The Strategic Report, which was approved by the Board The Company has only one class of shares, ordinary on 4 April 2016 and is set out on pages 2 to 29, contains shares of 1p each.
a fair review of the Groups business, a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group Further details of the Companys share capital, including and an indication of the likely future developments in changes in the issued share capital in the year under the business of the Group.
review are set out in note 19 to the financial statements which form part of this report on page 99.
There have The review is intended to be a balanced and been no further changes in the Companys share capital comprehensive analysis of the development and between the end of the financial year under review and performance of the Groups business during the financial the date of the approval of this report.
year and the position of the Groups business at the end of that year.
The report includes, to the extent necessary Details of awards outstanding under share based for an understanding of the development, performance incentive schemes are given in note 25 to the financial or position of the Groups business, analysis using statements which form part of this report on pages 104 financial key performance indicators.
Details of the share based incentive schemes in place are provided in the Directors Remuneration The Strategic Report also includes the main trends Report on pages 50 to 66. and factors likely to affect the future development performance and position of the Groups business.
It also The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary includes information about environmental matters, the share capital of the Company are contained within the Groups employees and social and community issues.
Companys Articles of Association Articles which were adopted on 17 April 2014.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 69 69 Directors Report continued The only significant agreement to which the Company is The Articles do not contain any restrictions on the a party that takes effect, alters or terminates upon a transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than change of control of the Company following a takeover the usual restrictions applicable where any amount is bid, and the effect thereof, is the Companys committed unpaid on a share.
Certain restrictions are also imposed bank facility dated 17 April 2014 as amended and by laws and regulations such as insider trading and restated on 24 June 2015 which contains a provision marketing requirements relating to close periods and such that, in the event of a change of control the facility requirements of the Listing Rules whereby Directors and may be cancelled and all outstanding amounts, together certain employees of the Company require approval of with accrued interest, will become repayable on the the Company in order to deal in the Companys shares.
date falling 30 days following written notice being given by the lenders that the facility has been cancelled.
SHAREHOLDER AND VOTING RIGHTS All members who hold ordinary shares are entitled to TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES attend and vote at the AGM.
On a show of hands at a The only material transactions with related parties general meeting every member present in person shall during the year were those transactions detailed in note have one vote and on a poll, every member present in 28 on page 106 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
person or by proxy shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
No shareholder holds ordinary DIRECTORS shares carrying special rights relating to the control of The Directors of the Company and their biographies are the Company.
Details of changes to the Board during the period are set out in the Corporate As previously noted, the relationship agreement Governance Report on pages 34 and 35.
Details of how Relationship Agreement that was entered into on Directors are appointed and or removed are set out in 15May 2014 between the Company and the the Corporate Governance Report on page 40.
Charterhouse Funds being CCP IX LP No.
2 and CCP IX Co-investment LP that governed and POWERS OF DIRECTORS regulated the relationship between the Charterhouse Specific powers of the Directors in relation to shares Funds and the Company following the completion of and the Companys Articles of Association are referred the IPO was terminated as a result of the Charterhouse to in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 40 Funds and any members of their group ceasing to own and 41. in aggregate an interest, direct or indirect, of at least 20% or more of the issued ordinary shares in the DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES AND INSURANCE Company.
Until its termination, the Board believes that Information relating to Directors indemnities and the the Company and, so far as the Company is aware, the Directors and Officers liability insurance the Company Charterhouse Funds complied with the Independence has purchased is set out in the Corporate Governance provisions in the Relationship Agreement.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS EMPLOYEES At 4 April 2016 the following had notified the Company Information relating to employees of the Group is set of a disclosable interest in 3% or more of the nominal out in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on value of the Companys ordinary shares: page 27.
Percentage Share incentive schemes in which employees participate Number of of share Shareholder ordinary shares capital are described in the Directors Remuneration Report on Invesco Perpetual Asset Management Ltd 91,934,374 27.0 page 53 and in note 25 to the financial statements on Artemis Investment Management LLP 37,908,425 11.1 pages 104 and 105.
Old Mutual Global Investors 34,228,157 10.0 Stuart Middleton 18,035,477 5.3 HEALTH AND SAFETY JP Morgan Asset Management 14,513,414 4.3 An overview of health and safety is provided in the Majedie Asset Management 13,686,200 4.0 Corporate Social Responsibility Report on page 26.
Kames Capital 11,652,913 3.4 Richard Hayes 11,644,781 3.4 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS The Corporate Social Responsibility Report on page 26 CHANGE OF CONTROL sets out the greenhouse gas emissions disclosures There are no agreements between the Company and its required by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report Directors or employees providing for additional and Directors Report Regulations 2013. compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, redundancy or otherwise that POLITICAL DONATIONS occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Group has not made any political donations in the past and does not intend to make any in the future.
70 70 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 S St tr ra ate teg giic r c re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fin ina an nc cia ialls s TREASURY AND RISK MANAGEMENT AND The Board has reviewed the Groups detailed three year FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS strategic plan, a process it undertakes on an annual The Groups approach to treasury and financial risk basis, including an assessment of key operational and management is explained in the Principal Risks and financial assumptions.
The output of this plan is also Uncertainties section on page 22.
In that section, used to analyse forecast debt and covenant headroom beginning on page 21, there is also a list of the principal and includes a review of sensitivities to business as risks and uncertainties that affect or are likely to affect usual risks.
These risks include the consideration of the Group.
The financial position of the Group, its cash factors which could impact forecast sales levels for flow, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are example, like-for-like sales, new store openings and described in the Chief Financial Officers Review on online growth rates and factors which could impact pages 16 to 20. profitability for example, foreign exchange rates and property costs.
The results take into account the TAX availability and likely effectiveness of mitigating actions The Group pays corporation tax on its operations in the that could be taken to avoid or reduce the impact or United Kingdom and does not operate in any tax occurrence of the underlying risks.
The scenarios havens, or use any tax avoidance schemes.
modelled represent more extreme circumstances than the Group has ever experienced.
GOING CONCERN Taking into account current and anticipated trading Whilst this review does not consider all of the risks that performance, current and anticipated levels of the Group might face, the Directors consider that this borrowings and the availability of borrowing facilities stress-testing based assessment of the Groups and exposures to and management of the financial risks prospects is reasonable in the circumstances of the detailed in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 23, the inherent uncertainty involved.
Board is of the opinion that, at the time of approval of these financial statements, there is a reasonable The Board also considers cash flow forecasts, the expectation that the Group has adequate resources to availability of financing and the Groups plans to return continue in operational existence for the period outlined surplus cash to shareholders.
The Group remains highly in the viability statement below.
Accordingly, the cash generative and has significant headroom on all of financial statements continue to be prepared on a the covenants in its committed banking facility which going concern basis.
In assessing potential returns of surplus cash to shareholders, the Board will take into account, LONGER-TERM VIABILITY inter alia, expected cash generation, the actual and In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, projected leverage ratio and the ongoing capital the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group requirements of the business.
Such returns of surplus over the three years to 31 January 2019.
This cash are therefore discretionary and within the control assessment has been made taking into account the of the Board.
Groups current position, plans and principal risks and uncertainties described in the Strategic Report on Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm that pages 2 to 23. they have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group will be able to continue in operation and The Directors have determined that a three year period meet their liabilities as they fall due in the period to to 31 January 2019 is an appropriate period over which 31 January 2019. to provide its viability statement.
This is the period reviewed by the Board in its strategic planning process.
In making this statement, the Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 71 71 Directors Report continued DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION AND APPOINTMENT ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF AUDITORS The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant held at 11.00am on 24 May 2016 at the offices of audit information of which the Companys Auditor is Linklaters LLP, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ.
unaware and the Directors have taken all the steps A formal notice of meeting, explanatory circular and which they ought to have taken as Directors to make a form of proxy will accompany this Annual Report themselves aware of any relevant audit information and Accounts.
and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT OF THE DIRECTORS IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in This statement is set out on page 73. accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit and APPROVAL OF THE ANNUAL REPORT Risk Committee has reviewed the effectiveness, The Strategic Report and the Corporate Governance performance, independence and objectivity of the Report were approved by the Board on 4 April 2016. existing external Auditor, KPMG LLP, for the year ended 31 January 2016 and concluded that the external Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Auditor was in all respects effective.
KPMG LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as Auditor.
Accordingly, and in accordance with Section Shiv Sibal 489 of the Companies Act, resolutions to reappoint Company Secretary KPMG LLP as Auditor and to authorise the Directors to 4 April 2016 determine its remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM of the Company.
INFORMATION REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The reports and financial statements contained in this Annual Report and Accounts contain certain forwardlooking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations, and businesses of Card Factory plc.
These statements and forecasts involve risk, uncertainty and assumptions because they relate to events and depend upon circumstances that will occur in the future.
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements and forecasts.
Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts should be construed as a profit forecast.
72 72 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
