Directors and Officers Geoff Cooper Non-Executive Chairman Geoff joined the Board and became Chairman of the Group in April 2014.
Geoff has over 20 years experience of serving on boards of UK public companies, in particular as Chief Executive of Travis Perkins plc from March 2005 until December 2013 and as a Director and Non-Executive Chairman of Dunelm Group plc between 2004 and 2015.
Geoff is also a Director and Non-Executive Chairman of Bourne Leisure and an adviser to Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP.
He is a chartered management accountant and had a career in management consultancy before joining Gateway subsequently Somerfield plc as Finance Director in 1990.
In 1994, he became Finance Director of UniChem plc, subsequently Alliance UniChem plc which later became part of Alliance Boots plc, where he was appointed Deputy Chief Executivein 2001.
Other current commitments: Non-Executive Chairman of Bourne Leisure Holdings Ltd. Adviser to Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP.
Richard Hayes Chief Executive Officer Richard was appointed Managing Director in 2008 subsequently renamed Chief Executive Officer in 2010, prior to which he held the positions of Finance Director and Commercial Director of the Group.
He was appointed to the Board of Card Factory plc on 30 April 2014.
During his time at the Company, Richard has been actively involved in, and since 2008 has overseen, the Group growing from a 40-store discount chain to a vertically integrated value retailer with over 800 stores and two transactional websites.
Richard led the 2010 MBO and oversaw the continued growth under Charterhouses ownership leading ultimately to the Groups successful IPO in 2014.
Before he joined the Group in 2003, Richard spent 19 years at RBS working mainly in the Corporate Division.
As previously announced, Richard will step down from his position in mid-April 2016 and retire from the Group at the end of June 2016.
Karen Hubbard Chief Executive Officer Designate Karen was appointed to the Board of Card Factory plc with effect from 22 February 2016 and will formally succeed Richard Hayes as Chief Executive Officer of the Group in mid-April.
Before joining the Group, Karen served as Chief Operating Officer of B&M European Value Retail S. A. the fast growing multi-price value retailer, where she was responsible for retail operations, distribution and logistics, supply chain, IT, HR, marketing and store development.
From 2009 to 2014, she held a number of senior roles at ASDA, latterly Executive Director Property, Format Development and Multi-Channel.
Karen previously spent 14 years in BPs retail operations, initially in Australia before moving to the UK in 2004 where she became UK Convenience Retail Director, responsible for BPs own retail estate across all formats including Connect Simply Food, Motorway, Express and the franchise channel.
30 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Darren Bryant Chief Financial Officer Darren was appointed Group Finance Director in June 2009 subsequently renamed Chief Financial Officer in 2010 having previously been a Partner at PwC LLP.
Darren spent over 17 years at PwC, principally in the London Corporate Finance division, where he advised on a wide range of private company, private equity and public company transactions.
He also spent two years on secondment at The Panel on Takeovers & Mergers in the late 1990s where he regulated a large number of public company transactions.
Darren is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and holds a First Class MEng degree in Electrical & Electronic Engineering with Business Studies from Imperial College London.
Octavia Morley Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Octavia joined the Board as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director in April 2014.
Octavia has nine years experience of serving on boards of UK public companies.
She served on the board of John Menzies plc as a Non-Executive Director between 2006 and 2015.
Octavia was previously the Chief Executive of Oka Direct Limited and the Managing Director of Crew Clothing Co. Limited.
She also served as Chief Executive Officer, and latterly as Chairman of LighterLife UK Limited until December 2009, has held positions as Commercial Director of Woolworths plc between 2003 and 2005 and as Managing Director of e-commerce at Asda Stores Limited and Buying and Merchandising Director at Laura Ashley plc.
Other current commitments: Non-Executive Director of Ascensos Limited.
David Stead Independent Non-Executive Director David Stead joined the Board as an Independent Non-Executive Director in April 2014.
He has over 15 years experience as a Director of companies in the UK retail sector.
David was most recently Chief Financial Officer of Dunelm Group plc from September 2003 until his retirement from that role at the end of 2015.
Prior to that, David served as Finance Director for Boots The Chemists and Boots Healthcare International between 1991 and 2003.
David is a chartered accountant, having spent the early part of his career with KPMG.
Other current commitments: Honorary Member of Council, University of Birmingham.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 31 Directors and Officers continued Paul McCrudden Independent Non-Executive Director Paul joined the Board as an Independent Non-Executive Director in December 2014.
Paul is currently EMEA Head of Content Marketing at Twitter and prior to that was Head of Social Media at advertising agency AMV BBDO.
In his earlier career Paul was Account Director at Imagination a creative brand agency and a Consultant in New Technologies at Accenture.
Paul also served as Chairman of the board of trustees at Hoipolloi, a film and theatre production company funded by the Arts Council England.
Other current commitments: EMEA Head of Content Marketing at Twitter.
Shiv Sibal Company Secretary and General Counsel Shiv joined the Company as General Counsel and Company Secretary in May 2014.
Shiv is an experienced corporate finance lawyer with more than 14 years experience in the legal sector.
Prior to joining the Company, Shiv was a corporate partner with Bond Dickinson focused on supporting public companies with IPOs, equity fundraisings, mergers and acquisitions, governance and their continuing regulatory obligations.
Prior to joining, Shiv also spent more than eight years working for Pinsent Masons having trained at Nabarro.
Graeme Coulthard was a Non-Executive Director of Card Factory plc during the financial period up until 3February 2015.
Board committees Audit and Risk Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee David Stead Chairman Octavia Morley Chairman Geoff Cooper Chairman Octavia Morley Geoff Cooper Octavia Morley Paul McCrudden David Stead David Stead Paul McCrudden Paul McCrudden Geoff Cooper was a member of the Audit & Risk Committee during the year until 24 February 2015.
32 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
