Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information | Why invest in Carillion Strong order book and substantial frameworks A track record of performance and pipeline of  We have implemented a consistent and successful strategy of focusing selectively on winning contracts where we can achieve our objectives for We have a high-quality order book including probable orders worth revenue, margins and earnings.
We also have a strong track record in 16.0 billion, framework contracts that are expected to generate up to reducing our cost base and improving efficiency through a number of 1.5 billion of revenue and a substantial pipeline of specific contract ongoing programmes.
In 2016, we won 4.8 billion of new orders and probable orders in our chosen markets, despite tougher This strategic focus and our ability to reduce costs and improve efficiency conditions in some of our markets, demonstrating our skills in winning has enabled Carillion to deliver strong margins and maintain earnings, work, consistent with our rigorous approach to selecting the contracts for despite challenging conditions in some of our markets, and to continue our which we bid.
policy of increasing the dividend broadly in line with earnings growth, subject to the development needs of the business.
Importantly, many of these contract wins were successful re-bids, contract extensions or repeat business with long-term customers, demonstrating Five-year review the strength of our customer relationships.
In 2016, 89 per cent by value of See page 150 new orders and probable orders won in Support services was for existing customers and in Construction services 70 per cent was for existing customers.
Integrated and sustainable business Order book and pipeline Supporting our performance is an integrated business model and See page 20 centralised operating platform, which are key differentiators that support our objectives of delivering services safely, sustainably and to best-in-class standards.
The Health and Safety of all our employees and everyone Leadership positions in good markets affected by our operations remains paramount.
Similarly, we embed sustainability into everything we do in order to create positive outcomes We have established strong positions in a number of markets where we for all our stakeholders.
can use our core skills in providing support services, project finance and construction for infrastructure and buildings, across our three geographies We have a strong and experienced leadership team that leads by example the UK, Canada and the Middle East.
In the UK, we have a high-quality, and provides clear direction for the business.
Our values-based culture competitive offering for a range of infrastructure services, notably in the and rigorous approach to maintaining high-standards of corporate rail, roads, digital communications and power transmission and governance is a major part of our robust risk management process, which distribution sectors, which feature major areas of investment in the in turn supports our objectives for delivering high-quality, value for money Governments National Infrastructure Delivery Plan.
services, while also achieving our targets for revenue, profit and cash flow.
Canada has major investment programmes in markets where we have Health and Safety Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate See key performance indicators on page 19 strong positions, such as power transmission and distribution.
We are also strong in our facilities management markets in each of the three Sustainability savings geographies, where we differentiate our offering by using the breadth See key performance indicators on page 19 and scale of our resources.
Our markets See page 20 Broad capability and trusted partner Using our three core skills, we offer a broad range of services, which we can combine and tailor to the specific needs of our customers.
This means we can respond to changing customer demands and market trends.
The breadth and depth of our expertise and our commitment to high standards provides customers with confidence and, in turn, leads to long-term customer and supplier relationships and the high proportion of our work coming from contract extensions, retentions and repeat business, referred to above.
This supports our objectives for maintaining the leadership positions we have in good markets.
Net Promoter Score See key performance indicators on page 19 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 5
