Strategy in action Trusted partner of choice We have been working in partnership with Nationwide Building Society for eight years, providing facilities management services for Delivering Nationwides property estate.
In 2016, the contract for these services was re-bid and Carillion was awarded a new seven-year contract, which is expected to generate approximately 350 million of revenue.
The contract, which began on sustainable 1 October 2016, also includes a provision for its potential extension by a further three years to a total of 10 years.
Under this new contract, Carillion is providing a wide range of hard and soft services for facilities management and workplace services for Nationwides Headquarters in Swindon, its 15 corporate offices, critical data centres and 700 retail branches throughout the UK.
Nationwide These services, which are specifically aligned to Nationwides sustainability strategy, include energy management, risk assurance, asset maintenance, capital works, front-of-house, security, grounds maintenance, mailroom management, porterage and cleaning.
Working together 2008 Carillions success in re-winning this contract reflects our expertise in for eight years whole-life property management and services, our sector-leading ability to provide sustainable solutions, our focus on delivering a first-class customer experience and our ability to develop operational and technological enhancements that continually raise service standards and set new benchmarks for quality and reliability, all backed by a dedicated helpdesk located in our award winning Customer Experience Centre.
12 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information | Our joint venture framework agreement with Openreach has been extended with a potential value to Carillion of up to 900 million.
Working in Carillion telent, a 60:40 Joint Venture, has been Openreachs main delivery partner for maintaining and extending the telephone and data network, together with providing asset assurance services, notably poling and related activities, for the past eight years to support Openreach in partnership delivering high-quality services for its customers.
Early in 2017, we built on the strength of this partnership when Carillion telent signed a three-year extension extendable to five years, to its with Openreach framework agreement with Openreach under which Carillion telent will continue to deliver maintenance and network extension services for Openreach in the North East, South West and London & North Home Working together Counties of England and in the Midlands and Wales.
The extension also 2008 includes the delivery of asset assurance works, notably poling and related for eight years activities, in England and Wales.
The new framework is expected to generate up to 900 million of revenue over three years Carillions share over 500 million and potentially up to 1.5 billion over five years Carillions share up to 900 million, as the agreement provides for a further two-year extension, subject to performance.
Many of the supply chain partners Carillion telent engage with in the delivery of this contract are both local to their work areas and Small to Medium-sized Enterprises taking their workforces from the local community.
The use of Carillions sector leading supply chain finance offering, our Early Payment Facility, allows our supply chain partners access to their payments ahead of their contractual terms, reducing their need for working capital and helping them grow and sustain local communities.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 13 S S St t tr r ra a ate te teg g gy i y i y in a n a n ac c ct t ti i io o on c n c n co o on n nt t ti i in n nu u ue e ed d d In 2016, we built on the strong and successful relationship we have established with the UK Ministry of Defence, when Carillion KBR Supporting the 50:50 joint ventures were awarded contracts to support the Army Basing Programme under which UK troops are returning from Germany by 2019.
These latest contracts for the Ministry of Defence involve the provision of design, construction and facilities Army Basing management services across the Salisbury Plain Training Area and at Aldershot, together worth over 1.1 billion.
The design and construction contract, which will deliver 130 new buildings, Programme together with extensions and alterations to existing buildings and associated infrastructure, has an estimated value of 680 million of which Carillions share will be 340 million over the period 2016 to 2020.
Facilities management and maintenance services for these new assets and for the Working together increased population across the Salisbury Plain Training Area and 2006 for 10 years Aldershot are being provided under a variation to the existing Project Allenby Connaught contract and is expected to generate a further 430 million of support services revenue over the remaining life of this contract, of which Carillions share will be approximately 215 million.
In 2006, a 50:50 joint venture between Carillion and KBR, Aspire Defence Limited, was awarded a 35-year concession contract for Project Allenby Connaught, the largest infrastructure Public Private Partnership project ever let by the UK Ministry of Defence, worth approximately 8 billion at 2006 prices.
Since 2006, Carillion KBR joint ventures have delivered approximately 550 new and refurbished buildings to date, on time, safely and to budget, enhancing soldiers living and working accommodation at Tidworth, Perham Down, Bulford, Larkhill, Warminster and Aldershot, as well as successfully delivering hard and soft facilities management and maintenance services for these assets under a 35-year contract that ends in 2041.
14 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information | Carillion is one of the leading suppliers of rail infrastructure services in the UK.
With rail revenue in excess of 350 million, we are Improving the only supplier to have consistently featured in Network Rails top two suppliers over the last few years and we expect to maintain our position as a lead supplier to Network Rail when it publishes supplier data for 2016. the UKs We work in partnership with Network Rail under framework agreements.
Carillion currently has frameworks under which we deliver a wide range ofinfrastructure services in England, Scotland and Wales, including track infrastructure renewal, electrification, multi-disciplinary engineering and remodelling works to accommodate increased traffic and to upgrade stations and the construction of new railway routes.
The success of our long-term partnership with Network Rail is based on for Network Rail our knowledge and expertise, the quality and reliability of the services wedeliver and, importantly, our sector-leading focus on Health and Safety, which is of paramount importance in everything we do, particularly our Working together operations on the rail network.
1999 for 17 years We also support Network Rail directly in their key sustainability ambitions, managing Embodied Carbon, improving biodiversity, developing the Supply Chain Sustainability School, and supporting the development of the future workforce through technical apprenticeship programmes.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 15 Strategy in action continued Our market leading business in Oman, Carillion Alawi, has been working in partnership with Petroleum Development Oman PDO Supporting to provide integrated facilities management services for 12 locations across Oman since 2013.
PDO, which is owned by the Government of Oman 60 per cent, Royal Dutch Shell 34 per cent, Total 4 per cent and Partex 2 per cent, is the foremost exploration and production Petroleum company in Oman and accounts for more than 70 per cent of Omans crude oil production and nearly all of its natural gas supply.
In 2016, Carillion Alawi signed a 4.5-year extension to its contract for PDO Development under which it will continue providing integrated facilities management services that are expected to generate some 240 million of revenue for Carillion over the contract period.
The services being delivered include engineering maintenance, projects, catering and environmental services, Oman notably cleaning, housekeeping, pest control, landscaping and laundry services across the PDO estate, which includes PDOs main coastal estate, and covers an area of approximately 100,000 square kilometres.
Working together Our success in securing this contract extension reflects our focus on 2013 delivering safe, sustainable and cost effective services.
It is also testimony for three years to the strong partnership we have developed with PDO, based on our commitment to supporting PDO through the efficient management and operation of its critical infrastructure.
We do this by using our sector leading ability to provide facilities management services to the oil and gas sector in the Middle East, including operating in the challenging desert environment where the vast majority of PDOs assets are located.
16 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic r c re ep po or rt t | G | Go ov five er rn na an nc ce | F e | Fi in na an nc ci ia al s l st ta at te em me en nt ts | A s | Ad dd di it ti io on na al i l in nf fo or rm ma at ti io on | n | In December 2014, Carillion acquired Rokstad Power Corporation Rokstad in Canada thatprovides infrastructure services to the Working with power transmission and distribution sector.
In line with our strategy ofexpanding our infrastructure services activities in Canada, thisacquisition has significantly enhanced our capabilities and prospects in agrowing market, where it is estimated that around Manitoba Hydro 37 billion ofinvestment will be made in power transmission and distribution infrastructure over the next 15 years.
Rokstad has won a number of significant contracts since its acquisition, to deliver including a 120 million contract for Manitoba Hydro in December 2016 to deliver the next phase of its Bipole lll high-voltage transmission line project.
Work began in late 2016 and is scheduled for completion in 2018.
This contract involves clearing rights of way, installing access roads, renewable energy building foundations and anchors, assembling towers and stringing cables for three packages of the Bipole lll project, which includes 1,384kilometres of transmission lines and two converter stations, startingat Keewatinohk Working together inNorthern Manitoba and ending at Sandy Bay Ojibway First Nation in 2014 Southern Manitoba.
When the whole Bipole lll project is completed it will for two years deliver renewable energy to Southern Manitoba and to the United States.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17
