Report of the Directors Background Results and dividends The Directors of the Company are required to produce a Directors report The consolidated income statement is set out on page 90.
Profit before tax on an annual basis under the Companies Act.
The Directors are also was 146.7 million 2015: 155.1 million.
required under the Companies Act to publish a Strategic report for the A 2016 interim dividend of 5.8 pence per ordinary share 2015: 5.7 pence Group and the Company.
The Directors Strategic report must i contain was paid in November 2016.
It is proposed to pay a final dividend of a fair review of the Companys business and a description of the principal 12.65 pence per ordinary share 2015: 12.55 pence on 9 June 2017 to risks and uncertainties facing the business and ii be a balanced and shareholders on the register at the close of business on 12 May 2017.
The comprehensive analysis of the development and performance of the payment of these 2016 interim and final dividends amounts to 79.3 million Companys business during the financial year and the position of the 2015: 78.5 million.
Companys business at the end of that year, consistent with the size and complexity of its business.
A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP will also be offered allowing shareholders a convenient means of reinvesting their dividends in the This section of the Annual Report sets out the information required to be Company by buying further shares.
If required, a DRIP application form is disclosed by the Company and the Group in the Directors report.
Certain available from the share registrar, Equiniti see page 149 for contact details.
matters that would otherwise be disclosed in this Directors report have been reported elsewhere in this Annual Report and consequently this The Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare Directors report should be read in conjunction with the Strategic report dividends in accordance with the rights of the members, but no dividend on pages 1 to 47 which includes our 2016 Sustainability review on pages 26 shall exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
to 29 and the Corporate Governance report for 2016 on pages 53 to 57, Carillion has a progressive dividend policy that aims to increase its which are incorporated by reference into this Directors report.
dividend broadly in line with the growth in underlying earnings per share, The Strategic report and this Directors report together with other sections subject to the investment needs of the business.
Further details in relation of this Annual Report incorporated by reference, when taken as a whole, to our dividend policy are provided on page 43. form the Management report as required for the purposes of Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.
The Management report for 2016 has been Acquisitions and disposals prepared and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon In 2016, we sold equity investments in three projects for cash proceeds of applicable English company law and the liabilities of the Directors in approximately 48 million, which represented an average discount rate of connection with this report shall be subject to the limitations and some seven per cent and generated a pre-tax profit of 12.7 million.
restrictions provided under such law.
Post balance sheet events Overview of the information required There have been no material events since the balance sheet date of A summary of the information required to be disclosed in the Directors 31 December 2016 and the date of this report.
report together with the relevant report and page reference is set out in the table below: Page Appointment of Directors Disclosure Reported in reference There are currently seven Directors on the Board of Carillion plc.
Unless Acquisitions and disposals Directors report 82 otherwise determined by ordinary resolution of the Company, the Amendment of Articles of Association Directors report 84 Directors shall not be less than four nor more than 16 in number.
Annual General Meeting Directors report 84 Shareholders may by ordinary resolution elect any person who is willing to Appointment of Directors Directors report 82 act to be a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as an addition to the existing Disclosure of information to auditors Directors report 84 Board.
The Company may also by special resolution remove any Director Authority to allot shares Directors report 83 before the expiration of his or her period of office and may by ordinary Change of control Directors report 84 resolution appoint another person who is willing to act to be a Director in Community and charitable giving Strategic report 27 his or her place.
Conflicts of interest Directors report 83 The Board may appoint any person who is willing to act to be a Director, Directors Corporate 50, 51 either to fill a vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board.
Any Director Governance report so appointed shall retire at the next Annual General Meeting and shall then Directors indemnity Directors report 83 be eligible for reappointment.
Directors responsibilities Responsibility statement 85 In accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Employee involvement Strategic report 27 Code, all Directors will offer themselves for re-election at the Annual Employees with disabilities Strategic report 29 General Meeting on 3 May 2017.
Going concern Performance and 47 The Companys Articles of Association do not have a shareholding financial review qualification for Directors.
However, the Companys Remuneration Policy Greenhouse gas emissions Strategic report 28 requires, to provide alignment with shareholders interests and to promote Political donations Directors report 84 ownership, that each of the Executive Directors hold the net number of shares acquired through the Leadership Equity Award Plan and the Post balance sheet events Directors report 82 Deferred Bonus Plan until the value of their total shareholding is equal to Purchase of own shares Directors report 83 annual salary.
Powers of the Directors Directors report 83 Restrictions on transfer of shares Directors report 84 Results and dividends Directors report 82 Rights and obligations attaching Directors report 83 to shares Risk management Strategic report 30 Share capital Directors report 83 Substantial share interests Directors report 84 Voting and restrictions on voting Directors report 83 82 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information | Further details of shares issued during the year and outstanding options are Directors given in notes 22 and 24 on pages 117 and 118 to the consolidated financial Details of the Directors of the Company are set out on pages 50 and 51 and statements which form part of this report.
Details of the share incentives in changes in the membership of the Board are summarised on page 54 of place are provided on pages 65 to 81 of the Remuneration report.
Details of Directors remuneration are provided in the Remuneration report on pages 65 to 81.
The interests of the Rights and obligations attaching to shares Directors and their families in the share capital of the Company are shown on page 71 of the Remuneration report which also includes information on The Companys shares when issued are credited as fully paid and free from the Companys contracts of service with its Directors on page 79. all liens, equities, charges, encumbrances and rights.
All shares benefit from the same rights in relation to voting, dividends and any return of capital and are subject to the same restrictions as set out in the Companys Powers of the Directors Articles.
Except in relation to dividends which have been declared and Subject to the Companys Articles and any directions given by the rights in relation to the liquidation of the Company, the shareholders have Company in general meeting by special resolution, the business of the no rights to share in the profits of the Company.
The Companys shares are Company is managed by the Board which may exercise all the powers of not redeemable, however, the Company may repurchase any of the shares the Company, whether relating to the management of the business of the on or off market, subject to compliance with the Companies Act and Company or not.
requirements of the Listings Rules.
No shareholder holds any shares that carry any special rights in relation to the control of the Company.
Directors responsibilities Authority to allot shares The Directors responsibilities for the financial statements included within this Annual Report and the Directors confirmations required under the As at 31 December 2016, the Company had the following authority to allot FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rules are set out on page 85. shares and to grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares in the Company: Conicts of interest a up to a nominal amount of 71,709,104 such amount to be reduced by the nominal amount allotted or granted under paragraph b below in The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to consider and, excess of an equivalent sum : and if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a Director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Company.
The b comprising equity securities up to a nominal amount of 143,418,209 Board has in place procedures to deal with Directors conflicts of interest such amount to be reduced by any allotments or grants made under arising under Section 175 of Companies Act 2006 and these procedures paragraph a above in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue.
are considered to be effective.
Purchase of own shares Directors indemnity As at 31 December 2016, the Company had authority from shareholders for Under the Companys Articles of Association, to the extent permitted by the purchase of 43,025,462 of its own shares.
Such authority will also be the Companies Acts, the Company indemnifies any Director, Secretary or sought from shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting on other officer of the Company against any liability and may purchase and 3 May 2017.
To date, this authority has never been used.
maintain insurance against any such liability.
The Board understands that the provision of such indemnification is in keeping with current market Voting and restrictions on voting practice and believes that it is in the best interests of the Group to provide such indemnities in order to attract and retain high-calibre Directors and On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every holder of officers.
The Company purchased and maintained Directors and Officers ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall liability insurance throughout 2016. have one vote and, on a poll, every holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote, shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
Share capital The notice of Annual General Meeting specifies deadlines for exercising The Company has only one class of share with one vote for every share.
voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to As at 1 March 2017, the issued share capital of the Company comprised of resolutions to be put to the Annual General Meeting.
All proxy votes are 215,127,314 divided into 430,254,629 ordinary shares of 50 pence each.
counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each The ISIN number of the shares is GB0007365546.
resolution are announced and published on the Companys website after On 12 December 2014, Carillion Finance Jersey Limited, a wholly-owned the meeting.
subsidiary of the Company incorporated in Jersey, issued 170 million of No member shall, unless the Board otherwise decides, be entitled in convertible bonds, which are guaranteed by the Company.
The bonds are respect of any share held by him or her to attend or vote either personally a senior and unsecured obligation of Carillion Finance Jersey Limited and or by proxy at any general meeting of the Company or upon a poll or to the Company and are subject to a negative pledge.
These bonds carry a exercise any other right conferred by membership in relation to general coupon of 2.50 per cent per annum payable semi-annually and based on meetings or polls unless all calls or other sums presently payable by him or the conversion price of 3.9856 will convert into 42,653,553 ordinary her in respect of that share have been paid.
Upon conversion of the bonds, the Company may elect to settle its obligations by way of delivery of ordinary shares, payment The Company is not aware of any agreement between the holders of its of a cash alternative amount or a combination of the two.
Unless previously shares which may result in restrictions on voting rights.
redeemed, converted or purchased and cancelled, the bonds will be redeemed at par on or around 19 December 2019.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 83 Report of the Directors continued Restrictions on transfer of shares Disclosure of information to auditors There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company The Directors of Carillion plc confirm that at the date of this Report of the other than in relation to certain restrictions that are imposed from time to Directors and as far as they are individually aware, there is no relevant time by laws and regulations for example insider trading laws.
In addition, audit information of which the auditors are unaware and each Director has pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, Directors taken all reasonable steps to ascertain any relevant audit information and and certain officers and employees of the Group require the approval of to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of this information.
the Company to deal in ordinary shares of the Company.
Annual General Meeting The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that restrict the transfer of its shares.
The Annual General Meeting will be held at 12 noon on 3 May 2017 at Austin Court, 80 Cambridge Street, Birmingham B1 2NP.
The notice of the Annual Substantial share interests General Meeting accompanies this Annual Report and Accounts.
As at 1 March 2017, the Company had received formal notification of the Included in the AGM business is the proposal to renew the authority for following holdings in its shares under the Disclosure and Transparency the Company to purchase its own shares.
As at 31 December 2016, the Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
It should be noted that these Company had authority from shareholders for the purchase of 43,025,462 holdings may have changed since the Company was notified, however, of its own shares.
notification of any change is not required until the next notifiable threshold is crossed.
Global Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions data Number % of issued of shares share capital held The disclosures in respect of CO emissions, as required to be reported 2 under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report BlackRock, Inc. 37,940,532 8.81% Regulations 2013, can be found in the Sustainability section of the Strategic Deutsche Bank AG 25,031,528 5.82% report on page 28.
UBS Investment Bank and UBS Group AG 21,844,095 5.08% Approved by order of the Board.
Kiltearn Partners LLP 21,542,444 5.01% Brewin Dolphin Limited 21,501,891 5.00% Letko, Brosseau & Associates Inc. 21,367,553 4.97% Standard Life Investments Holdings Limited 21,331,243 4.96% Richard Tapp Change of control Secretary A number of agreements take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of 1 March 2017 control of the Company following a takeover bid, such as loan agreements and share incentive plans.
Carillions main credit facilities, including the 790 million Syndicated Multicurrency Revolving Credit Facility, contain a provision such that in the event of a change of control any lender may, within a 30-day consultation period and if it so requires, notify the Company that it wishes to cancel its commitment.
Any such cancellation of commitment and the repayment of any outstanding borrowings will occur on the date falling three days after the expiry of the consultation period.
Following the occurrence of a change of control, the Company must make an offer to the holders of its private placement notes to prepay the amounts outstanding together with accrued interest.
The holders of the Groups 170 million of convertible bonds have the right to require the Group to redeem each bond at its principal amount, together with accrued and unpaid interest.
Political donations The Company and its subsidiaries made no political donations during the period under review 2015: Nil.
Amendment of Articles of Association The Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
84 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information | Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Responsibility statement of the Directors in Strategic report, the Directors report, the Directors Remuneration Report respect of the AnnualReport and financial and the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance statements with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Each of the Directors of Carillion plc, whose names and functions are set Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law out on pages 50 and 51, confirms that to the best of his or her knowledge: theDirectors are required to prepare the Group financial statements the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of inaccordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and accounting standards and contained in this 2016 Annual Report and haveelected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in Accounts, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial accordance with the UK Financial Reporting Standard 101, Reduced position and profit of the Company and the undertakings included in the Disclosure Framework.
consolidation taken as a whole: the Strategic report and the Directors report, included in this 2016 Annual Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial Report and Accounts, include a fair review of the development and statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the performance of the business and the position of the Company and the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their profit or loss undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: financial statements, the Directors are required to: and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and understandable, and provide the information necessary for for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been shareholders to assess the Companys financial position, performance, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: business model and strategy.
for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material Approved by order of the Board departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Zafar Khan financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its Group Finance Director financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have 1 March 2017 general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic report, Directors report, Directors Remuneration report and Corporate Governance statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 85
