STRATEGIC FOCUS 3 Growth Focus on exploration to drive production growth and enhance shareholder value Targeting highgrade underground reserve growth to drive further production increases at Sukari New discovery in Cte dIvoire Exploration in Burkina Faso on key prospect areas 27 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT EXPLORATION FOCUSED GROWTH Centamin is focused on its drive for productivity and efficiency at the Sukari Gold Mine, and undertakes a growth strategy aimed at enhancing shareholder returns over the long term.
2017 guidance of Our strategy for growth is summarised in the table below.
540,000 ounces at a cash cost of production of NEAR TERM 12 YEARS US$580 per ounce and an all-in sustaining cost of US$790 per ounce Further production growth at Sukari, driven by productivity improvements and resource reserve expansion, with a focus on underground high-grades.
Maiden resource at the Resource expansion and project evaluation in Burkina Faso and Doropo Project in Cte dIvoire.
Cte dIvoire of Continue to evaluate selective M&A opportunities with the potential to develop low-cost projects.
0.3Moz at 1.6g t indicated and MEDIUM TERM 35 YEARS 1.0Moz at 1.3g t Achieve optimal production at Sukari through continued expansion and exploitation of the underground high-grade reserves.
Development and first production in Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire, assuming positive project evaluation.
LONG TERM 5 YEARS Continue to expand group reserves and production through exploration.
Become a multi-asset gold producer maintaining lowest quartile cost profile.
Continue to evaluate selective M&A opportunities with the potential to develop low-cost projects.
KPIs reported during the year: Sukari production of 551,036 ounces an increase of 26% on 2015: and new discovery and maiden resource at the Doropo project in north-east Cte dIvoire.
KPIs set for 2017: annualised production of 540,000 ounces: resource reserve replacement and expansion at Sukari, with a focus on underground high grade: and resource expansion through systematic drilling programmes in West Africa.
