STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER OUR BUSINESSES GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Our Businesses Our focus Centrica: a customer-facing energy and services company forthe 21st century CUSTOMER-FACING BUSINESSES Energy Supply Connected Distributed Energy Marketing &Services Home Energy&Power &Trading Supplying energy and services Our Hive smart thermostat Providing industrial and Providing risk management toconsumer and business andother products and commercial consumers with andwholesale market access customers in the UK, the serviceshelp our customers theability to use energy more forthe Group building on Republic of Ireland and inthe areas of home energy intelligently, giving customers  NorthAmerica through our management, home tools to generate andmanage tradingcapabilities and a newbusiness units: UK Home: automationand peace their energy usage.
UK Business: Ireland: of mind.
NorthAmerica Home: and North America Business.
ASSET-BASED BUSINESSES Exploration Central Power Centrica &Production Generation Storage Targeting production of between The thermal power generation The Group operates the 40 to 50 million barrels of oil portfolio is being rationalised Roughgas storage facility, equivalent per year focused with a view to simplification and which is a strategic storage onthe UK, the Netherlands costreduction while retaining asset for the UK.
We hold a20% interest in eight nuclear power stations in the UK.
2 Our strategy The world of energy is changing and, with our Our areas of focus are Energy Supply engagement and loyalty.
We are developing chosen businesses, distinctive positions and &Services, Connected Home, Distributed innovative products, offers and solutions, current capabilities, Centrica is well placed Energy & Power, Energy Marketing & Trading underpinned by investment in technology.
todeliver for its customers and for society.
and the optimisation around Central The role of Exploration & Production is PowerGeneration.
We will satisfy our customers, deliver cash toprovide diversity of cash flows and the flow growth and returns for our shareholders We supply energy and services to around balance sheet strength required to supply and be efficient and excellent in our operations.
28million customer accounts mainly in the energy and services to our customers.
UK, Ireland and North America through Itcontinues to play an important role We are shifting investment towards our strong brands such as British Gas, Direct inourportfolio.
customer-facing businesses organised Energy and Bord Gis supported by around around two global customer-facing divisions: We aim to be a good corporate citizen: 12,000 engineers and technicians.
Centrica Consumer and Centrica Business employer of choice and to provide leadership focused on the residential consumer and We are focused on delivering high levels in a dynamic and changing world.
ofcustomer service, improving customer Our performance B BR RE EA AK KD DO OW WN N B BY EXTERNAL Y EXTERNAL O OP PE ER RA ATI TIO ONA final L R RE EV VEN ENU UE E B BR RE EA AK KD DO OW WN N B BY Y A AD DJ JU US ST TE ED D O OPE PER RA AT TIIN NG G PR PRO OF FIIT T L LO OS SS S Energy Supply & Services UK & Ireland Energy Supply & Services UK & Ireland 12,055m 906m Energy Supply & Services North America Energy Supply & Services North America 10,366m 314m Connected Home Connected Home 25m 50 m Distributed Energy & Power Distributed Energy & Power 159m 26 m Energy Marketing & Trading Energy Marketing & Trading 3,194m 161m Exploration & Production Exploration & Production 771m 187m Central Power Generation Central Power Generation 458m 75m Centrica Storage Centrica Storage 74m 52 m Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 3
