STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER FOCUSED ON CUTTING ENERGY COSTS AND CARBON EMISSIONS GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Focused on Cutting Energy Costs and Carbon Emissions Putting ENER-G into sport and leisure Delivering sustainable energy solutions, technologies and cogeneration systems from 10kWe up to 10MWe fuelled by natural gas, and several different biogas, syngas and liquid fuels.
Southend saved 30,000 and reduced ABOUT ENER-G DAVID LLOYD LEISURE carbon dioxide emissions by over Established in Salford, Greater Over the past 15 years, ENER-G has helped 300tonnes between 2013 and 2014.
Manchester in the 1980s, ENER-G to revolutionise the way that dozens of Cogen delivers sustainable energy David Lloyd Leisure clubs throughout the The usual payback period on CHP solutions and technologies on a UKand Ireland use their energy.
technology varies between two and four business-to-business basis worldwide.
But for David Lloyd the savings Combined heat and power CHP the ENER-G designs, manufactures, wereimmediate.
ENER-G finances and simultaneous generation of electricity and operates, maintains and finances installs the CHP system at no capital cost useful heat is almost twice as efficient cogeneration systems from 10kWe tothe client, as well as operating and asconventional power generation because upto 10MWe fuelled by natural gas, maintaining the CHP units throughout most of the heat is recovered and used on and several different biogas, syngas theirlife.
Energy generated by the units site, rather than wasted into the atmosphere.
ENER-G was issold to the client ata discount.
Since its first CHP system was installed by ENER-G in 2001, David Lloyd has amassed afleet of 57 units.
As a typical example ofthe benefits, the David Lloyd club in 14 Control Use Save Installation of the CHP unit was challenging.
NEWCASTLE UNITED FOOTBALL CLUB There were spacing constraints within the In 2012, Newcastle United was the existing plant room, which is eight storeys firstfootball club in the world to become within the fabric of the actual stadium, so carbonpositive, offsetting more carbon ENER-G had to deliver the CHP system than it emits, and was awarded the inthree sections and rebuild it on site.
In partnership with ENER-G, the club has By generating its own low carbon supply adopted a range of innovative efficiency ofpower and heat using an ENER-G CHP measures, including boiler optimisation, system, the club is now reducing its carbon burner management, lighting upgrades, dioxide emissions by a further 390 tonnes boreholes for natural pitch irrigation, per year.
This equates to the environmental smartbuilding and energy monitoring benefit of removing 130 cars from the road, andcontrols, as well as encouraging or the carbon that would be offset by 320 behavioural changes among the acres of forest, which would cover the area operationalstaff.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 15
