STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Focused on Innovating to Satisfy the ChangingNeeds of our Customers Our customers needs are evolving.
They want more than just affordable energy and choice.
They also want control of their energy use and the ability to use less.
Increasingly, they want to reduce their carbon footprint: and to access new on-demand services for their HomeEnergy FreeTime homes and businesses, which meet their changing needs.
With our innovative tariff, customers can choose a day of the weekend to receive free electricity.
We see the home as a focal point of Itbrings together our technical specialists, technology-enabled services where a wide scientists and engineers from across range of providers from different sectors are thebusiness.
It maintains operational 3.6mcustomers competing to integrate devices, service and excellence through risk and quality Data science and analytics, together with our data into a customer-oriented ecosystem.
assurance andprotects our Intellectual internally created algorithms, enable over 3.6million Property.
T&Eprovides guidance, insight customers to reduce energyconsumption and Big data and technology advancements andsupport to the business units in controltheir homes.
and innovation also have the potential to planning the right strategies to manage radically change the way that businesses potential future technological disruption.
They can use sophisticated, granular data to understand INVESTING IN INNOVATIVE how to run their machines more efficiently, CUSTOMEROFFERINGS 527,000 saving both money and energy.
In the Internet of Things IoT, everyday Connected Home objects embedded with electronic sensors This is why our focus on technology and and software are connected to the internet.
The rapid pace hubs installed As customers take more control over their of change and growing digital disruption Sold over one million devices that communicate energy use, the demand for connected inthe global energy sector are altering over one billion messages every week, supported orsmart devices will increase and provide theway we work.
opportunities to develop innovative BUILDING TECHNICAL CAPABILITY TO customer solutions.
ACHIEVE COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE Digital business platforms We can only achieve competitive As one of the pioneers in the connected advantageby developing and delivering Iain Conn Group Chief Executive home market, Centrica continues to build new technology-based products, offerings We are working hard to astrong IoT proposition and capability.
and solutions to residential and business understand what our customers customers at a competitive cost.
Honeycomb is our own IoT platform want and todevelop new supporting over 527,000 hubs and over technology and services We have set up Centrica Innovations, onemillion devices which communicate toprovide it.
anewventure to ensure Centrica identifies over one billion messages every week.
opportunities and is aligned to new We are a UK connected home partner technology that will benefit our customers.
forAmazons Alexa Voice Services, We will invest up to 20 million a year over whichallows our Hive customers the next five years in start-ups up to Dataanalytics identifies energy use by tocontrol their heating, lighting and 100million in total giving us access to category, such as heating appliances devicessimply by speaking.
My Energy Live will provide our We will have people scanning key technology customerswith access to their energy Using Hive data along with thermal hubs around the world in Seattle, Houston, usein real-time on smart phones and modelling and machine learning London, Cambridge and Tel Aviv putting tablets via our app.
We have started wecanprovide our customers with us at the forefront of the latest innovations technical trials and customer pilots.
heatingfailure alerts which give and integrating learnings within the Group.
advancenotice ofboiler faults or Remote diagnostics possiblebreakdowns.
Centrica Innovations will also support Boiler IQ was the UKs first connected existing in-house ventures, such as Local Io-Tahoe is an intelligent data boiler service that uses sensors to Heroes, our digital on-demand services management system, created by identifyand diagnose faults remotely.
It will act as an incubator ourowndata scientists, to solve the We have further strengthened our forexternal ventures which are not yet at problem oflinking our many legacy capability through the acquisition of amaturity level for investment and require systems and so unlock valuable data Flowgem which specialises in the different types of support, for example, insights.
It is perfectly adapted to remotedetection of water leaks.
business expertise, mentoring or thecreation and management of data productpiloting.
Data science and analytics lakes, and enables rapid generation Data science and analytics, together with ofcustomer insights andresponses Our existing Technology & Engineering our internally created algorithms, enable tosolveday-to-day data challenges T&E function, established in January 2016, over 3.6 million of our UK and North American forbusinesses.
Io-Tahoe is being further strengthens our capability in this customers to reduce energy consumption launched externally in 2017. area by acting as a catalyst for innovation.
and control their home devices.
10 Internet of Things Home services on-demand Hive Amazon Echo Building deep technology capability in the home Book one-off home repairs online.
Gives our Hive customers the ability to control home IoTspace.
heating, lights and plugs though the Amazon Alexa voice assistant.
Innovative remote leak detection My energy live Boiler IQ Uses technology to remotely detect water leaks.
Provides our customers with access to their energy Helps keeps homes running smoothly with the use in real-time via our app.
The acquisition of Neas Energy was a Smart metering Digital services valuable addition to our Energy Marketing Time-of-use tariffs create dynamic As part of our focus on transforming &Trading EM&T business.
Its renewable andflexible time-based energy pricing thedigital customer experience, we have energy trading and Virtual Power Plant foroursmart customers.
HomeEnergy launched Local Heroes, a technology VPP platform allows commercial FreeTime is one of the first time-of-use platform for on-demand home services.
andindustrial customers to connect and tariffs giving customers one free day Customers are able to book one-off home aggregate their energy loads and resources, ofelectricity use every weekend.
repairs online and benefit from services and provides grid services in decentralised delivered by local traders and backed We have improved payment channels electricity markets.
Theintroduction of interactive voice In 2016, we signed a funding agreement INNOVATING AND DEVELOPING response, app vending, online top ups todevelop a pioneering local energy market FUTURE ENERGY SYSTEMS andphone payments now provide in Cornwall.
Once complete, participants Advanced machine learning algorithms oursmart prepayment customers will use the latest smart technologies to analyse energy consumption data withadditional payment options.
connect to a virtual marketplace allowing collectedby Panoramic Powers wireless Our smart customers are able to switch them to sell their flexible energy capacity andself-powered sensors.
This insight from credit to prepayment methods both to the grid and the wholesale allows business-to-business customers without a physical meter exchange.
SEE THE CORNWALL PROJECT CASE STUDY ONPAGE 12 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 11
