STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS STATEMENTS INFORMATION Board of Directors Full biographies can be found at centrica.
com RICK HAYTHORNTHWAITE JEFF BELL Chairman Group Chief Financial Rick joined the Board as Officer aNon-Executive Director Jeff was appointed Group Chief on14October 2013.
He was FinancialOfficer and joined the appointed Chairman of the Board on1August 2015.
Board on 1 January 2014 Skills and experience andisChairman of the Jeff has a broad range of RICK IAIN JEFF HAYTHORNTHWAITE CONN BELL Nominations Committee.
He joined Skills and experience the Groups Direct Energy C N D D Rick has a wealth of knowledge business in Toronto in 2002 in the energy industry and has where he held various senior significant board experience, finance positions before moving both as an executive and to the Companys head office non-executive.
He led the in2008 to support the Group rescue of Invensys from 2001 Chief Executive and to lead the to2005 and the defence, Group Strategy team.
In 2011 turnaround and subsequent hewas appointed Director saleof Blue Circle Industries ofCorporate Finance.
He has Centrica, Jeff worked in Toronto MARGHERITA JOAN MARK served onthe boards of Network for both KPMG, where he DELLA VALLE GILLMAN HANAFIN Rail as chairman and Cookson, qualified as a chartered A N R S N S Lafarge, ICI and Land Securities accountant, and the Boston as a non-executive director.
External appointments Chairman of the global board ofMasterCard Incorporated, QIOTechnologies and ArcInternational.
IAIN CONN MARGHERITA DELLA VALLE STEPHEN MARK LESLEY Group Chief Executive Non-Executive Director HESTER HODGES KNOX Iain was appointed Group Margherita joined the Board on A N A N R ChiefExecutive on 1 January 1 January 2011 and is Chairman 2015 and is Chairman of the of the Audit Committee.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Margherita brings considerable Iain possesses a deep corporate finance and understanding of the energy accounting experience and sector built up over a lifetime in the shehasa sound background industry and has demonstrated inmarketing.
She was chief strong commitment to customers, financial officer for Vodafones safety and technology.
Iain was European region from April previously BPs chief executive, 2007to October 2010 and chief CARLOS STEVE SCOTT PASCUAL PUSEY WHEWAY downstream BPs refining and financial officer of Vodafone Italy marketing division a position he from 2004 to 2007.
Previously N R S A N S N R S held for seven years.
Iain was a she worked for Omnitel Pronto board member of BP for 10 years Italia in Italy and held various C Chairman of the Board from 2004 and had previously consumer marketing positions held a number of senior roles inbusiness analytics and A Audit Committee throughout BP including in customer base management D Disclosure Committee trading, exploration and prior to moving to finance.
N Nominations Committee production, and the management External appointments R of corporate functions such as Remuneration Committee Deputy Group CFO of safety, marketing, technology S VodafoneGroup plc, a member Sa fety, Health, Environment, and human resources.
Security & Ethics Committee of HM Treasurys Financial External appointments Management Review Board of Denotes Committee Chairman Non-executive director of HMGovernment and a trustee BTGroup plc.
66 JOAN GILLMAN STEPHEN HESTER LESLEY KNOX STEVE PUSEY Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Joan joined the Board Director Lesley joined the Board on Steve joined the Board on11October 2016.
Stephen joined the Board 1January 2012 and is Chairman on1April 2015 and is on1June 2016 and is the of the Remuneration Committee.
Skills and experience Senior Independent Director.
Joan is former executive vice Skills and experience Skills and experience president of Time Warner Cable, Skills and experience Lesley brings a wealth Steve has a wealth of as well as chief operating officer, Stephen has wide-ranging ofstrategic and financial international experience as Time Warner Cable Media and experience, particularly in experience across a range asenior customer-facing president, Time Warner Cable customer-facing businesses, ofbusinesses to the Board business technology leader.
Prior to its acquisition together with recognised andshe is an experienced Hehas considerable experience by Charter Communications, expertise in transforming remuneration committee chair.
in the telecommunications Time Warner Cable was the business performance.
She was previously with industry, in both the wireline and second largest cable company Hehasadeep knowledge of BritishLinen Bank and was a wireless sectors, and in business in the United States, operating operating within highly regulated founder director of British Linen applications and solutions.
in29 states and generating over businesses with over 30 years Advisers.
Lesley was senior Stevehas worked for Vodafone, $23 billion in annual revenue.
experience in financial services non-executive director of Hays Nortel and British Telecom and Joan led one of Time Warner and FTSE 100 companies.
plc and also spent 15 years is a graduate of the Advanced Cables three operating divisions, withKleinwort Benson.
Management Program at External appointments doubling revenues and HarvardUniversity.
Group chief executive of External appointments overseeing the companys RSAInsurance Group plc.
Non-executive director of External appointments bigdata strategy.
Thomas Cook Group plc and Non-executive director External appointments Legal & General Group Plc, ofFireEye, Inc. Director of Airgain, Inc. trusteeof the Grosvenor Estate and chairman ofGrosvenor Group Limited.
Chairman ofDesign Dundee Limited andatrustee of National GalleriesScotland.
MARK HANAFIN MARK HODGES CARLOS PASCUAL SCOTT WHEWAY Chief Executive Chief Executive Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director CentricaBusiness CentricaConsumer Carlos joined the Board Scott joined the Board Mark joined the Board Mark joined the Board on1January 2015. on 1May 2016. on14July 2008. on1June 2015.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Carlos has held a number of Scott has a wealth of experience Mark has senior management Mark brings a strong senior positions in the energy as a senior customer-facing experience across the energy understanding of the industry and is a senior leader business leader with a mix value chain from E&P through to UKconsumer market and inenergy geopolitics and ofdeep retail and consumer product sales.
He has excellent atrack record inimproving economic and commercial expertise.
He has considerable midstream and trading business performance.
Between 2011 knowledge gained in both credentials as well as a strong isexperienced in working in a and 2014 Carlos established retailand insurance industries, track record in developing regulated environment, driving and directed the US State together with a strong supply and marketing significant improvements in Departments Energy Resource understanding of operating businesses.
Before joining customer service and efficiency, Bureau.
Until August 2014 within highly regulated Centrica, Mark spent 21 years offer innovation, major IT and Carlos was special envoy and businesses.
Scott worked with Royal Dutch Shell.
Mark was coordinator for international inretail for 27 years both in group chief executive officer of energy affairs, acting as senior theUK and internationally.
External appointments Towergate Partnership and prior adviser to the US Secretary of Non-executive director External appointments to this he spent over 20 years State on energy issues.
He has ofEDFEnergy Nuclear Chairman of Aviva Insurance with Norwich Union and Aviva also served as US ambassador GenerationGroup Limited Limited and senior independent plc holding a variety of finance, in Mexico and Ukraine.
director of Santander UK PLC.
planning and strategy roles External appointments including sitting on both the Non-resident senior fellow at the executive committee and Centre on Global Energy Policy, Avivaplc board.
Columbia University and senior External appointments vice president for global energy Director of Energy UK at IHS Markit.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 67
