74 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT SENIOR MANAGEMENT Finance and business development Ross Jerrard Andy Davidson Norman Bailie Chief financial officer Head of investor relations Group exploration manager Before joining Centamin as CFO in Prior to joining Centamin in August 2012, Norman Bailie joined Centamin in April 2016, Ross Jerrard was a partner with Andy Davidson worked for nine years as January 2017 and brings to the role over Deloitte.
Ross has led many teams providing a mining analyst, including three years 25 years industry experience in providing audit and related financial advisory services as an equity research director at the exploration and resource consultancy to all to public companies, and national and London-based investment bank Numis levels of exploration and mining companies international groups.
Prior to moving to Securities.
Before this, Andy was a senior in West, East and Central Africa and South Australia, Ross worked in Southern Africa exploration geologist within the mining America.
Norman is an accredited Chartered and the Middle East providing services for industry, including six years with Ashanti Professional Geologist and Manager a range of resource companies.
Specifically Goldfields where he was closely involved through the Geol Soc UK and AusIMM, and relevant to Centamin is that he spent in the discovery and development of the a fellow of IOM3 UK and SEG USA as well three and a half years in Egypt, based in world class Geita project in Tanzania.
Andy as a competent person under JORC Cairo, acting for multinational companies holds an MSc in Mineral Project Appraisal 43-101 criteria.
Ross is a member from the Royal School of Mines and a BSc of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Geology.
He is also a member of the in Australia, the Institute of Chartered Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining.
Accountants in Zimbabwe and the Australian Institute of Company Directors.
Since 18 April 2016 Since 13 August 2012 Since 26 January 2017 Operations Youssef ElRaghy Terry Smith Chris Boreham General manager Egyptian operations General manager Sukari Underground mine manager Sukari An officer graduate of the Egyptian Police Terry Smith is a qualified mining engineer Chris Boreham holds a BEng Mining Academy, Youssef El-Raghy held senior and member of the Australasian Institute degree from the University of Sydney and management roles within the Egyptian of Mining and Metallurgy.
Terry has a Graduate Diploma of Business, First police force for a period in excess of ten 35 years experience in the mining industry Class Mine Managers Certificate in WA, years, having attained the rank of captain and over 20 years experience in general Queensland and New South Wales.
He is prior to joining the group.
He has extensive management and site management roles.
a member of AusIMM and has 30 years contacts within the government and Terry has worked in both open pit and experience in the mining industry, having industry and maintains excellent working underground operations for both owners worked predominantly in gold and copper relationships with all of the Companys and contracting firms.
Chris significant experience in the stakeholders within Egypt.
the gold, copper, lead, zinc, diamonds and design and operation of hard rock mining, coal industries in Australasia, Africa and extends to managing personnel, risk South America.
mitigation and operational health and safety.
Since 13 April 2006 Since 14 June 2012 Since January 2010 75 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT Legal and compliance Lynne Gregory Doaa Abou Elailah Darren Le Masurier General counsel Group sustainability and Company secretary business development manager Before joining Centamin, Lynne Gregory Darren Le Masurier is a fellow of the Doaa Abou Elailah has worked closely with was a legal director at Charles Russell LLP, Association of Chartered Certified Centamin for ten years initially as an adviser prior to which she was a solicitor at top Accountants and has over 17 years before joining the Company in 2013.
Doaa law firms in London, Allen & Overy and experience in corporate administration, has more than 18 years of experience as a Baker & McKenzie.
Lynne has worked for governance and offshore regulation consultant in health and safety, environment over 20 years as a lawyer specialising in in Jersey.
Prior to joining Centamin, and community affairs.
Doaa has provided complex international commercial litigation Darren worked at the fiduciary and law technical support to numerous industries and arbitration for corporate clients in a firm Ogier in Jersey for over ten years, and facilities in Egypt and the Middle East variety of sectors.
Lynne holds a degree providing professional company secretarial, across a broad range of sectors including in Law from University College London as accounting, administration and director mining, oil and gas, industrial production, well as professional qualifications from the services for a diverse range of corporate infrastructure and tourism.
Doaa holds College of Law.
MSc and BSc honours degrees in Chemical Engineering from the University of Cairo.
Since 1 September 2013 Since 1 May 2013 Since 8 July 2013 Heidi Brown Subsidiary director and company secretary Heidi Brown is a Fellow Chartered Secretary FCIS, FGIA and GAICD.
Heidi holds a Graduate Certificate of Applied Finance and Investment and a Diploma of Financial Advising from the Financial Services Institute of Australasia.
Heidi was the company secretary of Centamin from 2004 until 2012, and continues to act as company secretary and director of Centamins Australian subsidiaries.
