64 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT INTRODUCTION In 2016 we invested in our systems and reporting processes to further improve the quality of information, giving the board the best opportunity to make informed and timely decisions.
These are set out in the following areas: Through the financial reporting and budgeting process together with the C1.1.
Fair, balanced and review of operational activity, the board understandable directors has considered the short and longer responsibilities statement and term strategic focus areas set out on assumptions in the audit and page 20, as well as the principal risks, risk report : risk appetite and resulting business C. 1.3.
responsibilities statement and Having consulted with the assumptions in the audit and non-executive directors and engaged risk report : with an external facilitator who C. 1.2. Business model and delivery evaluated the board during the year, of strategy strategic report I continue to believe that the format including the business model : and composition of the board remains C. 2.1.
Robust assessment suitable for the current needs of the of principal risks directors business.
This view is supported by Josef ElRaghy responsibilities and assumptions Chairman the external facilitator.
in risk management report : C. 2.2.
Viability statement risk In respect to succession planning, management report : and we as a board aim to nurture talent through the business.
Monitoring and review of Dear shareholders nomination committee, we have effectiveness of risk management Centamin remained focused on its identified key personnel within the and internal control systems audit drive for productivity and efficiency organisation for whom we have and risk report.
at the Sukari Gold Mine, whilst allocated resources and training to 2016 has been an exceptional undertaking a growth strategy aimed ensure they achieve their potential.
year, with further improvements at enhancing shareholder returns over Our CEO, who was the former in operational efficiency and a the long term.
COO, is evidence of our commitment strong financial performance on the Efficient use of the boards time and to encourage talent through the backdrop of a stronger gold price and resources has been a focus this year, organisation.
Now that Andrew has operational cost savings.
We approach and by working on improvements to completed a second year as CEO, I am 2017 with a knowledgeable board, our systems and reports, the board is pleased to see his continued efforts to a strong management team and a in the best possible position to make develop and bring about efficiencies clear strategy to deliver substantial informed and timely decisions.
within the organisation, delivering on shareholder value.
our key strategic focus areas.
The communication between the executive and non-executive directors Josef ElRaghy Our board composition and approach is particularly important and by to leadership are set out in detail Chairman allowing open discussion on key issues, on page 67.
Within the directors Centamin ensures that shareholders 1 February 2017 report and, where applicable, are properly informed about all major the strategic report, the directors events and results.
provide the required governance and regulatory assurances.
65 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT Governance and code compliance at a glance LEADERSHIP EFFECTIVENESS ACCOUNTABILITY REMUNERATION SHAREHOLDERS Separate roles undertaken Majority of independent External auditor changed Simple but effective Engagement with key by the chairman and CEO non-executive directors in 2014 remuneration structure shareholders and proxy appointed advisory bodies Senior independent External facilitator carried Internal auditor appointed Shareholder approved AGMs held with key non-executive director out a board evaluation in 2015 restricted share plan directors in attendance and deputy chairman in 2016 approved in 2015 Edward Haslam 100% attendance at Training provided to Defined strategic Claw back provisions in Full disclosure of AGM board and committee directors throughout objectives and long term employment contracts results on day of meeting meetings in 2016 the year business viability and share schemes Non-executive director All directors stand for Defined risk strategy and Separate shareholder Investor meetings, capital meetings held during re-election at each AGM principal risks explained resolutions for approval markets day presentation the year without of remuneration policy executives present and report Compliance statement Throughout the year ended It is noted that in the case of the 31 December 2016, the Company was directors remuneration report, The Company is incorporated in Jersey, in full compliance with the provisions the disclosures have exceeded the Channel Islands.
The Company is, by set out in the Code with the exception obligations on the Company given virtue of the Listing Rules, subject to of the following matters: its incorporation in Jersey.
However, the 2014 Corporate Governance Code the Company considers such enhanced the Code issued by the UK Financial the Code and best practice disclosure is appropriate to allow Reporting Council and therefore the recommendations favour that shareholders to compare the Company Company must confirm that it has the chairman be an independent with UK incorporated FTSE 250 listed complied with all relevant provisions director on appointment.
It has also incorporated of the Code or to explain areas of El-Raghy is not an independent many additional and voluntary non-compliance.
The Code can be non-executive chairman within the disclosures in its strategic report.
found on the Financial Reporting meaning of the Code.
measures remain in place The Company has applied the main whereby Edward Haslam deputy principles set out in the Code, enabling In addition, the Company is required chairman and senior independent shareholders to evaluate how the to follow the principles of corporate non-executive director takes an principles have been applied.
governance set out in the best practice active role to ensure the boards recommendations of the Toronto ongoing effectiveness in all respects: Stock Exchange, in particular those and recommendations in National Policy 58201 Corporate Governance the Code requires three Guidelines NP 58-201. independent non-executives to be appointed to the remuneration committee, however, following the resignation of Kevin Tomlinson, the nomination committee and board approved the appointment of Trevor Schultz who, as a former executive director between 2008 and 2014, is not considered independent.
The nomination report on page 78 and 79 sets out the review process in nominating Trevor Schultz for the committee appointment.
66 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT INTRODUCTION continued Board overview Set out below is the board, committee and management structure of Centamin plc.
CENTAMIN PLC EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS NONEXECUTIVE DIRECTORS BOARD COMMITTEES Remuneration Health, safety, Compliance Corporate Operational Audit and risk and environmental, and corporate management management nomination sustainability governance Continuous disclosure OPERATIONAL HEADS OF DEPARTMENT How the board of directors operates on behalf of the shareholders by whom Board composition and attendance they are elected and to whom they The board provides leadership to the At the date of this report the board is are accountable.
In carrying out its group and sets the groups values and made up of a chairman, CEO, three responsibilities, the board undertakes standards to ensure that its obligations independent non-executive directors to serve the interests of shareholders, to its shareholders are met and the and one non-executive director.
See employees, and the broader group complies with both regulatory directors details on pages 72 and 73. community honestly, fairly, diligently and governance requirements.
and in accordance with applicable laws.
The board guides and monitors the business and affairs of the Company The following table sets out the number of board and committee meetings held during the year and the number of meetings attended by each director.
Health, safety, Compliance Audit environmental and corporate Board and risk and sustainability governance Remuneration Nomination Executive Josef El-Raghy C. 4 of 4 Andrew Pardey 4 of 4 Nonexecutive Edward Haslam 4 of 4 8 of 8 1 of 1 4 of 4 C. 4 of 4 C. 3 of 3 Trevor Schultz 4 of 4 C. 4 of 4 1 of 1 1 of 1 Mark Arnesen 4 of 4 C. 8 of 8 4 of 4 4 of 4 3 of 3 Mark Bankes 4 of 4 8 of 8 4 of 4 C. 4 of 4 1 Kevin Tomlinson 2 of 2 2 of 2 2 of 2 2 of 2 C. Chairing the meeting and or chairperson of the board or committee.
The table excludes meetings held by written resolutions or sub-committees and reflects membership during 2016.
The board held four meetings during the year and a further four meetings were held by way of unanimous board written resolution.
Board composition and reelection It is proposed at the date of this annual report that all directors will be put forward for re-election at the AGM.
All directors are subject to annual re-election.
67 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT Leadership communicates with shareholders in Detailed knowledge of the groups relation to the Companys strategic activities is essential and, each year, This report sets out the key areas the aims and policies: and the board visits Sukari where they are board has focused on during the year, shown the underground operation, together with details of the roles of the represents the group before key open pit site and the operations key board members and an assessment stakeholders including government plant, accompanied by the heads of of the effectiveness of the board.
In addition The board sets and implements The chief executive officer: to regular site visits to Sukari, the senior the strategic aims and values of the develops and implements members of the management team Company, providing strategic direction short, medium and long term and executive visit the exploration to management.
See further details in corporate strategies: sites in Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire the strategic report.
is responsible for day-to-day to ensure the activities in these management of the business and regions are aligned with the corporate The chairman, Josef El-Raghy, is the implementation of the boards objectives of the group.
responsible for ensuring the business strategic aims: and is run in accordance with the boards The board delegates certain of promotes the highest standards of strategy.
The CEO, Andrew Pardey, its responsibilities directly to the safety, corporate compliance and has the responsibility for implementing committees see section below.
adherence to codes of conduct.
strategy and overseeing the day-to-day Board committees running of the business.
The nonexecutive directors: The board committees are a valuable challenge and help develop the The management team and board part of the Companys corporate groups strategy: are relatively few in number and are, governance structure.
The workload therefore, actively involved in, and participate as members of the board of the board committees is far made aware of, all the major activities on their respective committees: greater than the table of scheduled of the group.
They can therefore ensure monitor the performance of meetings would indicate, as ad-hoc the Companys actions are aligned with management: meetings and communications occur the strategic aims of the group.
need to be satisfied as to the frequently between the directors and adequacy and integrity of financial management.
The board is in receipt The responsibilities of the board and and other reporting: of detailed financial and operational key roles within the organisation are determine appropriate levels of monthly reports as well as the quarterly set out below: remuneration for executive directors: and annual financial disclosures.
The chairman: and The board has delegated certain leads the board to ensure it raise any concerns with the board matters to its committees and their operates effectively: or with management.
reports are presented within the sets the agenda and ensures all strategic or directors reports as Details of the senior management team matters are given due consideration explained in the table below.
are set out on pages 74 and 75. and that directors have the opportunity to contribute to board discussions: Health, safety, environmental and sustainability CSR report see the HSES committee report on page 36. committee strategic report pages 36 to 49.
Audit and risk committee directors report page 106.
Risk and control environment see audit and audit and risk committee on page 106.
Remuneration committee directors report Directors remuneration report see pages 82 to 105. pages 86 and 87.
Nomination committee directors report Succession planning see the nomination committee report on pages 78 and 79. pages 79 to 81.
Compliance and corporate governance Compliance statement with the corporate governance code directors report pages 76 and 77. see page 65.
68 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT INTRODUCTION continued Board appointments Based on this policy, the majority of chairman and senior independent and independence the board is considered independent non-executive director as a member non-executive directors.
of the health, safety, environmental When determining whether a and sustainability committee.
director is independent, the board Following the resignation of Kevin has established a directors test of Tomlinson in May 2016, the board The Company remains compliant with independence policy, which is based and nomination committee have met the provisions of the Code, whereby on the definitions of independence in and approved the appointment of at least half the board, excluding the the Canadian Securities Administrators Trevor Schultz non-executive director chairman, comprises non-executive National Instrument 52-110 Audit as a member of the remuneration directors who are determined by the Committees and the Code.
and nomination committees, board to be independent.
and Edward Haslam deputy Key activities of the board in 2016 STRATEGIC SUKARI ACTIVITIES ACTION Cash generation production Setting budgets, production and cost guidance Approval and announcement of guidance in guidance and cost estimates for the year.
Cash generation Review proposals for contract tendering and Tendering of significant contracts.
Implementation of the Mainpac upgrade stores and procurement software.
Shareholder returns Review of budgets and forecasts.
Declaration of half-yearly and final dividends.
dividend policy Review of cost recovery model and profit share Approval of revised dividend policy.
Growth strategy exploration Review proposals for the Cleopatra decline and Approval of Cleopatra decline and capital expenditure.
Social responsibility health Sukari operational review, health and safety Additional detail provided in monthly reporting to and safety statistics and monthly reporting.
Review of existing projects and Existing projects Marsa Alam power plant and maintenance programmes.
playground maintained to required standards.
WEST AFRICA EXPLORATION ACTIVITIES ACTION Health and safety Integrated reporting of HSES statistics.
Additional detail provided in monthly reporting to the board.
Growth strategy Approval of capital expenditure and exploration Completion of 2016 drilling programme in Burkina drilling programme.
Review exploration budgets and relative spend Ensure allocation of resources across the prospects and results.
Review of updated resource statement.
Approve announcement for the updated resource in Cte dIvoire.
CORPORATE, LITIGATION AND RISK ACTIVITIES ACTION Corporate Update on Market Abuse Regulation MAR and Approval of amended policies and procedures.
Approval and launch of the new corporate website.
Review of the updated corporate website.
Litigation Litigation updates on the Companys ongoing court Confirm litigation strategy and approve hearings details of which can be found in note 4. court submissions.
Risk Review of the Companys principal risks, risk Updates to the risk register, internal communication appetite and linkages to long term viability.
of the Companys risk appetite and setting out the linkages between longer term risks and the ongoing viability of the business.
PERSONNEL ACTIVITIES ACTION Appointments nomination Personnel requirements following resignation of Approval of appointment of CFO and committee recommendations senior management and non-executive director.
Succession nomination Review of succession planning, diversity and board Agreement on timing priorities for succession committee recommendations performance and evaluation.
Remuneration remuneration Review of KPIs for the executive directors Approval of awards, vesting criteria and committee recommendations and senior management and reviewing bonus structure.
69 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT CASE STUDY GOVERNANCE IN ACTION A major part of the strategic growth in 2016 relates to the review, approval and development of the Cleopatra decline at the north end of Sukari Hill.
An initial capital expenditure commitment of US$11.5 million is required to commence the project and develop phase 1 and phase 2.
The board was provided with a management proposal which covered the following key areas: executive summary: phase 1 and 2 drill meters and estimated development tonnes: phase 3 stoping proposals: phase 4 access and development proposals: and cost estimates and initial returns.
Detailed geological data, including assay results and 3D images of the interpreted mineralised zones were included in the report.
In addition, a clear plan setting out the stage of development in conjunction with the existing operation was provided together with the infrastructure, equipment and personnel requirements.
A breakdown of likely cost and potential grades from the initial stages of development was provided to the board.
The board unanimously approved the proposal, following which onsite activity commenced to include the first drive development and underground exploration.
During the approval process, the board discussed the likely future contribution Cleopatra would make to production at Sukari and the cost benefit analysis of the development in the context of the wider open pit mine plan and existing underground operation.
The board has substantial experience in mining and are familiar with the ore body.
As such, they were able to knowledgeably debate the proposed approach to the project, whilst equally recognising the benefits of the strategy.
The initial project is aimed at developing infrastructure with the capacity to support mining rates of up to 1Mtpa from this area.
Ultimate production rates will depend on future results from the programme and further development, and would be in addition to the current underground ore production from the Amun and Ptah declines.
The board reviews any changes to its Areas of focus for the board in 2017 Internal control the board, with charters and policies annually and in assistance from the audit and risk Strategic planning the board readiness for the introduction of the committee oversees the groups regularly reviews and approves Market Abuse Regulation MAR in internal control and management strategic plans and initiatives put July 2016, certain of the policies and information systems.
The board will forward by management and the charters were updated to comply with continue to work with the internal executive, including growth proposals MAR.
In particular, the Companys auditor, who are now in their second and efficiency initiatives.
Details existing disclosure committee was year to help bring about efficiencies of the strategic objectives for cash placed on a more formal footing, which within the business.
The appointment generation, shareholder return, growth is consistent with MAR and updated of BDO LLP as the Companys and social responsibility can be found procedures and templates were also internal auditor has led to a number in the strategic report.
approved by the board to comply of suggestions including formalities Communications the board with MAR.
Training was provided to around risk reporting to the board and oversees the Companys public the board and senior management employees, cyber security and related communications with shareholders and in relation to these changes in the infrastructure improvements and stock other stakeholders and will continue to Companys policies and procedures.
ensure systems remain appropriate to Amendments to the board and Reporting and audit the board, meet the demands of the business.
committee charters are monitored through the audit and risk committee, Risk assessment the board has annually and include the latest has reviewed and implemented primary responsibility for identifying amendments to the 2016 UK upgrades to the accounting the principal risks in the Companys Corporate Governance Code.
This process of review and business and to ensure the enhancement of systems will continue The board and audit and risk implementation of appropriate systems in 2017 with a view to streamlining committee spent time reviewing their to manage these risks.
The board will processes and improving the reliability internal control environment, risk continue to review its processes for risk and timeliness of internal reports.
management processes and internal identification and evaluation, improving and external reporting.
internal communication and external reports in this area.
70 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT INTRODUCTION continued Areas of focus for the board in 2017 The non-executive directors meet at with the non-executive directors and continued least annually, without the chairman separately with the chairman and CEO.
or CEO present and evaluate their Relationship with stakeholders The external facilitator concluded that performance during the year.
The the board will continue to maintain, the board is highly cohesive as a board is assisted by the nomination develop and monitor relationships group and appears to discharge the committee on its evaluation of the with key stakeholders including business of the board effectively, this is non-executive directors.
The Institute EMRA in relation to Sukari and other a good board and there are no causes of Directors were appointed as the governmental bodies in Burkina Faso for concern.
Companys external facilitator in and Cte dIvoire.
May 2016 to assess the effectiveness The recommendations following the Board effectiveness of the board.
The evaluation covered survey can be summarised in three Each committee carries out a six key areas including i board main areas: self-assessment evaluation of its dynamics, ii strategic direction and succession planning approach: effectiveness over the year.
This review clarity of purpose, iii delegation build more formality around compares the responsibilities and to management, iv stakeholder the process with consideration objectives of the committee against engagement v board process and to diversity: the activities carried out during the vi risk management.
This evaluation is submitted to the induction process: build formality The full report was presented to the board for review.
The internal annual around the process of induction: and senior independent non-executive performance evaluation of the board roles and responsibilities: continue director and deputy chairman, Edward was completed in January 2017 for the to further define the role of the Haslam who discussed the findings year ended 31 December 2016.
CEO following his appointment in February 2015.
The board considered the results of the survey and noted the following in respect to an action plan: Succession planning BOARD DISCUSSION BOARD ACTION PLAN OWNERS Review of vacancies within the business 1 Action recruitment plans for senior Action 1: CEO.
and identify key personnel at head of management and heads of department.
department, senior management and 2 Consider the process for succession Action 3: Senior independent executive levels.
planning and any proposed improvements.
non-executive director and 3 Consider non-executive director deputy chairman nomination requirements.
Review and monitoring: the action plan will be monitored by the board through monthly board reports which include updates on personnel, quarterly meetings and annual non-executive director meetings.
Induction and training BOARD DISCUSSION BOARD ACTION PLAN OWNERS Discuss current process for induction and 1 Review existing induction procedures and Action 1: CEO aided by the company training of directors and senior management share with the board.
and consider improvements and additional 2 Update procedures to ensure documents Action 2 3: Company secr etary and legal formality where required.
Table to the nomination 3 Centralise training materials and carry out committee.
periodic review to ensure they remain up to date.
Review and monitoring: the action plan will be monitored by the board through updates from the nomination committee.
Roles and responsibilities BOARD DISCUSSION BOARD ACTION PLAN OWNERS Review division of responsibilities and identify 1 Discuss with CEO chairman proposals to Action 1: Senior independent areas requiring specific allocation.
Review help further define roles and responsibilities.
non-executive director and targets set by the remuneration committee deputy chairman to meet with 2 Define CEO responsibilities further and ensure appropriately defined to measure CEO chairman.
through the job description and balanced performance and segregate specific KPIs.
Action 2: Nomination committee to r eview 3 Agree KPIs and performance job descriptions.
measures as part of routine annual Action 3: Remuneration committee performance appraisal.
to recommend KPIs and performance conditions as part of the annual review process.
Review and monitoring: the action plan will be monitored by the board through updates from the nomination and remuneration committees.
71 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT It is noted that none of the During the year, the Company Employees recommendations and subsequent conducted an assessment of the Information relating to employees actions were seen as weaknesses in control environment of the group, is contained in the CSR report existing procedures or reporting and summarised by the following together with details of the number represented improvements to existing key headings: of employees at Sukari.
The Company processes and procedures.
abides by anti-discrimination legislation corporate governance framework: in all jurisdictions in which it operates.
As a direct result of the internal and management reporting framework: These principles are also set out in external evaluation process, there material contracts and contract the Companys code of conduct which were no proposed changes to the management: sets out the framework in which the membership of the committees or procedures for forecasting Company expects all staff to operate.
the composition of the non-executive and budgeting: directors or executive directors.
For a summary of the social conditions external reporting obligations The nomination committee and the in Egypt and the Middle East and an and procedures: board discussed the need for any new explanation as to the gender balance information technology appointments to the board, either in the workforce, please see the CSR environment: and through the process of succession report on page 39. corporate and operational principal planning or external appointments.
Environmental compliance Discussions of this nature will continue The directors are aware of their in 2017.
The recommendations and The board made the following commitment to environmental, any resulting actions were discussed by recommendations to enhance community and social responsibility, the board in 2016 with Edward Haslam the internal control environment details of which can be found in the senior independent non-executive following the review and these are CSR report.
The group is currently director and deputy chair charged summarised below: complying with relevant environmental with implementing any of the required continue to upgrade the finance regulations in the jurisdictions in which recommendations.
accounting software in addition it operates and has no knowledge of Managing risks and internal controls to the work completed in 2016: any environmental orders or breaches The board is responsible for satisfying against the group.
carry out a complete review of itself that management has developed all material and major contracts Political donations and implemented a sound system in conjunction with the existing The Company does not make of risk management and internal tender process: donations to any organisations control.
Assisted by the audit and risk utilise the services of the internal with stated political associations.
committee, management reports to the auditor to evaluate the IT board on the groups principal risks and environment and ensure efficient Supplier and payment policy the extent to which it believes these use of the existing infrastructure: It is the Companys policy that, risks are being appropriately managed and subject to compliance with trading and mitigated.
continue to build upon the existing terms by the supplier, payments are Full details of the risk environment reporting framework with a view to made in accordance with terms and can be found in the risk management enhancing the reporting flows from conditions agreed in advance with the supplier.
Further details on trade report on page 30 to 35. the business and communicating creditors are provided in note 16 to the policies, business strategy and The board is pleased to confirm that the financial statements.
the Company remains in compliance It was noted that the review of the with best practice guidelines, with internal control environment and the 2014 UK Corporate Governance subsequent recommendations were Code and relevant Canadian not seen as significant failings or requirements, and the systems in place weaknesses, but are reflective of the to manage risk and the internal control detailed review that was undertaken.
environment have been in place for the year under review, up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial statements.
