STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT SENIOR EXECUTIVES STATEMENTS INFORMATION Senior Executives Full biographies can be found at centrica.
com CHARLES CHRIS GRANT JILL MIKE CAMERON COX DAWSON SHEDDEN, MBE YOUNG D D Disclosure Committee CHARLES CAMERON CHRIS COX GRANT DAWSON Director of Technology Managing Director, Group General Counsel &Engineering Exploration &Production &CompanySecretary Charles was appointed Director Chris was appointed Managing Grant was appointed Group of Technology & Engineering Director, Exploration & Production General Counsel & Company on1January2016.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Charles has extensive Chris has extensive experience Grant joined British Gas plc technology and engineering in global oil and gas upstream inOctober 1996 and has been experience and has held activities.
Since 2006 and Group General Counsel & corporate roles in marketing, priorto his appointment with Company Secretary of Centrica planning and M&A.
Before Centrica, he held a number of plc since the demerger of British joining Centrica he was head of senior roles at BG Group plc Gas plc on 17 February 1997. technology, downstream at BP and was latterly the executive Hewas called to the Bar in plc and was a member of the vice president, BG Advance 1982and has spent most of downstream executive team.
anda member of the group hiscareer in industry, joining executive team.
Prior to his thelegal department of Racal Prior to his time at BP, Charles timeat BG Group plc, Chris Electronics plc in 1984 and then spent 23 years with the French waswith Amerada Hess STC plc as legal adviser in 1986 Institute of Petroleum and their andChevron Corporation.
until they were taken over in 1991 catalyst, technology licensing by Northern Telecom Limited.
and engineering service Between 1991 and 1996, business, Axens.
hewas the associate general counsel for Nortel inEurope, Africa and the MiddleEast.
JILL SHEDDEN, MBE MIKE YOUNG Group HR Director Group Chief Jill was appointed Group InformationOfficer Director, Human Resources Mike was appointed Group on1 July 2011.
Skills and experience Jill joined British Gas plc as Skills and experience agraduate in 1988 and has Mike brings a wealth of since held a wide range of roles experience in managing global across the Group.
Prior to her ISfunctions in partnership appointment as Group HR withcustomer-facing units, Director Jill was HR Director andusing big data and digital inBritish Gas Business and technologies to drive revenue British Gas Energy.
Inthe growth and improve the 2017New Years Honours list customer experience.
Before Jillwas awarded an MBE for joining Centrica he was group services towomen and equality chief information officer in recognition of her work with, withthemedia and digital amongst other organisations, marketing company Dentsu theWomens Business Council.
