36 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The HSES committee is focused on maintaining a safe environment to work, with opportunities for our employees to train and develop their skills.
Dear shareholders The committee was also encouraged by the level of training undertaken at I am presenting this report in my Sukari, with many employees achieving capacity as chairman of the health, certification following tailored training safety, environmental and sustainability programmes in the following areas: HSES committee, a committee of the board of Centamin plc.
fire safety training: emergency response training: and The committee is responsible for hygiene standards.
making recommendations to the board on all matters in connection with issues The wellbeing of our employees of the environment, workplace health is a priority for Centamin and the and safety, and the development committee will continue to ensure of sustainable engagement with that health and workplace safety communities and stakeholders.
remain at the top of the agenda.
One of our main priorities is for each During the year, the HSES committee employee to return home safely at the Trevor Schultz worked closely with management on end of each day having worked in a Chairman of the HSES committee the following matters: zero-harm environment.
review of monthly and quarterly The greenhouse gas emissions reporting on corporate sustainable reporting required by Schedule 7 of the development issues and initiatives: Large and Medium-Sized Companies develop and implement HSES and Groups Accounts and Reports policies in Burkina Faso and Regulations 2008 as amended by the Cte dIvoire: Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report complete existing community and Directors Report Regulations initiatives at Sukari and the 2013, only applies to UK incorporated neighbouring town, Marsa Alam: quoted companies.
Centamin has, steer community initiatives in however, provided information Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire: and relating to this legislation in this CSR review of environmental, report as part of its commitment to health, safety and emergency environmental issues.
The report below covers the key HSES The committee assisted in progressing issues for Sukari and concludes with the segregation and removal of information relating to the exploration material in the scrap yard at Sukari.
Trevor Schultz Chairman of HSES committee 1 February 2017 37 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT HSES The Company is committed to We undertake emergency drills to test continuously training the employees our performance and our equipment.
The HSES committee members at the through comprehensive safety training In 2016, we undertook 27 emergency date of this report are Trevor Schultz and coaching programmes, including: drills covering different risk scenarios to chairman, Mark Bankes and Edward test our emergency response, rescue Haslam, all of whom are independent a tailored safety induction for new and evacuation capabilities.
Kevin employees, contractors and visitors: Tomlinson previously served on the An inspection and maintenance incident investigation and hazard committee prior to his resignation in programme is implemented to ensure identification and job hazard analysis May 2016. all emergency response equipment is and risk assessments: fit for use at all times.
Health and safety safety-specific training modules Centamin is committed to minimising addressing work permits and CASE STUDY: BEING ALERT AND READY health and safety risks to a reasonably procedures involved, first aid, Creating and maintaining a qualified practical level, while striving for a fire extinguishing, and emergency team is an essential zero-harm and productive workplace.
technical competence tuition, element of emergency preparedness.
We have designed and implemented such as isolation training, lifting At Sukari, we have structured a very systems, procedures and measures to procedures, confined space entry, competent response and rescue team manage occupational health and safety hot work and working at height.
to be immediately mobilised in case risks.
These systems are implemented of emergency situations.
The team Training is repeated regularly through in full conformity with local legislation, has received ample training and was refresher courses and employees are coached for twelve months by a resident licence and permit conditions, as well all tested to ensure a high level of emergency response expert.
The as taking account of international best understanding and application.
The capacity building programme includes practice standards.
training is undertaken by the onsite theoretical and practical training as well In 2016, we were able to reduce the as drills to simulate different emergency HSES department.
The team is equipped with the MTIFR further and we continue to strive is rolled out for all departments, required response equipment, supplies for an injury-free environment and encompassing area-specific training, and rescue facilities.
A training plan is maintained low LTIF rates.
implemented to ensure full competence Safety conscious culture of the team.
The team implements a Proactive approach and programme for routine inspection of We believe that safety is the emergency response planning emergency equipment and supplies and responsibility of all employees and The HSES team onsite prepare conducts random emergency drills to thus pursue the development of a and train to respond quickly to test the emergency response elements safety conscious culture in our sites emergencies.
We have developed and check their effectiveness.
where safety is fully embedded across a detailed emergency plan with full all operations and activities.
We do response and rescue procedures Contractor management this by empowering employees, giving for different potential risk scenarios.
All contractors operating onsite are them responsibility for their wellbeing The plan is coupled with emergency required to adhere to the implemented as well as the safety of the colleagues arrangements for different areas of safety management system, whether they work alongside.
they work for long periods of time or coaching and leading by example, our for short assignments.
Currently there Risk assessment is integral to all employees are fully aware of the safety are around 519 permanent contractors operational activities onsite and we requirements and standards expected.
continuously evaluate potential and CASE STUDY: INTERACTIVE actual hazards, their probability and We provide and share information with COMMUNICATION MECHANISMS likely outcomes, to determine the level our contracting teams, in support of of risk and appropriate risk mitigation Continuous communication is our compliance and safety procedures.
maintained with employees regarding and safeguards.
A variety of different Contractors are provided with a HSES through several channels.
The tool procedures and systems have been standard health and safety induction box talks are an effective and easy developed and implemented including pack upon their arrival at site and given method of safety communication.
job hazard analysis for new and full access to onsite health services.
The talk provides an environment for non-recurrent activities.
interactive discussion and promotes a safety conscious culture.
This timely communication addresses numerous safety aspects and supplements formal training.
Other forms of communication include safety meetings, daily pre-shift meetings as well as safety alerts.
38 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY continued Tracking safety performance and Monitoring methodology includes CASE STUDY: EMPLOYEE safety performance indicators measurements, medical surveillance, WELLBEING AT SUKARI auditing and visual inspection, as well A core element of our management Apart from all control measures adopted as systematic observation of the work system is to assess our safety in operations, Sukari has a well-equipped and behaviour of staff.
Measurements performance and identify areas for clinic providing health and emergency are performed through in-house related services 24 hours a day and improvement.
The evaluation of seven days a week.
A doctor and capabilities as well as third-party our safety performance is essential qualified nurse manage the clinic and entities.
Reactive or responsive to indicate the effectiveness of provide professional services in normal evaluation is also undertaken to our systems and controls and to and emergency conditions.
A medical investigate and analyse incidents identify opportunities for continuous evacuation scheme MEDIVAC is in place and to identify root causes to help improvement.
In that regard, we have supported by first aid facilities, as well implement corrective measures.
monitoring systems in place for: as an ambulance for transportation to the nearest hospital.
The clinic also The information collated from these workplace and occupational provides guidance to employees for processes is reported to the committee health parameters: fatigue management.
The clinic assesses on a monthly and quarterly basis.
occupational health parameters and provides advice to help improve to detect health impacts due to fitness levels.
In addition, Sukari has a All employees and contractors work-related matters: comprehensive health insurance scheme are required to report all hazards, that covers almost all regions in Egypt.
fitness to work to detect personnel near-misses and incidents for The scheme extends to members of the under the influence of alcohol or investigation and analysis.
illegal drugs: embodies the principles adopted by implementation of safety procedures the HSES policies and procedures that and standards to ensure they are everyone shares and contributes in a assimilated and adhered to: and responsible manner to creating a safe stability of structures to detect working environment.
any potential movement, cracks or other instabilities.
Our safety performance in 2016 saw a considerable improvement in our medical treated injury MTI frequency rate.
2016 2015 2014 2013 frequency frequency frequency frequency 1 1 1 1 rate rate rate rate Fatality injury FIFR 0.04 Lost time injury LTIFR 0.27 0.12 0.39 0.36 Medical treatment injury MTIFR 0.46 0.6 0.39 1.28 1 Per 200,000 working hours.
Emergency response training 39 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Health and wellbeing Our health programme has a special In Egypt, we employ 1,341 people of focus on food safety and hygiene, whom 95% are Egyptian.
The remaining We pay the utmost attention to the given we have a large mess that 5% are experienced expatriate wellbeing of our employees and provides meals to about 1,500 mining professionals, which is well their protection from exposure to employees and contractors per day.
below the 10% maximum expatriate occupational health risks.
We provide We employ in-house health and limit mandated by Egyptian law.
protective measures and equipment hygiene officers who supervise food Approximately 50% of our Egyptian for different operations ensuring the safety and undertake inspection nationals are from Upper Egypt, the equipment is appropriate for the and auditing on all components of area where Sukari is situated, which working conditions.
Periodic external audits typically has less economic activity than Medical tests, including blood analysis, are also undertaken.
In 2016, the the more prosperous areas around the are conducted regularly, particularly programme yielded very satisfactory Nile Delta.
for laboratory personnel and those results and a higher level of hygiene Only 1% of our Egyptian workforce are working with chemicals and metals.
women and they work in the groups In 2016, the following tests and Our employees and contractors office in Alexandria.
This is mainly measurements were also carried out because social conditions in Egypt and the outcomes were as follows: Our people are core to the success and in the Middle East in general do of our business.
We are committed internal health and hygiene audits not encourage the work of female to attracting, energising, developing confirmed the results were within employees in remote sites away from and retaining a highly skilled and acceptable limits: their families.
water quality sampling and analyses Modern mining requires a highly The Companys activities provide direct carried out by an external laboratory skilled workforce.
Egypt does not and indirect employment, training and confirmed no major anomalies: and have a developed mining industry, work experience for many Egyptian work environment monitoring and therefore technical skills must be employees.
Our workforce has personal exposure levels recorded developed onsite.
Centamin provides witnessed considerable growth since no anomalies and confirmed employees with the highest level of we started production in 2010, both that Sukari was compliant with training on the latest technologies in terms of the number of employees required standards.
and international standards of best and the range of skills and expertise of practice.
By co-ordinating with the our workforce.
Egyptian Universities we are able to enhance the level of education in mining-related fields.
The table below sets out the number of people employed by the group excluding contractors by country, during the years stated: 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Egypt 1,341 1,316 1,296 1,340 1,120 1,106 985 Australia 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 Jersey 9 10 10 9 7 2 Burkina Faso 95 102 64 Cte dIvoire 44 30 11 Ethopia 3 31 37 45 47 Total 1,490 1,462 1,413 1,387 1,174 1,157 988 The table above excludes contractors onsite.
The number of contractors onsite at Sukari, Egypt during the year averaged 519 individuals.
40 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY continued Human resources principles We expect all employees to Recreational facilities onsite uphold our core values of honesty Our recruitment procedures and In addition to creating a positive and integrity.
All employees are standards are innovative and target work environment, the Company encouraged to treat their fellow those who will have not only the believes it is important that employees colleagues with respect, dignity and relevant competence, skills and enjoy their time before and after common courtesy.
All employees qualifications, but who have potential work.
The majority of our staff live in are required to understand and act for growth and development and could the Sukari camp, and thus we have in accordance with the Companys integrate within a large team working invested in a variety of leisure facilities requirements and to fully integrate in a remote area.
Our human resources such as playing fields, a gymnasium, within the work team.
policy provides the framework within a library, internet access and satellite which we operate.
Special barbecue dinners are Annual performance appraisals rights, obligations and benefits for also held at the beach or around Sukari are undertaken for all employees.
Our policies ensure: and sports tournaments are regularly The appraisal covers several areas organised.
Sukari has also arranged including the employees job all employees have the same accommodation complexes outside knowledge, skills attained during the rights and obligations and there the site in Marsa Alam city centre.
year, quality of work, initiative and is no discrimination based on innovation.
The appraisal is undertaken religious grounds, nationality or The environment by the immediate supervisor and the political views: Our HSES policy outlines our performance is agreed with the section commitment to environmental employment decisions, such as head.
The process also identifies responsibility.
One of Centamins core hiring and promotion are based on the need for training or coaching, values is to minimise the environmental the ability of a person to perform modification of responsibilities or impact and risk of an incident the job in question, without regard opportunities to undertake more from its operations to a reasonably to personal characteristics that challenging roles and responsibilities.
We remain committed are unrelated to the inherent job to maintaining, and whenever requirements: Capacity building and development possible exceeding, the high level harassment of employees by anyone We actively invest in securing the full of environmental performance that and in any way is not tolerated: spectrum of skills and competencies we achieved in 2016. any practices of forced and needed for effective operations.
compulsory labour are not allowed We adopt a development plan for An environmental and social impact in any work related to our activities: each position to enhance skills and assessment was prepared as part of all employees are entitled to a safe qualifications for the Egyptian staff to the project feasibility study at Sukari.
healthy work environment, and each become a workforce of international We strive to maintain high standards of employee is accountable for HSES repute in the mining industry.
We meet, performance in the Company: and where possible, exceed relevant We work with all our employees closely child or forced labour is prohibited, legal requirements.
The system is and encourage those who show whether in our permanent supported by a robust documentation keenness and desire to develop new employment or in contractors system that ensures the maintenance personal skills and experience.
External workforces: and of required registers, documents training is arranged either onsite or and renewal of required permits.
we are committed to the highest abroad.
Special training programmes The environmental management ethical standards and behaviours are designed for database, software scheme for the Sukari Gold Mine as firmly rooted in our code of and surveying with distant learning includes a monitoring programme conduct.
The code secures the and support opportunities.
designed to evaluate compliance adherence to set principles and with environmental laws, regulations, promotes confidence in the integrity We value regular communication and Company policies and international of the Company.
feedback from employees which help best practice.
The system covers waste enhance the efficiency, effectiveness Contractors are required by their management: material, water and and safety of everyday activities and agreements to abide by these energy management: management of overall operational performance.
requirements, and follow-up checks hazardous substances and chemicals are carried out to establish that our and biodiversity management.
41 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Childrens playground in Marsa Alam Maintaining an environmentally We fully acknowledge the importance The sea water pumped to site is used, responsible culture of managing chemicals in a sound and then recycled throughout the manner so as to minimise harm to process plant ensuring optimum usage Employees are made aware of their the environment and the health of of this resource.
This is undertaken environmental responsibilities and employees.
Hazard communication through an internal recycling system relevant procedures through a number and chemical management handling where different water streams are of means.
We maintain an established are a core components of our training deployed in closed-loop systems programme of environmental training programme and our continuous to reduce consumption as much as and awareness.
The systems in place possible.
We strictly monitor our water addresses different environmental ensure safe transportation, storage, use and strive to adopt measures for fields including chemical management: labelling and handling of chemicals.
waste management: emissions and water conservation, as well as Water management and In 2016, we used a total of general environmental management 3 groundwater protection 8,742,685m with a reduction of 10% practices.
Other forms of awareness are 3 compared to 2015 9,743,584m.
Water is a crucial input for our undertaken through meetings and tool About 99.5% of the water consumed at processes and therefore it is essential box talks.
Sukari is sea water, which has no impact to secure and maintain a sustainable on fresh water resources.
Resource management water supply for our operations.
In an area with limited fresh water resources, Systems and procedures are in place Desalinated water used in the camps we rely on a sea water intake and to ensure efficient and safe handling and offices is tested for chemical and pipeline from the Red Sea to provide a of material used at the mine including bacteriologic parameters.
Bottled sustainable water supply to the mine.
water used for drinking is also As a secondary source of water, we periodically tested to ensure supplier Risk assessments are carried out for have beach wells where sea water standards and storage procedures are handling and usage of all chemicals infiltrates through the soil.
All samples are compliant and hazardous materials.
Controls desalination plants for generating fresh with Egyptian legal requirements.
include containment, automatic alarms water for the process plant and for and shut-off systems.
maintenance programmes for tanks and equipment are also in place.
Our emergency response system includes spill prevention and response measures.
42 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY continued Water management and Calculation of the direct greenhouse FUEL CONSUMPTION groundwater protection continued gases GHG emissions is based million litres on the Intergovernmental Panel Groundwater protection measures 141.3 on Climate Change Guidelines for have been incorporated in the design 130.7 National Greenhouse Gas Inventories.
of the tailing storage facility and other In 2016, the Sukari Gold Mine components where a layer of gypsum 1 consumed 397,568 tonnes of CO and a HPDE liner are used to prevent 2 to produce 551,036 ounces of gold.
Workshops have concrete The emissions intensity for 2016 was working areas to prevent seepage.
0.72 tonnes of CO equivalent per We monitor groundwater quality 2 ounce of gold produced.
The figures through monitoring bores downstream show an increase in the efficiency of from the tailing storage facility to 2015 2016 energy utilisation in 2016 compared detect any potential contamination.
to 2015, which in turn reduced the In 2016, the monitoring of these CO EQUIVALENT emissions intensity for 2016.
tonnes A review of alternative fuel sources to CASE STUDY: RECOVERING 397,568 VALUE FROM WASTE supply the processing plant is ongoing, 367,588 but to date there have been no At Sukari, we believe that waste has a viable alternatives.
Sukari has started value that must be recovered to the most to use solar energy in its new practically feasible extent.
In that respect: camp expansions.
waste oil is recovered from oily filters before disposal, waste oil is recycled Emissions, effluents and wastes offsite within a national system: Systems and procedures are in place food waste is transported offsite to for the sound management of different 2015 2016 our neighbouring Bedouins to use as environmental aspects including animal fodder: emissions, effluents, non-process spent chemical solutions are recycled waste, waste rock and tailings.
ANNUAL PRODUCTION in the process plant after appropriate The system is based on setting annual ounces treatment: plans, development of documented empty plastic containers are cleaned 551,036 procedures and standards, awareness and used as waste baskets all over and training of employees and 439,072 the site: and monitoring of performance to discarded timber is used to make achieve further improvement.
benches at the site and in Marsa Alam streets.
All our industrial wastewater streams are recycled within the process.
Energy Sewage is treated in a tertiary Marsa Alam, the region in which wastewater treatment plant and the the Sukari Gold Mine is located, is a 2015 2016 treated water is used in landscaping.
remote area with no direct connection Periodic inspections are conducted on to any power grid.
The city has its the treated wastewater and monitoring CO EQUIVALENT own power plant whose capacity is 2 is undertaken for its effluent.
per ounce of gold only sufficient for residential use, not industrial needs.
0.84 0.72 Consequently, the project at Sukari powers the entire processing plant through its own onsite diesel power station.
In 2016, Sukari consumed a total of 141,346,040 litres of diesel, an increase of 8% from 130,687,478 litres in 2015.
2015 2016 About 65% of this quantity is used in power generation and the rest is 1 Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions occurring from sources that are controlled directly through used in operating mobile equipment the operating company, Sukari Gold Mines.
There are no material external purchases of power.
Exploration beyond Sukari and overheads occurring at the corporate offices in other locations are not considered material for the purposes of these calculations.
43 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Power station in Marsa Alam, near Sukari Our monitoring activities in 2016 We maintain a salvage area where Land management and rehabilitation confirmed that we remained within valuable waste is temporarily stored We are committed to transferring legal requirements and international until transferred offsite or recycled in Sukari into a stable and self-sustaining best practice standards in respect of different areas onsite.
A key focus for condition after closure.
Due the following areas: the committee has been improving consideration will be given to the rate at which waste material is environmental and social impacts ambient air quality in the camp area transferred offsite or recycled and to avoid long term challenges for in terms of dust and emissions : this is an ongoing task.
dust concentration in different Biodiversity The planning for the closure of the work areas: mine aims to ensure that a physically Centamin is committed to protecting noise and illumination: and chemically stable landform is the wildlife unique to the eastern work environment emissions, maintained, with minimal erosion desert by minimising the impact of our including carbon monoxide, and minimal potential for dust operations on the environment.
We sulphur dioxide and ammonia: generation and that the hazards are are conscious that the sea near Sukari stack emissions due to reduced to levels equal to or below is renowned for its crystal clear water, fuel combustion: those naturally existing within the and includes a variety of coral reefs and quality of treated wastewater: and surrounding environment.
The desert environment quality of groundwater.
is characterised by its scarce terrestrial Our restoration and rehabilitation plan biodiversity resources, and the area The waste management system in place is updated each year to account for of Marsa Alam also includes the Wadi at Sukari, Egypt includes procedures for all components and activities within El-Gemal protectorate, one of Egypts the handling, storage and disposal of the mine.
A provision for restoration largest environmental protectorates, waste.
The system is focused on: and rehabilitation is included in the with about 100km of pure beach and annual budget.
The provision for future waste minimisation through desert landscapes.
restoration costs is the best estimate different measures to reduce of the present value of the expenditure Biodiversity conservation principles generation of waste: required to settle the restoration were integrated into the project design maximising onsite recycling and obligations at the reporting date.
for Sukari from the outset and are reuse of different types of wastes: applied to all of our activities.
recovery of valuable material from In addition to the long term the waste: There were no incidents reported of rehabilitation plan, we undertake short reuse of treated wastewater streams: negative impact on wildlife as a result term rehabilitation activities, especially and of operations at Sukari during 2016. for construction sites and for cleaning up minor spills.
disposal of discarded material in an environmentally acceptable manner.
44 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY continued Community and society Infrastructure initiatives: Enhancing education: Centamin recognises that it has a provision of additional generators training of 85 geology and responsibility to support and enhance and related transformers to engineering students at Sukari the community in which it operates, add 3.2MW to the Marsa Alam in the summer vacation: and and to minimise its impact on the power station: organising field visits to Sukari for environment and local people at every continuing to supply electricity to a circa 1,040 students and officials.
We consider neighbouring Bedouin settlement Social welfare contributions: good community relations as a key of circa 200 people: and provision of food waste to component of continued operational establishment of a childrens neighbouring Bedouins for success as well as a corporate playground in Marsa Alam.
We are committed to acting in a socially responsible manner CASE STUDY: STRENGTHENING POWER financing surgery for Bedouins in GENERATION IN MARSA ALAM at all times.
the Marsa Alam hospital: Marsa Alam is not connected to the financing daily iftars during Stakeholder engagement national grid for electricity but is supplied Ramadan for unprivileged We nurture dialogue and build relations by power through a diesel power plant individuals in Marsa Alam: and with the local community in areas of capacity 5MW that is about 30 years distributing food at key in which we operate.
The power plant is not adequate community events.
to the city needs or its future plans and open channels of communication development.
Sukari supplied the power with all our stakeholders.
A public Advanced exploration plant with additional generators to consultation system has been in Burkina Faso provide needed electricity.
place at Sukari since the project The project lies in Batie, Noumbiel design phase, and during the Two generators with a combined Province, in the south-west region of construction phase.
With mining in capacity of 3.2MW were provided to Burkina Faso.
Batie is a town with a operation we have maintained open the Marsa Alam power plant.
population of about 30,000 and has channels of communication with all A further generator house was 56 villages affiliated to it.
our stakeholders for the purpose of Education is one of the most important information disclosure and for them Training has been provided to the focus areas for the region where there power station staff to operate and to raise grievances or concerns.
is a need to create a more productive, providing these opportunities we have higher skilled next generation of been pleased to find that, throughout Social involvement activities: Burkinabes and help to build capacity 2016, as in previous years, the Sukari organising a marathon along Marsa beyond the lifespan of our activities in Gold Mine continues to enjoy full Alam and Edfu roads: the region.
The School Bike Project, support from the local community and sponsoring local events and for example, rewards academic government authorities.
celebrations including the orphans performance and helps to empower Community development initiatives day, police day and the environment communities and improve access to In 2016, we have continued our day: and education for students who walk up support and contribution to community to 10km each day to attend school.
donation of equipment and furniture development in Marsa Alam and to local authorities in Marsa Alam.
Multiple water wells have been built Red Sea area at large.
Initiatives in communities across the licence were designed and implemented to area to combat problems associated address community needs and were with poor water quality.
This has an implemented where possible through immediate impact on every part of full collaboration and co-ordination village life and each well can serve up with local authorities, community to 1,000 peoples basic daily needs.
Part of our investment in this initiative goes into training village residents to maintain and repair the pumps and routinely check installations.
45 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Integration of Company policies Environment CASE STUDY: SUPPLY OF STUDENTS BIKES The Companys health, safety and An environmental impact assessment The local transportation in Batie and environmental policies and standards study EIA has been carried out around the village is limited.
Students in have been integrated into the Batie in accordance with Burkina Faso particular depend on cycling or walking operations where relevant.
Centamin decided to provide legislation.
Of particular note in bicycles to students to facilitate their connection with the EIA were the These include: daily commute and encourage and specific issues relating to the social motivate them to study.
The project provision of health services at camp: environment and these were identified, was designed in co-operation with the training and induction requirements: as follows: education director of the Noumbiel incident investigation and reporting province.
50 bicycles were given to the relocation of communities requirements: students with excellent achievements in directly impacted: internal communication mechanisms: their school year.
Each student received relocation of cashew tree a bicycle and a school bag together with vehicle safety requirements: plantations: school accessories.
A ceremony was held contractor management: and identification of sacred and for the occasion and executive officials code of conduct anti-bribery policy religious sites: from Batie and Noumbiel attended.
The project received high recognition social acceptability and job creation: in the media as an initiative to support economic impact assessment: and Safety performance education and excellence.
The safety performance of Batie project was very well received by the community is monitored and evaluated and is, in and Centamin received requests to The process of developing the EIA general, satisfactory.
repeat it in the following years.
included a stakeholder consultation 2016 2015 for the project and the associated Our employees frequency frequency relocation requirements.
The proposed 1 1 rate rate In Burkina Faso, 95 people Batie project extends to villages and FIFR 0 0.2 90 nationals and five expatriate staff occupied areas and thus some farms, were employed in 2016 and 95% LTIFR 0 0.62 houses and public areas will need to be of those employed are Burkinabe.
A relocation plan has been MTIFR 0.37 0.21 The remaining 5% are experienced prepared taking account of the views 1 Based on 200,000 working hours.
expatriate mining exploration expressed in the consultation including professionals.
Health services those of farmers, land owners and local The Batie camp site has a well chiefs.
Local committees have been The current staff is composed of equipped clinic operated by ISOS and formed to follow up the process.
With geologists 18 employees in total the clinic has a full-time paramedic.
the further optimisation and design of with the expatriate staff, field The camp is also equipped with an the project, the relocation plan will be technicians, field technician assistants ambulance to transfer cases to the refined accordingly.
and the surveyor 30 employees and nearest medical centre in Batie or to administration staff, as well as other An important component of hospital in Gauoa.
9% of exploration activities is the our Burkina workforce are women who The clinic is accessible to employees rehabilitation of sites.
There are work in Ouagadougou as well as at the at all times and provides quality health procedures to ensure the safe, camp in Batie.
services with a particular focus on stable and environmentally sound malaria.
Through applying protective closure of pits and wells immediately measures and through employee after completion of works.
Drilling awareness programmes, the malaria contractors are required to implement frequency rate was 89 per 1,000 people such procedures at all their in 2016 compared to the 180 per 1,000 drilling sites.
country frequency rate in Burkina Faso as a whole.
46 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY continued Community and society Social involvement: Integration of Company policies Stakeholder engagement remains a key sponsorship of a community The Companys health, safety and element throughout the exploration development plan for the Batie environmental policies and standards and advanced exploration phase.
This mine project areas, which will be have been integrated into the Cte will become increasingly important as developed by wide consultation dIvoire operations where relevant.
the Company proves the resource and with all stakeholders: These include: is able to develop an operating mine in sponsorship of, and participation in, provision of health services at camp: the region.
Centamin, through its local community events and celebrations: training and induction requirements: subsidiaries, will continue to engage and incident investigation and reporting with the local community in relation to support for vulnerable students requirements: its projects in Batie.
defensive driving training: Stakeholder engagement is undertaken Enhancing livelihood: code of conduct, anti-bribery policy through individual and group meetings establishing two water bores in Batie and gift register: to discuss concerns.
These include: and Danhal tenements: and internal communication supplying 50 bicycles for students access to exploration lands: mechanisms: with excellent achievements.
identification of sacred sites that vehicle safety requirements: and must not be disturbed: contractor management.
Medical facilities in Burkina Faso compensation for removing trees The medical facilities at our site in Batie Community and society or disturbing land: and are managed by an emergency medical Centamin values underpin the conflict management.
assistance contract with ISOS which Company sustainability programme.
provide medical services assistance, Community development initiatives We are committed to contribute to including first aid to the staff working the improvement of living conditions Community development in 2016 onsite.
The site facilities are routinely of communities around our operations tackled several objectives including visited by the Gaouas Labour Office by building partnership with all enhancing: and the Occupational Safety and stakeholders.
We are committed Health Committee.
education: to working with the highest level of health services: respect for the communities and the Cte dIvoire social involvement: environments in which we operate.
Centamin now has seven permits in livelihood : and We will always endeavour to build Cte dIvoire across the border from open, transparent and honest preparation of a community Batie West in Burkina Faso, covering relationship with stakeholders.
2 development plan with and for the approximately 2,334km.
Eight permits communities covering the project remain under application, some of Our long term goal is to move our areas, which will guide the Company which are expected to be granted communities away from the idea community investment activities during 2017. of gifts and donations, and direct from 2018 onwards.
their attitudes, perceptions and The project area is located in the behaviours towards interdependency, Enhancing education: north-eastern region of the country ownership and accountability.
initiating work to establish a primary characterised by extreme poverty and Therefore, the centrepiece of our school in Danhal.
actions will be creating shared vision Enhancing health services: and building capacity.
supporting Batie medical centre through providing antivenins, running water, power access, analysis equipment, and financing hygiene services: and supporting Gauoa medical center through providing haematology equipment and beds and furniture.
47 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Community development initiatives Enhancing education: Enhancing livelihood: The improvement of basic social provision of school benches: repairing of rural tracks damaged infrastructures health, education by the rains: construction of latrines for the high and the provision of basic services school of Doropo village: provision of water borehole with are planned to be conducted by the solar pump at Danoa: construction of classrooms: Company alone or in partnership with support programme to production, internship for one accountant other organisations pursuing similar processing and marketing of student at the Abidjan Office goals in areas around its operations.
agricultural products: department: and diversification of income and food internship for four geology students To maximise our impact, we will build security improvement: and in the exploration department.
partnership with stakeholders such as promotion of sustainable donors developed world development Environment: production methods which agencies, governments and NGOs so building of garbage dump site preserve biodiversity.
the expertise and resources of each for the village of Danoa: and partner are used complementarily with Our employees biodiversity protection programme the objective to get more sustainable The Companys activities provide for Tai and Comoe National and wider impact, which guarantees direct and indirect employment, Park areas.
the achievement of partners goals training and work experience for many faster and at lower cost.
Enhancing health services: Ivorian employees.
Our workforce has provision of medical assistance witnessed considerable growth since CASE STUDY: PUBLICPRIVATE to health centres around our PARTNERSHIPS we increased exploration work in end operations by the doctor of 2014, both in terms of the number of Through partnership with the German Medicis, the Company contractor.
employees and the range of skills and Society for International Cooperation expertise of our workforce.
GIZ, we are putting together a Social involvement: Public-Private Partnership PPP called The Company is committed to be a In the Ivory Coast, we employ 44 the Rural Development and Populations good corporate citizen of Doropo and people of whom 96% are Ivorians.
Income Improvement in Bouna, Doropo, the villages around our operations.
The remaining 4% are experienced Tehini, Nassian and Kong.
This PPP is We will support initiatives intended expatriate mining professionals.
24% designed to deliver the following: to improve the livelihood of the of our Ivorian workforce are women training of more than 4,000 market communities.
Focus areas include: and they work primarily in the office at gardeners and producers of acajou Abidjan as well as the camps in Doropo and karit nuts: acting as a key player on the and Danoa.
provision of improved seeds and community development committee equipment to farmers: of Doropo and Bouna: Medical facilities in Cte dIvoire processing equipment for karit nuts: sponsorship of a community Our medical requirements are construction of water boreholes for development plan for the managed by an emergency medical crop irrigation: Companys operation areas, assistance contract with Medicis.
provision of improved rural stoves: which will be developed by wide micro-finance programme for mainly consultation with all stakeholders: women farmers and traders: and and public awareness programme for sponsorship of, and participation in, biodiversity protection in the Tai community events and celebrations.
48 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY continued Payments to governments The Regulations require disclosure The Company is also subject to of the following: equivalent Canadian legislation The Reports on Payments to the Extractive Sector Transparency Governments Regulations the a production entitlements: Measures Act ESTMA which Regulations came into force b taxes levied on the income, came into force on 1 June 2015. on 1 December 2014.
Whilst the production or profits of companies, Canadas requirements are aligned Regulations are part of UK law, excluding taxes levied on with those in the EU Directive and they apply to the Company by virtue consumption such as value added this report is deemed equivalent for of its listing on the London Stock taxes, personal income taxes or Canadian purposes.
Exchange pursuant to Disclosure sales taxes: and Transparency Rule 4.3A.
Payments in this report have been c royalties: The Regulations require companies disclosed in US dollars, which is d dividends, other than dividends active in the extractive industries the Companys reporting currency.
paid to a government as an ordinary to report any payments they have Where actual payments have been shareholder unless they are paid made to their host governments in made in a local currency they have in lieu of a production entitlement the form of taxes, bonuses, royalties, been converted using the prevailing or royalty: fees and support for infrastructure exchange rate at the time of e signature, discovery and payments.
The Regulations implement the payment.
production bonuses: Chapter 10 of the EU Accounting Directive.
The Regulations are part of f licence fees, rental fees, entry fees an EU-wide effort to curb corruption and other considerations for licences and promote transparency in the and or concessions: and energy and extractives sector.
Their g payments for infrastructure stated objectives are to provide improvements.
citizens of resource-rich countries with Where a payment or series of related the information they need to hold payments do not exceed GBP86,000 their governments to account: and to they do not need to be disclosed but, provide greater insight for investors in the interests of transparency, the and all other stakeholders into how Company has included these costs.
the sector operates and the range of economic contributions that can result.
Summary table showing payments to governments made during the year ended 31 December 2016 in US$ Type Notes Egypt Burkina Faso Australia Cte dIvoire Total Profit share i 18,503,333 18,503,333 Corporate taxes ii 621,956 7,599,793 8,221,749 Royalties 17,314,743 17,314,743 Exploration licence fees 22,468 70,353 92,821 Mining and other licence fees 231,536 776,153 1,007,689 Infrastructure improvements iii 1,095,868 1,095,868 iv 36,767,436 798,621 7,599,793 70,353 46,236,203 i With a view to demonstrating goodwill towards the Egyptian government, Centamin through its subsidiary PGM, made advance payments to the Egyptian Mineral Resources Authority EMRA totalling US$28,750,000 between 2013 and 2016.
These payments have since been netted off against profit share with EMRA.
The balance represents the cash amount paid to EMRA during the period.
ii In accordance with the Regulations, this figure excludes taxes levied on consumption such as VAT, personal income or sales taxes.
The Australian tax payment relates to foreign exchange gains realised that were assessable for tax.
iii This is the value of generators donated to the Marsa Alam power station.
iv Other types of payments that are required to be disclosed in accordance with the Regulations include production entitlements: signature, discovery and production bonuses: and dividends.
The Company and its subsidiaries did not make any such payments to governments during the year.
49 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Payments split by payee during the year ended 31 December 2016 in US$ Licence or Country Notes Payee Royalties Profit share Taxes permit fees Other Total Egypt: Sukari Gold Mine Arab Republic of Egypt 18,503,333 18,503,333 EMRA 17,314,743 17,314,743 Egyptian Tax Authority 621,956 621,956 Other payees 231,536 1,095,868 1,327,404 Burkina Faso: Konkera project v Ministry of Mines 776,153 776,153 Burkina Faso Tax Office Burkina Faso: Exploration projects Ministry of Mines 22,468 22,468 Burkina Faso Tax Office Cte dIvoire: Exploration projects v Ministry of Mines 70,353 70,353 Cte dIvoire Tax Office Australia: Corporate Australian Tax Office 7,599,793 7,599,793 17,314,743 18,503,333 8,221,749 1,100,510 1,095,868 46,236,203 v In accordance with the definition of project in the Regulations, the Company treats its exploration licence holding areas in Cte dIvoire and Burkina Faso as one project each for the purposes of the Regulations.
This is because the licence areas are operationally and geographically linked.
Local market in Cte dIvoire
