STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER OUR BUSINESS MODEL GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Our Business Model Focused on our business model Our Central Power Generation business Our remaining two asset businesses of Our business model is designed to isincluded within the Centrica Business Exploration & Production and Centrica deliver returns and growth through division givenits role in the management Storage are operated separately and afocuspredominantly on our and optimisation of central power continue to play an important role in customer-facing businesses.
generation and its interface with ourportfolio.
Our Energy Supply & Services, To ensure our model remains efficient and ConnectedHome, Distributed Energy Our customer-facing businesses are scalable, all businesses are supported by &Power and Energy, Marketing & Trading supported by the common operating anumber of centre-led Group Functions businesses are organised into two global that are responsible forsetting boundaries functions of Customer Operations and customer-facing divisions: Centrica and standards which allow us to effectively Field Operations.
These functions are Consumer is designed to support the manage riskand ensure a strong system where we touch the customer and needs of residential consumers and of internalcontrol.
Centrica Business is designed to support the needs of the business customer.
Eachdivision has a strategic framework built around five pillars and these are set outin the diagram below.
Customer-facing strategic framework Centrica Business Energy Wholesale Energy Energy Energy supply energy insight optimisation solutions Gas supply Trading partner Energy resource Asset optimisation Multi-technology solutions management & monitoring Electricity supply Energy commodities Aggregation and Design, install, &risk products Operational insights optimisation of distributed maintain&service fromenergy data energy resources VPP Central Power Generation Business services Preventative maintenance Access to energy, capacity& flexible markets Centrica Consumer Energy Peace Home energy Home Services supply of mind management automation Gas supply Heating & aircon installation Home risk management Energy insight Appliance control Electricity supply Repair and maintenance Remote diagnostics Energy efficiency Home control Heating & aircon Energy optimisation Plumbing & drains Energy solutions Electrical wiring Appliances 16 1 Controllable costs comprise controllable cost of sales costs which management deem can be directly influenced and excluding items such as commodity costs and transmission and distribution costs and adjusted operating costs excluding depreciation and amortisation, smart metering and solar expenses, dry hole costs, profiton fixed asset disposals, business performance impairments, portfolio changes including AlertMe, NeasEnergy and ENER-G Cogen acquisition costs and foreign exchange movements.
Like-for-like controllable costs are controllable cost of sales and adjusted operating costs, excluding growth investment in Connected Home andDistributed Energy & Power.
Customers relationships Focused on our long-term financial goals worldwide 28m Our long-term financial goals are Metric Target delivered through a clear financial Adjusted 3%5% growth framework that enables us to deliver operating cash per annum long-term shareholder value through flow AOCF returns and growth.
Dividend Progressive in line The risks to achieving the Groups with AOCF strategy are monitored and reported Controllable Cost growth regularly.
For more information on 1 costs inflation managing our exposure to risk see Employees worldwide our Principal Risks and Uncertainties Capital Investment 70% on pages 56 to 64. reinvestment of AOCF Limited to 1 billion 36,500 per annum in Our priorities also ensure that progress 2016 17 in delivering performance in Safety, Customer Satisfaction, Operational Credit rating Strong investment Excellence and People is a core part of grade the overall Group performance, which Return on 10% to 12% is then measured through individual average capital employee scorecards.
employed post tax Engineers and technicians 12,000 Focused on being different Focused on delivering benefits to our stakeholders SERVING OUR CUSTOMERS CUSTOMERS Our customer-facing businesses are Help customers save time and money asource of competitive advantage, by delivering excellent customer given our distinctive positions and service alongside innovative products capabilities, and these businesses and services.
willbe our focus areas for growth.
Total gas and EMPLOYEES READ MORE ON PAGES 36 TO 45 liquidsproduction Create a great place to work where ourpeople feel motivated and able 71.2mmboe toachieve their full potential.
TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION Through our ongoing focus on INVESTORS technology and innovation, we are Deliver long-term shareholder value inthe process of becoming a 21st through financial returns and growth.
century energy company giving us akey competitive advantage that will set us apart from our competitors.
SOCIETY Provide competitive energy prices READ MORE ON PAGES 10 AND 11 andsupport for those who struggle topay for their energy.
Vulnerable customer households helped inthe UK ENERGY SECURITY REGULATORS AND GOVERNMENT As a result of our large customer base Secure a more affordable energy future 2.1m and energy markets trading capabilty, through engagement while contributing we ensure security and diversity positively to UK GDP and tax receipts.
ofenergy supply for millions of customers by managing a range SUPPLIERS ofrisks.
Treat our suppliers fairly and drive highsocial, ethical and environmental standards in the products and services we buy.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17
