DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Directors and Corporate Governance Report Dear Shareholder It is disappointing therefore that corporate governance has beeninthe news again in 2016 for all the wrong reasons, I am pleased to confirm that your Company has fully complied reflectingthe failures of a few, exceptional companies, rather withthe principles and provisions of the UK Governance Code thanthe good practice of the many.
The Corporate Governance throughout the year and the following pages set out in detail Reform Green Paper was prompted largely by these failures.
Wehave submitted a response to the consultation and Important as this is, however, good corporate governance is standreadyto work with Government and regulators towards aboutmuch more than compliance.
The structures, processes , where possible.
Itiscrucial, however, andpolicies described in this report are just the tools we use.
thatbetter regulation does not simply meanmore regulation Theultimate objective of corporate governance is to promote andthat, vitally, any reform retains thecomply or explain principle gooddecision-making and effective stewardship of the Company thathas been the foundation oftheverysignificant improvements toensure its sustainable success.
incorporate governance intheUKover the past two decades.
It is important to remember that the now familiar features of the This Directors and Corporate Governance Report describes governance landscape such as separation of responsibility at the howweare approaching these important issues within Centrica top ofcompanies, independent and diverse boards, committees andIhope shareholders will find it interesting and informative.
with clear responsibility for key areas and transparency in reporting arebut means to an end: preventing unhealthy concentrations ofpower, avoiding groupthink, ensuring decisions are based upon Rick Haythornthwaite informed and wide-ranging discussions and are implemented Chairman effectively.
Most importantly, good governance also depends 23 February 2017 uponthe Board setting the tone from the top: the values and behaviours that protect and promote the long term success oftheCompany.
Itiscrucial, however, that better regulation doesnot simply mean more regulation and that, vitally, anyreform retains the comply or explain principle that has been the foundation of the very significant improvements in corporate governance in the UK over the pasttwo decades.
Rick Haythornthwaite Chairman Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 69 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION Directors and Corporate Governance Report continued CORPORATE GOVERNANCE At present, there are a total of 12 Directors, of whom four are Executive and eight, including the Chairman, are Non-Executive.
The Board believes that effective corporate governance provides an essential foundation for the long-term success of the Company.
All of our Non-Executive Directors are considered to be This report sets out the key elements of our corporate governance independent and free from any business interest which could arrangements, including how we have sought to apply the materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
In addition, principles andprovisions of the UK Governance Code the Code.
the Board is satisfied that each Non-Executive Director is able TheBoard confirms that, up to the date of this report, it fully todedicate the necessary amount of time to the Companys complied with the Code.
Our Non-Executive Directors are members ofvarious committees of the Board, which are the Audit, theNominations, THE BOARD theRemuneration and the Safety, Health, Environment, The Board is responsible for promoting the overall success of Security&Ethics Committees.
In doing so, it delegates certain responsibilities toBoardCommittees and executive management.
Details of the During the year the Non-Executive Directors, including the Board Committees and their activities during the year are set out Chairman, met frequently without management present.
The Board delegates authority to the Group Inaddition, theSenior Independent Director met with the Chief Executive for the execution of strategy and the day-to-day Non-Executive Directors in the absence of the Chairman management of the Group.
The Board oversees, guides and toappraise the Chairmans performance.
challenges executive management in the execution of The Directors have full access to the advice and services theseactivities.
oftheGroup General Counsel & Company Secretary, who is There are certain key responsibilities that the Board does not responsible foradvising the Board, through the Chairman, delegate and which are reserved for its consideration.
The full oncorporate governance matters.
They are also able to seek Schedule of Matters Reserved is available on our website, independent professional advice at the Companys expense butkeyfeatures include: inrespect oftheirduties.
the development of strategy and major policies: The Board has agreed that each Director shall stand for approving the annual operating plan, Financial Statements reappointment at each Annual General Meeting AGM.
andmajor acquisitions and disposals: Details of the Directors of the Company are set out with their approving interim dividend payments and recommending biographies on pages 66 and 67.
Information on remuneration finaldividend payments: and andshare interests are set out in the Remuneration Report on the appointment and removal of Directors and the pages 83 to 99.
Details relating to Directors service contracts CompanySecretary.
orletters of appointment, in the case of Non-Executive Directors, areset out in the remuneration policy that was approved by For more information on our strategy and operating model shareholders on 27 April 2015.
The full remuneration policy seepage16 and for more information on our technology and canbefound on our website.
innovation developments see pages 10 and 11.
Copies of the Executive Directors service contracts and letters Board meetings ofappointment for the Non-Executive Directors are available The Board holds regular scheduled meetings throughout the year.
forinspection by shareholders at each AGM and during normal In2016, the Board met 9 times.
Further information on topics business hours atthe Companys registeredoffice.
considered by the Board in 2016 are detailed on page 73.
In line with best practice, the roles of our Chairman and Group Directors Chief Executive are separate, formalised in writing and have We have sought to ensure we have an appropriate mix of diversity beenapproved by the Board.
A summary of these and other andskills on our Board toensure constructive debate and thoughtful rolesisshown in the table opposite.
Inaddition, we believe it ishelpful to maintain ablend within theNon-Executive group where some are in full-time executive employment and others arepursuing a non-executive portfolio career path.
70 Board composition and roles Chairman Rick Haythornthwaite Responsible for the leadership and management of the Board.
In doing so, he is responsible for promoting high ethical standards, ensuring the effective contribution of allDirectors and, with support from the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary, best practice in corporate governance.
Group Chief Executive Iain Conn Responsible for the executive leadership and day-to-day management of the Company, toensure the delivery of the strategy agreed by the Board.
Group Chief Jeff Bell Responsible for providing strategic financial leadership of the Company and FinancialOfficer day-to-day management of the finance function.
Responsible for contributing sound judgement and objectivity to the Boards Independent Margherita Della Valle, JoanGillman, Non-Executive Stephen Hester, Lesley Knox, Carlos Pascual, deliberations and overall decision-making process, providing constructive challenge and monitoring theExecutive Directors delivery of the strategy Directors StevePusey, Scott Wheway within the Boards risk and governancestructure.
Senior Independent Stephen Hester Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and serves as a trusted Director intermediary for the other Directors, as well as shareholders, as required.
Group Executive Mark Hanafin, Mark Hodges Responsible for executive leadership and day-to-day management of relevant Directors business units in support of the Group Chief Executive and the delivery of the strategy agreed by theBoard.
The internal evaluation was conducted in December 2016, Recruitment viaonline questionnaires and interviews with the Chairman.
A rigorous process is followed for the appointment of each TheSenior Independent Director, Stephen Hester, conducted newDirector to the Board, which is led by the Chairman.
theevaluation of the Chairmans performance through a series The Nominations Committee used the services of executive ofindividual discussions with Directors and senior executives.
searchagents toassistin the search for Non-Executive Directors.
The results of the evaluation exercises were reviewed by the Theagents engaged during 2016 were JCA Group and Boardand Committees in February 2017.
Overall, the Board Heidrick&Struggles.
wasconsidered to be performing well, with high scores The Committee considered the candidates against an objective recordedacross the range of performance measures.
In terms criteria, having due regard for the benefits ofBoard diversity.
ofenhancements, Directors identified some common areas wheremore information and discussion would be beneficial: None of the executive search agents listed above provide inparticular, in relation to the Groups new growth markets and anyotherservices to the Company.
Inboth areas, Directors felt the Appointments needfor more attention reflected the rapid developments in During the year under review, there were a number of changes thosemarkets and inthe competitive landscape rather than tothe Board.
asignificant gap in the Boards agenda.
Opportunities to reviewthese topics in depth havebeen built intothe 2017 Joan Gillman, Stephen Hester and Scott Wheway were Boardprogramme.
appointedas Directors of theCompany with effect from 11October2016, 1 June 2016 and 1 May 2016 respectively.
Balance and independence of the Board The Board considers the balanceofskills, knowledge, As announced in July 2016, Stephen Hester succeeded experienceand independence toensure theBoard and IanMeakins to become the Companys Senior Independent Committees effectively discharge theirduties and responsibilities.
Director with effect from 1 October 2016.
Aspart of its annual review of corporategovernance, the Board Mike Linn and Ian Meakins resigned as Directors of the Company considered the independence ofeach Non-Executive Director, with effect from 18 April and 1 October 2016, respectively.
otherthan the Chairman, againstthe criteria in the Code anddetermined that each Non-Executive Director Board evaluation remainedindependent.
In accordance with the Code, we conduct an annual evaluation ofBoard performance, which is facilitated by an independent thirdparty at least once every three years.
As reported last year, weconsidered conducting the third party evaluation during Balance of Non-Executive and Executive Directors 2016, ayear earlier than required by the Code.
On reflection however, with three new Directors appointed in 2016 and the newlyestablished Committee structure still bedding in, we felt Non-Executive 66.6% itwould bemore valuable to have the third party evaluation Executive 33.3% inthesecond halfof 2017.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 71 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION Directors and Corporate Governance Report continued Board diversity Employee and senior management diversity Centrica recognises the benefits of diversity in all its forms, Our employment policies and practices reflect a culture where atBoardlevel and throughout the Group.
As at 31 December decisions are based on individual ability and potential in relation 2016,25% of the Board were women, this is an increase compared tothe business needs.
We are committed to promoting equal to 31 December 2015 where females represented 18%of the opportunities and diversity as part of creating an inclusive working Board.
Centrica supports the updated recommendations of the environment that attracts and retains the best people and that Davies review and is continuing to increase the skills, experience enables everyone in Centrica to fulfil their potential.
Individuals andknowledge of a diverse pipeline of talent.
Just as importantly, aretreated in a non-discriminatory manner at all stages of wehave also sought to promote a diverse blend ofskills, theiremployment, including recruitment and selection, reward, backgrounds and nationalities on the Board.
trainingand development and promotion and career development.
Bydelivering on our commitment to diversity and inclusion weareable to: attract a diverse range of talent which we believe is the Tenure % Nationality % fuelforthe company of the future: create an inclusive environment so that everyone can bring theirwhole self to work, to be themselves, have their voice 8 heard and contribute to innovation and ideas: and 16.5 ensure people receive career opportunities based on merit sothat we have the right people in the right jobs.
25 16.5 At senior management level, 26% are female, and 27% of employees excluding the Board and senior management are female.
Centrica has a range of initiatives in place including 67 67 coaching and mentoring of diverse talent and our participation inthe 30% Clubs cross-company, cross-sector mentoring schemefor mid-career women who will benefit from 03 years 8 directors UK 8 directors mentoringattheir current stage of career.
36 years 2 directors North America 3 directors Two of our global businesses are taking part in a pilot focused 69 years 2 directors Mainland Europe 1 directors onincreasing diversity and gender parity.
The leadership teams 9 years 0 directors Rest of the World 0 directors have set themselves internal goals to achieve these measures bychallenging internal and external recruiters to present line managers with a more diverse candidate list at all stages of the recruitment process.
In addition they will also be taking part in Breakdown by gender % areverse mentoring programme which will see the leadership teammembersbeing mentored by more junior and diverse talentfromacross thebusiness.
Board Senior Other Management employees Our employee networks, which include Women, Carers, Parentsand Lesbian, Gay, Bi-Sexual & Transgender LGBT continue to grow, giving us that sense of energy that comes from 25 26 27 18 having a broader group of people contributing to ideas and issues 27 29 across our organisation.
In recognition of Centricas commitment 71 toLGBTinclusion, Iain Conn was ranked as one of the Top 30 73 82 73 74 AllyExecutives in the Financial Times 2016 OUTstanding Leading 75 LGBT & Ally Executives and LGBT Future Leaders Lists.
We fully support the Governments intention to introduce measuresinthe future to require companies to report on the 2016 Male gender pay gap, aswe believe that transparent reporting 2016 Female drivespositive intervention within organisations.
2015 Male BOARD EFFECTIVENESS 2015 Female Directors attendance Directors are expected to attend all Board and relevant Committeemeetings.
Details of attendance by Directors at BoardandCommittee meetings during 2016 are set out in the tableopposite.
Where a Director was not in attendance, this was dueto other priorwork commitments.
Directors who were unable toattend specific Board or Committee meetings reviewed the relevant papers andprovided their comments to the Chairman of theBoardor Committee, as appropriate.
In addition, any Director whois unable to attend a meeting will, as a matter of course, receive the minutes of that meeting for their reference.
72 Key issues considered by the Board During the year, the Board considers a comprehensive programme Board and Committee meetings and attendance ofregular matters covering operational and financial performance during the year reporting, strategic reviews and updates and various governance Safety, Health, reports and approvals.
In addition, each Board meeting features Environment, deep dives into a specific operation or topic.
In 2016, these Security and Ethics discussions included: Audit Remuneration Nominations Committee Board Committee Committee Committee SHESEC Strategic plans for Connected Home, Distributed Energy Rick &Power and Liquefied Natural Gas Haythornthwaite 9 9 N A N A 6 6 N A Exploration & Productions portfolio and asset pipeline review Iain Conn 9 9 N A N A N A N A The Competition and Markets Authoritys report on their investigation into the energy market Jeff Bell 9 9 N A N A N A N A British Gas smart metering roll-out Margherita Della Valle 9 9 6 6 4 4 6 6 4 5 Investor feedback The Group reputation review Joan Gillman 2 2 N A N A 1 1 1 1 Information security Mark Hanafin 9 9 N A N A N A N A Ongoing training and development Stephen Hester 5 5 3 3 N A 3 3 N A Ongoing training and development is also provided to all Directors, Mark Hodges 9 9 N A N A N A N A asagreed with the Chairman and supported by the executive Lesley Knox 9 9 6 6 4 4 5 6 N A management.
As part of this approach, two Board insight and training sessions are held each year.
In 2016, these sessions Mike Linn 3 3 N A 3 3 2 3 2 2 focused on the Groups pension arrangements and investment Ian Meakins 5 7 3 4 3 3 1 5 N A strategy and increasing the Boards awareness and understanding Carlos Pascual 9 9 N A 4 4 6 6 5 5 ofprocess safety and how this ismanaged within Centrica.
Steve Pusey 9 9 6 6 N A 6 6 5 5 Conflicts of interest In accordance with the Act and the Companys Articles, Directors Scott Wheway 5 5 N A 1 1 3 3 3 3 are required to report actual or potential conflicts of interest to the Board for consideration and, if appropriate, authorisation.
If such Induction conflicts exist, Directors recuse themselves from consideration All new Directors appointed to the Board receive a comprehensive ofthe relevant subject matter.
The Company maintains a schedule induction programme tailored to meet their individual needs.
of authorised conflicts of interest which is regularly reviewed by TheChairman and Group General Counsel & Company Secretary theBoard.
are responsible for delivering an effective induction programme BOARD COMMITTEES fornewly appointed Directors.
The Board has established a number of Committees to exercise During 2016, tailored induction programmes were designed for oversight in specific areas.
Our Board committee structure is set JoanGillman, Stephen Hester and Scott Wheway.
Theseincluded out below, and the responsibilities, membership and key issues briefings from members of the Executive team onkey areas of considered during the year by each committee is detailed on thebusiness including the internal audit function, an overview pages74 to 79. oftheGroups risk management processes, the key risksfacing thebusiness, site visits and a briefing in respect of thecorporate governance framework withinCentrica.
Board governance structure Board of Directors Safety, Health, Audit Nominations Remuneration Environment, Disclosure Group Chief Committee Committee Committee Security and Committee Executive EthicsCommittee Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 73 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION Directors and Corporate Governance Report continued which fall into their area of responsibility.
The external auditors,  LLP PwC, also attended each meeting.
AUDIT COMMITTEE The Committee meets individually with the external auditors, Members theGroup Chief Financial Officer and the Head of Internal Audit, Margherita Della Valle Chairman Risk & Controls at each meeting without Executives present.
Stephen Hester Areas of focus and training Lesley Knox An annual schedule of training is designed to provide the Committee Steve Pusey members with practical training and insight into specific areas ofinterest.
In 2016, there were two training sessions focused MARGHERITA DELLA VALLE onunderstanding and assessing risks in relation to the Groups pension arrangements, including the current funding position Committee Chairman andthe investment strategy, and on process safety management.
Report of the Committee Chairman Responsibilities of the Audit Committee: This report aims to provide you with insight into the workings to support the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities in relation to andactivities of the Committee during 2016, outlining how as a maintaining effective governance and oversight of the Companys Committee we discharged our duty to provide oversight of the financial reporting, internal controls and risk management: adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys internal financial to provide advice to the Board on whether the Annual Report controls and internal control and risk management systems, the and Accounts, when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and considerations we gave to matters of financial risk and control understandable and provides all the necessary information for andthe key accounting judgements reached.
shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy: 2016 proved to be another busy year for the Committee.
We monitoring and reviewing the operation and effectiveness of requested and received updates on risk and control environments theGroups internal audit function, including its independence, in North America and UK Business and on the risk implications strategic focus, activities, plans and resources: ofthe Groups transformation programme.
These reports allow theCommittee to continue to build its understanding of Centricas the appointment and, if required, the removal of the Head business, including how key risks are identified and mitigated.
ofInternal Audit, Risk & Controls: Wealso took the opportunity to put the external audit out for tender.
managing the relationship with the Groups external auditors Additionally, the Committee met twice with the Safety, Health, onbehalf of the Board including the policy on the award of Environment, Security and Ethics SHESEC Committee to jointly non-audit services: consider the Groups system of internal control and risk management: to conduct a tender for the external audit contract at least every in the first quarter to assess the systems effectiveness and in the 10 years and make appointment recommendations to the Board: fourth quarter to look prospectively at any changes that need to be to consider and review legal and regulatory compliance issues, made for 2017.
Both committees also jointly received an in-depth specifically in relation to financial reporting and controls, presentation on the Groups control environment for Information and, together with the SHESEC, maintain oversight of the Systems and Cyber Security.
Lastly, we considered an external arrangements in place for the management of statutory and quality assurance EQA review of the Internal Audit function, regulatory compliance in areas such as financial crime: and notingimprovements and future areas for enhancement.
to establish and oversee whistleblowing and fraud prevention The skills and experience of our Committee membership continues arrangements within the Group.
tostrengthen and I believe that the Committee has performed Key issues considered by the Audit Committee: effectively in 2016.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance reviewed the 2015 Preliminary Results, the 2015 Annual Report Code, including the risk management and the viability statement and Accounts and 2016 half-year results and Interim Report: requirements, is set out on page 64. gave further consideration to the Code changes introduced in 2015 Role of the Committee relating to the robust assessment of risks and the viability statement The role of the Committee is primarily to assist the Board in fulfilling and their application to the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts: itscorporate governance obligations in relation to the Groups the key judgements and financial reporting matters for 2016: financial reporting, internal control and risk management systems in conjunction with the SHESEC Committee, assessed the as well as providing oversight of the internal audit function and effectiveness of the system of risk management and internal controls: theexternal auditors.
reviewed and approved the audit and non-audit fees: Membership and attendance the fair, balanced and understandable test in relation to the Margherita Della Valle, as deputy group CFO of Vodafone Group Annual Report and Accounts, when taken as a whole: plc, is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial the effectiveness of external auditors PwC : experience as required by the Code.
Stephen Hester was appointed matters highlighted in the Group Risk, Control & Assurance to the Committee on 1 June 2016.
Each member of the Committee Report and Group Ethics & Compliance Report: isan independent Non-Executive Director with a wide range adherence across the Group with regulatory andcompliance ofrelevant business experience.
Further details regarding the requirements, including the undertakings inrespect of Directors skills and experience can be found in their biographies CentricaStorage: on pages 66 and 67.
The Board is satisfied that the Committee an external quality assurance EQA review of the Internal hastheresources and expertise to fulfil its responsibilities.
Auditfunction: Meetings of the Committee are attended by the Chairman of whether the judgements, estimates and assumptions used in theBoard, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Chief Financial thepresentation of the Financial Statements were reasonable Officer, the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary, the Group and consistent: and Head of Corporate Finance and the Head of Internal Audit, Risk & regular updates of cases reported to the Companys Control, none of whom do so as of right.
Other senior executives will SpeakUphelpline.
attend as required to provide information on matters being discussed 74 withPwCs confirmation and report on their approach to audit Risk management and internal controls qualityand transparency, theCommittee concluded that PwC Internal audit demonstrated appropriate qualifications and expertise and The Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the remained independent of the Group and that the audit operation and effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function, processwaseffective.
including its independence, strategic focus, activities, plans and resources.
The appointment and removal of the Head of Internal Non-audit fees Audit is also a matter for the Committee.
In order to preserve the independence of the external auditor, the Committee is responsible for the policy on the award of non-audit The Committee approved the Groups annual Internal Audit services to the external auditors.
A copy of this policy is available planwhich was primarily risk-based focusing on the assurance on our website.
The current cap on non-audit work is 2.75 million, ofcore processes.
As part of its consideration of the plan, the which is assessed annually for appropriateness against external Committee reviewed staffing levels and qualifications to ensure guidance and regulation.
The award of non-audit work, within these were appropriate and adequate for the delivery of the plan.
permitted categories, is subject to pre-clearance by the Committee, To provide the Committee with insight into the performance should the fees in a given year exceed a specified threshold.
All oftheinternal audit function relative to similar functions in other significant non-audit work is tendered and where PwC or Deloitte organisations, anexternal quality assurance EQA review of the LLP were appointed, itwasconsidered that their skills and Internal Audit function was undertaken.
experience madethem the most appropriate supplier of the work.
During the year, the Committee received regular reports Significant engagements undertaken during 2016 included summarising the findings from the Groups internal audit functions audit-related assurance services andadvice oncorporate finance work and action plans to resolve any highlighted areas.
The support for acquisitions and disposals.
Onaquarterly basis, the Committee monitored the progress of the most significant action Committee isprovided with reports of allnon-audit assignments plans to ensure these were completed satisfactorily.
awarded tothe external auditors and afullbreakdown of non-audit fees incurred.
Asummary of fees paidto the external auditors is The Boards Review of the system of risk management setoutinnoteS9 to the FinancialStatements.
andinternal controls Each year, an extensive process of self-certification operates Appointment of the external auditors throughout the Group whereby the effectiveness of internal PwC have been the external auditor of the Group since the controlsand compliance with the Groups Business Principles demerger of Centrica in 1997.
In 2016, the Committee led a andpolicies are assessed.
Self-certification is completed both formalaudit tender process.
The Board and PwC mutually agreed atthe half year and full year.
The results of the annual process, that PwC, having regard to the length of their tenure, would not together with the conclusions of the internal reviews by internal participate in the formal tender process.
The conclusion of the audit, inform the annual assessment of the effectiveness of the tender process was a firm recommendation to appoint Deloitte systems of risk management and internal controls performed LLPas the Companys auditorfor the financial year commencing bythe Audit Committee and the SHESEC Committee in 2016.
TheBoard has accepted and endorsed this recommendation, which is subject to shareholder approval at External auditors theAnnual General Meeting scheduled for 8 May 2017.
The Committee manages the relationship with the Groups externalauditors on behalf of the Board.
The Committee considers Audit information annually the scope, fee, performance and independence of the external Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of auditors as well as whether a formal tender process is required.
theAnnual Report and Accounts confirms that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which PwC are The Board considers it of prime importance that the external unaware and that they have taken all steps that they ought to have auditors remain independent and objective and as a safeguard taken as Directors to make themselves aware of any relevant audit against this being compromised, the Committee implemented information and to establish that PwC are aware of that information.
andmonitors a policy on the independence of external auditors.
This policy details the process for the appointment of the external auditors, the tendering policy, the provision of non-audit services, the setting of audit fees and the rotation of audit partner and staff.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR TRANSITION There are no contractual or similar obligations restricting the Groups choice of external auditors.
Following a rigorous selection process Deloitte LLP was selected as Effectiveness and independence of the external auditors the Groups external auditor for the financial year commencing from To assess the effectiveness and independence of the external 1January 2017.
Shareholders will be asked to confirm their auditors, the Committee carried out an assessment of PwC.
This appointment at the 2017 AGM.
included a review of the report issued by the audit quality review The Committee, together with management, spent significant time team regarding PwC and an internal questionnaire completed drawing up the assessment criteria to select the successful audit firm.
byCommittee members and relevant members of management The audit tender process involved three firms who each submitted ontheir views of PwCs performance.
The questionnaire covered their proposals for the audit.
Each of the firms engagement teams met areview of the audit partner and team, the audit scope and with Centrica management teams across the Group and feedback approach, audit plan execution, auditor independence and from these meetings was provided to the Committee to inform the objectivity and robustness of the challenge of management.
Additionally, the firms each presented to the Thefeedback received was reviewed by management Committee, which allowed the Committee to assess the prospective auditors capabilities and their proposed audit approach, in terms of andreportedto the Committee and the Board.
the strength of the lead partners and their leadership team, expertise, In addition, to ensure the independence of the external auditors industry experience and audit quality, as well as independence.
and in accordance with International Standards on Auditing TheBoard approved the Committees recommendation to appoint UK&Ireland 260 and Ethical Statement 1 issued by the Deloitte LLP due to their extensive experience, particularly in a listed environment, their audit quality and audit service quality ratings, Accounting Practices Board and as a matter of best practice, andtheir knowledge and experience of energy and utilities industries PwChave confirmed their independence as auditors of the andlarge-scale transformation programmes.
Company, in a letter addressed to the Directors.
Together Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 75 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION Directors and Corporate Governance Report continued Key judgements and financial reporting matters in 2016 Audit Committee reviews and conclusions IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL, UPSTREAM GAS AND OIL ASSETS, POWER GENERATION ASSETS AND STORAGE FACILITY ASSETS The Group makes judgements and estimates in considering whether the The Committee reviewed management reports detailing the carrying and carrying amounts of its assets are recoverable.
These judgements include recoverable value of the assets and the key judgements and estimates primarily the achievement of Board approved business plans, long-term used.
At the year end it concluded exceptional pre-tax impairment projected cash flows, generation and production levels including reserve write-backs of Exploration & Production gas and oil assets and reductions estimates and macroeconomic assumptions such as the growth and todecommissioning provisions of 135 million relating to the UK, discount rates and long-term commodity and capacity market auction Dutchand Norwegian gas and oil assets 79 million and Trinidad and prices used in the valuation process.
In the forecasts, where forward Tobago gas assets 56 million were required, primarily due to increased market prices are not available, prices are determined based on reserves, cost savings, decommissioning reductions and, inthe case internalmodel inputs.
ofTrinidad and Tobago, based on the proceeds agreed forthesale of these assets.
In addition to routine and immaterial impairments recorded inbusiness performance, predominantly in E&P, theCommittee reviewed the recoverable value of the York field and concluded a pre-tax impairment of 63 million was required following reservoir quality issues concerning the fourth production well which wasrecorded in business performance.
Following the award of a 15 year capacity contract to the previously mothballed combined cycle gas turbine power station at Kings Lynn the Committee concluded an exceptional pre-tax impairment write-back of26 million.
At the half year, the Committee had reviewed the recoverable value of the UK gas storage assets and, following updated assumptions on asset availability inthe near term and future expenditure on asset integrity, had agreed an exceptional pre-tax impairment of 176 million.
The Committee has reviewed the updated assumptions of the recoverable value of the UK gas storage assets and have concluded no adjustment tothis impairment is required.
There is uncertainty associated with the disposal process of the Groups Canadian oil and gas assets and significant judgement was required in determining the recoverable amount of the assets, with a range of possible outcomes.
The Committee reviewed this and the recoverable amount ofall other significant balance sheet assets, and concluded their carrying values were appropriate.
The external auditors held discussions with the Committee on the key judgements andassumptions used in the impairment tests and provided their own analytical report.
Further detail on impairments arising, and the assumptions used in determining the recoverable amounts, is provided innotes 7 andS2 on pages 126 to 128 and 163 to 165.
PRESENTATION OF CERTAIN RE-MEASUREMENTS ANDEXCEPTIONAL ITEMS The Group reflects its underlying financial results in the business In prior years the Committee received training on the classification performance column of the Group Income Statement.
To be able to ofexceptional items and certain re-measurements on the face of the providethis clearly and with consistent presentation, the effects of incomestatement.
This year the Committee asked management to  of financial instruments and exceptional present its policy for classification of items as certain re-measurements itemsare reported separately in a different column in the Group and exceptional items.
The Committee reviewed the policy along with IncomeStatement.
management reports detailing the judgements regarding the appropriate presentation of items as certain re-measurements and exceptional items.
The Committee considered the size, nature and incidence of these items and concluded that separate disclosure of these items was appropriate inthe Financial Statements.
Exceptional items include the E&P asset impairment write-backs in theUK, Netherlands, Norway, and Trinidad and Tobago, impairment write-back of the Groups UK gas fired power station asset atKings Lynn, impairment of its UK gas storage assets, net release of provisions for onerous power procurement contracts, restructuring costs related to thestrategic review announced in2015, pension past service credits associated with a change to the Centrica Pension Plan, net gains on disposal of businesses and assets and changes to E&P tax rates.
Furtherdetail is provided innote 7 on pages 126 to 128.
76 Key judgements and financial reporting matters in 2016 Audit Committee reviews and conclusions DOWNSTREAM REVENUE RECOGNITION The Groups revenue for energy supply activities includes an estimate The Committee has reviewed and held discussions with the external auditors ofenergy supplied to customers between the date of the last meter on the level of provisions made during the year.
The implementation of a reading and an estimated year-end meter reading.
It is estimated through new billing system in UK Business in 2014 meant that the determination the billing systems, using historical consumption patterns, on a customer of the appropriate level of bad debt provisions last year required more by customer basis, taking into account weather patterns, load forecasts judgement than in previous years.
and the differences between actual meter readings being returned and During 2016, improvements in billing performance, levels of cancellations system estimates.
An assessment is also made of any factors that are errors and complaints backlog have continued.
The review of bad debt likely to materially affect the ultimate economic benefits which will flow provisioning has continued to require more judgement.
The Committee tothe Group, including bill cancellation and re-bill rates.
To the extent has reviewed management reports detailing these judgements and have thatthe economic benefits are not expected to flow to the Group, concluded the level of provision isadequate.
Further detail of accrued energy revenueis not recognised.
income and provision forcredit loss is provided in note 17 on pages 142 and 143.
DETERMINATION OF LONG-TERM COMMODITY PRICES Long-term commodity price forecasts are derived using valuation The Committee reviewed management reports detailing the key techniques based on available external data.
A significant number of developments during the year and a summary of price changes and judgements and assumptions are used in deriving future commodity drivers.
The Committee also reviewed the proposed valuation commodity curves.
These forecasts are benchmarked against other third party curves versus those of external third parties.
The external auditors also forecasts and are approved by the Groups Executive Committee.
provided detailed reporting and held discussions with the Committee Thelong-term commodity price forecasts are used in determining the onthe potential impact of changes in the commodity curves.
More detail fairvalues of derivative financial instruments in North America and on the assumptions used in determining fair valuations is provided in note Europe.
They are also a key input in the Groups impairment S6 on pages 176 to 178.
Sensitivities of the asset impairment tests to valuationtesting.
changes in price forecasts are provided in note 7 on pages 127 and 128. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS During the year, the Group acquired Ener-G Cogens CHP business The Committee reviewed management reports detailing the valuations andNeas Energys energy management services and trading business.
and key judgements and estimates.
The Committee also approved Business combinations require a fair value exercise to be undertaken to thedisclosures in note 12.
The external auditors also provided detailed allocate purchase price cost to the fair value of the acquired identifiable reporting and held discussions with the Committee on the key judgements assets, liabilities, contingent liabilities and goodwill.
As a result of the and assumptions used.
Further details on business combinations are nature of fair value assessments in the energy industry, this purchase setout in note 12 on pages 133 to 135. price allocation exercise requires subjective judgements based on awiderange of complex variables at a point in time.
Specifically for theseacquisitions, judgement is required in valuing the customer relationship assets.
PENSIONS The cost, assets and liabilities associated with providing benefits under The Committee reviewed and approved the key assumptions and defined benefit schemes is determined separately for each of the Groups disclosures in the Financial Statements.
Judgement is required in setting the key assumptions used for consulted on the appropriateness of the assumptions and discussions the actuarial valuation which determines the ultimate cost of providing were held with the external auditors.
Further details on pensions are set post-employment benefits, especially given the length of the Groups outin note 22 on pages 147 to 151. expected liabilities.
GOING CONCERN AND LIQUIDITY RISK The Group experiences significant movements in its liquidity position The Committee reviewed managements funding forecasts and sensitivity analysis and the impact of various possible adverse events including dueprimarily to the seasonal nature of its business and margin cash.
Tomitigate this risk the Group holds cash on deposit and maintains significant commodity price movements and credit rating downgrades.
The external auditors also provided detailed reporting and held significant committed facilities.
The Group regularly prepares an assessment detailing these available resources to support the discussions with the Committee.
Following the review, the Committee goingconcern assumption in preparing the Financial Statements.
recommended to the Board the adoption of the going concern statement inthe Annual Report and Accounts 2016.
Further details on sources of finance are set out in note 24 on pages 153 to 156 and in the Going Concern section of the Directors and Corporate Governance Report, on page 82.
OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT The Group is required to prepare an annual regulatory statement The Committee reviewed the Ofgem CSS and the key judgements and Consolidated Segmental Statement CSS for Ofgem which breaks disclosures made in its preparation.
Theexternal auditor also provided a downits licensed activities for the financial year into a generation, detailed report and held discussions withthe Committee.
The full CSS and domestic and non-domestic, and electricity and gas result.
The CSS is the independent audit opinion approved by the Committee for publication reconciled to our externally reported IFRS Annual Report and Accounts.
The Group publishes the CSS at the same time as our full year Annual Report and Accounts and the CSS is independently audited.
In preparing the CSS, judgement is required in the allocation of non-specific costs between domestic and non-domestic and electricity and gas and the distinction between licensed and non-licensed activities.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 77 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION Directors and Corporate Governance Report continued SAFETY, HEALTH, ENVIRONMENT, NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE SECURITY AND ETHICS COMMITTEE Members SHESEC Rick Haythornthwaite Chairman Members Margherita Della Valle Steve Pusey Chairman Joan Gillman Margherita Della Valle Stephen Hester Joan Gillman Lesley Knox STEVE RICK Carlos Pascual Carlos Pascual PUSEY HAYTHORNTHWAITE Scott Wheway Steve Pusey Committee Chairman Committee Chairman Scott Wheway Report of the Committee Chairman Report of the Committee Chairman 2016 was the first full year of operation for the Safety, Health, 2016 was a busy year for the Nominations Committee.
Environment, Security andEthics Committee SHESEC.
We spent Wereviewed the succession plans in place for the Board, the alot of time formalising the Committees forward agenda toensure Executive and senior management.
Given the Groups strategy its focus wasaligned with those principal risks considered to have andwith the assistance of our skills matrix, we identified digital, apotentially significant impact on the Group.
retail, North America and financial services as additional business experience and expertise that new Board members could bring We decided that Health, Safety and Resilience were areas that we tocomplement those of ourexisting Board.
We considered and wanted to focus on particularly given the Groups exposure to these appointed Scott Wheway, Stephen Hester and Joan Gillman risks across all of our businesses.
We received regular reports from asNon-Executive Directors.
management on Health and Safety performance, covering both personal safety and process safety, aswell as business resilience Role of the Committee and provided appropriate challenge andsupport as required.
The Committee ensures there is a formal and appropriate Wealso received updates on theEthics & Compliance programme procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
intended to provide effective structures for overseeing Ethics & TheCommittee is responsible for leading this process and Compliance within Centrica.
Sourcing and supplier management  to the Board.
was another area that we focused on, which included receiving Membership and attendance regular updates on the programmes to streamline and globalise the The Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board.
Scott Procurement function and to implement the Groups compliance Wheway, Stephen Hester and Joan Gillman were appointed to with the UKs Modern Slavery Act.
theCommittee on 1 May 2016, 1 June 2016 and 11 October 2016 During the year we met twice with the Audit Committee to jointly respectively.
During the year, the Group Chief Executive attended consider the Groups system of internal control and risk management: allCommittee meetings, as do other key executives.
in the first quarter to assess the systems effectiveness and in the Each member of the Committee is an independent Non-Executive fourth quarter to look prospectively at any changes that needed Director who has a wide range of relevant business experience.
Key issues considered by the Nominations Committee: Role of the Committee Review of Committee membership: The Committee has responsibility for the oversight of theadequacy The appointments of Scott Wheway, Stephen Hester and effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk andJoanGillman: management systems in respect of certain principal risks identified Consideration of exposure to loss of key personnel: bythe Group.
These are as follows and theCommittee considers Succession planning for the Senior Independent Director, eachone in terms of their ethical andcompliance implications: theNon-Executive Directors, the Executive and senior Health, Safety, Environment and Security: management: and People: engagement, culture and behaviours: The skills of each of the Directors and the independence of Sourcing and supplier management: eachofthe independent Non-Executive Directors prior to the Information Systems Security: and 2016 AGM and recommendation that eachof them be subject Legal, Regulatory, Ethical Standards and Compliance matters.
toelection and re-election at the 2016 AGM.
Membership and attendance The Committee is chaired by Steve Pusey, an independent .
Scott Wheway and Joan Gillman were appointed to the Committee on 1 May 2016 and 11 October 2016 respectively.
The Board has determined that each member of theCommittee is independent.
During the year, theChairman ofthe Board and the Group Chief Executive attended all Committeemeetings, as do other key executives.
Key issues considered by SHESEC: Health and safety matters relating to asset integrity: Developing the priority risk focus for the Committees forward agenda programme: Sourcing and supplier management: Modern Slavery Act compliance: Cyber and data security: and Business resilience.
78 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE Members Members Lesley Knox Chairman Iain Conn Chairman Margherita Della Valle Jeff Bell Carlos Pascual Grant Dawson Scott Wheway LESLEY IAIN KNOX CONN Committee Chairman Committee Chairman Set out below is an overview of the Remuneration Committee Role of the Committee including its role and membership during 2016.
The full Remuneration The Disclosure Committee is responsible for the implementation Report can be found on page 83 which contains our statutory andmonitoring of systems and controls in respect of the remuneration disclosures as well as more detail on the main areas management and disclosure of inside information and for offocus for the Committee during the year.
ensuringthat regulatory announcements, shareholder circulars, prospectuses and other documents issued by the Company Role of the Committee comply with applicable legal orregulatory requirements.
The role of the Committee is to determine and make recommendations to the Board on the Companys framework Membership and attendance andpolicy for the remuneration of the Chairman of the Board, The Committee is chaired by Iain Conn, the Group Chief Executive.
theCompanys Executive Directors and other senior executives.
Responsibilities of the Disclosure Committee: Membership and attendance Review the preliminary results announcement, the half-year The Committee is chaired by Lesley Knox, an independent results andthetrading statements: Non-Executive Director.
Scott Wheway was appointed to the Consideration of the release of regulatory and Committee on 1 May 2016.
Each member of the Committee is : independent.
No Director is involved in the determination of, Review announcements regarding key management changes: and orvotes on, any matters relating to his or her own remuneration.
Consideration of announcements in respect of specific projects.
Meetings of the Committee are attended by the Chairman of the Board, the Group Chief Executive, the Group General Counsel Key issues considered by the Disclosure Committee: &Company Secretary, the Group HR Director and the Deputy The proposed final dividend and the final preliminary Group HR Director & Group Head of Reward.
resultsannouncement: The trading updates andapproval of the final draft of the Responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee: announcements: Determine total individual remuneration packages and terms and The interim dividend and the announcement in respect of conditions for the Executive Directors and Executive Committee: theinterim results for the six months to 30 June 2016: and Approve the design of, and determine targets for, any performance The changes implemented by the EU Market Abuse Regulations related pay schemes for the Executive Directors and the Executive and the impact of these changes on the Companys share Committee and approve the total annual and long-term dealing code.
incentiveplan payments: Review the design of all share incentive plans for approval bytheBoard and the Companys shareholders: and Prepare and recommend to the Board for approval each year areport on remuneration policy and a separate report on the implementation of the policy in the last financial year.
Key issues considered by the Remuneration Committee: The approval of the individual strategic objectives and the financial targets for the short and long-term incentive awards granted in 2016 to Executive Directors and Executive Committeemembers: Review of base pay for Executive Directors and Executive Committee members: The approval of the terms of appointment for two new ExecutiveCommittee members: Developments and trends in executive remuneration with the independent external remuneration committee adviser: and Evaluation of the achievement against the objectives set for thevesting of the second tranche of the Group Chief  award.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 79 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION Directors and Corporate Governance Report continued OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Equal opportunities The Group is committed to an active equal opportunities policy The Directors submit their Annual Report and Accounts for from recruitment and selection, through training and development, Centricaplc, together with the consolidated Financial Statements of performance reviews and promotion to retirement.
It is our policy the Centrica group of companies, for the year ended 31December topromote an environment free from discrimination, harassment 2016.
The directors report required under the Companies Act and victimisation, where everyone receives equal treatment 2006 the Act comprises this Directors and Corporate Governance regardless of gender, colour, ethnic or national origin, disability, Report, the Remuneration Report and the Responsible Business age, marital status, sexual orientation or religion.
All decisions section for disclosure of our greenhouse gas emissions in the relating to employment practices will be objective, free from Strategic Report.
biasand based solely upon work criteria and individual merit.
The management report required under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.
5R comprises the Strategic Report, whichincludes the risks READ MORE ON PAGE 72 relating to our business, Shareholder Information and details of acquisitions and disposals made by the Group during the year in Employees with disabilities note 12.
This Directors and Corporate Governance Report fulfills It is our policy that people with disabilities should have full and the requirements of the corporate governance statement required fairconsideration for all vacancies.
During the year, we continued under Disclosure & Transparency Rule 7.2.
1. todemonstrate our commitment to interviewing those people withdisabilities who fulfil the minimum criteria, and endeavour Future developments toretainemployees in the workforce if they become disabled A description of future developments can be found in the Strategic duringemployment.
A description of the Groups exposure and management ofrisks is provided in the Strategic Report on pages 56 to 64.
Human rights As an international company we have a responsibility and are Results and dividends committed to uphold and protect the human rights of individuals The Groups results and performance summary for the year are working for us in the communities and societies where we setout on page 3.
Dividends paid and proposed are set out in operate.
We take steps to ensure that our people working in note11 to the Financial Statements on page 133. countries with a high risk to human rights are safeguarded, Financial instruments assetout in our Business Principles and Human Rights Policy.
Full details of the Groups financial instruments can be found in Wealso recognise the opportunity we have to contribute notes 19, S3 and S6 on pages 143 and 144, 169 to 173 and 176 to positivelyto global efforts toensure human rights are 178 respectively.
Articles of Association Articles Political donations The Companys Articles were adopted at the 2010 AGM and Centricas political donations policy states that Centrica operates wereamended at the 2016 AGM.
They may only be amended ona politically neutral basis.
No political donations were made byaspecial resolution of the Shareholders.
bythe Group for political purposes during the year.
However, in accordance with the United States Federal Election Campaign Act, Directors a Political Action Committee PAC called Direct Energy Employee The names of the Directors who held office during the year are Political Action Committee DEEPAC was formed to facilitate setout on pages 66 and 67, with the exception of Mike Linn voluntary political contributions by its US employees.
DEEPAC is andIanMeakins who retired from the Board on 18 April 2016 controlled by neither Centrica nor Direct Energy but instead by a and1October 2016 respectively.
governing board of individual employee members of DEEPAC on a Details of the authority, role and powers of Directors are set out voluntary basis.
Direct Energy, as authorised by law, has provided within this Directors and Corporate Governance Report.
limited administrative support to DEEPAC.
DEEPAC has been organised to provide a vehicle to dispense voluntary contributions Directors indemnities and insurance from eligible employees.
Participation in DEEPAC is entirely In accordance with the Articles, the Company has granted a voluntary for eligible employees, and political donations from deedof indemnity, to the extent permitted by law, to Directors DEEPAC are determined by a governing board of DEEPAC andmembers of the Executive Committee.
In 2016, contributions to DEEPAC by employees indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Act were amounted to $78,624, and DEEPAC made 54 political donations in force during the year ended 31 December 2016 and remain totalling $29,000.
The Company also maintains directors and officers liability insurance for its Directors and officers.
Relations with shareholders The Board recognises and values the importance of maintaining Employment policies aneffective investor relations and communication programme.
Employee involvement TheBoard is proactive in obtaining an understanding of We remain committed to employee involvement throughout the shareholder views on a number of key matters affecting the business.
Employees are kept well informed of the performance Groupand receives formal investor feedback regularly.
and strategy of the Group through personal briefings, regular meetings, email and broadcasts by the Group Chief Executive In 2016, Centricas shareholder engagement programme included: andmembers of the Board at key points in the year.
formal presentations for the announcement of the Groups 2015 The Companys all-employee share schemes are a long-established preliminary and 2016 interim results: and successful part of our total reward package, encouraging and meetings between the Group Chief Executive and Group supporting employee share ownership.
In the UK we offer both ChiefFinancial Officer and the Companys major shareholders Sharesave, HMRCs Save as You Earn Scheme, and the Share during the year: Incentive Plan SIP with good levels of take-up across the Group.
the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee meeting with Currently, 57% of eligible UK employees participate in Sharesave anumber of the Companys major shareholders during the and 35% of eligible UK employees participate in the SIP.
Details of yearto discuss the Companys remuneration arrangements: both schemes are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 89.
80 the Chairman and Senior Independent Director meeting with Rights attaching to shares major institutional shareholders in order to gain a first-hand Each ordinary share of the Company carries one vote.
Further understanding of their concerns and key issues and provide information on the voting and other rights of shareholders is set out regular updates of these to the Board: and inthe Articles and in explanatory notes which accompany notices ofgeneral meetings, all of which are available on our website.
a meeting with our largest investors and leading proxy advisers to provide insight into the key focus and considerations of the Repurchase of shares Board and its Committees and a better understanding of the As permitted by the Articles, the Company obtained shareholder governance measures operating across the business.
authority at the 2016 AGM to purchase its own shares up to a maximum of 507,017,158 ordinary shares.
No shares were The Companys AGM provides all shareholders with the purchased under this authority in 2016. opportunityto develop further their understanding of the Company.
Shareholders can ask questions of the full Board on the matters As at 31 December 2016, 50,833,460 shares were held as put to the meeting, including the Annual Report and Accounts and treasuryshares.
These shares held in treasury represent 0.93% the running of the Company generally.
The Company intends to ofthe Companys issued share capital.
Dividends are waived send the Notice of AGM and any related papers to shareholders inrespect ofshares held in the treasury share account.
atleast 20 working days before the meeting.
All Directors, Issued share capital includingCommittee Chairmen, are in attendance at the AGM In May 2016 the Company conducted an equity placing of totake questions.
14 350,000,000 ordinary shares of 6 81 pence each at a price At the AGM, the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive present of200.00 pence per share, a discount of 13.5%, to raise a total areviewof the Groups business.
A poll is conducted on each of700 million before expenses 694 million net of expenses.
resolution at all Company general meetings.
All shareholders Theproceeds from the equity placing allowed the acceleration havethe opportunity to cast their votes in respect of proposed oftheGroups customer-facing strategy through two attractive resolutions by proxy, either electronically or by post.
Following andprioritised acquisitions, ENER-G Cogen and Neas Energy, theAGM, the voting results for each resolution are published andalsoallowed the Group to further lower its level of net debt andare available on our website.
inanuncertain external environment, reducing pressure on theGroupstargeted strong investment grade credit ratings.
Stephen Hester, the Senior Independent Director, is available toshareholders if they have concerns that contact through Shares held in employee benefit trusts thenormalchannels has failed to resolve.
The Centrica plc Employee Benefit Trust EBT is used to purchase shares on behalf of the Company for the benefit of employees, Our website contains up-to-date information for shareholders inconnection with the Deferred and Matching Share Scheme, andother interested parties including annual reports, shareholder theRestricted Share Scheme and the On Track Incentive Plan.
circulars, share price information, news releases, presentations to TheCentrica plc Share Incentive Plan Trust SIP Trust is used theinvestment community and information on shareholder services.
topurchase shares on behalf of the Company for the benefit of Material shareholdings employees, in connection with the SIP.
Both the Trustees of the At 31 December 2016, Centrica had received notification of EBT and the SIP, in accordance with best practice, have agreed thefollowing material shareholdings pursuant to the Disclosure notto vote any unallocated shares held in the EBT or SIP at any &Transparency Rules: general meeting and dividends are waived in respect of these shares.
In respect of allocated shares in both the EBT and the SIPTrust, the Trustees shall vote in accordance with participants 31 December 2016 instructions.
In the absence of any instruction, the Trustees shall not vote.
% of share capital Significant agreements change of control There are a number of agreements to which the Company is BlackRock, Inc. 5.88 partythat take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control Schroders Investment Management Limited 5.72 ofthe Company following a takeover bid.
The significant agreement Newton Investment Management Limited 5.02 ofthis kind relates to 2009, when Centrica entered into certain transactions with EDF Group in relation to an investment in the Schroders plc 5.00 former British Energy Group, which owned and operated a fleet of Invesco Limited 4.95 nuclear power stations in the UK.
The transactions include rights Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 4.91 for EDF Groupand Centrica to offtake power from these nuclear power stations.
As part of the arrangements, on a change of Percentages are shown as a percentage of the Companys issued share control ofCentrica, the Group loses its right to participate on the capitalwhen the Company was notified of the change in holding.
boards ofthe companies in which it has invested.
Furthermore, As at 23 February 2017, there were no changes in the details where theacquirer is not located in certain specified countries, shown in the above table.
EDFGroup is able to require Centrica to sell out its investments toEDFGroup.
Share capital The Company has a single share class which is divided Related party transactions 14 intoordinary shares of 6 81 pence each.
The Company was Related party transactions are set out in note S8 to the authorisedat the 2016 AGM to allot up to 1,690,057,192 ordinary FinancialStatements.
shares as permitted by the Act.
Arenewal of this authority will be Events after the balance sheet date proposed at the 2017 AGM.
TheCompanys issued share capital Events after the balance sheet date are disclosed in note 26 as at 31 December 2016, together with details of shares issued totheFinancial Statements.
during the year, is set outinnote 25 to the Financial Statements.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 81 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION Directors and Corporate Governance Report continued The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys The Company is required to disclose certain information under transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Listing Rule 9.8.
4R in the Directors Report or advise where such thefinancial position of the Company and the Group and enable relevant information is contained.
All such disclosures are included them to ensure that the Financial Statements and the Remuneration in this Directors and Corporate Governance report, other than the Report comply with the Act and, as regards the Group Financial following sections of the Annual Report and Accounts 2016.
Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Location in Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention Information Annual Report Page s and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Directors compensation Remuneration Report 83 to 99 Furthermore, the Directors are responsible for the maintenance and Capitalised interest integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing borrowing costs Financial Statements 129, note 8 the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Details of long-term incentive schemes Remuneration Report 84 The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts 2016, when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and Going concern provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess Accounting standards require that Directors satisfy themselves theGroups performance, business model and strategy.
thatit is reasonable for them to conclude whether it is appropriate toprepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
Each of the Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: TheGroups business activities, together with factors that are the Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared likelyto affect its future development and position, are set out in inaccordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and theGroup Chief Executives statement on pages 6 to 9 and the fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or Business Reviews on pages 36to 51.
After making enquiries, loss of theGroup: theBoard has a reasonable expectation that the parent company the Strategic Report contained on pages 2 to 64 together with and the Group as a whole have adequate resources to continue the Directors and Corporate Governance Report on pages 65 inoperational existence forthe foreseeable future.
For this reason, to99, includes a fair review of the development and performance the Board continues toadopt the going concern basis in preparing of the business and the position of the Group, together with a the Financial Statements.
Further details of the Groups liquidity description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces: position are provided in notes 24 and S3 to the Financial Statements.
as outlined on page 75, there is no relevant audit information Directors responsibilities statement ofwhich PwC are unaware: and The Directors, who are named on pages 66 and 67, are they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a responsiblefor preparing the Annual Report, the Remuneration Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit Report, the Strategic Report and the Financial Statements in information and to establish that the Companys auditors are accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial Statements By order of the Board for each financial year.
Accordingly, the Directors have prepared theGroup Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Grant Dawson Union EU and have elected to prepare the Company Financial Group General Counsel & Company Secretary Statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 23 February 2017 Accounting Practice including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Accounting Standards andapplicable law.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply themconsistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonableand prudent: state whether IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group andCompanyFinancial Statements respectively: and prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
