STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER FOCUSED ON PIONEERING A NEW ENERGY FUTURE GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Focused on Pioneering a New Energy Future Building a local energymarket to puthomes and businesses in control Centrica is investing more than 1.2 billion globally to pioneer anew energy future for homes and businesses that will be smarter, greener and cheaper.
Were bringing this to life in the UK with our circumstances.
We would anticipate that Cornwall has been at the forefront of moves ground-breaking local energy market trial homeowners would typically be looking to harness renewable generation.
But that inCornwall, testing a new world of flexible forus to automate the process as much has created challenges for the local grid.
demand, generation and storage, and aspossible, while a business might Our ambition is to explore how battery rewarding customers for being more needorwant more control.
storage, together with flexible demand responsive in how and when they use For example, we might offer a homeowner andgeneration, can reduce pressure on theirenergy.
anew micro-CHP unit that allows them to theUKs electricity grid, avoid expensive Working with partners, the 19 million generate their own energy.
We could then network upgrades and support future programme is being funded in part by automate the process so the unit fires up carbon reduction.
a13million grant from the European atpeak times of demand on the network We believe this is a unique opportunity for Regional Development Fund.
The three-year and therefore relieves pressure on the grid.
us to work together with local businesses trial will see the installation of new technology, Providing this service could secure the and homes to open up new avenues which including battery storage and combined householder a payment, resulting in lower will give consumers more control of their heat and power CHP, in over 150 homes energy bills.
energy, both here in the UK and potentially and businesses.
Participants will then use On the other hand, a business owner might around the world.
the very latest smart technology to connect combine their existing on-site generation TO FIND OUT MORE GO TO toavirtual marketplace where they will such as a back-up generator with a new CENTRICA.
COM CORNWALL selltheir flexible energy capacity to both energy storage unit and choose to make theelectricity grid and the wholesale thedecision themselves about whether to energymarket.
export any excess energy to the grid and The trial will test a variety of technologies make some money, or store it for use across different users so we can learn how on-site at a later time.
the platform will work in a wide range of 12 Control Use Save Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 13
