S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC R C RE EP PO OR RT T uu Market Overview The geographic spread of the Group provides us with diversification and opportunities across both mature andgrowth markets.
Characteristics of the Cinema Market External Factors The Group operates in nine territories and, as measured by The cinema industry is dependent upon the customer number of screens, is either the number one or two choosing to spend disposable income on watching a movie.
The nine territories are a blend of mature Value for money remains an important factor and cinema and growth markets which provides the Group with varying has tended to be a less expensive form of entertainment in opportunities, including expansion and modernisation.
the wider leisure market in which the Group competes.
Historical trends and patterns show that cinema attendance Mature markets such as the UK and Israel tend to be is most closely related to the quality of the movies rather characterised by higher admissions per capita, higher than the gross domestic product GDP of a country.
average ticket prices and a lower population per screen ratio.
Growth markets have the opposite characteristics and Although there continue to be developments in the online provide great investment potential for the Group.
Romania video sector, superior experiences offered by technologies is an example of such a growth market where the Group such as IMAX and 4DX are ensuring that watching a movie invested significantly during 2015 and 2016 and will continue in the cinema is a unique experience which cannot be to do so in 2017. replicated at home or on a portable electronic device.
Going to the cinema has also become more that just watching a Structure of the Market and CompetitiveLandscape movie, with the expansion of the retail offerings including There are four significant cinema chains in Europe, the coffee shops and bars.
Middle East and Africa, with over 1,000 screens.
The cinema industry globally has recently seen an increase in acquisition The customer experience has also been assisted by activity, with AMC Entertainment acquiring Odeon during developments in technology, such as the ability to book 2016 and subsequently they also recently announced the online and through mobile applications.
In addition, the proposed acquisition of the Nordic Cinema Group.
Outside digitalisation of cinemas has resulted in both a greater of the top four chains, the rest of the market is represented range of films being offered, and the streaming of live by smaller multiplex operators, which only operate in one or events such as opera, theatre and ballet.
two territories, and independent operators which are specific to local markets.
Market Performance The industry is largely dependent on the quality of films and 1 European Cinema Industry therefore the appeal of such films to the cinemagoing public.
Box office revenue is driven by admissions and RANK COMPANY NO.
OF SCREENS average ticket price.
Admissions depend on the number, 1.
AMC Entertainment 2,261 timing and popularity of films.
The average ticket price is driven by film mix, format of the film i. e. IMAX, 3D, 2.
Cineworld 2,201 Superscreen or 4DX, the demographics of admissions and 3.
Vue Cinemas 1,841 local economic factors such as local levels of disposable 4.
Les Cinemas Gaumont Pathe 1,043 income and competition.
CJCGV 761 Following the strong film slate of 2015 with a number of 6.
Nordic Cinema Group 666 global blockbusters including Spectre, Star Wars: The Force Awakens and Jurassic World, 2016 demonstrated 7.
CGR 466 that there was still an undiminished appetite for cinema 8.
The top performing movies for 2016 globally 9.
UGC 459 were Captain America: Civil War with global revenues of $1,153.3m, Rogue One: A Star Wars Story which managed 10.
Kinepolis 446 to gross revenues of $1,034.0m in the last two weeks of December, Finding Dory with global revenues of $1,028.1m 1 Source: Dodana information compiled across 2016 and Zootopia, which generated $1,023.8m Source: Boxofficemojo.
However, in certain territories, especially Poland and the Czech Republic, local films proved to be extremely popular and accounted for a greater percentage of annual admissions.
In 2016 the top three films in Poland were all local movies.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 8 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC R C RE EP PO OR RT T uu COUNTRY TOP 3 FILMS FOR THE TERRITORY ORIGIN development opportunities tends to be greater.
As a Group, we have opened 12 new sites in less mature markets over UK & Ireland 1.
Star Wars: Rogue One US the last two years.
Where there are site closures, especially 2.
F antastic Beasts and Where UK US of older sites in the UK, this also provides further To Find Them opportunities for new investments.
Bridget Joness Baby UK Other Income Poland1.
Poland Retail and screen advertising revenues are significant Niebezpieczne kobiety additional sources of income for cinema chains.
Planeta singli Poland and soft drinks remain the most popular retail items.
There is, however, a growing demand for cinemas to offer a wider 3.
Nowe porzdki Poland range of products, including healthier variants of traditional Romania 1.
There is also an increase in supplementary 2.
The Jungle Book UK US products including branded coffee outlets such as Starbucks in the UK.
The Secret Life of Pets US Screen advertising revenue varies depending on the type 2.
Zootopia US offilms screened, the number of minutes and value of advertising sold, the volume of attendees who view the film, 3.
Trolls US and the placement of advertisements close to the start of Czech Republic 1.
The strength of the film slate in 2015 and the success of major films in the current year had a positive 2.
The Revenant US impact on the screen advertising revenues in 2016, 3.
Lida Bacrova Czech especially in the Groups ROW territories.
Finding Dory US Distribution income is generated in certain territories in the 2.
The Secret Life of Pets US ROW.
The revenue is generated by acquiring rights to a 3.
Deadpool US specific title, or acting as a local country distributor for a main Hollywood studio.
Where rights are directly acquired, Bulgaria 1.
Ice Age: Collision Course US the revenue is earned through royalties from cinema 2.
Zootopia US exhibition and also from Video on Demand, DVDs and TV 3.
Star Wars: Rogue One US screenings.
Future Market Trends Property Market and Development Although streaming and downloading of films at home is The rate of new cinema openings is dependent upon increasingly popular, a multiplex cinema provides a unique local market conditions.
Planning laws, the economic experience which cannot be replicated at home.
A trip to environment, and the ability of developers to finance their the cinema is a social occasion and watching a movie on projects are factors which impact on cinema location.
These alarge screen with superb sound is attractive to all age characteristics differ by territory.
In more mature markets groups.
Cinema auditoriums are also increasingly being such as the UK and Israel, the rate of new cinema used for purposes other than just exhibiting feature movies, openings has been slower in recent years, partly due to the such as the streaming of live events, for example, opera and limited number and long lead time of new retail and leisure ballet and for corporate events.
Despite this, the Group has been successful in opening 16 new sites over the past two years in the The cinema industry continues to believe that the interests mature UK and Israel markets.
As the estate is generally of the film industry and the customer are generally best older in the mature markets, refurbishment of existing served by the existence of the cinematic window, the period cinemas, in particular in the UK, is vitally important and between the release of a film in a cinema and on any other accordingly six major refurbishments were completed in the platform.
There is no expectation that the current cinema UK during 2016 by the Group.
The opposite can be seen in window will significantly change in the near future.
developing markets such as Romania where the number of | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 9
