STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE u Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited Results and Dividends financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The results for the Group for the year ended 31 December The comparative period is the year ended 31 December 2015.
2016 are presented under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law.
Management Report However, the Company has elected to prepare its financial This Directors Report, together with the Strategic Report on statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, pages 1 to 32, form the Management Report for the purposes including the FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
8R of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
results for the year are set out in the Group Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss on page 82.
Information Contained Elsewhere in the Annual Report Information required to be part of this Directors Report An interim dividend of 5.2p per share was paid on 9 September and certain other information can be found elsewhere in 2016.
The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 13.8p the Annual Report as indicated in the table below, and is per share which, if approved by the shareholders at the Annual incorporated into this Report by reference: General Meeting AGM, will be paid on 22 June 2017 to shareholders on the register on 26 May 2017.
Information Location in Annual Report Audit Tendering Pages 51 to 52 Events Affecting the Company Since Year End On 7 February 2017 the Group disposed of its 100% interest in Corporate Governance Statement Pages 37 to 53 Picturehouse Entertainment Limited for 2.3m.
No significant Diversity, Human Rights and Pages 18 to 21 impact is expected on the Groups Statement of Profit or Loss OurPeople Resources and or Statement of Financial Position.
Relationships Directors Biographies Pages 33 to 36 Financial Risk Management The Board regularly reviews the financial requirements of Financial instruments: Note 21, Page 123 the Group and the risks associated therewith.
Full details Information on the Groups financial are set out at Note 21 to the financial statements, and are risk management objectives and incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
policies, and its exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk Funding and Liquidity and foreign currency risk The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity Going Concern Statement Page 38 position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 28 to 32.
In addition, Note 21 to Key Performance Indicators Pages 12 to 13 the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, An Indication of Likely Future Pages 1 to 32 policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial Developments in the Business Strategic Report risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments Affecting the Company and hedging activities, and its exposures to credit risk and Statement of Directors Page 78 liquidity risk.
Such sections are incorporated into this Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Report by reference.
Annual Report and Financial Statements International Operations and Branches At the year end, the Group had operations in the UK, Jersey, Viability Statement Page 38 Ireland, Poland, Israel, Hungary, Czech Republic, Bulgaria, Romania and Slovakia.
Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements in this Annual Report are forward-looking and so involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events, and depend upon circumstances, that will occur in the future.
Therefore, results and developments can differ materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forwardlooking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 73 GOVERNANCE u Directors Report continued Substantial Shareholdings At 31 December 2016, the Group had been notified, pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests in the voting rights of the Company.
Notifications confirming a partys interest has gone below the threshold notification level have not been included: % of total 1 Shareholder Voting rights voting rights Nature of holding 2 Global City Holdings N. V. 76,626,344 29.0 Direct 3 3 BlackRock, Inc. 18,383,284 6.91 Indirect Mawer Investment Management Ltd. 13,350,543 4.98 Direct Aviva plc 12,912,432 4.86 Direct and Indirect Royal London Asset Management Limited 10,578, 562 3.98 Direct 1 Percentages are stated as at the time of notification.
The total number of voting rights at 31 December 2016 was 267,581,189.
2 Shares are held by Global City Holdings N. V. GCH.
Shares in GCH are held in trust for the benefit of the children of Moshe Greidinger and Israel Greidinger Israel Greidingers entire interest in GCH was transferred to a trust for the benefit of his children on 6 September 2015 and Moshe Greidingers entire interest in GCH was transferred to a trust for the benefit of his children on 13 October 2016.
3 3,321,045 1.24% of this figure represents qualifying financial instruments and financial instruments with similar economic effect to qualifying financial instruments.
The following notifications were received in the period from regulation or ii if a person with an interest in 0.25% of the 1January 2017 up to the date of this report: issued share capital held in certificated form has been served with a disclosure notice and fails to respond with the required % of total Nature of 1 information concerning interests in that share capital, and iii Shareholder Voting rights voting rights holding in respect of shares issued as consideration in respect of the 3 2 BlackRock, Inc 17,496,138 6.53 Indirect Empire acquisition which are subject to a lock-up of 12 months Aviva plc 7,853,267 2.94 Direct and from 12 August 2016.
Indirect No ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard 1 Percentages are stated as at the time of notification and show the latest to control of the Company.
Except as set out in the Major notification details.
Shareholder Voting Arrangements or Share Capital and 2 4,127,267 1.53% of this figure represents qualifying financial instruments Control sections above, there are no restrictions on voting and financial instruments with similar economic effect to qualifying financial instruments.
rights attaching to the ordinary shares and the Company is not aware of any known agreements between shareholders Major Shareholder Voting Arrangements that restrict the transfer of voting rights attached to ordinary Global City Holdings N. V. GCH is interested in aggregate shares.
No treasury shares are held by the Company and no in 29% of the rights to vote at general meetings of the shares are held by any trustee in connection with any Share Company.
The Company and GCH entered into a relationship Scheme operated by the Group.
agreement dated 10 January 2014 to regulate the relationship between them.
Under the relationship agreement, the parties Articles of Association acknowledge that the Group is capable of carrying on The Companys Articles of Association Articles, together business independently, and that all arrangements between with English law, define the Boards powers.
Changes to the the Company and GCH will be on arms length terms.
The Articles must be approved by shareholders in accordance with restriction on the disposal of ordinary shares in the Company the Articles themselves and legislation in force at the relevant by GCH has now expired, but there is a requirement where time.
reasonably practical to consult with and consider the reasonable views of the Chairman or Senior Independent Change of Control Director of the Company prior to a disposal of ordinary shares There are no significant agreements which take effect, alter or in the Company.
terminate in the event of a change of control of the Company except that under its current banking arrangements a change Share Capital and Control of control may trigger a right for lenders to require early The Company has only one class of share capital formed of repayment of all sums outstanding.
All shares forming part of the ordinary share capital have the same rights and each carries one vote.
Details No Director or employee is contractually entitled to of the share capital, and changes in it over the year, are shown compensation for loss of office or employment as a result of a in Note 20 to the financial statements.
change in control: however, provisions in the Companys share schemes may cause options or awards granted to employees The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive to vest on a change of control.
Company reports and accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to Issue of New Shares and Authority to Purchase Shares exercise voting rights.
At the AGM held on 19 May 2016, shareholders gave authority for the allotment of shares up to an aggregate nominal value There are no restrictions on transfers of, or limitations on the of 884,100 subject to certain conditions.
This authority will holding of, ordinary shares and there is also no requirement of expire at the 2017 AGM of the Company or on 18 August 2017, any prior approval of any transfers other than i those which whichever is earlier.
may be applicable from time to time under existing laws or | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 74 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE u Between 1 January 2016 and 31 December 2016, a total of The Board proposes to seek shareholder approval at the 2,348,868 shares were issued.
Further details of the 2,348,868 AGM to renew both the Companys authority to issue new ordinary shares issued in the period in this respect including shares and its authority to purchase its own ordinary shares in relation to the acquisition of 5 Empire cinemas are set out in for cancellation or placing in treasury.
Details of the proposed Note 20 and Note 15 to the financial statements.
resolutions are set out in the Notice of AGM the AGM circular dispatched or made available to shareholders with At the AGM held on 19 May 2016, shareholders gave authority the Annual Report and Accounts or on notification of its for the purchase of up to 26,520,000 ordinary shares in the availability.
Company for cancellation or placing into treasury.
No shares have been acquired under this authority.
Directors Interests Ordinary shares held by companies in which a Director has a beneficial interest Ordinary shares held directly or is connected 31 December 31 December Director 2015 31 December 2016 2015 31 December 2016 1 1 Anthony Bloom 2,208,006 2,208,006 2 2 Israel Greidinger 76,626,344 76,626,344 2 2 Moshe Greidinger 76,626,344 76,626,344 3 3 Martina King 2,563 2,563 Alicja Kornasiewicz Scott Rosenblum 10,377 16,877 Arni Samuelsson Rick Senat 53,874 53,874 Julie Southern 1 Shares are held by a nominee for a Jersey-based discretionary trust, of which Mr Bloom is one of the potential beneficiaries.
3 Martina King stepped down from the Board on 11 January 2017.
The Directors who held office at the end of the financial year Following the Board evaluation process undertaken in had interests in the ordinary shares of the Company at the 2016, the Board is satisfied that each Director standing for beginning and end of the year under review as set out above.
re-election or election continues to show the necessary commitment and to be an effective member of the Board due Details of the interests in the ordinary shares of the Company to their skills, expertise and business acumen.
arising under the Groups Share and Option Schemes are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 68 and 69.
Under the terms of the relationship agreement between No rights to subscribe for shares in or debentures of other the Company and GCH described further in the Major Group companies were granted to any of the Directors or Shareholder Voting Arrangements section above, GCH their immediate families, or exercised by them, during the has the right to appoint one Non-Executive Director but year.
None of the Directors had any disclosable interest in the only if none of Moshe Greidinger, Israel Greidinger and shares of Group companies other than the Company and there Scott Rosenblum are on the Board for so long as it holds have been no changes to Directors share interests between 31 atleast10% of the voting rights in the Company.
December 2016 and the date of this report.
Details of the Directors remuneration, and information on their Appointment and Replacement of Directors service contracts, are set out in the Directors Remuneration The Companys Articles of Association Articles set out Report on pages 54 to 72. the rules governing the appointment and replacement of Directors.
Under the Articles, one-third of the Directors Conflicts of Interest must retire by rotation at the AGM and, being eligible, offer The Articles permit the Board to consider and, if it sees fit, themselves for re-election each year.
A Director excluding to authorise situations where a Director has an interest that as Chairman of the Board must retire and will be counted in conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the the one-third to retire if he was last appointed or reappointed Company.
There is in place a formal system for the Board to three years or more prior to the AGM or has served more consider authorising such conflicts whereby the Directors who than eight years as a Non-Executive Director.
In addition have no interest in the matter decide whether to authorise any Director appointed during the year must stand for the conflict.
In deciding whether to authorise the conflict, election as well.
In accordance with best practice, however, the non-conflicted Directors are required to act in the way all the Directors are retiring and are offering themselves for which they consider would be most likely to promote the re-election or election this year at the AGM.
success of the Company for the benefit of all shareholders and they may, and do, impose conditions to be attached to such authorisations.
The Board believes that the arrangements for reporting and considering such conflicts operate effectively.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 75 GOVERNANCE u Directors Report continued Directors Interests in Contracts the future success of the Group and employee development is The Group has a number of property lease agreements encouraged through appropriate training.
The Group supports in place with Global City Holdings N. V. GCH and or its individuals who wish to obtain appropriate further education subsidiary undertakings.
Further details of the amounts qualifications and reimburses tuition fees up to a specified paid under these agreements can be found in Note 24 to level.
Shares in GCH are held in trust for the benefit of the children of Moshe Greidinger and Israel Regular and open communication between management and Greidinger.
employees is essential for motivating the workforce.
Briefings are held regularly to provide updates on the Groups business None of the Directors has a material interest in any contract of and to provide opportunity for questions and feedback.
The significance to which the Company or a subsidiary was a party Company also maintains both an internet website which is during the financial year, other than as disclosed above, in their freely accessible and an intranet site accessible to all head service contracts or letters of appointment described in the office employees and at all cinemas in the UK.
Directors Remuneration Report and in Note 24 to the financial statements, Related Parties.
The Group encourages the involvement of employees in its performance through the operation of a Sharesave Scheme in Directors and Officers Insurance and Indemnity the UK and bonus schemes throughout the Group.
The Company maintains insurance cover for all Directors and Officers of Group companies against liabilities which may be Environmental Matters and Greenhouse Gas Emissions incurred by them whilst acting as Directors and Officers.
Information on the Groups environmental policies are summarised in the Resources and Relationships section on As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under pages 18 to 21.
This section provides the greenhouse gas which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors GHG emission data and supporting information required as permitted by law and by the Articles against liabilities they by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors may incur in the execution of their duties as Directors of the Report Regulations 2013.
Organisational Boundary Political Donations The organisational boundary used for the Companys GHG The Groups policy, which it has followed, is to make no reporting is operational control.
Reporting Scope Employees The Company is reporting on emissions covered by scopes The policy is to recruit, employ and develop staff on the 1 and 2 comprising electricity, gas, and fugitive F-gas basis of the suitability of their qualifications and experience, emissions from global operations.
regardless of sex, marital status, race, nationality, age, sexual orientation or religion.
It is Company policy to give full and fair As well as scope 1 and 2 emissions figures, additional outside consideration to applications for employment from disabled of scope emissions are included for owned transport to people, having regard to their particular abilities and aptitudes.
Scope 3 well-to-tank for all Full consideration is given to continuing the employment of fuels and transmission and distribution from electricity staff who become disabled, including considering them for emissions are also included.
other reasonable positions and arranging appropriate training.
Emissions Included The health, welfare and development of the Groups Mandatory emissions sources as specified by the employees remain a priority.
With the intent of attracting, Environmental Reporting Guidelines published by the recruiting, developing and retaining key employees, Cineworld Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Defra maintains a number of policies and procedures for the benefit have been included in this report see also Estimates and of its employees, which can be accessed by employees via the Exclusions below.
Human Resources department and in the UK via the Human Resources manual on the Companys intranet.
Continuing Table 1 shows Defras stated mandatory areas for reporting education, training and development are important to ensure and how the stated categories apply to the Group.
Table 1: Reporting Requirements Ref Defra requirement Relevance A1 Fuel combustion stationary Natural gas heating A2 Fuel combustion mobile Owned transport fleet B Facility operation: process emissions N A B Facility operation: fugitive emissions F-gases: refrigeration and air conditioning C Purchased electricity, heat, steam, cooling Electricity only GHG Emissions Data The GHG emissions for the Group for the calendar year to 31 December 2016 are shown in Table 2 below in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent tCO e. 2 | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 76 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE u Table 2: 2016 GHG Emissions Ref Category tCO e 2015 tCO e 2016 2 2 A1 Fuel combustion stationary 18,330 22,855 A2 Fuel combustion mobile 922 1,150 B Facility operation 3,242 1,849 C Purchased electricity 132,798 132,181 Total 155,292 158,035 Our facility operation emissions are entirely made up of refrigerant gas emissions from our air conditioning units.
Changes in these emission levels are primarily driven by our maintenance regimes.
The more servicing and replacement of air conditioning units is undertaken in a particular year, the higher this figure is.
Therefore, from a carbon management perspective, minimal significance should be placed on fluctuations to this figure, which represents 1% of total emissions.
Estimates and Exclusions Auditor and Tender A minimal amount of estimated data was used for electricity Following the audit tender process in 2016, KPMG LLP was and gas emissions for some UK meters for December 2016. reappointed as External Auditor.
The Company will continue This affects under 0.1% of total emissions.
to comply with the relevant tendering and auditor rotation requirements applicable under UK and EU regulations.
Further Data on fugitive emissions from ROW jurisdictions other details of the tender process may be found in the Audit than Czech Republic and Poland were not available and are Committee Report.
excluded from the emissions figures given above.
Also, Polish gas data was captured in local currency and converted into Disclosure of Information to Auditor kWh.
This affects less than 4% of total group emissions.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, Emissions Intensity there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys The chosen carbon intensity measure is financial turnover.
This auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all steps that was chosen due to ready availability of the data.
The value for he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware the year was 198.1 tonnes CO e per m turnover.
of any relevant audit information, and to establish that the 2 Companys auditor is aware of that information.
For comparison, 2015s emissions were 155,292 tonnes CO e at 2 an intensity of 220.0 tonnes CO e per m turnover.
By order of the Board 2 Methodology and Emissions Factors F Smith This report was calculated using the methodology set out Company Secretary in Defras updated greenhouse gas reporting guidance, Cineworld Group plc Environmental Reporting Guidelines ref.
Emissions factors are taken from DECC Defra 2015 update.
Registered Office: 8th Floor Emissions factors for fuels use scope 3 well-to-tank upstream Vantage London additions to account for emissions from sourcing and Great West Road processing fuel.
Owned transport emissions include outsideBrentford of-scope additions for biogenic additions.
Electricity emissions TW8 9AG include transmission and distribution losses.
Registered: England No: 5212407 Annual General Meeting The Notice convening the AGM, to be held at the Cineworld Cinema in Wandsworth, Southside Shopping Centre, Wandsworth High Street, London SW18 4TF at 10.30am on 18 May 2017 is contained in the AGM circular.
Details of all the resolutions to be proposed are set out in the AGM circular.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 77 GOVERNANCE u Statement of Directors Responsibilities In respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Responsibility statement of the directors in respect of the and the Group and Parent Company financial statements in annual financial report accordance with applicable law and regulations.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair Parent Company financial statements for each financial view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by consolidation taken as a whole: and the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the the directors report includes a fair review of the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK development and performance of the business and the Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the Framework.
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Under Company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give We consider the annual report and accounts, taken as a a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial position and performance, business model and strategy.
statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Moshe Greidinger consistently: Chief Executive Office make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and 9 March 2017 prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 78
