STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE u New Long Term Incentive Plan Remuneration Policy We will be putting a separate AGM resolution to shareholders Policy Effective Date to approve the rules of a new LTI plan to replace the This section describes the Committees Policy on the current 2007 PSP which expires on 22 April 2017.
The plan remuneration of Directors.
The Policy will be put to is proposed to be in the form of an omnibus plan in order shareholders for approval at the AGM in May 2017 and will to give the Company flexibility to make different kinds of come into effect from the date of the AGM.
The Committee award e. g. conditional shares, phantom shares and cash intends that this Policy will remain in effect for a period of awards in order to address legislation tax issues which three years unless there are changes requiring shareholder have been encountered in some jurisdictions in which the approval.
Following approval at the AGM, remuneration Group operates.
Note that awards to Executive Directors payments and payment for loss of office to Directors can only will continue to be determined by the shareholder-approved be made if they are consistent with this Policy or otherwise Remuneration Policy and we are making no substantial approved by an ordinary resolution of the shareholders.
changes in our approach to LTI awards at this level.
Current Policy on Remuneration Summary The objective of the Groups Remuneration Policy is that The Committee has carefully considered our remuneration Executive Directors should receive appropriate remuneration arrangements and we believe that they currently work well, for their performance, responsibility, skills and experience.
so the changes we are proposing are relatively minor.
We Remuneration packages are designed to enable the Group believe that the new Remuneration Policy and the new longto attract and retain key employees by ensuring they are term incentive plan are in the best interests of the business remunerated appropriately and competitively and that and will support the continued successful delivery of our they are motivated to achieve the highest level of Group strategy over the coming years.
We hope you will support performance in line with the best interests of shareholders.
the relevant resolutions at our 2017 AGM.
This is balanced with the need to mitigate risk and accordingly incentives are structured to ensure that no Director is The Remuneration Report encouraged to take inappropriate risks because of the level of Regarding the full report on our activities below, you will potential variable rewards.
see that there are two other sections.
The first part, the Directors Remuneration Policy on pages 55 to 63, sets To determine the elements and level of remuneration out our proposed Remuneration Policy, which is being appropriate for each Executive Director, the Committee put to the vote at this years AGM.
The second part, the considers, when appropriate, benchmark remuneration data Annual Report on Remuneration, describes how the for selected comparable companies and seeks to ensure Committee implemented the 2014 Policy with regard to the that an appropriately significant proportion of potential pay remuneration of Directors in 2016. is performance-related and that total pay opportunity is consistent with appropriate superior levels of pay for superior The Committee has always aimed to be clear and transparent performance.
in matters of remuneration and we hope that this report continues this approach and is easy to understand and The policy of the Committee is to set performance conditions informative.
for annual bonuses and long-term incentives which are appropriately stretching but fair given the environment in which the Group operates, taking into account internal and Dean Moore external expectations.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 1 Shares are held by Global City Holdings N. V. GCH.
Shares in GCH are While the Boards normal practice is to operate within held in trust for the benefit of the children of Moshe Greidinger and Israel Greidinger.
the above parameters, it will take account of individual circumstances and tailor remuneration packages accordingly.
In cases of material variance, it would seek to take account of major shareholders views.
Executive Directors remuneration currently comprises an annual salary, a performance-related bonus, a share based long-term incentive scheme, pension contributions and other benefits as explained below.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 55 GOVERNANCE u Directors Remuneration Report continued The table summarises the Policy for each element of pay: Element and Link to Strategy Maximum Operation Basic Salary To provide a core level of Salaries may be adjusted and Executive Directors salary levels are agreed on joining and remuneration to enable the any increase will ordinarily be thereafter reviewed annually, generally on 1 July each year.
Company to attract and retain in percentage terms in line skilled, high-calibre executives with those across the Group, The Committee considers both the nature and the status to deliver its strategy.
in aggregate, allowing for of the Companys operations and the responsibilities, skills, location.
experience and performance of each Executive Director.
The Committee compares the Groups remuneration Percentage increases beyond packages for its Executive Directors and employees with those granted to the wider those of Directors and employees of similar seniority workforce may be awarded in companies whose activities are comparable with the in certain circumstances such Group.
The Committee also takes into account the progress as where there is a change made by the Group, contractual considerations and salary in responsibility, progression increases across the rest of the Group.
in the role, experience or a significant increase in the scale of the role and or size value and or complexity of the Group.
Pension To provide marketMonthly employer All employees, including Executive Directors, are invited competitive retirement contribution up to 20% of to participate in a Group Personal Pension Plan which is a benefits.
basic salary or in the form of a money purchase plan.
Executive Directors may choose to opt out of the Group scheme and instead receive a cash pension allowance equivalent to employer pension contribution i. e. currently up to 20% of base salary.
The Companys pension contribution may be conditional on the Executive Director contributing a percentage of their base salary to the pension scheme in line with general scheme requirements.
Executives may make pension contributions under salary sacrifice arrangements.
Savings as a result of such an arrangement may be shared with the Executive Director in the form of an additional pension contribution.
Other Benefits To provide marketThe cost to the Group of Benefits in kind for Executive Directors currently include competitive benefits and providing such benefits will the provision of a company car or car allowance, private support the health and safety vary from year to year in mileage, life insurance, permanent health insurance, private of individuals.
accordance with the cost of medical cover and, for the Chief Executive Officer and insuring such benefits.
Deputy Chief Executive Officer, a disturbance allowance.
Benefits are tailored to the individual circumstances of Directors to ensure that overall packages are attractive and additional benefits may be introduced where appropriate.
A limited flexible benefits scheme operates for all employees including Directors and the intention is to expand it over a period of time.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 56 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE u Element and Link to Strategy Maximum Operation Annual Bonus To incentivise the annual Maximum opportunity for The level of bonus is based primarily on overall Group delivery of financial and Executive Directors of 100% performance in meeting its primary financial objectives operational targets.
in EBITDA for the financial period.
The level of bonus is determined by a matrix of budgeted EBITDA and personal performance levels.
The weighting of measures is circa 80% budgeted EBITDA and 20% personal performance.
The Committee seeks to ensure that the budget is challenging and so there is a clear link between the short-term Group performance and payout under the arrangements.
No bonus is payable if a minimum threshold of 90% of budgeted EBITDA is not achieved.
At this level assuming good performance against individual objectives, a bonus of 30% of maximum opportunity would be payable.
The maximum bonus level is only payable if both 110% of budgeted EBITDA and exceptional performance against individual objectives is achieved.
The personal element is determined by the achievement of individual strategic objectives, which vary year from year to ensure that objectives are aligned with the business plan.
The choice of these measures reflects the Committees belief that any incentive compensation should be tied both to the overall performance of the Group and to those areas of the business that the relevant individual can directly influence.
The performance measures and targets are reviewed annually to ensure alignment to strategy.
Bonuses are paid in cash following the approval of the Group Annual Report.
Where a Director leaves and is considered a good leaver, he she will be paid on the usual payment date a proportion of any bonus entitlement, which would have otherwise accrued, reflecting that part of the bonus period which was actually worked.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 57 GOVERNANCE u Directors Remuneration Report continued Element and Link to Strategy Maximum Operation Performance Share Awards To encourage sustainable The maximum award to an Annual awards of conditional shares or nil cost options are profitability over a period of individual in any year under made to Executive Directors and members of the Senior time aligned to the overall the rules of the subsisting Management Team at the discretion of the Committee.
objective of achieving share schemes is 200% of From the AGM in 2017, awards will be made under The sustainable growth.
Cineworld Group plc 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan, subject to shareholder approval of the plan.
Prior to this, awards However, the Remuneration were made under The Cineworld Group Performance Share Committee does not currently Plan PSP.
intend that awards to Executive Directors should Awards may vest after three years, subject to continuing exceed 150% of their base employment and the achievement of stretching three-year salary.
EPS growth performance conditions which are aligned with the Groups strategy of delivering long-term growth.
If it is considering changing this approach, it will consult The Committee will review and calibrate the EPS growth with key shareholders before targets on an annual basis for each award to ensure they doing so.
are sufficiently stretching in light of both internal and external performance expectations.
Threshold performance is generally intended to align to the performance of the relevant market and or of competitors.
If the stretch performance level is achieved, we would expect to have significantly outperformed the relevant market and or our competitors.
At the threshold performance level, 25% of an award will vest.
At the stretch level of performance, 100% of an award will vest.
Between these levels, vesting will be determined on a straight-line basis.
On vesting, participants will also receive additional shares or a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid on the vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring between grant and vesting.
At the discretion of the Committee, each participant may have a proportional part of their Performance Share award replaced by an HMRC approved share option granted under the CSOP schedule to The Cineworld Group plc 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan CSOP Plan, up to the maximum value of options permitted by legislation currently 30,000.
Such awards are subject to identical performance vesting conditions as the Performance Shares they replace.
The conditions applicable to awards may be varied in exceptional circumstances following the grant of an award so as to achieve their original purpose, but not so as to make their achievement any more or less difficult to satisfy.
Awards may also be adjusted to reflect corporate events, such as rights issues, to maintain a holders position, but not so as to enhance it.
It is the Committees intention to settle awards in shares, but the plan rules allow for flexibility to settle in cash if required.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 58 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE u Element and Link to Strategy Maximum Operation The Cineworld Group Sharesave Scheme To enable Group employees The maximum saving level Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the to become Cineworld is aligned with that for all Sharesave Scheme, which is an HM Revenue and Customsshareholders, encouraging employees and the limit under approved scheme open to all employees of nominated alignment and rewarding for legislation currently 500 Group companies.
Under the Sharesave Scheme, employees are eligible to acquire shares in the Company at a discount of up to 20% of the market value at grant if they agree to enter into a savings contract for a three-year period.
Consistent with the relevant legislation, no performance conditions apply.
This Policy also provides the ability for Executive Directors to participate in any other all-employee plan which may be introduced in future up to the limits which apply to other employees.
Share Ownership Guidelines To provide alignment N A Each Executive Director is expected to build up, over a between Executive Directors period of time, a holding in shares equal to 150% of their and shareholders.
In order to achieve this level of shareholding, Executive Directors are expected to retain 50% of any shares they acquire under the PSP or on the exercise of options, after allowing for the sale of shares to pay tax and other deductions, until such time as they have built up such a holding.
For the purposes of these guidelines, only beneficially owned shares will generally count towards the holding however, the Remuneration Committee retains discretion to determine whether the requirement has been met in specific circumstances.
Clawback and Malus In these circumstances, the Committee may make reductions The Remuneration Committee reserves the discretion to up to the value of the Excessive Award to other Awards apply malus by reducing or withholding annual bonus held by the Award Holder in question which would otherwise payments from the formulaic outcome based on EBITDA vest under the LTIP including cash awards and or require performance for example, in the event of misconduct or the Award holder in question to pay an amount equal to the misstatement of financial results.
Following payment, the value of the Excessive Award which has not otherwise been Committee will retain the discretion to claw back bonuses in recovered after taking into account any income tax and the case of misconduct or misstatement of financial results.
social security paid by the Award holder in relation to the Excessive Award.
The rules of the Cineworld Group PLC 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan include claw-back provisions that will apply Satisfaction of Share Options and Share Awards to Awards granted to Executive Directors and may, if the Awards under the Cineworld Group PLC 2017 Long Term Committee determines, apply to any other Award other than Incentive Plan subject to shareholder approval of the plan, an option granted pursuant to the CSOP Plan.
The provisions the PSP, the Sharesave Scheme and the CSOP adopted apply where it is discovered within two years of the vesting by the Company in 2010 2010 CSOP can be satisfied of an Award that there has been a material misstatement in using new issue shares, shares held in treasury or shares the financial results of the Company and or an act of gross purchased in the market in conjunction with the Cineworld misconduct on the part of the Award Holder that takes Group Employee Benefit Trust the Trust, established by place before the vesting date of the Award but only comes to the Company on 24 March 2006 with independent trustees light after the Award vests and such misstatement or gross based in Jersey.
misconduct has resulted in an Award vesting to a greater extent than it otherwise should have done Excessive Award.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 59 GOVERNANCE u Directors Remuneration Report continued If new issue shares are used, the following limits will be followed: In any ten-year period, the number of shares which may be issued under the Cineworld Group PLC 2017 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the PSP and under any other executive share or option scheme established by the Company, and operated on a discretionary basis, may not exceed 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company from time to time.
In any ten-year period, the number of shares which may be issued under any employees share or option scheme established by the Company may not exceed 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company from time to time.
Resulting Total Pay Levels Under Different Scenarios The chart below illustrates how the potential future compensation of the Executive Directors may vary at different levels of performance and the percentage each element may form together with the possible total value.
For the purpose of this chart, the following assumptions have been made: The base salary levels are those in effect as at 1 January 2017 or on appointment for the CFO.
Bonus opportunity and Performance Share award levels are as set out in the Policy Table above.
Fixed elements comprise base salary, pension and other benefits.
Benefits levels are assumed to be the same as in 2016 for the CEO and Deputy CEO, and estimated for the CFO.
For target performance, assumptions of bonus payout of 67% of maximum and threshold vesting 25% for Performance Shares have been made.
No share price increase has been assumed.
2.5m 2,169,923 39% 2.0m 1,499,360 1.5m 1,347,788 38% 16% 26% 28% 1.0m 938,813 15% 760,548 26% 679,757 27% 100% 56% 35% 538,422 497,057 26% 0.5m 9% 100% 57% 36% 349,157 21% 23% 100% 70% 51% 0m Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum CEO Deputy CEO CFO Fixed Elements Short-Term Variable Element Long-Term Variable Element Recruitment Remuneration Policy New Executive Directors will generally be appointed on remuneration packages with the same structure and elements as described in the Policy Table above.
On appointment, base salary level will be set taking into account a range of factors including market levels, experience, internal relativities and cost.
Annual bonus opportunity will be no greater than 100% of salary and the maximum performance share award will be 150% of salary.
For external appointments, although we have no plans to offer additional benefits, cash and or share-based elements on recruitment, the Committee reserves the right to do so when it considers this to be in the best interests of the Company and shareholders.
Such payments will take account of remuneration relinquished when leaving the former employer and, to the extent possible, would reflect the nature, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to that remuneration.
If it is necessary in the circumstances, the Committee reserves the right to offer a longer initial notice period than one year.
In such a circumstance, this would reduce to a notice period of at most 12 months.
Shareholders will be informed of any Director appointment and the individuals remuneration arrangements as soon as practicable following the appointment via an announcement to the regulatory news services and on the Groups website.
For an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment.
In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may continue.
Service Contracts The Groups policy in entering into service contracts with Executive Directors is to enable the recruitment of high-quality executives and to obtain protection from their sudden departure, whether or not to competitor companies.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 60 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE u In addition, service contracts are an important element in maintaining protection for the Groups business and its commercially sensitive information.
A summary of the key terms of the Executive Directors service contracts is set out below: Moshe Greidinger Israel Greidinger Nisan Cohen Effective Date of Contract 27 February 2014 27 February 2014 11 January 2017 1 Notice Period 12 months 6 months 6 months Remuneration Base salary Base salary Base salary Pension contribution Pension contribution Pension contribution Company car or car Company car or car Company car or car allowance allowance allowance Entitlement to participate in Entitlement to participate in Entitlement to participate in annual bonus scheme annual bonus scheme annual bonus scheme Disturbance allowance Disturbance allowance Life assurance cover Life assurance cover Life assurance cover Medical insurance Medical insurance Medical insurance Permanent health insurance P ermanent health insurance Permanent health insurance Termination Company has right to Company has right to Company has right to terminate on payment on preterminate on payment on preterminate on payment on preagreed basis agreed basis agreed basis Non-Competition During employment and for During employment and for During employment and for 12months thereafter 6months thereafter 6months thereafter 1 The Groups policy is to have notice periods for Executive Directors which are between 6 and 12 months.
The Executive Directors are, under the terms of their service A.
Under the Cineworld Group PLC 2017 Long Term contracts, entitled to an annual review of their base salary Incentive Plan: each year.
An award will normally lapse upon a participant leaving the employment of the Group unless the participant is a good Loss of Office Policy leaver including death, injury, ill-health or disability and The Companys policy is to endeavour to minimise any redundancy or the Remuneration Committee in its absolute payment on early termination by insisting on mitigation of discretion otherwise determines.
Any such discretion would any loss where possible.
To allow the Company to terminate only be applied by the Committee where it considers that an Executive Directors employment contract legally so it continued participation is justified by reference to past would not face a claim for wrongful termination although a performance to the date of leaving or because of the claim for unfair dismissal could still exist, its policy is to preprevailing circumstances.
In such cases, the award would agree arrangements which would apply on termination.
Only generally become exercisable on the original vesting date the Company has the right to trigger such arrangements and on a reduced basis taking into account only that part of it has complete discretion as to whether it does.
the three-year performance period which has elapsed and subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions Under the terms of their contracts, the Company may, in lieu unless the Remuneration Committee determines other of giving notice, terminate an Executive Directors service arrangements are justified.
In the case of death, options will contract by making a payment equivalent to 100% of base remain exercisable for a period of 12 months following the salary and contractual benefits for the notice period.
Options that have already vested before an event, the Executive Director would not be entitled to any Award holder ceases to be employed by the Company or by bonus for the unworked portion of his notice period, but one of its subsidiaries but which has not yet been exercised would be eligible for a pro rata bonus for the period up to the at the time that the Award holder ceases to be so employed date of the termination of his contract.
for whatever reason, will remain capable of exercise in accordance with the rules of the LTIP.
Where an Executive Director works their notice, pension, benefits and bonus will continue to accrue as normal up until In the event of a change of control, scheme of arrangement the date of the termination.
Any bonus entitlement will be or winding-up of the Company all awards will vest to the paid as normal on a pro-rated basis.
extent that any performance targets have, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, been satisfied at that time, Leaving arrangements under the Share and Share Option on a reduced basis taking into account only that part of the Schemes vary: three-year performance period which has elapsed unless the Remuneration Committee in its absolute discretion otherwise determines.
Alternatively, with the agreement of the acquiring company, the participants may exchange their awards for equivalent options to acquire shares in the acquiring company or its parent company.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 61 GOVERNANCE u Directors Remuneration Report continued B.
Under the PSP: the Remuneration Committee, been satisfied at that time, An award will normally lapse upon a participant leaving the on a reduced basis taking into account only that part of the employment of the Group due to resignation or for cause.
three-year performance period which has elapsed unless the If a participant leaves employment for any other reason, the Remuneration Committee in its absolute discretion otherwise award would generally become exercisable on the original determines.
Such options become exercisable for a limited vesting date on a reduced basis taking into account only that period of time.
Alternatively, in the case of a takeover, with part of the three-year performance period which has elapsed the agreement of the acquiring company, the participants and subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions may exchange their options for equivalent options to acquire unless the Remuneration Committee determines other shares in the acquiring company or its parent company.
In the event of a change of control, scheme of arrangement In the event of a change of control, scheme of arrangement or winding-up of the Company all options will vest to the or winding-up of the Company all awards will vest to the extent that any performance targets have, in the opinion of extent that any performance targets have, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, been satisfied at that time, the Remuneration Committee, been satisfied at that time, on a reduced basis taking into account only that part of the on a reduced basis taking into account only that part of the three-year performance period which has elapsed unless the three-year performance period which has elapsed unless the Remuneration Committee in its absolute discretion otherwise Remuneration Committee in its absolute discretion otherwise determines.
Such options become exercisable for a limited determines.
An award, to the extent it becomes exercisable, period of time.
Alternatively, in the case of a takeover, with may be exercised during the period of one month after which, the agreement of the acquiring company, the participants to the extent unexercised, the award will lapse.
Alternatively, may exchange their options for equivalent options to acquire with the agreement of the acquiring company, the participants shares in the acquiring company or its parent company.
may exchange their awards for equivalent options to acquire shares in the acquiring company or its parent company.
D. Under the Sharesave Scheme: An option granted may normally not be exercised until the C. Under the CSOP: option holder has completed their savings contract and then An option will normally lapse upon a participant leaving the not more than six months thereafter.
However, if a participant employment of the Group.
However, if a participant leaves leaves the Group by reason of death, injury, ill health, the Group by reason of death, injury, ill health, disability, disability, redundancy, retirement on reaching 60 years or redundancy, retirement or any other reason as determined any other contractual retirement age, or if the company or by the Remuneration Committee or if the company or business for which he works ceases to be part of the Group, business for which he works ceases to be part of the Group, the option will become exercisable.
An option, to the extent then unless the Remuneration Committee in its absolute it becomes exercisable, may be exercised during the period discretion otherwise determines, his option will become of six months 12 months in the case of death after which, to exercisable on the original vesting date on a reduced the extent unexercised, the option will lapse automatically.
basis taking into account only that part of the three-year performance period which has elapsed.
An option, to the In the event of a change of control, scheme of arrangement extent it becomes exercisable, may be exercised during the and or a winding-up of the Company, options may be period of six months after which, to the extent unexercised, exercised for a limited period of time.
Alternatively, in the the option shall lapse automatically.
case of a takeover, with the agreement of the acquiring company, the participants may exchange their options In the event of a change of control, scheme of arrangement for equivalent options to acquire shares in the acquiring or winding-up of the Company all options will vest to the company or its parent company.
extent that any performance targets have, in the opinion of Director Date of appointment Notice period Anthony Bloom Chairman 7 October 2004 1 month Alicja Kornasiewicz 26 May 2015 1 month Dean Moore 11 January 2017 1 month Scott Rosenblum 27 February 2014 1 month Arni Samuelsson 27 February 2014 1 month Rick Senat 2 July 2010 1 month Julie Southern 26 May 2015 1 month | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 62 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE u Non-Executive Directors Where a Non-Executive Director does not serve until the end Letters of Appointment of his or her term, the policy is to pay the fees due pro rata to The dates of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors the date of cessation.
and their notice periods are as follows: Consideration of Employment Conditions Elsewhere in The Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, do theCompany not have service contracts with the Company.
The terms and When considering salary increases for the Executive conditions of their appointment as Non-Executive Directors Directors, the Committee takes into account average are set out in letters of appointment, which are subject to the levels of increase awarded to employees generally.
Salary provisions of the Articles of Association.
increases will normally be broadly in line with those for other employees.
It is the Boards policy that the appointment of each NonExecutive Director is terminable on a short notice unless The Committee does not formally consult employees their appointment is terminated by a resolution of the in relation to the Remuneration Policy for the Executive shareholders in general meeting or if they fail to be reDirectors.
However, the Company regularly carries out elected by shareholders in general meeting when it aims to engagement surveys which enable employees to share their ensure no notice is necessary.
The Companys policy is that Non-Executive Directors Consideration of Shareholder Views in Developing Policy receive a fixed fee for their services as members of the The Committee is grateful that shareholders have been Board and its Committees.
Non-Executive Directors supportive of its Policy in the past.
As appropriate, the do not participate in the Companys share incentives or Committee will continue to engage and communicate with otherwise receive performance-related pay but may receive shareholders regarding Cineworlds Remuneration Policy and reimbursement for travel and incidental costs incurred in take suitable action when required.
In reviewing this Policy, the Remuneration Committee The level of fees is determined by the Board after taking has taken into account feedback received from some into account appropriate advice except in the case of shareholders.
We have also consulted with major the Chairman whose level of fee is determined by the shareholders on the proposed changes from the Policy Remuneration Committee, in line with prevailing market introduced in 2014. conditions and at a level that will attract individuals with the necessary experience and ability to make a significant contribution to the Companys affairs.
No Director participates in discussions relating to the setting of his or her own remuneration.
Fee levels are reviewed on an annual basis.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 63 GOVERNANCE u Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration Remuneration Committee Advisers The Remuneration Committee and its Role The Committee once again received advice from Willis Towers For the duration of the year, the Companys Remuneration Watson during the year in relation to the Companys Policy Committee comprised three Non-Executive Directors, Martina and its implementation in respect of the Chairman, Executive King, Julie Southern and Rick Senat, who are all considered Directors, Company Secretary and Senior Management.
The Chair of the Committee was Martina Willis Towers Watson was appointed by the Remuneration King and the Secretary of the Committee was the Company Committee in November 2008 following a selection process Secretary.
On 11 January 2017, Non-Executive Director Dean involving a number of remuneration consultants.
Their terms Moore took over from Martina King as Chair of the Committee.
of engagement are available on request from the Company Dean Moore is considered by the Board to be independent.
They attended four scheduled meetings during the year at the request of the Committee.
Willis Towers The Remuneration Committees principal responsibilities are Watsons fees for advice to the Committee were 80,428 to: 2015: 37,159.
Willis Towers Watson is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily make recommendations to the Board for approval of the operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive Groups broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, remuneration consulting in the UK.
the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and the Companys Senior Management: Willis Towers Watson has no other connections with the determine the specific remuneration packages of the Company, except as the actuary to the pension scheme of Chairman, the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary Adelphi-Carlton Limited, the Groups operating company in and Senior Management: Ireland.
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the approve the terms of the service agreements of the advice provided on executive remuneration is objective and Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and Senior independent and that no conflict of interest arises as a result Management: and of these other services.
approve the design of, and determine the targets for, any performance-related pay schemes and long-term incentive The Committee also received assistance from the Chairman plans.
of the Company Anthony Bloom, the Chief Executive Officer Moshe Greidinger, the Deputy Chief Executive Officer Israel The full terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee Greidinger, Senior Vice President of Human Resources Tara are available on the Companys website www.
Rooney and the Company Secretary Fiona Smith, although com about-us corporate-governance.
The terms are they did not participate in discussions relating to the setting of reviewed annually.
The Committee also consulted with the Chief Executive Officer and received recommendations The Committee met for four scheduled meetings during from him in respect of changes to remuneration packages for theperiod and details of the members attendance record Senior Management.
In addition to its scheduled meetings, the Committee met a number of times ad hoc to deal with specific Board Changes in 2016 issues.
There were no Board changes in 2016.
On 11 January 2017, Martina King stepped down from the Board, and Nisan Cohen A summary of the Committees agenda over the period is and Dean Moore were appointed.
Nisan Cohen became detailed below: Chief Financial Officer and Dean Moore was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director.
reviewing the Chairmans fees and the salaries of the Executive Directors: setting the salary of the Company Secretary and reviewing the salaries of Senior Management: deciding the targets for the annual bonus scheme: making awards under the Performance Share Plan PSP and the 2010 CSOP, including consideration of target calibration and award levels: reviewing the 2016 AGM voting figures and considering the views of shareholders: reviewing the Remuneration Policy and the design of the Cineworld Group plc 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan: preparation of this report: and considering the remuneration arrangements across the Group.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 64 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE u Remuneration for 2016 This section covers the reporting period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 and provides details of the implementation of the Companys Policy during the period.
Those sections of the report which are subject to audit are marked as such.
Single Total Figure Table audited information The table below gives a single figure for the total remuneration for each Director for the period.
2 Under the ShareSave Scheme, employees are able to acquire shares in the Company at a discount of up to 20% of the market value at grant.
The figures in this table relate to the value of this discount at the date of grant.
3 The gain on PSP shares vesting in respect of the period has been calculated using a share price of 5.525, being the average price for the last three months of the period as PSP will not vest until 6 June 2017, and includes payment of a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid on the vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring between grant and vesting.
Currently, the dividend equivalent payment to Moshe Greidinger would amount to 101,604, the dividend equivalent payment to Israel Greidinger would amount to 69,276, and the dividend equivalent payment to Philip Bowcock would amount to 32,256.
4 Philip Bowcock left the Company on 31 October 2015, Stephen Wiener left the Company on 31 March 2014, Peter Williams left the Company on 26 May 2015, and David Maloney left the Company on 26 May 2015.
5 Details of the actual gain made are set out on page 71.
The actual figures set out in the table above differ from those included in the 2015 Annual Report figures as last year an estimated value of 5.58 a share was used to calculate the theoretical gain, as the awards had not yet vested.
The figures above reflect the share price of 5.10 on the date of vesting, 15 March 2016.
6 Philip Bowcock left the Company on 31 October 2015 and this figure includes two months salary paid in lieu of notice amounting to 62,500.
7 Philip Bowcock left the Company on 31 October 2015 and this figure includes two months benefits paid in lieu of notice amounting to 3,066.
8 Philip Bowcock left the Company on 31 October 2015 and this figure includes two months pensions allowance paid in lieu of notice amounting to 12,500.
9 Figure includes a payment of 5,800 to Rick Senat for the portion of 2015 for which he served as Senior Independent Director.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 65 GOVERNANCE u Directors Remuneration Report continued Base Salary audited information The base salaries of the Executive Directors are usually reviewed on an annual basis.
As described in the Policy, the Committee compares the Groups remuneration packages for its Executive Directors and employees with those for Directors and employees of similar seniority in companies whose activities are broadly comparable with the Group.
It also takes into account the progress made by the Group, contractual considerations and salary increases across the rest of the Group.
The salaries of the CEO and Deputy CEO were increased by 2.5% with effect from 1 July 2016.
Average salaries across the Group were increased 2.5%.
Salary levels as at the end of the financial period were: 1 Moshe Greidinger: 563,750 p. a.
1 Part of Moshe Greidingers and Israel Greidingers salaries are paid in Israel to enable social security and government healthcare deductions to be made.
Pension audited information Executive Directors are invited to participate in a Group Personal Pension Plan, which is a money purchase plan, or alternatively may receive a pension allowance in cash.
The Company contribution to this pension scheme for the Chief Executive Officer and the Deputy Chief Executive Officer is 20% of salary.
The Executive Directors have elected not to participate in this scheme and instead receive a cash pension allowance of 20% of salary.
Company pension contributions allowances for the period were: 000 Moshe Greidinger: 91 Israel Greidinger: 60 Other Benefits audited information Benefits in kind for Executive Directors comprised the provision of a company car or car allowance, private mileage, life insurance, permanent health insurance, and private medical cover.
Israel Moshe Benefit Greidinger Greidinger Car car allowance 14,000 14,000 Permanent health insurance private medical 1,676 1,676 Life assurance 21,496 28,372 Disturbance allowance 40,000 40,000 Israel Greidinger and Moshe Greidinger both received a Disturbance Allowance of 40,000 for the period as, under the terms of their employment contracts, they are required to spend a sufficient and proportionate amount of time at the Companys head office in Brentford, Greater London.
Annual Bonus audited information Annual bonus opportunity for the Executive Directors in the year was a maximum of 100% of base salary.
As described in the Policy section, the annual bonus for the year was determined by a matrix of EBITDA compared to budget, and the achievement of specified individual objectives.
The choice of these measures reflect the Committees belief that any incentive compensation should be tied both to the overall performance of the Group and to those areas of the business that the relevant individual can directly influence.
The weighting between the Groups financial performance and personal performance was 80%:20%.
The Committee retains the absolute discretion to apply malus by reducing or withholding annual bonus payments from the formulaic outcome based on EBITDA performance for example, in the event of misconduct or misstatement of financial results.
The individual performance element for the CEO and the Deputy CEO for 2016 focused on the strategic growth agenda of the Group.
Emphasis was placed on successful openings of new cinemas on time and on budget, and the subsequent management of those new sites from an operational point of view.
Other factors considered in assessing performance included the identification and development of acquisition targets, successfully delivering results from the Groups renovation programme, the effectiveness of steps taken to improve the customer experience, the introduction of the latest technology, and the implementation of the Groups IT strategy.
The Committee judged the individual objectives to have been achieved at the top level out of five for both the CEO and the Deputy CEO.
In making this assessment, the Committee considered a number of factors including the continued profitable growth of the Company, the eight new sites that were opened during 2016, as well the acquisition of five Empire sites in August.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 66 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE u Positive factors that were also considered included nine major refurbishments which were completed during the year, the introduction of the latest technology which saw the Group end 2016 with 27 4DX screens, 33 IMAX screens and 6 Superscreens, and the progress made in implementing the Groups IT roadmap.
The table below shows the EBITDA targets and performance achieved against them in 2016.
Individual Threshold bonus Maximum bonus objective opportunity opportunity Bonus paid Bonus paid Bonus paid EBITDA performance performance 000 000 % of maximum % of base salary 000 102% of budgeted Above and 98.5 557 78.6 78.6 437 Moshe Greidinger EBITDA achieved Beyond 102% of budgeted Above and 67.1 380 78.6 78.6 298 Israel Greidinger EBITDA achieved Beyond The Committee judged the individual objectives have been achieved at the top level out of five for both the CEO and the Deputy CEO.
On the basis of the EBITDA and individual performance achieved, the CEO was awarded a bonus of 78.6% of salary and the Deputy CEO was awarded a bonus of 78.6% of salary.
The Cineworld Group Performance Share Plan PSP audited information a Awards Vesting Following the End of the Performance Period Ending in December 2016 Awards under the PSP made in June 2014 are due to vest on 6 June 2017.
The performance condition applicable to these awards is summarised below: EPS growth performance Vesting level Less than 10% p. a. Nil 10% p. a.
100% Between 10% and 18% p. a. Straight-line basis The adjusted diluted EPS figure for the year represented compound average annual growth of 23.2% on a pro forma basis, compared to the base year, with the result that the level of vesting for this award was 100%.
The number and value of shares that will vest to each of the Executive Directors is set out on page 71 of this report.
b Awards Made in the Year Awards were made to the Executive Directors under the PSP in April 2016.
The vesting of these awards will be based on Cineworlds three-year EPS growth performance, as summarised in the table below.
Following the combination with Cinema City, the Committee discussed the performance condition at some length and decided for awards in June 2014 to increase significantly the thresholds for lower and upper end vesting from those used for previous awards, and to express targets as absolute growth figures given the significantly increased international nature of the Group following the Combination, making UK RPI a less directly relevant factor.
The same approach was taken in 2016.
However, to reflect the prevailing circumstances and expectations, the thresholds for minimum and maximum vesting were slightly reduced.
EPS growth performance Vesting level Less than 6% p. a. Nil 6% p. a.
100% Between 6% and 12% p. a. Straight-line basis In the past, total shareholder return has been considered as an alternative or additional performance measure, but difficulties in identifying appropriate comparator companies has resulted in the Committee deciding to use EPS as the sole performance measure.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the operation of the PSP each year and the performance conditions for each grant to ensure they are appropriate for the Company and the prevailing internal and external expectations.
The number and value of share options under the PSP which were awarded to the Executive Directors and vested during the period are set out on page 71 of this report.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 67 GOVERNANCE u Directors Remuneration Report continued Non-Executive Directors Fees audited information The fees for the Non-Executive Directors were reviewed following completion of the combination with Cinema City in February 2014 in light of the significant increase in the size and complexity of the Group.
The adjusted fee levels were set in order to be comparable with equivalent fees in companies of broadly similar size and complexity.
The fee for the position of Audit Committee Chair was increased from 15,000 p. a. to 20,000 p. a. with effect from 1 January 2016.
The other Non-Executive fees were not increased during 2016.
The Non-Executive Directors do not receive any share options, bonuses or other performance-related payments, nor do they receive any pension entitlement or other benefits apart from expenses in relation to travel costs to attend Cineworld Board meetings, including related sustenance and accommodation.
Fees as at 1 January 2016 Position held and at 31December 2016 Chairman 175,000 p. a.
1 Audit Committee Chair 20,000 p. a. Remuneration Committee Chair 10,000 p. a.
Committee Member Nil 1 The fee for Audit Committee Chair was increased by 5,000 p. a. to 20,000 p. a. with effect from 1 January 2016.
Loss of Office Payments audited information There were no loss of office payments during the financial year.
Payments to Past Directors There were no payments to past Directors during the financial year, other than the continuation of private health insurance for Philip Bowcock until June 2016, as disclosed in last years Annual Report.
External Appointments Moshe and Israel Greidinger are both directors of Israel Theatres Limited.
In relation to these roles, they did not receive any fees.
Directors Shareholdings at 31 December 2016 audited information Share options subject to performance 1 Ordinary shares conditions Executive Directors 2 Israel Greidinger 76,626,344 382,329 2 Moshe Greidinger 76,626,344 560,751 Non-Executive Directors 3 Anthony Bloom 2,208,006 Martina King 2,563 Alicja Kornasiewicz Scott Rosenblum 16,877 Arni Samuelsson Rick Senat 53,874 Julie Southern 1 Relates to unvested awards under the PSP.
This figure includes awards made in 2014, 2015 and 2016 as the vesting of the 2014 awards described above will not happen until June 2017.
2 Shares are held by Global City Holdings N. V. GCH.
Shares in GCH are held in trust for the benefit of the children of Moshe Greidinger and Israel Greidinger Israel Greidingers entire interest in GCH was transferred to a trust for the benefit of his children on 6 September 2015 and Moshe Greidingers entire interest in GCH was transferred to a trust for the benefit of his children on 13 October 2016.
3 Shares are held by a nominee for a Jersey-based discretionary trust, of which Anthony Bloom is one of the potential beneficiaries.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 68 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE u The interests of Directors and their connected persons in ordinary shares as at 31 December 2016 and 9 March 2017, including any interests in shares and share options provisionally granted under the PSP and 2010 CSOP, are presented above.
Nisan Cohen became a Director on 11 January 2017 and has unvested awards under the PSP in relation to 19,792 shares.
This figure includes awards made in 2014, 2015 and 2016.
Dean Moore, who also became a Director on 11 January 2017, does not have any interests in shares or share options.
As described in the Policy Table on page 59, each Executive Director is expected to build up, over a period of time, a holding in shares equal to 150% of their base salary this was 100% under the 2014 Policy.
Following the transfers, Moshe and Israel Greidinger ceased to be beneficially interested in ordinary shares in the Company.
However, given the family connection described above, the Remuneration Committee has determined that they will both be considered as meeting the above shareholding requirement.
Eight-Year Total Shareholder Return Performance and CEO Pay The graph below compares the Companys total shareholder return performance against the FTSE 250 and FTSE All Share Travel and Leisure indices over the past eight financial years.
The Remuneration Committee believes these to be the most appropriate comparators as Cineworld is a member of both indices.
900 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 Dec 2008 Dec 2009 Dec 2010 Dec 2011 Dec 2012 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2016 Cineworld FTSE 250 FTSE All Share Travel and Leisure | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 69 Total shareholder return rebased to 100 GOVERNANCE u Directors Remuneration Report continued LTI CEO single Bonus as vesting as figure of total proportion proportion remuneration of maximum of maximum 2 Financial year 000 opportunity opportunity 1 2016 2,588 79% 100% 3 2015 1,213 87% 2014 1,440 76% 100% 2013 1,326 41% 81% 2012 1,258 60% 99% 2011 1,252 68% 100% 2010 1,212 82% 100% 2009 858 85% 1 The increase in the CEO single figure between 2015 and 2016 primarily relates to the first vesting of a PSP award to the CEO since appointment.
The value of this award vesting has increased due to the significant increase in the Companys share price over the vesting period.
2 Up to 2013 these figures solely relate to Stephen Wiener who was CEO up to and including 27 February 2014.
For 2014, it represents a combination of two months of Stephen Wiener and ten months of Moshe Greidinger who both held the office of CEO during 2014.
3 Moshe Greidinger, CEO, did not have an LTI which vested in the year.
For those who did, the proportion was 100%.
Percentage Increase in CEO remuneration The percentage changes in the value of salary, non-pension benefits and bonus between 2015 and 2016 for the CEO and employees generally are set out in the table below: Employees 1 2 CEO generally Salary 1.27% 2.5% Non-pension benefits 9.1% 0.3% Annual bonus 8.2 % 8.3 % 1 Moshe Greidingers salary increased by 2.5% with effect from 1 July 2016.
2 The figures reflect increases for UK-based monthly salaried employees excluding the senior management group.
This group has been selected as the UK is the country in which the CEO spends a significant proportion of his time.
Relative Importance of Pay Spend The table below shows figures for people costs, shareholder dividends and a number of other significant distributions of turnover that the Committee considers to be relevant in order to provide context to the relevant importance of pay spend.
2016 2015 % change Staff and Employee Costs 112.9m 98.8m 14.2% Of which, Directors remuneration costs 5.2m 4.2m 23.8% Corporation tax paid 9.8m 10.4m 0.6 % Dividends paid 47.0m 39.0m 20.5% Retained earnings 110.5m 96.3m 14.7% Shareholder Voting Results from 2016 AGM At the Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company held on 19 May 2016, the resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Report was approved on a show of hands.
The proxy vote was as set out below.
The Directors Remuneration Policy was not put to the vote as it was approved at the AGM held on 8 May 2014.
% of votes Number of votes cast For 211,980,121 98.30% Discretionary 33,603 0.02% Against 3,631,619 1.68% Total votes cast 215,645,343 100% 1 Votes withheld 11,276,607 1 A vote withheld is not counted as a vote in law.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 70 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE u Share and Share Option Awards Granted and Vesting During the Year audited information Awards or grants were made under the Companys Share and Share Options Schemes as follows: PSP: Awards consisting of nil cost options over shares were granted to the Chief Executive Officer and the Deputy Chief Executive Officer equivalent in value to 150% of their base salary on 18 April 2016 which will become exercisable after three years.
Details of the awards are set out below.
Awards are subject to continued employment and the achievement of the performance conditions specified on page 71.
CSOP: A number of recipients of a PSP had a proportional part of their PSP award replaced by an HMRC-approved share option granted under the CSOP.
There was no such substitution in respect of the PSP awards granted to any of the Executive Directors during the year.
Awards granted or vesting during the year: a Cineworld Group Performance Share Plan Details of awards made and vesting during the period are: Market At value at At Awarded Vested Exercised Lapsed 31 December Exercise date of Exercise 3 2 4 Name of Director 1 January 2016 during year during year during year during year 2016 Price exercise period Gain Current Directors 1 Israel 102,645 102,645 Nil 18 04 19 Greidinger 17 10 19 1 Moshe 150,547 150,547 Nil 18 04 19 Greidinger 17 10 19 Past Directors 5 8 8 7 Philip 90,176 90,176 90,176 Nil 5.24 15 03 16 504,800.80 Bowcock 14 09 16 5 6 7 Stephen 65,287 65,287 65,287 Nil 5.24 15 03 16 365,473.40 Wiener 14 09 16 1 Mid-market closing price of a Cineworld Group plc share on 15 April 2016, the last business day before grant, was 5.48.
The face value of the awards to Israel Greidinger and Moshe Greidinger were 562,500 and 825,000 respectively.
All awards were granted as nil cost options.
2 Subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions details of which for the awards made in 2016 are set on page 67.
3 This was the price per share received in respect of those shares which were sold.
4 The gain has been calculated using the realised share price on the date of exercising and includes payment of a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid on the vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring between grant and vesting.
The dividend equivalent payments amounted to 23,369.52 for Stephen Wiener and 32,278.56 for Philip Bowcock.
5 The entitlement was increased for the Rights Issue in February 2014.
6 The entitlement was reduced to take account of the fact that Stephen Wiener left on 31 March 2014 so the performance period had not been completed in full.
7 The performance condition attaching to the grants was satisfied in full.
8 The entitlement was reduced to take account of the fact that Philip Bowcock left on 31 October 2015 so the performance period will not be completed in full.
Details of the awards vesting in June 2017 Date Number Vesting Number Number Exercise Exercise Name of Director awarded awarded date vesting lapsing price period Current Directors Israel Greidinger 06 06 14 162,619 06 06 17 162,619 Nil 06 06 17- 05 12 17 Moshe Greidinger 06 06 14 238,508 06 06 17 238,508 Nil 06 06 17- 05 12 17 Past Directors 1 Philip Bowcock 06 06 14 162,083 06 06 17 75,718 86,365 Nil 06 06 17- 05 12 17 1 The performance condition has been satisfied in full so there was no reduction in the shares vesting, but there is a reduction to take account of the fact that Philip Bowcock left on 31October 2015 so the performance period had not been completed in full.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 71 GOVERNANCE u Directors Remuneration Report continued b Cineworld Group Company Share Option Plan No Director was granted an option during the period and no options vested during the period.
No Director, past or present, holds a CSOP option which will vest in 2017 financial year.
c Cineworld Group Sharesave Scheme No Directors currently participate in the Companys Sharesave Scheme.
Implementation of Policy in 2017 For the 2017 financial period, the salaries and other benefits of the Executive Directors will be reviewed in the usual manner, withany salary increases being effective from 1 July 2017.
From his appointment as Chief Financial Officer on 11 January 2017, theannual salary of Nisan Cohen was 290,000 and he will receive a pension cash allowance of 14.8% of salary.
The maximum annual bonus opportunity will be 100% of salary for the CEO and Deputy CEO and 54% of salary for the CFO.
Bonus payments in relation to 2017 will be subject to Committee discretion to apply malus as described on page 59.
Following payment, the Committee will retain the discretion to claw back bonuses in the case of misconduct or misstatement of financial results.
The face value of awards under the PSP in 2017 will be 150% of salary for the CEO and Deputy CEO and 60% of salary for the CFO.
The calibration targets for these awards is set out in the table below.
Note that the level of vesting for threshold performance has been reduced to 25% of the award compared to 30% in previous years.
EPS growth performance Vesting level Less than 5% p. a. Nil 5% p. a.
100% Between 5% and 11% p. a. Straight-line basis In considering the appropriate calibration of targets, the Committee has taken into account both the internal business plan and external analyst estimates.
The absolute ranges are lower than in the last couple of years but we would note that the enlarged Group is now fully included in both the base and end years, as well as highlighting that the targets for 2014-2016 awards included significant integration synergies, which have now largely been successfully achieved.
The Committee believes that the growth targets are stretching and, if they are achieved, a significant amount of value will have been created for shareholders.
Given the international nature of the Group, the Committee continues to believe that UK RPI is a less directly relevant factor and will therefore express the targets as absolute growth levels.
As for 2016 awards, in addition to the EPS performance condition, the Committee, in its absolute discretion, will need to be satisfied that an award holder has performed their duties at a satisfactory level over the three years from date of grant in order for awards to vest.
The Committee, therefore, will retain the absolute discretion to apply malus to unvested awards, by reducing or withholding vesting.
Following vesting, the Committee will also retain the discretion to claw back PSP shares in the case of misconduct or misstatement of financial result.
Incorporation by Reference The sections The Remuneration Committee and its Role and Remuneration Committee Advisers also form part of the Corporate Governance Statement, and are incorporated into that statement by reference.
By order of the Board Dean Moore Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 9 March 2017 | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 72
