S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC R C RE EP PO OR RT T uu Business Model We create value for shareholders through our focus on continually aiming to enhance the experience for our customers.
We share the value we generate by reinvesting in the business and expanding our offer to customers, rewarding our employees and paying dividends to our shareholders.
Our primary customers are the cinemagoing public Trusted Commercial Relationships who rely on us to provide the best entertainment Delivering a high quality film slate is one of the key external experience.
We aim to give our customers, not just the drivers of our business.
Whilst we do not have control over choice of cinema, but also the choice of how to watch what is produced, our close and long-standing relationships movies.
In many cinemas, we have up to six different with the film distributors are fundamental to providing the offerings of how to watch movies: regular screens, best and most varied selection for our customers at the 3D, 4DX, IMAX, Superscreen and VIP theatres.
Our brands are important to our commercial partners, helping to deepen our relationships with the film We provide the films our customers want to see in the distributors, retail suppliers, advertisers and landlords.
most appropriate venues and locations, using the best technology, with the right retail offerings and great Risk Management and Governance customer service.
Our ticket price represents the various Monitoring and maintaining an effective system of risk offerings of how to watch a movie.
Our major source management and internal control ensures that the Groups of revenue is driven by admissions, and our ability to assets are safeguarded and that material financial errors maximise this income is dependent on the quality of and irregularities are prevented or detected with a the film slate and on the experience we can offer.
admissions also have a direct effect on screen advertising revenues, and on retail sales, primarily of food and drink.
Outputs Customer Experience Our business model is underpinned by the Our customers experience is fundamental to our success.
following: By delivering our vision to be The Best Place to Watch a Movie, we are ensuring that our customers have a positive People and Culture experience and increase the likelihood of their repeat visits.
Our people underpin the whole of our operations as they are the face of our cinemas.
They are focused on Motivated Team ensuring that our customers enjoy the best possible The investment we make and the way we operate is key to experience during their visit.
A well-established training and maintaining a happy and motivated workforce.
For more on development programme is used to maintain standards as our people refer to Resources and Relationships on page 18. well as support the Group focus on internal succession.
Group Financial Performance Financial Strength and KPIs By continuing to achieve healthy margins and The Groups financial results and our progress against maintaining a strong Balance Sheet we can continue our KPIs are the key measurable outcomes of what to invest in our business, expanding and modernising we achieve.
These are outlined in detail in our KPIs the estate.
Our continued investment in technology on page 12 and the Financial Review on page 28. is a pivotal part of evolving the viewer experience we offer, but it also plays a role in ensuring we Shareholder Returns have flexibility in the use of our auditoriums.
To be able to reward our shareholders we remain focused on driving revenues, increasing earnings and prudently managing our cash position, to ultimately provide returns to shareholders.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 10 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS Profit Reinvestment STRATEGIC REPORT u Our Vision: To be the best place to watch a movie Our Purpose: To provide the films our customers want to see in the most appropriate venues and locations, using the best technology with the right retail offerings and great customer service Our Market & Brands Outputs u UK & Ireland u Rest of World Cineworld, Cinema City, Picture House Yes Planet u Customer Experience Our Portfolio of Locations u u u Motivated High Street Shopping Centres Teams u Retail & u Stand Alone Leisure Parks Our Operations u u Cinema Operations Property & u Group Construction Financial Performance u Group Support u Film buying, and KPI Delivery Functions programming and distribution Our Offering u u Box Office Advertising u Shareholder 4DX, 3D IMAX, Returns u Retail VIP, Unlimited, Superscreen Starbucks, Candy King, Baskin Robbins u Distribution UNLIMITED People Financial Trusted Risk Management & Culture Strength Commercial & Governance Relationships | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 11 Profit Reinvestment
