STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE u Insurance Relations with Shareholders It is not practical or possible to insure against every risk to the The Directors value contact with the Companys institutional fullest extent.
The Group has in place an insurance programme and private investors.
An Annual Report is sent to all new to help protect it against certain insurable risks.
The portfolio shareholders and is otherwise made available to shareholders of insurance policies is kept under regular review with its via the Companys website unless they have specifically insurance broker to ensure that the policies are appropriate to requested that a copy is sent to them.
Presentations are given the Groups activities and exposures taking into account cost, to shareholders and analysts following the announcement and the likelihood and magnitude of the risks involved.
of the interim results and the preliminary announcement of the full year results.
Trading updates are typically issued in Remuneration Committee advance of the full year end results in March and the interim Composition results in August.
For the duration of the year, the Companys Remuneration Committee comprised three Non-Executive Directors Martina Separate announcements of all material events are made as King Chair, Rick Senat, and Julie Southern.
In addition to the Chief Executive Officer, Deputy met four times during the year and, in addition, a number of Chief Executive Officer, and the Chief Financial Officer, who ad hoc times to deal with specific issues.
On 11 January 2017, have regular contact with investors over such matters, the Martina King stepped down from her role as a Non-Executive Chairman and the Senior Independent Director are available to Director and as Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Dean meet with shareholders as, and when, required.
Additionally, Moore was appointed in her place and is the new Chair of the the Chief Executive Officer, Deputy Chief Executive Committee.
Officer, and Chief Financial Officer provide focal points for shareholders enquiries and dialogue throughout the year.
The Roles and Responsibilities whole Board is kept up-to-date at its regular meetings with The activities of the Remuneration Committee are covered in the views of shareholders and analysts and it receives reports the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 72, and on changes in the Companys share register and market are incorporated into this Corporate Governance Statement movements.
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and The Remuneration Committee assists the Board in institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
determining its responsibilities in relation to remuneration, The Chairman aims to ensure that the Chairs of the Audit including making recommendations to the Board on the Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Groups policy on executive remuneration, determining the Committee are available at the AGM to answer questions, and individual remuneration and benefits package of each of that all Directors attend.
the Executive Directors and monitoring and approving the remuneration of Senior Management below Board level.
com provides an overview of the business.
Major Group announcements The Remuneration Committee appointed Willis Towers are available on the website and new announcements are Watson as an external adviser in November 2008 and again published without delay.
All major announcements are took advice from them during the year.
Willis Towers Watson approved by the Chairman and Executive Directors and have no other connection with the Group except as the circulated to the Board prior to issue.
The Group also has actuary to the pension schemes of Adelphi-Carlton Limited, internal and external checks to guard against unauthorised the Groups operating company in Ireland.
The Chief Executive Officer is consulted on the remuneration By order of the Board packages of the other senior executives and attends Anthony Bloom discussions by invitation except when his own position is Chairman being discussed.
Given the essential part remuneration plays 9 March 2017 in the success of the Group, the Chairman of the Board is also invited to attend meetings of the Committee and does so except when his own remuneration is being considered.
The Committee does not deal with the fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors.
The report of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 54 to 72.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Companys website www.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 53 GOVERNANCE u Directors Remuneration Report Activities over the Year The main focus of the year has been the review of the Companys Remuneration Policy, and the development of a new long-term incentive LTI plan, both of which we will be putting forward for shareholder approval at our AGM this year.
Over the past few months, led by my predecessor Martina King, the Remuneration Committee has carried out a detailed review of our executive remuneration arrangements, taking into account the experience of operating our Remuneration Policy over the last three years, developing market practice, the feedback we have received from shareholders, and in light of our ongoing business strategy.
Overall, the revised Policy is similar to the version approved by shareholders in 2014.
This reflects the Committees view that the current straightforward remuneration arrangements have worked well, and continue to align with our business priorities.
In addition, our Performance Share Plan the 2007 PSP is I am pleased to present the Directors coming to the end of its ten-year lifespan.
The Committee has Remuneration Report.
The focus of the therefore decided to introduce a new plan in the form of an omnibus plan.
Committee this year has been on reviewing our Policy to ensure it continues 2017 Remuneration Policy When considering the Remuneration Policy, the Committee to support our business strategy.
has taken account of the fact that Cineworld is relatively unusual in that our CEO and Deputy CEO have an indirect interest in just under 30% of the Companys issued capital 1 through their interest in Global City Holdings N. V..
This means that we believe that some aspects of executive remuneration arrangements which are typically used to align the interests of executives with shareholders, such as bonus deferral and shareholding guidelines, have less direct relevance for them.
We do recognise that our newly-appointed CFO should also be aligned with shareholders, and he will be required to retain some of the shares from vested LTI awards until he has reached the required shareholding level outlined below.
Annual Statement Dear Shareholders Changes to our Policy As the new Chairman of Cineworlds Remuneration Committee Having carefully reviewed our bonus and long-term incentive the Committee, I am pleased to present our Remuneration arrangements, the Committee has decided to make no Report for 2016, for which we will be seeking your approval at major changes to their structure performance metrics our Annual General Meeting AGM in May 2017. opportunity levels.
Note, however: Future LTI awards will be made under the new omnibus I would like to also take this opportunity to thank outgoing plan described in the following section but no change in Chair, Martina King, for her significant contribution to the terms of award vehicle individual limits performance Remuneration Committee during 2016. conditions clawback provisions will be made, except that the level of vesting for threshold performance will reduce 2016 Performance and Remuneration from 30% to 25% of an award.
The Group delivered a successful year of trading in 2016 with There will be an increased shareholding requirement of total revenue increasing 13% to 797.8m 2015: 705.8m, 150% of salary, with expectation of retention of 50% of and EBITDA up 13.2% at 175.8m 2015: 155.3m.
This vested LTI awards net of tax until the level is met.
performance enabled an 8.6% increase in the full year dividend per share.
The decisions in relation to executive remuneration outcomes made by the Committee were taken in the context of this performance.
Annual bonuses for the Executive Directors, which are based on a matrix of Group EBITDA performance against budget, and the achievement of stretching individual objectives, paid out at the level of 78.6% of base salary for each of the CEO and Deputy CEO equivalent to the same percentages of maximum opportunity.
As EPS performance targets for the PSP were reached in full over the three-year period 20142016, there was 100% vesting of the awards made in 2014.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 54
