The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report: Business Model held in the portfolio can be used to generate income.
Buying and selling Strategy FTSE 100 Index Futures can be used to increase or reduce gearing.
The strategy of the Company is to pursue its investment objective by operating as an investment trust company.
The investment trust Diversification company structure allows the shareholders, whether institutions or The Company achieves an appropriate spread of investment risk private investors, to access a diversified portfolio of investments that principally through a broadly diversified portfolio, which at 30 June is professionally managed.
The principal activity remained unchanged 2016 contained 116 individual investments 2015: 119 as detailed throughout the year ended 30 June 2016. on pages 8, 9, 14 and 15.
At 30 June 2016, the largest single investment was British American Tobacco, which accounted for 5.5% Investment Objective of total investments, while the top 20 holdings totalled 48.4%.
The Companys objective is to provide long-term growth in income The Company will not invest more than 15% of its portfolio in any single and capital, principally by investment in equities listed on the London investment on acquisition, nor will it invest more than 15% of the portfolio Stock Exchange.
The Board continues to recognise the importance in any other UK listed investment trusts or investment companies.
of dividend income to shareholders.
Management Investment Approach The Company has an independent Board of Directors which has Our Fund Manager, Job Curtis, has been managing City of London since appointed Henderson Investment Funds Limited HIFL to act as its 1 July 1991.
He is an executive of Henderson Global Investors Limited Alternative Investment Fund Manager.
HIFL delegates investment and is a member of the Global Equity Income team.
Job is assisted in the management services to Henderson Global Investors Limited in management of the portfolio by Alex Crooke, David Smith, Ben accordance with an agreement which was effective from July 2014 Lofthouse, Andrew Jones and Laura Foll.
He manages the portfolio in a which can be terminated on six months notice.
Prior to July 2014 conservative way, focussing on companies with cash generative Henderson Global Investors Limited was appointed as Investment businesses able to grow their dividends with attractive yields.
Both entities are authorised and regulated by the Financial portfolio is well diversified with some 66% invested in well known blue chip UK listed companies but it remains biased towards international Conduct Authority.
References to Henderson within this report refer companies invested in economies likely to grow faster than the UK.
In to the services provided by both entities.
times when savers have difficulty in receiving adequate returns on their Henderson and its subsidiaries also provide accounting, company investments, the portfolio aims to provide shareholders with dividends secretarial and general administrative services.
Some of the between 10% and 30% higher than the FTSE All-Share Index.
administration and accounting services are carried out, on behalf of Henderson, by BNP Paribas Securities Services.
Rachel Peat ACIS Investment Policy acts as Company Secretary on behalf of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited.
Asset allocation While the Company will mainly invest in equities, there is the flexibility During the year under review the management fee was charged at a to invest in debt securities, such as convertibles, corporate bonds or rate of 0.365% per annum for the first 1bn of net assets reducing government debt, if it is deemed that these will, at a particular time or to 0.35% of net assets above 1bn.
Fees are payable quarterly in for a particular period, enhance the performance of the Company in arrears based on the level of assets at the relevant quarter end.
the pursuit of its objective.
The Company has a portfolio invested predominantly in larger Liquidity and Discount Management companies.
Typically at least 60% of the portfolio by value will be The Boards aim is for the Companys share price to reflect closely its invested in companies in the FTSE 100 Index.
The remainder of the underlying net asset value: and also to reduce volatility and have a portfolio will be invested in a combination of UK listed medium-sized liquid market in the shares.
The ability to influence this is, of course, and small companies and up to 20% in overseas listed companies.
However, the Board intends, subject always to the overall impact on the portfolio, the pricing of other trusts and overall market There are no set limits on sector exposures, although the Board conditions, to consider issuance and buybacks within a narrow band regularly monitors the Companys investments and Hendersons relative to net asset value.
It is believed that flexibility is important investment activity.
Henderson primarily employs a bottom-up and that it is not in shareholders interests to have a specific issuance value-based investment process to identify suitable opportunities and pays particular regard to cash generation and dividends.
At each Board meeting, the Board monitors the level of the The portfolio yield will usually be between 10% and 30% above the Companys premium discount to NAV per share and reviews the average dividend yield for the UK equity market.
There may be some holdings, selected for their above average growth potential, which average premium discount for the Companys AIC sector.
have a dividend yield lower than the market.
Investing Gearing City of London sets out to be an attractive and straightforward long-term The Company will at times utilise limited gearing, both short and long investment vehicle for private investors.
As well as investing directly, term, in order to enhance performance.
Other than in exceptional market shares can be purchased through various dealing platforms and held in conditions, gearing will not exceed 20% of net asset value at the time of draw down of the relevant borrowings.
Up to 10% of the net assets can share plans, ISAs or pensions.
Links to some of these dealing platforms be held in cash.
Selling traded options where the underlying share is can befound on our website, www.
