The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report: Corporate Information Directors The Directors appointed to the Board at the date of this Report are: Philip Remnant CBE Position: Chairman of the Board and Nominations Committee Richard Hextall Date of Appointment: 1 January 2011 Chairman on Position: Senior IndependentDirector 24 October 2011 Date of Appointment: 1 November 2007 Chairman of the Audit Philip is the Senior Independent Director of Prudential plc and of UK Committee until 7 July 2016 and Senior Independent Director on Financial Investments Limited.
He is also a non-executive Director 1April 2011. ofSevern Trent plc, Chairman of M&G Group Limited and a Deputy Richard is a Chartered Accountant and has been the Group Finance Chairman of theTakeover Panel.
He was a Senior Adviser at Credit Director of Amlin plc since 1999.
He was a Director of the Lloyds Suisse until December 2013, having previously been a Vice Market Association from 2007 to 2010 and a member of its finance Chairman of CSFB Europe and Head of the UK Investment Banking committee from 2002 to 2009 Chairman from 2005 to 2007.
He was the Chairman ofthe Shareholder Executive was also a member of the Lloyds Investment Committee from 2003 between 2007 and 2012, and was Director General of the Takeover to 2007.
He joined Amlin from Deloitte & Touche, where he was a Panel from 2001 to2003 and again in 2010.
Director specialising in the insurance and financial services sector.
Martin Morgan Simon Barratt Position: Director Position: Director Date of Appointment: 1 March 2012 Date of Appointment: 1 October 2010 Martin was Chief Executive of Daily Mail and General Trust plc until Simon is Chairman of Costa China Brand Office.
He was previously May 2016, having joined the Group in 1989.
He was previously Chief General Counsel and Company Secretary at Whitbread PLC where Executive of dmg information.
He was also a non-executive Director he has been since 1991.
During that time he has also acted as of Euromoney Institutional Investor plc.
Company Secretary for the Whitbread Investment Company plc and aDirector of Whitbread Pension Trustees.
He was previously at Rio Tinto and Heron, having qualified as a solicitor with the law firm, Samantha Wren Slaughter andMay.
Position: Chair of the Audit Committee Date of Appointment: 1 September 2015 Chair of the Audit Committee on 7 July 2016 David Brief Samantha is Chief Commercial Officer of ICAP plc.
She was Chief Position: Director Operating Officer of ICAP plcs Global Broking division.
Prior to ICAP, Date of Appointment: 1 January 2009 she held senior finance roles at the gaming group, The Rank Group Davidis Chairman ofAsian Total Return Investment Company plc plc, latterly as Director of Corporate Finance where she was also a andalso a Trustee of St. Martins Housing Trust.
He was previously director of the Rank Pension Plan Trustee Limited.
She qualified as Chief Investment Officer of BAE Systems Pension Funds Investment aChartered Management Accountant at Rentokil Initial plc.
Management Limited and an investment adviser to the Rio Tinto, British Coal Staff and J. Sainsbury Pension schemes.
Fund Management Job Curtis has been City of Londons Fund Manager since 1 July Job is assisted in the management of the portfolio by Alex Crooke, 1991.
After graduating from Oxford University in 1983 with a BA who joined Henderson in 1994 and is Head of its Global Equity Hons in Philosophy, Politics and Economics, he joined Grieveson, Income team: David Smith who joined Henderson in 2002: Grant stockbrokers as a trainee.
In 1985, he joined Cornhill Insurance BenLofthouse who joined Henderson in 2004: Andrew Jones who as an assistant fund manager and then moved to Touche Remnant in joined Henderson in 2005 and Laura Foll who joined Henderson 1987 where he became a fund manager.
over by Henderson in 1992 and Job is currently a member of Hendersons Global Equity Income team.
All Directors are independent of Henderson All Directors are members of the Nominations Committee The Audit Committee consists of Samantha Wren, Simon Barratt, David Brief and Richard Hextall 16 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report: Corporate Information continued Registered Office Independent Auditor 201 Bishopsgate Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London EC2M 3AE  LLP 7 More London Riverside London SE1 2RT Service Providers Alternative Investment Fund Manager Information Sources Henderson Investment Funds Limited For more information about The City of London Investment Trust plc, 201 Bishopsgate visit the website at www.
London EC2M 3AE HGi Corporate Secretary HGi is a content platform provided by Henderson that offers online Henderson Secretarial Services Limited personalisation where you can follow investment experts, topics and 201 Bishopsgate the trusts that are of interest to you.
By creating your HGi profile you London EC2M 3AE will be updated regularly on the topics that interest you most, Telephone: 020 7818 1818 bringing you closer to Hendersons investment expertise.
com Scan the QR code or use this short URL to Depositary and Custodian register for HGi.
co rb 8 Canada Square London E14 5HQ Follow Henderson Investment Trusts on Twitter, YouTube andFacebook UK Stockbrokers Cenkos Securities plc 6-8 Tokenhouse Yard London EC2R 7AS Investing Shares can be purchased in the market via a stockbroker or Registrar through share dealing platforms.
They can also be held through Computershare Investor Services PLC share plans, ISAs or pensions and links to various providers are The Pavilions included on the website.
Individuals holding shares through Bridgwater Road HalifaxShare Dealing Limited can write to them at Lovell Park Road, Bristol BS99 6ZZ Leeds LS1 1NS or contact them via telephone 03457 22 55 25, Telephone: 0370 889 3296 email Henderson@halifax.
co. uk or visit their website www.
New Zealand Potential investors are reminded that the value of investments and Stockbrokers the income from them may go down as well as up and investors Craigs Investment Partners may not receive back the full amount invested.
Tax benefits may PO Box 13155 vary as a result of statutory changes and their value will depend on Tauranga 3141 individual circumstances.
New Zealand Nominee Share Code Registrar Where notification has been provided in advance, the Company will Computershare Investor Services Limited arrange for copies of shareholder communications to be provided PO Box 92119 to the operators of nominee accounts.
Nominee investors may Auckland 1142 attend general meetings and speak at them when invited to do so New Zealand by the Chairman.
Investors in Halifax Share Dealing receive all Telephone New Zealand 64 09 488 8777 shareholder communications.
A voting instruction form is provided to facilitate voting at general meetings ofthe Company.
17 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report: Corporate Information continued Status Tax and regulatory A breach of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 could The Company is an investment company as defined in Section 833 of lead to a loss of investment trust status, resulting in capital gains the Companies Act 2006 the Act and operates as an investment realised within the portfolio being subject to corporation tax.
trust in accordance with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act Abreach of the UKLA UK Listing Authority Listing Rules could 2010 Section 1158.
The Company is subject to the UK Listing result in suspension of the Companys shares, while a breach of the Authoritys Listing Rules and also the Listing Rules of the New Companies Act 2006 could lead to criminal proceedings, or financial Zealand Stock Exchange.
It is governed by its Articles of Association, or reputational damage.
The Company must also ensure compliance amendments to which must be approved by shareholders by way of a with the Listing Rules of the New Zealand Stock Exchange.
The Company is not a close company.
Henderson provides investment, company secretarial, administration and accounting services through qualified professionals.
The Board The Company has obtained approval from HM Revenue & Customs receives internal control reports produced by Henderson on a HMRC of its status as an investment trust under Section 1158: quarterly basis, which confirm legal and regulatory compliance.
the Directors are of the opinion that the Company has conducted its affairs in compliance with Section 1158 since approval was granted and intends to continue to do so.
The Company is liable to corporation Operational tax on its net revenue profits but is exempt from corporation tax on Disruption to, or failure of, Hendersons or its administrators BNP capital gains if it has complied at all times with Section 1158.
Paribas Securities Services accounting, dealing or payment systems or the Depositarys records could prevent the accurate reporting and monitoring of the Companys financial position.
The Company is also Principal Risks exposed to the operational risk that one or more of its suppliers may not The Board, with the assistance of Henderson, has carried out provide the required level of service.
The Board monitors the services arobust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, provided by Henderson and its other suppliers and receives reports on including those that would threaten its business model, future the key elements in place to provide effective internal control.
During performance, solvency and liquidity.
In carrying out this assessment, the year the Board reviewed Hendersons approach to cyber risk.
the Board considered the market uncertainty arising from the result of the UK referendum on leaving the European Union.
The Board considers the loss of the Fund Manager as a risk but this is mitigated by the experience of the team at Henderson as detailed The Board regularly considers the principal risks facing the Company.
The Board has drawn up a matrix of risks facing the Company and has put in place a schedule of investment limits and restrictions, The Board considers these risks to have remained unchanged appropriate to the Companys investment objective and policy, in throughout the year under review.
order to mitigate these risks as far as practicable.
The principal riskswhich have been identified and the steps taken by the Board Borrowings tomitigate these, and whether the Board considers the impact of such risks has changed over the past year, are as follows: The Company has a borrowing facility of 120.0m 2015: 80.0m withHSBC Bank plc, of which 26.0m was drawn at the year end 2015: nil.
The Company also has two debentures totalling 40.0m Portfolio and market price 2015: 40.0m and 34.6m 2015: 34.6m of secured notes.
Although the Company invests almost entirely in securities that are Thelevelof gearing at 30 June 2016 was 8.0% of net asset value listed on recognised markets, share prices may move rapidly.
companies in which investments are made may operate unsuccessfully, or fail entirely.
A fall in the market value of the Companys portfolio would have an adverse effect on equity shareholders funds.
The Board Viability Statement reviews the portfolio at the seven Board meetings held each year and The 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code requires Boards to receives regular reports from the Companys brokers.
A detailed liquidity assess the future prospects for the Company, and report on the report is considered on a regular basis.
The Fund Manager closely assessment within the Annual Report.
monitors the portfolio between meetings and mitigates this risk through diversification of investments.
The Fund Manager periodically presents The Board considered that certain characteristics of the Companys the Companys investment strategy in respect of current market business model and strategy were relevant to this assessment: conditions.
Performance relative to other UK equity income trusts, the FTSE All-Share Index and UK Equity Income OEICs is also monitored.
The Board looks to ensure the Company seeks to deliver long-term performance.
Investment activity, gearing and performance An inappropriate investment strategy for example, in terms of asset The Companys investment objective, strategy and policy, which allocation or the level of gearing may result in underperformance are subject to regular Board monitoring, mean that the Company against the Companys benchmark.
The Board have an annual is invested mainly in readily realisable, UK listed securities and meeting focussed on strategy, in addition to the scheduled meetings that the level of borrowings is restricted.
at which investment performance, the level of gearing and the level of premium discount is reviewed.
The Board also reviews a schedule of expenses and revenue forecasts at each meeting.
18 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report: Corporate Information continued The Company is a closed end investment company and therefore Future Developments does not suffer from the liquidity issues arising from unexpected While the future performance of the Company is mainly dependent on redemptions.
the performance of international financial markets which are subject to various external factors, the Boards intention is that the Company The Company has an ongoing charge ratio of 0.42% which is will continue to pursue its stated investment objective and strategy lower than other comparable investment trusts.
The Chairmans Statement and Fund Managers Report provide commentary on the outlook for the Company.
Also relevant were a number of aspects of the Companys operational agreements: Key Performance Indicators KPIs The Company retains title to all assets held by the Custodian In order to measure the success of the Company in meeting its under the terms of formal agreements with the Custodian and objective and to evaluate the performance of Henderson, the Depositary.
Directors take into account the following KPIs: Long term borrowing is in place being the 10% debenture stock2020, 8% debenture stock 2021 and 4.53% secured Performance against the Companys peer group notes 2029 which are also subject to formal agreements, The Company is included in the AIC UK Equity Income sector.
including financial covenants with which the Company complied TheBoard considers the size weighted average net asset value infull during the year.
The value of borrowing is relatively small totalreturn of its AIC peer group at each Board meeting.
During incomparison to the value of net assets being 6.1%.
theyear under review the Company outperformed the peer group by0.8%.
Revenue and expenditure forecasts are reviewed by the Directors ateach Board Meeting.
Performance against the OEIC sector The Board considers the performance of theportfolio against the Cash is held with approved banks.
During the year under review the Company outperformed the sector by 4.8%.
In addition, the Directors carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties which could threaten the Companys business model, including future performance, liquidity and solvency.
Performance against market indices These risks, their mitigations and processes for monitoring them are The Board reviews and compares, at each meeting, the performance set out on page 18. of the portfolio as well as the net asset value and share price for the Company and the FTSE All-Share Index.
During the year under The principal risks identified as relevant to the viability assessment review the Company outperformed the index by 0.9% on a total were those relating to investment portfolio performance and its return basis.
effect on the net asset value, share price and dividends, and threats to security over the Companys assets.
The Board took into account Premium discount to net asset value NAV the liquidity of the Companys portfolio, the existence of the longThe Boards aim is for the Companys share price to reflect closely its term fixed rate borrowings, the effects of any significant future falls underlying net asset value.
At each Board meeting, the Board in investment values and income receipts on the ability to repay and monitors the level of the Companys premium discount to NAV per re-negotiate borrowings, grow dividend payments and retain share and reviews the average premium discount for the Companys investors and the potential need for share buybacks to maintain a AIC sector.
At 30 June 2016 the Companys shares were trading at a narrow share price discount.
These matters were assessed over an 1.1% discount to NAV 2015: 1.6% premium.
The Company initial period to June 2021, and the Directors will continue to assess publishes NAV per share figures on a daily basis, through the official viability over five year rolling periods, taking account of foreseeable newswire of the London Stock Exchange and on the New Zealand severe but plausible scenarios.
The Directors believe that a rolling Stock Exchange where it has an overseas listing.
five year period best balances the Companys long-term objective, its financial flexibility and scope with the difficulty in forecasting economic conditions affecting the Company and its shareholders.
Ongoing Charge The Board regularly reviews the ongoing charges and monitors Based on their assessment, and in the context of the Companys Company expenses.
For the year ended 30 June 2016 the business model, strategy and operational arrangements set out OngoingCharge as a percentage of shareholders funds was 0.42% above, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the 2015: 0.42%.
Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to June 2021.
The charts and data on pages 2 and 3 show how the Company has performed against these KPIs.
19 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report: Corporate Information continued Corporate Responsibility Hendersons corporate responsibility statement is included on theHenderson website.
In 2012 it was granted CarbonNeutral Responsible Investment Company status which it has committed to maintain at least until the Henderson is responsible for reporting on its work on corporate end of 2018. governance and corporate responsibility or social, environmental andethical issues in the companies in which it invests on its clients The Companys Annual Report is printed on paper produced using behalf, across all funds as part of its management duties.
In May 50% recycled post-consumer waste and 50% wood fibre from fully 2005 Henderson became a founding signatory to the United Nations sustainable forests with certification by the Forest Stewardship Principles for Responsible Investment.
The Principles, developed Council: the printing company used is certified as CarbonNeutral.
under the auspices of the UN Secretary-General, are a voluntary andaspirational framework for incorporating environmental, social and corporate governance issues into mainstream investment Modern Slavery Act 2015 decision-making and ownership practices.
As an investment vehicle, the Company does not provide goods orservices in the normal course of business and does not have The way companies respond to sustainability and corporate customers.
Accordingly, the Directors consider that the Company responsibility can affect their business performance, both directly isnot required to make any slavery or human trafficking statement and indirectly.
An investee companys policy on social responsibility under the Modern Slavery Act 2015. and the environment is considered by Hendersons Risk Team but investments are not necessarily ruled out on social and environmental grounds only.
Board Diversity It is the Companys aim to have an appropriate level of diversity in Voting Policy and the UK Stewardship Code theBoardroom.
The Nominations Committee considers diversity Hendersons responsible investment policy sets out its approach generally when making appointments to the Board, taking into tocorporate governance and corporate responsibility for all the account relevant skills, experience, knowledge and gender.
Our companies in which it invests on behalf of its clients and its policy primeresponsibility, however, is the strength of the Board and our on proxy voting.
The policy also sets out how Henderson overriding aim in making any new appointments must always be to implements the Stewardship Code.
The Company has reviewed the select the best candidate.
Currently the Board comprises of six policy and has delegated responsibility for voting to Henderson.
Directors, five male and one female.
The Company has no employees TheBoard receives regular reports on the voting undertaken by and, therefore, there is nothing further to report in respect of gender Henderson onbehalf of the Company.
The Board and Henderson representation within the Company.
believe that voting at general meetings is an important aspect of corporate stewardship and a means of signalling shareholder For and on behalf of the Board viewson board policy, practices and performance.
Voting recommendations are guided by the best interests of the investee companies shareholders.
Depending on the nature of the resolution the Fund Manager will give specific instructions on Philip Remnant CBE voting non-routine and unusual or controversial resolutions.
Chairman Decisions not to support resolutions and the rationale are fed back 19 September 2016 to the investee company prior to voting.
The Henderson responsible investment policy and further details ofHendersons responsible investment activities can be found on theHenderson website, www.
Employees, Social, Community, Human Rights and Environmental Matters The Companys core activities are undertaken by Henderson, which has implemented environmental management practices, including systems to limit the use of non-renewable resources and to minimise the impact of operations on the environment, and is focused on reducing greenhouse gas emissions and minimising waste, where possible.
The Company has therefore not reported on these, or social, community or human rights issues.
