Strategic report Our strategy Focusing on our strengths Expanding Extending our Breadth our Reach to better tailor to support our integrated clients offer globally With an industry-leading Ours is a global presence, range of products and enabling us to meet client services that span the needs wherever and maritime and financial whenever they arise.
With markets, we are uniquely 49 offices in 21 countries, placed to deliver the best, we share understanding, bespoke commercial culture, IT platforms solutions to all our clients and high standards large or small.
of corporate governance across our business We are the best in class Our purpose a fine example of how intermediary across every joined-up thinking can sector of maritime trade is to maintain and extend deliver a truly local and no single company our industry leadership.
is our lead competitor in more than one market.
Our mission is to grow value for our shareholders, building on our strong financial performance Our progress in 2016 Our progress in 2016 and supporting our Key hires in banking and Our continued focus on progressive dividend broking have expanded the importance of Asia policy by maintaining the product set and has resulted in the hire of verticals we offer to key staff and the opening and developing our our clients.
of a Tokyo office during position as the worlds the year.
We have expanded leading shipping the sources of finance We have enhanced our serviced within the services to the Middle services Group.
Group as availability East in agency and of capital from traditional broking, bringing together maritime banks has and growing our significantly changed.
presence across Dubai, Egypt and Morocco.
We have strengthened our securities team in New York.
18 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Better Empowering Maintaining Growing Understanding People Trust our business clients needs to fulfil their in shipping to improve potential intelligence performance From oil majors, raw We want Clarksons to be As the industrys leading Consistently profitable material producers and recognised as the place provider of data and and cash generative, other multinationals to where the best people are market intelligence on our financial performance long-established empowered to do their the shipping and offshore bears comparison with shipowning families, our best work.
We hire the industries, our research any business, not only in client base is second to brightest talents and give team is the largest the shipping sector but none.
We have worked them the tools to shine commercially-led unit in across the FTSE.
Our total with many of these clients including leading-edge IT the maritime world.
Our shareholder return has for generations, building a systems, high quality databases track over been consistently strong deep understanding of their training and development 135,000 ships and 6,000 and includes a progressive businesses and providing as well as financial reward.
offshore fields and our dividend policy that has the services that have Shipping Intelligence been maintained for the helped them to prosper.
Network is viewed more last 14 years.
than four million times per year.
Our progress in 2016 Our progress in 2016 Our progress in 2016 Our progress in 2016 Once again we have 2016 has seen more Our industry-leading Despite the ClarkSea expanded the number internal training seminars AIS platform, SeaNet, index being on average of clients serviced in all and attendees at training together with other the lowest recorded in regions around the world.
weeks than in any support tools, are now the last 20 years, the previous year.
used daily by 850 staff Group remains both Following requests from throughout all activities cash generative and clients and extensive within the Group.
interaction through the development process, Net funds of 74.8m, new products covering being 64% higher market information, than in 2015, enables decision-making tools increased focus on and operational taking opportunities efficiencies have been as they arise.
com Singapore 20 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
