Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Governance Board committees Board committees Audit committee The Board is supported by the audit, nomination and remuneration committees.
The responsibilities of each committee are set out in their respective terms of reference, which are approved by the Board and available on the Companys website at http: www.
The attendance of the Directors at Board and committee meetings during the year was as follows: James Morley Chair Audit Remuneration Nomination Board committee committee committee Peter Backhouse Total number of meetings Marie-Louise Clayton appointed 2 March 2017 held in the year 8 3 3 3 James Hughes-Hallett 8 3 3 3 Ed Warner Peter Backhouse 8 3 3 3 Andi Case 8 1 2 1 1 3 Marie-Louise Clayton Peter M. Anker 7 The audit committee is chaired by James Morley.
James Birger Nergaard 6 3 has been a Non-Executive Director and Chair of the audit James Morley 8 3 3 3 committee for the last nine years and will retire from the Ed Warner 7 3 3 3 Board at the AGM which will take place on 12 May 2017.
Marie-Louise Clayton, who joined the Board on Jeff Woyda 8 3 2 1 1 January 2017 and the committee on 2 March 2017, Attends by invitation only.
will succeed him as Chair of the committee.
Both James 1 Appointed 1 January 2017. and Marie-Louise have been deemed by the Board to 2 Appointed 2 March 2017. have recent and relevant financial experience.
The committee assists the Board by: monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements: reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups systems of Clarkson PLC Board internal control and risk management: monitoring the objectivity, effectiveness and performance of the external Auditors: James Hughes-Hallett Chairman examining the adequacy and security of the Peter Backhouse Senior Independent Director Companys arrangements for employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting: reviewing the Companys systems and controls for the Audit Nomination Remuneration prevention of bribery: and committee committee committee assessing reports from the Compliance and Money Laundering Officer.
James Morley Chair James Hughes-Hallett Ed Warner Chair Chair The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, Peter Backhouse Peter Backhouse Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer and Peter Backhouse other senior managers may be invited to attend meetings 1 2 Marie-Louise Clayton Marie-Louise Clayton when appropriate.
The external Auditors are invited to James Morley attend on a regular basis.
The committee meets Ed Warner James Hughes-Hallett privately with the external Auditors in the absence Ed Warner of management.
James Morley Further details on the work of the audit committee are 1 Appointed 2 March 2017.
Birger Nergaard shown in the report on pages 72 and 73.
com 55 Governance Board committees continued Nomination committee Remuneration committee James Hughes-Hallett Chair Ed Warner Chair Peter Backhouse Peter Backhouse James Morley Marie-Louise Clayton appointed 7 March 2017 Ed Warner James Hughes-Hallett James Morley Birger Nergaard The committee is chaired by James Hughes-Hallett, The committee is chaired by Ed Warner and is except when the committee is dealing with the matter of responsible for determining, in conjunction with the succession to the chairmanship.
Board, the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer, Chairman, Responsibilities and activities of the committee include: Executive Directors, Company Secretary and such other regular reviews of the structure, size and members of the executive management that it is composition of the Board including the skills, designated to consider.
knowledge and experience : The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is reviewed leading the process for Board and committee by the Chairman and the executive members of the appointments: and Board.
No Director or manager is involved in any recommending appointments to the Board based on decisions regarding their own remuneration.
the balance of skills and experience.
James Morley will step down from the committee when The committee gives full consideration to planning for he retires from the Board at the AGM which will take future succession to the Board, in particular for the key place on 12 May 2017.
Marie-Louise Clayton joined the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and other Board on 1 January 2017 and the committee on 7 senior executives.
Clarksons recognises and embraces the benefits of a Further details regarding the work of the remuneration committee are contained within the Directors diverse Board.
The committee will consider suitable candidates for Board appointments on the basis of remuneration report on pages 57 to 71. a wide range of criteria including personal merit, ability, knowledge, experience and independence.
This is to ensure that we are appointing the best possible candidate for each vacancy and to ensure a well-balanced Board.
Spencer Stewart & Associates Limited, an executive search and recruitment specialist, were engaged to assist with the appointment of a new Non-Executive Director.
After a rigorous search and interview process, the committee recommended the appointment of MarieLouise Clayton to the Board.
There are no other connections between Spencer Stewart and Clarksons.
56 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 56 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
