Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Governance Introduction Governance activity during the year As part of our insurance renewal process in 2016, we instructed our insurance brokers to conduct a benchmarking exercise to compare our directors and officers liability coverage against that purchased by other companies in the FTSE 250 to ensure that it remained at a level comparable with that purchased by our peers.
Following the review, the Board is comfortable that the level of directors and officers liability insurance cover is appropriate for a company of our size and our risk base, and comparable to that of our peer group.
The well-being of our employees is paramount.
Integration from the Platou acquisition in February 2015 James Hughes-Hallett brought new employees and new locations into the Chairman Group.
These changes warranted a review of our health and safety policies and procedures during 2016.
The outcome of this review is a revised Group Health and Safety Policy Statement which was approved by the We are focused on delivering Board on 3 February 2017 along with refreshed procedures and committees.
For more information about our strategy and strengthening this review and the new policy, please see page 46. our position as a modern, Shareholder engagement profitable business, underpinned The Board believes that a key aspect of good corporate governance is engagement with shareholders and being by high standards of corporate aware of their views.
For more details on how we stay in touch with shareholders, please see page 54.
External Board evaluation Dear Shareholder An external Board evaluation was undertaken this year I am pleased to present to you the Boards corporate by Boardroom Review Limited.
The review included governance report.
In this section you will find our individual interviews with Board members and the review of corporate governance at Clarkson PLC Company Secretary as well as observation at a Board together with reports from the audit, nomination and meeting.
For more information on the Board evaluation, remuneration committees.
Board and committee changes Compliance with the UK Corporate We welcomed Marie-Louise Clayton as an independent Non-Executive Director to the Board in January 2017.
Governance Code Marie-Louise has a wealth of financial and strategic As the financial year began before 17 June 2016, the experience gained in a wide range of businesses, from 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code was technology to manufacturing, sugar processing to power effective for the Companys current reporting period.
Marie-Louise will be appointed as Chair of discuss how we comply with the Code in more detail on the audit committee at the AGM in May 2017.
Louises extensive experience will bring a fresh insight to I look forward to meeting you at our AGM on 12 May the Board as we continue to deliver against our strategy.
2017 and addressing any questions you may have.
James Morley will be retiring from the Board at the 2017 Yours faithfully AGM.
James has served on the Board of Clarkson PLC and as Chair of the audit committee for nearly nine years.
His guidance, knowledge and active participation James Hughes-Hallett in the Board have been invaluable and I would like to Chairman take this opportunity to thank James for his dedication and his service to Clarkson PLC and wish him the very 10 March 2017 best for the future.
