Governance Board of Directors James Hughes-Hallett, CMG Andi Case Jeff Woyda Chief Financial Officer Chairman Chief Executive Officer Non-Executive and Chief Operating Officer James Hughes-Hallett was appointed as a Andi Case was appointed to the Board as Jeff Woyda was appointed to the Board on Director on 20 August 2014 and became Chief Executive Officer on 17 June 2008, 1 November 2006.
Jeff qualified as a chartered Chairman on 1 January 2015.
James is a having previously been Clarksons Chief accountant with KPMG and before joining Non-Executive Director of John Swire & Sons Operating Officer.
Andi joined Clarksons in Clarksons was a member of the executive Limited.
He is also Chairman of the Courtauld 2006 as Managing Director of the Groups committee of Gerrard Group PLC.
He also Institute of Art and of the Esme Fairbairn shipbroking arm, H Clarkson & Company spent 13 years at GNI where he was Chief Foundation.
James was Chairman of John Limited.
He began his shipbroking career with Operating Officer.
Jeff serves as a NonSwire & Sons Limited in London from 2005 to C W Kellock and later Eggar Forrester.
Prior to Executive Director of the International 2014 and before that Chairman of Cathay joining Clarksons he was with Braemar Transport Intermediaries Club ITIC.
Pacific Airways Limited and Swire Pacific Seascope for 17 years, latterly as head of sale Limited in Hong Kong.
Earlier in his career he and purchase and newbuildings.
was also the Managing Director and Chairman of The China Navigation Company and of Swire Pacific Offshore and chairman of the Hong Kong Shipowners Association.
He served as a Non-Executive Director of HSBC Holdings PLC from 2005 to 2014.
James is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and an honorary fellow of the University of Hong Kong and of Merton College, Oxford.
He was made a CMG in the 2012 Queens Birthday Honours.
James is Chair of the nomination committee and a member of the remuneration committee.
N R Peter M. Anker Peter Backhouse President of Broking and Senior Independent Director Investment Banking Non-Executive Peter M. Anker joined the Board on 2 February Peter Backhouse was appointed to the Board 2015. on 16 September 2013 and became Senior Independent Director on 5 November 2013.
Peter started his career in RS Platous Houston Peter is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of office in 1982 as an offshore broker.
HES International B. V. a leading provider of After returning to Norway in 1986, Peter port services in dry and liquid bulk handling became Chief Executive Officer and Managing and a member of the Advisory Board of US Partner of the RS Platou Group in 1987, a private equity firm Riverstone Energy Partners.
position he held until joining the Board of He has over 40 years experience in the Clarkson PLC in February 2015. international energy business.
At British Petroleum he was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of BP Europe, Executive Committee membership Vice-President of global refining and marketing, and head of both North Sea oil development A Audit committee and global mergers and acquisitions.
He served as a Non-Executive Director of BG Nomination committee N Group PLC, the international energy company, between 2000 and 2014.
Remuneration committee R Peter is a member of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees.
A Chairman A N R 50 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Marie-Louise Clayton James Morley Director Director Non-Executive Non-Executive Marie-Louise Clayton was appointed to the James Morley was appointed to the Board Board on 1 January 2017.
James is Senior chartered accountant and currently Chair of Independent Director of Costain Group PLC the audit committee of Zotefoams PLC, a and a Director of Minova Insurance Holdings Non-Executive Director of GCHO Holdings Ltd Limited.
He has served as Chief Operating and trustee of Street League, a youth Officer of Primary Insurance Group, Group employment charity.
Marie-Louise has served Finance Director of Cox Insurance Holdings as Finance Director of Venture Production PLC, and Arjo Wiggins Appleton PLC, Group Chief Financial Officer & IT Director of the Primary Executive Director finance at Guardian Royal Food Group division of Associated British Foods Exchange, Deputy Chief Executive and Group plc and Chief Financial Officer of Lincoln Gas Finance Director at AVIS Europe PLC and was Turbines at GEC Alstom.
She also held roles at a Non-Executive Director of The Bankers Advent Venture Capital, Exxon Chemicals, Inland Investment Trust PLC, W S Atkins PLC, Trade Revenue and Guest, Keen and Nettlefold.
Indemnity Group PLC, The Innovation Group PLC and Speedy Hire PLC.
James is a Marie-Louises past non-executive appointments chartered accountant.
have included audit committee Chair of Diploma PLC and Forth Ports PLC and Non-Executive James is Chair of the audit committee and Director of Independent Oil & Gas Ltd and a member of the remuneration and nomination Ocean Rig ASA.
Marie-Louise is a member of the audit committee and remuneration committee.
A R A N R Birger Nergaard Ed Warner, OBE Director Director Non-Executive Non-Executive Ed Warner was appointed to the Board on Birger Nergaard joined the Board on 2 27 June 2008.
Ed is Chairman of derivatives February 2015 and has been Deputy Chairman exchange LMAX, the Standard Life Private of the Board of Clarksons Platou AS formerly Equity Trust PLC and the Blackrock RS Platou ASA since 2008.
He is a Board Commodities Income Investment Trust PLC.
member at Clarksons Platou Securities AS He is also Chairman of Grant Thornton UK and Maritime & Merchant Bank AS.
Birger LLP, a leading accountancy and advisory established Four Seasons Venture today practice.
He was previously Chairman of Verdane Capital in 1985 and was the investment bank Panmure Gordon and Chief companys Chief Executive Officer until 2006.
Executive of IFX Group PLC and Old Mutual He is currently a Director of Verdane Capitals Financial Services UK, head of Pan European funds V, VI, VII and VIII, Nergaard Investment Equities at BT Alex Brown, and head of global Partners AS and an advisor to the P E fund research at Dresdner Kleinwort Benson.
Ed is Advent International in Norway.
Chairman of UK Athletics and the Crystal Birger was awarded King Haralds gold medal Palace Football Club Foundation.
in 2006 for pioneering the Norwegian venture Ed is Chair of the remuneration committee capital industry.
He holds a law degree from and a member of the audit and the University of Oslo.
Birger is a member of the remuneration committee.
