Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 45 Report of the Directors Results and Dividends New issues of share capital The consolidated results for the year are shown on page 87 Under section 551 of the Companies Act 2006, the directors of the Financial Statements.
The directors recommend a final may allot equity securities only with the express authorisation dividend for the year of 38.0p 2015: 35.5p on each ordinary of shareholders which may be given in general meeting, but share which, together with the interim dividend of 19.0p which cannot last more than five years.
Under section 561 of 2015: 18.0p, makes an ordinary distribution for the year of the Companies Act, the board may not allot shares for cash 57.0p 2015: 53.5p per share.
The final dividend, if approved otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme by shareholders at the 2016 Annual General Meeting without first making an offer to existing shareholders to allot AGM, will be paid on 22 November 2016 to shareholders such shares to them on the same or more favourable terms on the register at 14 October 2016. in proportion to their respective shareholdings, unless this requirement is waived by a special resolution of the Directors shareholders.
The names of the directors of the company at the date of this report, together with biographical details, are given on pages The existing authorities given to the company at the last 42 and 43 of this Annual Report.
All the directors held office AGM to allot shares will expire at the conclusion of the throughout the year.
Details of the resolutions renewing these authorities are included in the Notice of AGM.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors offer themselves for reappointment at the 2016 Purchase of Own Shares AGM, with the exception of Stephen Hodges who is retiring.
Under section 724 of the Companies Act 2006 a company may purchase its own shares to be held in treasury Directors interests Treasury Shares.
The directors interests in the share capital of the company at 31 July 2016 are set out on pages 78 and 80 of the Report of The existing authority given to the company at the last AGM the Board on Directors Remuneration.
to purchase Treasury Shares of up to 10% of its issued share capital will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM.
Powers and appointment of directors Details on the powers and appointment of directors are set The board considers it would be appropriate to renew this out on page 50 of the Corporate Governance report.
authority and intends to seek shareholder approval to purchase Treasury Shares of up to 10% of its issued share Directors indemnity capital at the forthcoming AGM in line with current investor The company has granted indemnities to all of its directors sentiment.
on terms consistent with the applicable statutory provisions.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the purposes Details of the resolution renewing the authority are included of section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 were accordingly in the Notice of AGM.
in force during the course of the year, and remain in force at the date of this report.
Awards under the companys employee share plans are met from a combination of shares purchased in the market and Share Capital held either in treasury or in the employee share trust as well The companys share capital comprises one class of as by newly issued shares.
ordinary share with a nominal value of 25p each.
At 31 July 2016, 150,643,728 ordinary shares were in issue.
During the During the year the company made market purchases of year the companys issued share capital increased by 9,992 670,000 Treasury Shares, representing 0.44% of its issued ordinary shares of 25p each through the issue of shares to share capital for an aggregate consideration of 10.1 million.
Full details of options exercised, the It transferred 1,158,454 shares out of treasury, to satisfy weighted average option exercise price and the weighted share option awards, for a total consideration of 1.4 million.
average market price at the date of exercise can be found in The maximum number of Treasury Shares held at any time note 26 on page 120 of the Financial Statements.
during the year was 1,310,190 with a nominal value of 0.3 million.
Rights attaching to shares On a show of hands, each member has the right to one vote Employee Share Trust at general meetings of the company.
On a poll, each Bedell Trustees Limited is the trustee of the Close Brothers member would be entitled to one vote for every share held.
Group Employee Share Trust, an independent trust, which The shares carry no rights to fixed income.
No person has holds shares for the benefit of employees and former any special rights of control over the companys share capital employees of the group.
The trustee has agreed to satisfy a and all shares are fully paid.
number of awards under the employee share plans.
As part of these arrangements the company funds the trust, from Restrictions on the transfer of shares time to time, to enable the trustee to acquire shares to satisfy There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of the these awards, details of which are set out in note 26 on companys shares which are governed by the general pages 120 and 121 of the Financial Statements.
provisions of the articles of association and prevailing legislation.
During the year, the employee share trust made market purchases of 944,481 ordinary shares.
The company is unaware of any arrangements between its shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of Substantial Shareholdings shares and or voting rights.
Details on substantial shareholdings in the company are set out on page 58 of the Corporate Governance report.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 46 Report of the Directors continued significant Contracts The boards risk appetite, and the robust assessment of A change of control of the company, following a takeover bid, the groups principal risks and how these are managed may cause a number of agreements to which the company including the results of the ICAAP Risk and Control is party to take effect, alter or terminate.
These include the Framework on pages 51 and 52. company bond due 2017, certain insurance policies, bank facility agreements and employee share plans.
The strategy and associated principal risks, which the directors evaluate and approve annually, are a foundation of The group had committed facilities totalling 1.4 billion at the groups strategic plan and scenario testing.
The plan 31 July 2016 which contain clauses which require lender considers the groups future projections of profitability, cash consent for any change of control.
Should consent not be flows, capital requirements and resources, liquidity ratios and given, a change of control would trigger mandatory other key financial and regulatory ratios over the period.
repayment of 1.4 billion of the facilities.
These metrics are stress tested using sensitivity analysis All of the companys employee share plans contain including the ICAAP which involve flexing a number of the provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding main assumptions underlying the plan.
awards and options may vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject where appropriate to the Sustainability satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time Information on the companys employment practices and and pro-rating of awards.
greenhouse gas emissions is set out on pages 32 to 39 of the Strategic Report.
Business Activities The groups business activities, together with the factors Post Balance Sheet Events likely to affect its future development and performance and Details of post balance sheet events are given in note 30 on its summarised financial position are set out in the Strategic page 133 of the Financial Statements.
Political Donations Financial Risk Management No political donations were made during the year 2015: nil.
The group has procedures in place to identify, monitor and evaluate the significant risks it faces.
The groups risk Resolutions at the AGM management objectives and policies are described on pages The companys AGM will be held on 17 November 2016.
51 and 52 and the risks associated with the groups financial Resolutions to be proposed at the AGM include the renewal instruments are analysed in note 28 on pages 123 to 133 of of the directors authority to allot shares, the disapplication of the Financial Statements.
pre-emption rights, authority for the company to purchase its own shares and the re-election of all the directors standing Going Concern for reappointment.
The group has a strong, proven and conservative business model and has traded profitably during the year.
It is well The full text of the resolutions is set out in the Notice of AGM positioned in each of its core businesses, well capitalised, sent to the companys shareholders.
A letter from the soundly funded and has adequate access to liquidity.
chairman, which explains the purpose of the resolutions, accompanies the Notice of AGM.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the company and the group have adequate Auditor resources to continue in operational existence for the Resolutions to reappoint Deloitte LLP as the companys foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the auditor and to give the directors the authority to determine going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report.
the auditors remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Viability Statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision of the Disclosure of Information to Auditor UK Corporate Governance Code, the board confirms that it Each of the persons who are directors at the date of has a reasonable expectation that the group will continue to approval of this Annual Report confirms that: operate and meet its liabilities, as they fall due, for the period So far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit up to 31 July 2019.
A period of three years has been chosen information of which the companys auditor is unaware: for the following reasons: and It is the period covered by the groups strategic planning They have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken cycle: as a director in order to make themselves aware of any It is the period covered by the Internal Capital Adequacy relevant audit information and to establish that the Assessment Process ICAAP which forecasts key capital companys auditor is aware of that information.
requirements: and It is the period covered by group-wide internal stress This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in testing.
accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors assessment has been made with reference to: The groups current position and prospects Financial By order of the board Overview on pages 14 to 19: The groups business model and strategy Business Nicholas Jennings Model and Strategy on pages 8 to 13: and Company Secretary 27 September 2016
