Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 8 Business Model We call our approach Modern Merchant Banking, which reflects how we apply our focus on service, expertise and strong relationships to meet the evolving needs of our clients.
We build leading positions within the specialist markets we operate in, which in turn generates strong profitability, allowing us to reinvest in our business.
1 2 Build leading Generate strong positions in our and sustainable specialist markets returns Expertise Our people are experts in their elds Relationships Service Building long-term Allowing us to provide relationships with clients excellent service and intermediaries Reinvest in the Maintain a sound business to enhance financial position our customer and support our proposition clients through the cycle 4 3 Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 9 We are focused on supporting and developing this business model over the long term and ensuring the group is underpinned by prudent levels of capital, funding and liquidity.
Maintain a sound Generate strong and Reinvest in our business to financial position sustainable returns enhance client experience Our strong financial resources We continue to use our expertise to We continuously invest in our include a simple balance sheet and maintain leading positions in our products, technology and people, prudent capital position, which markets.
Each division is a specialist to deliver a high quality service alongside strong returns allow in their own niche markets and we and build on the long-term us to pay a progressive dividend apply the same conservative relationships we have with while continuing to invest in the approach and disciplined focus our clients.
on returns across all of them.
Our prudent capital position means Each of our divisions has a long track Our history of extending the we have the strategic flexibility to record of financial performance while business model into new areas continue to grow through the cycle supporting our clients through the has helped support continued and meet evolving regulatory cycle, based on long-term growth over the long term and requirements.
relationships driven by our customer through previous credit cycles.
Our borrow long, lend short led proposition.
We invest in recruitment and principle gives confidence to We operate consistently through the training for all levels of employees, creditors and rating agencies.
cycle and do not manage our to deepen and broaden our Our diverse funding profile provides businesses to a growth target: our expertise and focus on client resilience and flexibility in difficult priority is always to maintain our service.
market conditions, so we can strong returns.
We proactively invest in technology continue to support our customers Our embedded and strict to ensure our infrastructure when they need us.
underwriting criteria, supported by a remains robust and to improve our robust governance and control client offering.
framework, ensure we maintain a Our strong client focus is high quality loan book.
evidenced by high levels of repeat Lending is predominantly secured, business and net promoter scores.
with conservative loan to value ratios.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 10 Business Model continued How we are different Banking Securities Asset Management Our Services The Banking division provides teams, and via brokers.
Invoice finance Winterfloods core business is Asset Management provides an specialist finance to UK SMEs and offers both invoice financing and discount market-making in the UK to retail integrated offering directly to private We focus on straightforward individuals, serving over two million factoring.
Retail Finance partners with stockbrokers and institutions, providing clients, combining financial planning products and services in customers.
We have diversified over 9,000 intermediaries including continuous liquidity in all market advice and investment management.
markets we know and funding including customer deposits, motor dealers and insurance brokers conditions.
It trades in around 15,000 In addition, we provide our investment understand.
from businesses and individuals, to provide lending services to SMEs instruments in the UK and overseas management offering to third party The expertise of our people along with wholesale facilities.
In Property Finance, we and we also have a specialist team advisers and directly to clients through allows us to provide flexible provide specialist residential development focused on investment trusts.
Within Commercial Finance, our solutions to meet individual finance through our long-term relationships asset finance business provides client needs.
secured specialist finance solutions to SMEs, reaching customers both directly, through our local expert Our Market Position We have an established market position relationships with the independent dealers Winterflood is the leading marketWe have specialised in advising in each of our niche areas: asset, invoice, and in Property Finance we generally maker to the UK private client sector, and managing investments for We are a trusted brand with motor, premium and property finance.
focus on smaller independent developers.
Its strong many years, tailoring portfolios for a a strong reputation in the Our approach generates high levels of market position is driven by its range of clients.
We continue to win financial services market.
repeat business through our long-term ability to provide continuous liquidity awards for our high quality integrated We have built leading market relationships and customer focused values.
through our market leading execution proposition, focusing on the needs of positions in a number of services supported by our own our clients while continuing to build We typically operate in markets which specialist areas.
scale organically but also through are underserved by larger banks, small acquisitions and the hiring of We have a long track record of where our expertise and superior advisers and portfolio managers.
supporting clients in all market customer service are critical.
In asset conditions underpinned by our finance we work with smaller, family run strong financial performance.
businesses, in motor finance we have Our Expertise We have a local presence across the Our people are core to our business Our traders have extensive experience Our financial advisers provide award UK, with both a direct sales force and and we are committed to providing of executing orders in a range of winning financial planning and We understand our specialist intermediated distribution network of opportunities to maximise their potential market conditions enabling us to investment advice tailored to the markets and our clients needs, dealers, brokers and retailers.
Our highly and develop their career within the group.
trade successfully over many years.
In evolving needs of our clients.
We offer ranging from small businesses specialist lenders understand their sectors We promote employee engagement addition, Winterflood has the largest a wide range of investment solutions to private investors and retail and asset classes and have authority and provide opportunities for talent dedicated investment trusts team delivered through an experienced brokers.
to underwrite loans, enabling them to development and also run a number of in the sector offering trading, sales, team covering asset allocation, Our decentralised model provide fast and flexible solutions.
We initiatives including graduate and school research and corporate services.
enables personal service, consistently apply strict lending criteria leaver programmes, as well as a specialist with extensive local presence when assessing the credit quality of a sales training academy in asset finance.
borrower and maintain conservative loan to value ratios across our portfolio.
Sustainable Income Our lending income relies on our customer in renewable energy and technology Winterfloods income is predominantly Our range of propositions and led, differentiated local service to attract leasing.
In each new or adjacent market trading income from its market-making distribution channels provide a We focus on recurring income and retain customers.
We have high we explore, it must adhere to our strict activities.
Its diversified offering, diverse source of client assets streams and manage our levels of repeat business which helps lending criteria, contributing to our high alongside embedded risk limits, has and recurring revenues.
support our consistently strong margins.
quality loan book and strong returns.
enabled Winterflood to trade profitably We apply our strategy in a wide range of market conditions.
We continuously explore new initiatives consistently to support to drive future growth.
Most recently sustainable earnings growth.
these have included expansion into Ireland, consumer point of sale Read more about Banking Read more about Securities Read more about Asset Management finance and hiring specialist teams on pages 20 to 23. on pages 24 and 25. on pages 26 and 27.
Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 11 Banking Securities Asset Management Our Services The Banking division provides teams, and via brokers.
