Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 42 B Bo oa ar rd d o off Di Dir rec ect tor ors s Strone Macpherson Preben Prebensen Elizabeth Lee Stephen Hodges Jonathan Howell Chairman Chief Executive Group Head of Managing Director Group Finance Legal and Regulatory and Banking Chief Director Affairs Executive Strone was appointed Preben was Stephen was Jonathan was Elizabeth was a director in March appointed to the appointed a director appointed to the appointed a director 2003, senior board as chief in August 1995 board as group in August 2012 with independent director executive in April with responsibility finance director responsibility for legal in 2004, deputy 2009 when he joined for the Banking in February 2008 and regulatory affairs.
division and became when he joined and chairman in June managing director in Close Brothers.
He is chairman Preben previously November 2002.
Close Brothers as of the Nomination spent his career Jonathan was general counsel in and Governance in a number of Stephen spent previously group September 2009.
senior positions at eight years at finance director She was previously JP Morgan over Hambros before of London Stock with Lehman Brothers Strone is also 23 years, as well as joining the Banking Exchange Group plc and General Electrics chairman of British being chief executive financial services division of Close from 1999 to 2008.
Empire Securities of Wellington businesses and prior Brothers in 1985.
Prior to that he was and General Trust plc to that she was a at Price Waterhouse Underwriting plc from and a trustee of the partner at the law where he qualified 2004 to 2006, and Kings Fund.
He was firm Richards Butler as a chartered then chief investment previously a director officer and a member now Reed Smith.
He is of Flemings, chairman of the group executive also a non-executive of Tribal Group plc committee at Catlin director of The Sage Group Limited.
Group plc where he and of JP Morgan is chairman of the Smaller Companies audit committee.
Investment Trust plc, executive deputy chairman of Misys plc and a nonexecutive director of AXA UK plc and of Kleinwort Benson Private Bank Limited.
zz 198390 Close Bros. indb 42 28 09 2016 14:20:09 Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 43 Geoffrey Howe Bridget Macaskill Lesley Jones Oliver Corbett Senior Independent Independent NonIndependent NonIndependent NonDirector executive Director executive Director executive Director Geoffrey was Oliver was appointed Bridget was appointed Lesley was appointed appointed a a director in June 2014 a director in November a director in December director in January and is chairman of the 2013 and is chairman 2013 and is chairman 2011 and is senior of the Remuneration of the Risk Committee.
Oliver is chief financial Lesley has extensive Geoffrey is chairman Bridget is chairman of banking experience, officer of Hyperion of Jardine Lloyd First Eagle Holdings having previously Insurance Group Thompson Group plc.
LLC and senior held several line Limited and was He was previously formerly finance adviser to First management positions chairman of Railtrack director of LCH.
Eagle Investment within Citigroup and plc and of Nationwide Clearnet Group Management LLC was group chief credit Building Society, Limited and of in New York City, officer of Royal Bank a non-executive Novae Group plc.
of which she was of Scotland plc from director of Investec He is a chartered president and chief 2008 to 2014.
Lesley is plc and of JP Morgan executive officer accountant and also a non-executive Overseas Investment until March 2016, a previously worked for director of Northern Trust plc, a director trustee of the TIAAKPMG, SG Warburg, Bank Limited and of of Robert Fleming CREF funds and Phoenix Securities N Brown Group plc.
Holdings Limited and a non-executive later Donaldson managing partner director of Jupiter Lufkin Jenrette and Fund Management Dresdner Kleinwort of Clifford Chance.
plc and of Jones Lang Wasserstein, where LaSalle Incorporated.
he was managing She was previously a director of investment non-executive director banking.
He was also of Prudential plc, a non-executive Scottish & Newcastle director of Rathbone plc, J Sainsbury plc, Brothers plc.
Hillsdown Holdings plc and of the Federal National Mortgage Association in the US.
