Our Business Model Renewing the focus on delivery How we create value Our enablers Our business model Through a combination of longstanding customer Our technology solutions can only be delivered is underpinned by: relationships and applying our technology and through the expertise of engaged and talented Our potential for improved financial know-how, we aim to provide customers with employees.
We also put in place policies and performance innovative solutions to meet their technology processes to ensure employees work in a safe Our differentiated technologies, leading market and service requirements.
Using the extensive environment and we look to minimise our impact positions and investments in the business experience in our markets, we invest in on the environment.
Working in highly regulated have contributed to historically strong differentiated technologies with leading market markets, we understand the need to adhere to underlying operating margins and good positions.
We understand the importance of the highest ethical standards.
operational excellence to enable us to deliver our customer commitments.
Improving our For more information, see the Corporate However, the results in 2016 have been consistency and execution will be a focus for Responsibility and Sustainability overview disappointing.
This included the impact of improvement in 2017. on pages 40 to 43. more challenging market conditions and, in a few businesses, a number of performance issues which can be attributed to examples of poor control and weak financial discipline.
For more information on our financial performance in 2016 and the KPIs that management use to run Markets the business see pages 16 to 19.
Our risk management approach We have a risk management approach with a framework under which the risks to our business model are identified and monitored, along with controls and assurance measures.
Services Commercial Programmes Aerospace For more information on the effectiveness of our - Systems Defence approach, our plans for 2017 and our Principal Risks - Subsystems please see pages 34 to 39.
Book and Ship - Products - Components Tier one Scope of Point of delivery delivery 4 Tier four www.
com Cobham plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT We have a focus on high value add technologies and know-how 1.
I nvestment in leading edge Over the last few years, the Group has focused on shifting the balance of its portfolio to increase Cobham designs, assembles and tests a range of technology and know-how the proportion of its revenue in commercial components and subsystems, typically operating Cobhams model is to focus on markets with positive, end-markets.
This has occurred through a towards the lower half of the supply chain, known long term macro trends that underpin customer combination of organic investment in technology, as tier 3 and tier 4.
Cobham also participates to demand.
Success in these markets is dependent in conjunction with acquisitions that have a majority a lesser extent at tier 2 where it has some major on our providing new and improved products of their revenue in commercial markets.
and services, while understanding the needs of of this strategy, all four of Cobhams Sectors now our customers.
have significant exposure to defence security and Operating at lower market tiers enables Cobham to commercial markets.
supply to a number of large, multinational customers By making investments that enhance our who are sometimes in competition with each other.
technology differentiation, Cobham aims to offer its customers additional capability and lower The following diagram shows where the business through-life operating costs.
is positioned in the supply chain, using illustrative 4.
P rogramme management examples of what the Group does within each tier.
During the year, Cobham invested 130.2m 2015: and continuous improvement 138.0m in PV.
This represents 8.2% of revenue To leverage its market positions and technology, 2015: 8.2%.
Including R&D funded by customers, Tier Cobham uses its technology and know-how to total R&D investment was 250.7m 2015: 257.7m.
design, assemble and test high value-add products Platforms Fully Integrated Systems in-line with customer specifications, while needing Aircraft In 2016, the Group invested its PV in the development to deliver on-time and to a pre-agreed budget.
Missiles of products and services in its avionics, SATCOM, By succeeding with this approach, our customer Medical & Industrial Equipment wireless and microelectronics markets, in particular.
relationships will be enhanced over time.
1 Satellites Commercial & Military A review of the effectiveness of technology Major Subsystems In 2016, the number and complexity of business investment will be undertaken in 2017, to ensure change initiatives was a contributory factor which Complete Apertures it is focused on the most promising opportunities.
Missile Subsystems adversely impacted the Groups operations and Complete EW Subsystems financial performance.
This will be addressed during 2 2017 through reducing the number of centrally driven change programmes.
Integrated Assemblies PV investment Total R&D investment AESA Modules Microelectronic Assemblies Power Distribution Module 130.2m 250.7m Actuator Gimbals Assembly 3 Components 2015: 138.0m 2015: 257.7m Diodes MMIC Devices Semiconductors 4 Rad Hard Components 3.
Leveraging existing products and services into different Within the Aviation Services Sector, Cobham end markets operates significant medium to long term contracts As Cobham operates at the component and to fly, modify and maintain aircraft and undertake subsystem level, the Groups technology can often training in aviation markets.
The nature of the be used for different applications and across a variety services provided means that its contracts can of markets.
last decades, as customers can renew or extend agreements multiple times.
The ability to find new markets helps diversify the Groups customer base and its exposure to business For more information on our capabilities please cycles.
It can also help increase the returns on see pages 12 to 15.
Also, see page 16 on our technology investment.
strategic objective of focusing on our customers.
com Cobham plc 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
