Our Markets We have positions in three broad end-markets Commercial Cobham operates in three broad end We are focused on attractive markets for communication on the move and in harsh markets: Commercial, US defence security and difficult environments.
and UK, RoW defence security.
It looks to The majority of Cobhams commercial revenue is related to communications, particularly for products leverage its technology and know-how that are used in communications on the move, with applications in harsh or difficult environments.
across these markets Communications markets are driven by long term global growth, urbanisation and a need to link critical networks.
There is also an increasing propensity to travel, which can require products that enable access Revenue by market % to voice, data and video applications in challenging or remote environments.
Commercial US defence 41% security 34% Some of the Groups communications markets have faced challenging conditions during 2016.
However, over the longer term, the demand for communication will grow as evidenced by forecasts of global mobile data traffic, which is expected to increase significantly.
UK, RoW defence Global monthly data traffic Exabytes security 25% 2016 8.5 2017 13.3 2018 20.0 Commercial 2019 28.7 Our commercial revenue arises in a number of different end markets and these are set out below.
2020 39.6 2021 52.3 Source: Ericsson Mobility Report 2016 One exabyte equals one billion gigabytes.
Cobham is also exposed, principally within its Aviation Services Sector, to demand for natural resources in its fly-in-fly-out operations in Australia, Aerospace 10%Outsourced 8%Wireless 7% and through its outsourced flying operations for Credit: Martin Coy Aviation Services Qantas, the Australian airline, to regular public transport markets.
A weakening in demand for natural resources, particularly from within the Asia-Pacific region, resulted in more challenging market conditions for the Group in 2016.
Our response Cobhams business model has been the framework around which the Group has responded to market conditions.
For Marine 6%Space 3%Other 7% more information see Our Business Model on pages 10 and 11.
SATCOM We have invested in technology to develop advanced communications products.
In certain markets we have Other markets include: land SATCOM, medical, mining and industrial slip rings.
invested a double digit percentage of our revenue annually, with the objective of aligning our investment priorities with customer demand and discriminating our product offerings based on technology.
We have also looked for opportunities to develop products for different customers and applications.
Technology investment will be an area of focus during 2017 as we bring renewed emphasis on strengthening customer relationships.
com Cobham plc 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Our technology and know-how is used globally US defence security Our response Our response Cobhams business model has been the framework Cobhams business model has been the framework around Our technology remains aligned to around which the Group has responded to market which the Group has responded to market conditions.
a number of our customers priorities conditions.
For more information see Our Business For more information see Our Business Model on Cobham is exposed to the US Department of Model on pages 10 and 11. pages 10 and 11.
Defense US DoD investment account budget Cobham has technologies and capabilities that are relevant Cobham aims to leverage its technology and know-how lines, comprising procurement and research, to current US DoD priorities and it is therefore well into UK, RoW defence security markets through different development, test and evaluation RDT&E.
positioned to benefit from the US budget.
It supplies major UK, RoW defence companies focus for Cobham is to ensure that our technology is on programmes such as the Eurofighter Typhoon, the Saab Changes in US defence budgets will tend to be chosen for next generation platforms and programmes, Gripen and the Dassault Rafale fighter aircraft, providing driven by macroeconomic factors such as the which will deliver profitable production revenue.
In addition, it makes state of the economy, as well as by global security direct sales of its components and subsystems into The Group has positions on next generation US Air Force accessible UK, RoW markets: and it also benefits from tensions.
Between 2009 and the end of 2015 the platforms, including the KC-46 tanker aircraft and the F-35 the export of US manufactured equipment into US investment budgets fell significantly, driven by multirole fighter aircraft.
In addition, Cobham has critical these markets.
the global financial crisis and by the withdrawal of content on US Navy upgrade programmes, including the the US military from Iraq and Afghanistan.
However, Advanced Missile Defence Radar and the Surface Electronic Cobham also supplies critical services into other parts it now seems likely that the budget has reached Warfare Improvement Program.
It also supplies electronic of the world, including the UK, Australia, Middle East and subsystems on missiles, including the Standard Missile the Caribbean, where it has aviation contracts for various a trough.
The Future Years Defense Program has and the Patriot PAC-3 as well as AGM-88E Advanced services, including training, maritime surveillance, search provided for a low single digit compound average Anti-Radiation Missile and the AIM-120 Advanced and rescue, maintenance and engineering services.
growth rate CAGR in the investment accounts to Medium Range Air-to-Air Missile.
Its technology is also to 2021, and there is potential for budgets to increase be found on higher volume munitions such as the Paveway further.
Recently the US DoD has also used a special laser-guided bomb and the Hellfire air-to-ground missile.
wartime funding mechanism, called the Overseas Contingency Operations account, which has provided additional budget funding.
UK, RoW defence security US DoD budget US$bn Our products have relevance to government customers around the world 2016 120 71 While the US has the worlds largest defence budget, 2017 110 66 comprising about 36% of global spending, Cobham also addresses markets outside of the US.
Defence 2018 111 63 markets in parts of Asia and the Middle East have 2019 63 117 shown growth, while much of Europe has, like the US, 2020 62 120 been through a period of budget declines.
However, 2021 122 64 the UK, France and Germany are now expected to see modest budget growth overall, while a number Procurement RDT&E of countries in Eastern, Central and Northern Europe Source: FY17 Presidents Budget Green Book also have growing budgets.
The fall in the price of oil has generally not reduced Within the overall budget, the strategy of the US spending on defence in important Middle Eastern DoD has been to rebalance its military posture markets and overall, Asia-Pacific continues to towards the Asia-Pacific region.
This has resulted increase defence investment.
The table below shows in continued investment in the US Navy and a estimated medium term growth rates in defence recapitalisation of the US Air Force, which has an expenditure by geographical region.
This strategy means prioritising high-end technologies which will Global defence expenditure growth estimates protect and enhance the performance of these expensive assets.
This aligns with many of Cobhams MENA 3% 5% specialisms including secure communications, Asia-Pacific 2% 4% electronic warfare or jamming, intelligence Latin America 3% 5% gathering and radar technologies.
Africa 2% 4% In addition, with a number of regional conflicts Europe -2% 1% ongoing around the globe, there has been strong MENA Middle East and North Africa, excluding inaccessible demand for components and subsystems for missiles countries.
Sources: Cobham analysis, SIPRI, IMF, Strategic Defence Intelligence.
com Cobham plc 09 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
