Our Capabilities Communication products for We have specialist and sending and receiving voice, data and video signals Capability served by: high value add capabilities Communications and Connectivity Advanced Electronic Solutions Test and measurement products Our differentiated technology and know-how Capability served by: is concentrated around six key capabilities Communications and Connectivity Our capabilities by Sector: Air-to-air refuelling systems Capability served by: Mission Systems 32% Communication products for sending and receiving voice, 21% data and video signals Advanced electronics Pneumatic and 36% actuation systems Capability served by: Advanced Electronic Mission Systems Communications Solutions and Connectivity 26% Aviation Services Mission Systems Military and commercial outsourced aviation services 20% Capability served by: 18% 9% 18% Test and Aviation Services Military and measurement commmercial products outsourced aviation services 7% Air-to-air refuelling 13% systems Pneumatic and Advanced electronics actuation systems Capability served by: Advanced Electronic Solutions www.
com Cobham plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP POR ORT T Proportion of Group Revenue Revenue by market % Down to earth Cobham SATCOM designs, develops and delivers Commercial US defence sophisticated Earth Stations, providing the interface for 64% security 19% Inmarsat services, including communication to aircraft, 32% shipping traffic and land mobile applications.
Cobham supplies products with a focus on communication on the move including in UK, RoW defence demanding or difficult environments.
This includes security 17% components and subsystems used in space, on aircraft, and at sea.
Revenue by market % Proportion of Group Revenue Wireless world Cobham provides market leading intelligent digital Commercial US defence Distributed Antenna Systems and wireless coverage 90% security 7% products for both public safety and cellular applications.
9% UK, RoW defence Cobham makes a range of technology dependent security 3% test and measurement products for wireless and radio markets.
Proportion of Group Revenue Revenue by market % Plug in power Cobhams aerial refuelling systems are a key enabler of air UK, RoW defence US defence power.
Fitted on every major tanker, our hose and drogue security 43% security 57% systems provide front line probe-fitted aircraft with the fuel 7% to fly further, faster and more efficiently.
Cobham is a market leader in the aerial refuelling market having supplied more than 2,000 systems to customers worldwide.
Proportion of Group Revenue Revenue by market % Precise capabilities Cobhams Brimstone missile launcher is providing the Commercial US defence Eurofighter Typhoon fighter aircraft with a greater precision 13% security 52% strike capability than ever before.
13% Cobham systems increase the safety, survivability and effectiveness of users and assets, leveraging specialised technology that includes actuation, high UK, RoW defence pressure pneumatics, oxygen generation and control security 35% systems, gas management and separation, water sensing, and restraints and releases.
Proportion of Group Revenue Revenue by market % Excellence above all Cobham Aviation Services provides helicopters for Commercial UK, RoW defence Aero Medical Evacuation operations in Brunei, Cyprus 44% security 56% and the Caribbean.
18% Cobham delivers outsourced aviation services for customers worldwide, including military training, special mission flight operations, outsourced commercial aviation, including fly-in fly-out services to the natural resources industry, and aircraft engineering.
Proportion of Group Revenue Medical marvels Revenue by market % Cobham designs high reliability and radiation hardened integrated circuits for growing medical markets, for use Commercial US defence in MRI scanners and ultrasound.
15% security 80% 21% UK, RoW defence Cobham supplies customised product solutions security 5% for a range of applications spanning defence, X-ray imaging, medical and industrial requirements including airport screening, mining and secure point of sale payment applications.
com Cobham plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 O Ou ur r C Ca ap pa ab bili ilit tie ies s c con onti tin nue ued d Our products on the KC-46 tanker VHF UHF Tuneable Antenna Cobham has significant content on the and Logic Converter Unit Using frequency information US Air Force next generation KC-46 supplied by its radio, the Logic Converter Unit tunes the antenna tanker programme.
This includes its hose to provide optimal electrical performance and is in use with most airborne military radios today.
There and drogue aerial refuelling systems and are three sets of Tuneable Antennas and Logic Converter Units on the KC-46 capable of providing examples of its communication and vital air-to-air and air-to-ground communications for the crew.
pneumatic and actuation technologies Flat Plate Slotted Fuel Tank Inerting OBIGGS Array Antenna Air Separation Module The flat plate antenna forms part and Oxygen Sensor of the weather radar system on the Operating as the heart of the OBIGGS KC-46.
Its job is to facilitate data fuel tank inerting system, Cobhams collection and analysis of weather Air Separation Module increases aircraft and passenger to enable safer, smoother and more efficient flights.
safety by providing a continuous flow of nitrogen enriched gas into the fuel tanks to reduce flammability and the likelihood of a fuel tank explosion.
Cobhams Oxygen Sensor monitors the air that leaves the Air Separation Module, providing confidence that the Panel Mounted fuel tanks are receiving the proper amount of nitrogen-enriched air.
Oxygen Regulators The oxygen regulator is designed for use by aircraft crew members in high altitude flight.
The oxygen regulators provide regulated breathing oxygen to pilots and aircrew from the aircrafts primary gaseous oxygen system.
As altitude increases, so too does the oxygen flow so the partial pressure of oxygen is roughly constant.
com Cobham plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Oxygen Pressure Reducer Converts high pressure oxygen for use in emergency aircraft systems.
Should an emergency occur in flight, the regulator will supply life saving oxygen to crew members, allowing them to keep the mission on track.
Combined VHF UHF Communications and UHF SATCOM Antenna Oxygen System An antenna that is composed of two separate antenna elements capable Shutoff Valve of providing terrestrial, air-to-air or air-to-ground very If any part of the aircraft oxygen high frequency VHF or ultra high frequency UHF system is compromised, this communications, and ultra high frequency satcom with valve will close the failed portion near hemispheric coverage.
to conserve vital oxygen and protect the aircraft from a high oxygen concentration which could lead to a fire.
HGA-7001 High-Gain SATCOM Antenna An antenna that provides a long range communications system for the flight deck.
The KC-46 is powered by two engines so the antenna is required to comply with Extended Operations standards which permit aircraft to fly long distance routes previously off limits to twin engine aircraft.
Body Fuel Tank Aerial Refuelling System There are four identical body fuel Hose and Drogue tanks per KC-46 aircraft.
The fuel tanks Incorporates the Wing Aerial provide the fuel offload capability Refuelling Pod and Centreline Drogue required by the United States Air System.
The Aerial Refuelling System Force.
Fuel is pumped to the centre enables the transfer of fuel from the fuel tank on the aircraft to replenish and supplement KC-46 tanker aircraft to a receiver aircraft such as a fuel offloaded or used by the KC-46.
The tanks are fighter jet, during flight.
The KC-46 can refuel a range approximately 10 feet wide, 5 feet in height and of probe equipped fighter aircraft to extend their range, 5 feet deep.
allowing them to fly farther, longer, faster and more efficiently.
This makes it possible for aircraft to cover the distances needed to reach remote conflict zones.
com Cobham plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
