Board of Directors Michael Wareing David Lockwood Chairman Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director CMG, FCA, FCCA, MCSI OBE, BA, FCA, RSA David Jonathan Flint David Mellors Senior Independent Director Chief Financial Officer, Executive Director CBE, MBA, BSc, FREng, FInstP MA, ACA www.
com Cobham plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Michael Hagee Alison Wood Independent Non-executive Director Remuneration Committee Chair MA, MBA Birgit Nrgaard Alan Semple Independent Non-executive Director Audit Committee Chair MA, MBA BA, CA www.
com Cobham plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Board of Directors continued Chairman Executive Directors Michael Wareing David Lockwood CMG, FCA, FCCA, MCSI Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director OBE, BA, FCA, RSA Age: 63 Appointed: Director December 2010, Chairman January 2017 Age: 54 Skills and experience: Michael, alongside his role at Cobham, is currently Appointed: December 2016 the Senior Independent Director, Audit Committee Chair and member of Skills and experience: David was formerly the Chief Executive of Laird plc, the the Remuneration and Nomination Committees at Intertek plc.
He was FTSE250 global technology company, a position he had held since 2012.
Prior previously a Non-executive Director, Audit Committee Chair and member to this, he was Vice President Global Defense and Security at BT Global Services.
of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees of Wolseley plc from 2009 David has also held senior management positions with Thales Group, Intense until 2014.
Prior to these Board roles, he held a number of senior executive Limited and BAE Systems plc.
He has held Non-executive Director and Chairman positions, including International Chief Executive Officer, at KPMG, where he positions with WFEL Limited, Photonix Ltd, and the Scottish Governments worked from 1973 until 2009.
He previously served as Audit Committee Chair Technology Advisory Group, and was previously the Non-executive Chair for Cobham, and chaired Not For Profit organisations, including Business in the of Knowledge Transfer Network Limited, a vehicle established to support the Community International, and two roles on behalf of the British Government, work of Innovate UK, the UKs innovation agency which is sponsored by the namely as the Prime Ministers Envoy for Reconstruction in Southern Iraq, UK Government Department of Business, Innovation and Skills BIS.
David is and the Economic Development Adviser to the Government of Afghanistan.
an accountant FCA by training, holding a degree in mathematics from the External appointments: Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the University of York.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts and Commerce Audit Committee and member of the Remuneration and Nomination RSA and in 2005 was awarded as the Scottish Entrepreneur of the Year for Committees of Intertek Group plc.
In the 2001 Queens Birthday Honours, David was awarded the Committee membership: Chair of the Nomination Committee.
OBE for services to industry in Scotland.
External Appointments: Member of the Dunedin International Advisory Board.
Committee membership: Chair of the Executive Directors Committee.
Senior Independent Director David Jonathan Flint David Mellors CBE, MBA, BSc, FREng, FInstP Chief Financial Officer, Executive Director MA, ACA Age: 56 Appointed: May 2013 Age: 48 Skills and experience: Jonathan was formerly CEO of Oxford Instruments plc, Appointed: January 2017 a position he held since 2005 and retired from in May 2016.
Prior to this he was Skills and experience: David was CFO of QinetiQ, the FTSE250 science and the UK Managing Director of Vislink plc and has also held management positions engineering group operating primarily in the defence, security and aerospace with BAE Systems plc and GEC Marconi Avionics.
A physics graduate from markets, a position he had held from 2008, and was interim Chief Executive for Imperial College, Jonathan was made a CBE in 2012. a period during 2015.
Previously, he was Deputy Chief Financial Officer of Logica External Appointments: None.
plc, Chief Financial Officer of Logicas international division, covering operations Committee Membership: Member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
in North America, Australia, the Middle East and Asia, and prior to that he was the Group Financial Controller.
David formerly held various roles with CMG plc, Rio Tinto plc and Price Waterhouse, now PwC.
He is a Chartered Accountant, holding a degree in physics, from Oxford University.
Committee membership: Member of the Executive Directors Committee.
Role and focus Board meeting attendance for 2016 The Boards main duties are to: 14 Board meetings were held during the year, attended as follows: Lead the Group with a view to the creation of strong, sustainable John Devaney financial performance and long term shareholder value: 1 Review and agree the Groups strategy: Bob Murphy Ensure that the necessary resources are in place: 2 Simon Nicholls Monitor management performance: and 3 Jonathan Flint Supervise the conduct of the Groups activities within a Michael Hagee framework of prudent and effective internal controls.
Birgit Nrgaard Board of Directors 4 Mark Ronald Alan Semple Executive Directors Non-Executive 25.0% Chairman Michael Wareing 12.5% Alison Wood Unable to attend Attended Independent NonExecutive Directors 1 Bob Murphy left the Board on 14 December 2016.
62.5% 2 Simon Nicholls left the Board on 31 December 2016.
3 Jonathan Flint missed a short notice Board meeting due to other business commitments.
4 Mark Ronald left the Board on 28 April 2016. www.
com Cobham plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 C COR ORP POR ORA ATE TE G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E Non-executive Directors Michael Hagee Alison Wood Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director MA, MBA Age: 72 Appointed: December 2008 Age: 53 Skills and experience: Michael served in the US Marine Corps for almost Appointed: July 2011 39 years ending his career in 2007 as Commandant of the Marine Corps Skills and experience: Alison was formerly Global Director Corporate and a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
His numerous military assignments Development & Strategy for National Grid plc.
Previously, she was Group Strategic included Commanding General, 1st Marine Expeditionary Force, Deputy Development Director for BAE Systems plc responsible for corporate strategy, Director of Operations at the US European Command and Executive Assistant mergers and acquisitions, and strategic business development across the UK to the Director of Central Intelligence.
He also served in a number of diplomatic and US.
She has held two previous Non-executive Directorships with BTG plc missions including the presidential diplomatic mission to Somalia.
Michael retired and THUS plc.
from his role as Non-executive Director of Remington Outdoor Company Inc.
External Appointments: Non-executive Director and Chair of the in February 2015.
Remuneration Committee of Costain Group plc, TT Electronics plc and British External appointments: President and CEO of the Admiral Nimitz Standards Institution, a Royal Charter company.
Alison will cease to be the Foundation in Fredericksburg, Texas, US, Co-Chairman of the Commission Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee on Energy and Geopolitics, Non-executive Director of DynCorp International of e2v technologies plc when the sale of e2v is completed in Q1 2017.
Inc. and Outside Manager on the Government Security Committee of the Committee Membership: Chair of the Remuneration Committee and Special Security Agreement of TE SubCom, a TE Connectivity Limited company.
member of the Nomination Committee.
Committee membership: Member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Birgit Nrgaard Alan Semple Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director MA, MBA BA, CA Age: 58 Age: 57 Appointed: April 2014 Appointed: February 2015 Skills and experience: Birgit, a Danish national, currently holds a number Skills and experience: Alan was formerly CFO and a Director of John of non-executive roles in the private and public sectors in the UK and overseas.
Wood Group plc, a role he had held since 2000 and retired from in May 2015.
Birgits last executive role was as both the Chief Executive Officer of Grontmij Prior to this, he held a number of senior finance roles in Wood Group from Carl Bro, the Danish engineering consultancy group as well as the Chief 1996.
Alan previously served as the Group Finance Director of GRT Bus Group Operating Officer of Grontmij NV, the Dutch parent company.
An economics plc from 1994 to 1995, one of two companies which merged to form FirstGroup graduate from Copenhagen Business School, Birgit has an MBA from INSEAD.
Between 1987 and 1994, he was Finance Director at Seaforth Maritime External Appointments: Birgit is a Non-executive Director of IMI plc, Group Limited.
WSP Global Inc, a global consulting engineering company listed in Canada, and External appointments: Non-executive Director and member of the DSV A S, an international transportation company listed on the Copenhagen Audit Committee of Teekay Corporation.
Birgit has been recommended for appointment as a NonCommittee membership: Chair of the Audit Committee and member executive Director of NCC AB at its AGM on 5 April 2017.
She also holds board of the Nomination Committee.
positions in private companies and public sector positions.
Committee Membership: Member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Changes to the Board of Directors Corporate Governance Index 1.
Board of Directors 44 Mark Ronald Mark resigned as Independent Non-executive Director on 28 April 2016 2.
Corporate Governance Report 48 Bob resigned as Chief Executive Office on 14 December 2016 Robert Bob Murphy David Lockwood David became Chief Executive Officer on 14 December 2016 3.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 53 John Devaney John resigned as Chairman on 31 December 2016 4.
Nomination Committee Report 54 Simon Nicholls Simon resigned as Chief Financial Officer on 31 December 2016 5.
Audit Committee Report 56 Due to Michaels appointment to Non-Executive Chairman, David Jonathan Flint Jonathan was appointed Senior Independent Director 6.
Directors Remuneration Report 62 on 1 January 2017 7.
Other Statutory Information 78 David Mellors David became Chief Financial Officer on 1 January 2017 Michael Wareing Due to Johns resignation, Michael was appointed 8.
Statement of Directors Responsibility 81 as Non-executive Chairman on 1 January 2017 www.
com Cobham plc 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
