CASE STUDY: CLOUD PADDY POWER BETFAIR Operating in the highly competitive and increasingly regulated e-gaming industry, Paddy Power Betfairs success depends heavily on its ability to launch exciting new games and services quickly and keep abreast of regulation.
With its existing datacenter infrastructure reaching end of life, the company opted for a new approach and decided to implement a private cloud environment featuring Software-Defined Networking SDN.
AHEAD OF THE GAME Paddy Power Betfair turned to long-term partner Computacenter to help design and implement the solution.
Computacenter provided the technology benchmarking and validation services to help Paddy Power Betfair select the optimum infrastructure platform, comprising flash storage, computing power and networking devices.
As the project unfolded, Computacenters experts helped the e-gaming company take advantage of newer technologies as they emerged on the market, while ensuring they still complied with the approved reference architecture.
The private cloud environment offers Paddy Power Betfair the flexibility and scalability it needs to develop, test and launch better e-gaming products in a shorter timeframe.
Development teams are more productive while infrastructure teams can now spend more time on strategic projects.
The solution also has a smaller datacenter footprint, which reduces costs and management time.
With greater agility, increased productivity and better e-gaming products, Paddy Power Betfair will be able to improve the customer experience and competitive advantage.
As the accelerating rate of change in information technology continues to drive disruption across all markets, the need to innovate has never been more pressing.
A key driver for corporate decision-makers is the need to digitise business by ensuring that business functions are delivered more efficiently from flexible, secure and cost effective platforms.
Computacenter is uniquely positioned to independently help organisations acquire, build and manage hybrid cloud solutions to underpin their digital agenda using best of breed partnerships with private and public cloud providers.
Pierre Hall Director of Solutions, Computacenter 34 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 With Computacenters help and advice, weve established a datacenter platform that will provide the foundations we need going forward as our newly merged company continues to flourish.
Stephen Lowe, Head of Technology, Integration, Paddy Power Betfair CLOUD 35 PERFORMANCE REVIEW CONTINUED FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE The overall performance of the UK business was disappointing.
Whilst Supply Chain revenues increased, driven by a particularly strong second UNITED half, gross margins came under pressure throughout the year.
Services revenues declined in both Managed Services and Professional Services, which reflected the successful conclusion of significant projects in the latter stages of 2015 and the lower than expected Managed Services KINGDOM wins in 2015.
This led to resource management challenges across our central operations.
Wherever practical we reviewed these and flexed down appropriately, mainly by reducing contractors.
We are pleased with the number of new customers added during 2016, 1 Adjusted revenue m -1.1% particularly in our Public Sector business, and this bodes well for the future.
Whilst we saw erosion in the Managed Services Contract Base, through foreseen changes, we were pleased with our renewals rate and renewed some contracts early, leaving less risk moving forward.
1,391.7 We also saw a number of significant new contract wins.
Adjusted operating profit 2014 1,372.4 decreased by 21.1 per cent to 46.8 million 2015: 59.3 million, whilst 2013 1,244.3 statutory profit before tax decreased by 54.0 per cent to 47.0 million 2012 1,159.5 2015: 102.1 million.
1 Adjusted operating profit m -21.1% 46.8 Our UK business had a more difficult year than we expected in 2016, particularly at Services contract base m -1.1% the margin level, but the number of new customers we added bodes well for the future.
309.0 UK revenue by business type % Kevin James Workplace 20% Managing Director, Datacenter & Networking 21% UK So ware 13% Resold Services 11% Professional Services 8% Managed Services 27% 36 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 SERVICES PERFORMANCE 1 Adjusted Services revenue declined by 7.6 per cent to 491.9 million 2015: 532.4 million, with revenue decreases of 5.5 per cent in Managed Services and 13.7 per cent in Professional Services.
This reflected a lower than expected win rate across our Services business.
However, retaining our existing customers is always a key focus and retention remained high.
As signposted last year, the UK benefited by 3 million, both on a revenue and profitability basis, in 2015 from the unusual timing of contract lifecycles.
Managed Services had another busy year of contract renewals, and customers continued to bring renewals forward prior to the end of their initial term.
We firmly believe that this reflects the quality of service and commitment that the business provides for its customers.
During the year, we were pleased to see some new in-year Managed Services wins with a combined Annual Contract Value ACV of circa 24 million, and we continued to focus on developing our Managed SUPPLY CHAIN PERFORMANCE Services pipeline.
We are confident that we enter 2017 in a stronger This was a year of two contrasting halves, with volumes and position to develop these opportunities and to grow our Contract momentum clearly increasing over the summer and into the autumn, Base, whilst continuing to renew and extend our current contracts.
post the significant uncertainty and reduced confidence prior to the 1 Referendum to leave the European Union in June 2016.
Adjusted Supply The renewal rate inevitably puts pressure on revenue and margins Chain revenue declined by 3.9 per cent in the first half, including circa within those contracts.
During the year, we undertook successful 20 million of very low margin transactions.
Pleasingly, the second half initiatives across our Managed Services business in order to drive was stronger than the second half of 2015, with revenue growth of operational efficiency through further use of centralised services 9.2 per cent.
This meant we saw growth of 2.8 per cent to 899.8 million and site-based operational effectiveness, resulting in an improved for the year as a whole 2015: 875.0 million, following a flat Managed Services margin.
This helped, in part, to mitigate the lower performance in 2015.
However, gross margins came under significant rate of new contracts that were won in 2015 and the resulting lower pressure throughout 2016, partly through customer mix and some Managed Services revenues in 2016, both in running the Managed decline in specific accounts.
Services contracts, and in business take-on activity which drives our Professional Services engagements.
Our UK business continues to be recognised for its service quality in independent customer Kevin James satisfaction surveys carried out, for the industry as a whole, by KPMG Managing Director, UK and the Whitelane Research Group during the year.
In the Whitelane 13 March 2017 survey, we were ranked first place for end user services.
During the year, Professional Services saw an increase in demand for Workplace Infrastructure solutions across our customer base, primarily with Windows 10 transformations.
However, 2016 revenue from these projects was lower than expected, as they slipped to later in the year and also into 2017.
Our improved execution enhanced our margin in 2016.
As we enter 2017, we are confident of achieving our growth targets in this key area, with strong demand for our services to support existing and new customers in delivering their digital strategies.
In 2017, we expect significant Windows 10 project rollouts and infrastructure transformation in Cloud, Networking and Security across our customer base, which will continue to drive growth.
37 PERFORMANCE REVIEW CONTINUED FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE The German business performed well in 2016 and ended the year ahead of our expectations, reflecting customers willingness to invest GERMANY in IT infrastructure and new solutions.
Performance in 2016 was driven by significant Services growth and good Supply Chain performance.
High customer demand for Revenue m 3.1% Professional Services related to our core technology areas delivered strong results.
We improved margins in Supply Chain and successfully shifted the business mix into Cloud and Networking.
A small number of critical deals underperformed in our Managed Services business 1,702.6 but overall this area is growing and generating good margins.
We are starting 2017 with strong pipelines in every business.
Adjusted operating profit for the German business 2 2012 1,473.1 increased by 15.4 per cent in constant currency to 43.5 million 2015: 2 37.7 million, and by 29.6 per cent in actual currency.
Statutory 2 profit before tax increased by 28.3 per cent in constant currency to 46.2 million 2015: 36.0 million, and increased by 44.3 per cent in 2 actual currency.
1 Adjusted operating profit m 15.4% SERVICES PERFORMANCE 2 Services revenue grew by 7.2 per cent in constant currency to 560.1 million 2015: 522.5 million, and grew by 20.7 per cent in 2 43.5 actual currency.
This included growth of 14.3 per cent in Professional Services and 4.4 per cent in Managed Services, both on a constant 2 currency basis.
Services contract base m 4.3% 381.0 We had a good year in Germany, with Germany revenue by business type % higher revenue and increased margins contributing to robust profit growth.
Workplace 16% Datacenter & Networking 34% The business has strong momentum So ware 7% Resold Services 10% going into 2017.
Professional Services 10% Managed Services 23% Reiner Louis Managing Director, Germany 38 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 In 2016, the Managed Services business focused on a number of big renewals where contracts ended or will end in 2017.
We successfully renewed most of these contracts, including with a global chemical company and a leading German investment bank.
We believe this reflects our strong customer relationships and quality of service.
We were particularly pleased to renew two contracts that we had previously designated as onerous, on improved financial terms.
We also had some significant new wins, which will contribute to future growth.
Most notably, we won a three-and-a-half year Managed Services contract with National Aeronautics and Space Research Centre DLR, where we will take over Workplace, Communication, Networking and Datacenter Services in the second half of 2017.
During 2016, we took on 14 new contracts.
Of these, three had significant cost overruns which are now behind us.
While the vast majority of in-life contracts are performing satisfactorily, we still have two problem contracts where we made losses in 2016 and SUPPLY CHAIN PERFORMANCE took revenue recognition adjustments for future losses within The German Supply Chain business performed well in 2016, achieving 2 operating costs.
Both of these present a significant opportunity for revenue growth of 1.2 per cent on a constant currency basis to 1,142.5 2 improvement to the bottom line in 2017.
The Managed Services pipeline million 2015: 1,129.4 million, and 13.9 per cent in actual currency.
We remains strong, with some significant opportunities.
benefited from a strong Security, Networking and Cloud business, which compensated for a decline in our Workplace business.
Because we grew Our German Professional Services business was probably the Groups these businesses and managed margins properly, the overall growth in star performer in 2016.
The growth in our consulting and project contribution from Supply Chain was strong.
business demonstrates that our customers trust our skills and expertise.
Professional Services activity was dominated by services In Networking and Security, we have seen particularly strong growth relating to the digital workplace, security, and building and expanding across the core Networking refresh, Cloud Building and Security cloud infrastructures for our customers.
In particular, we were infrastructure sub-segments.
In Datacenter, we continued to benefit delighted to be chosen by a federal government customer to help from our Cloud Building strategy and from a growing interest in SAP build a new cloud infrastructure for several government departments.
We expect that Windows 10 will The scarcity of Professional Services resource continued during the drive demand for Workplace infrastructure refreshes, beginning in year, and whilst the business took many new engineers and experts the second half of 2017.
With strong momentum in our core segment on board, it is likely that this will remain the case in 2017.
This is a comprising of Networking, Cloud and Security, 2017 should be a good challenge for recruitment but an opportunity for margins.
Reiner Louis Managing Director, Germany 13 March 2017 39
