OUR PARTNERS Computacenters Supply Chain business had another satisfactory year in 2016, as the market maintained its rapid pace of change.
In response to this environment, some of the industrys leading companies have STRIKING THE adopted very different strategies.
Dells acquisition of EMC gives it the broadest product and solutions portfolio of any company, spanning mobility through to data centres.
On the other hand, the relatively new Hewlett Packard Enterprise doubled down on its hybrid infrastructure RIGHT BALANCE investments and reinforced this commitment by stating its intention to divest some non-core assets.
Another of our major partners, Cisco, is transforming itself into a software-led company, away from the networking hardware products it is famous for.
These changes create both challenge and opportunity for Computacenter.
The Group Commercial Operations GCO team therefore remains focused on balancing todays requirements with the evolving demands and strategies of our customers and partners.
Another key influence on the Supply Chain is the increasing importance of cloud and new consumption-based IT provision, often referred to as  or XaaS.
Cloud XaaS has a part to play in virtually every company, big or small, but the pace and type of adoption will vary tremendously.
Computacenter focuses on enterprise customers, which typically run their businesses using large ERP systems, often referred to as systems of record.
At the other end of the spectrum are systems of engagement, the tools used to interact with suppliers and customers.
It is in this space that we expect to see the greatest adoption of cloud-based applications by our customers, due to increasing demand from their users for agility, speed of delivery and ultimately, competitive advantage.
With the backdrop of this likely shift in demand, we continued to see the normal country-by-country differences in category performance in 2016.
However, at a Group level, our workplace business remained strong.
This bodes well for 2017 and beyond, as we have yet to see the major migration to Microsoft Windows 10 that we believe is coming.
Our x86 server business had a more challenging year, as customers considered alternatives including converged systems typically appliances that integrate, compute, storage, network, software and cloud.
Computacenter performed well in the converged infrastructure segment and this in turn supported an improved performance in Digital was the key trend to emerge in storage and networking throughout the year.
Our user-centric approach to the The focus areas for 2017 include increasing our international Supply digital workplace gives us a clearly Chain capability for customers with a global footprint: growing our Managed Print Services portfolio, which delivers significant advantages differentiated proposition for customers.
in management, service delivery and cost: and continuing to transform our software business from the perpetual licence-led approach to todays hybrid world of licence and subscription-based models.
Finally, if cloud was the mega trend of the last two to three years, there is no doubt that digital was the key trend to emerge in 2016.
Mike Rodwell Computacenters user-centric approach to the digital workplace, Group Chief through initiatives such as NGSD and the newly launched Digital Commercial Officer Me, provides a clearly differentiated proposition to our customers, delivering enhanced usability, supportability and collaboration.
The GCO will enhance our own service offerings and capability in parallel to these initiatives, to deliver a world-class service.
10 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR MARKETS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 In contrast, new digital market segments are growing.
In these markets, the service is primarily delivered with or through software.
Examples include mobile device and application management, public THE SHIFT and private Cloud services, and Network Security.
These provide opportunities for Supply Chain, Professional and Managed Services.
WHAT THIS MEANS FOR OUR KEY STAKEHOLDERS TO DIGITAL Digital transformation has important implications for end users, businesses and our primary route into our customers, the CIO.
Users want technology and services to deliver the same experience in the workplace as they do in their private lives.
Consumerisation, the war for talent, the digitalisation of work and the shift to knowledge work means that organisations must DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION offer what their users want, in order to deliver higher customer Digital transformation means radically improving customer satisfaction and stronger employee engagement and retention.
experience, operational processes and business models by using This aligns perfectly with our heritage and focus on the end user technology.
This transformation is a fundamental driver of of technology.
Businesses want to use digital technologies to defend themselves or grow.
They see social media, mobile channels, In a digital world, we see three principles for success: analytics, cloud and the Internet of Things as tools for improving the customer experience, their operational processes and their 1.
Engage the user: Making it simple, intuitive and even fun for your business models.
Computacenter is increasingly building vertical customers to interact with you.
expertise to help businesses achieve these goals, especially in 2.
Establish a platform: Putting in place a central service, to which public services, manufacturing and financial services.
you can add value-enhancing solutions or services.
Customers CIOs need to save to innovate.
They want to generate savings only need to sign-up once and can get continuous benefits from their traditional IT budgets, so they can fund the digital through the solutions available to them on the platform.
Automate the delivery: Developing processes that are delivered CIOs to save, for example through outsourcing, and to drive without any human intervention, which offer scalability, innovation, such as through our vendor relations and highly improved efficiency and lower cost.
IT MARKETS ARE SHIFTING TO DIGITAL Traditional IT markets are in decline.
Where services are performed on devices by people, this decline is primarily due to price pressure.
This pressure must be countered by relentlessly driving service cost down, through standardisation, off-shoring and automation.
Services affected are those such as desktop outsourcing, helpdesks and client device support.
The Shift to Digital provides us with growth opportunities across our portfolio.
Michael Weiss Head of Group Strategy & Marketing Source: Massachusetts Institute of Technology 11
