BOARD OF DIRECTORS Greg Lock Non-Executive Chairman and A STRONG Chairman of the Nomination Committee Age: 69 Committee Membership: N, R TEAM Board Member Attendance: 8 8 Greg is a Non-Executive Director of United Business Media plc.
He The appointment of Ros Rivaz will bring has more than 45 years experience in the software and computer an objectivity and fresh perspective on services industry, including seven years as Chairman of Kofax plc and four years as Chairman of SurfControl plc.
From 1998 to 2000, he was both new and existing business that the General Manager of IBMs Global Industrial sector.
Greg also served as Board considers at its meetings, and will a member of IBMs Worldwide Management Council and as a governor of the IBM Academy of Technology.
complement the continuity of service and knowledge of the Company brought by the remaining members of the Board.
Mike Norris Chief Executive Officer Age: 55 Board Member Attendance: 8 8 Mike graduated with a degree in Computer Science and Mathematics from East Anglia University in 1983.
He joined Computacenter in 1984 as a salesman in the City office.
Following appointments in senior roles, he became Chief Executive in December 1994, with responsibility for all day-to-day activities and reporting channels across Computacenter.
Mike also led the Company through flotation on the London Stock Exchange in 1998.
Mike was awarded an Honorary Doctorate of Science from the University of Hertfordshire in 2010.
Tony Conophy Group Finance Director Age: 59 Board Member Attendance: 8 8 Tony has been a member of the Institute of Chartered Management Accountants since 1982.
He qualified with Semperit Ireland Ltd and then worked for five years at Cape Industries plc.
He joined Computacenter in 1987 as Financial Controller, rising in 1991 to General Manager of Finance.
In 1996, he was appointed Finance and Commercial Director of Computacenter UK Limited with Committee Membership Key responsibility for all financial, purchasing and vendor relations A Audit Committee activities.
In March 1998 he was appointed Group Finance Director.
N Nomination Committee R Remuneration Committee 54 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Peter Ogden Philip Yea Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Age: 69 andChairman of the Remuneration Board Member Attendance: 8 8 Committee Age: 62 Committee Membership: A, N, R Board Member Attendance: 8 8 Peter founded Computacenter with Philip Hulme in 1981 and was Philip is Chairman of Greene King plc and a Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Company until 1998, when he became a Nonof Vodafone Group plc, Marshall of Cambridge Holdings Limited and Executive Director.
Prior to founding Computacenter, he was a Aberdeen Asian Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc.
He is also an Managing Director of Morgan Stanley and Co. independent trustee of the Francis Crick Institute.
He has chaired a number of private and public companies and has significant previous Executive Management experience in both private equity and public companies, having served as the Chief Executive of 3i Group plc between 2004 and 2009.
Prior to this, he was also the Finance Director at Diageo plc, the global drinks group.
Philip Hulme Regine Stachelhaus Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Age: 68 Age: 61 Board Member Attendance: 7 8 Committee Membership: A, N, R Board Member Attendance: 8 8 Philip founded Computacenter with Peter Ogden in 1981 and worked Regine is a member of the Board of SPIE Paris and SPIE GmbH, a for the Company on a full-time basis until stepping down as Executive member of the Supervisory Board of Covestro AG and Covestro Chairman in 2001.
He was previously a Vice President and Director of Deutschland AG and a member of the Supervisory Board of Metro AG.
She has been on the Board of Directors at E. ON SE, a major energy company included in the Eurostoxx 50 index, where she had a broad range of operational responsibilities including for Legal & Compliance, Group Procurement, Group Human Resources and Group IT.
Before that, she worked for several years as Vice President, Imaging and Printing Group of HP Germany.
Minnow Powell Ros Rivaz Non-Executive Director and Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Audit Committee Age: 61 Age: 62 Committee Membership: A, N, R Committee Membership: A, N, R Board Member Attendance: 1 1 Board Member Attendance: 8 8 Minnow is a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Ros is a Non-Executive Director of Boparan Holdings Limited where Committee of SuperGroup Plc.
He was a Director and chaired the Audit she is a member of both the Audit and Remuneration Committees Committee of Tui Travel Plc from 2011 to 2014 and was a member of and a Non-Executive Director on the MOD Defence Equipment and the Supervisory Board of Tui AG from December 2014 to February 2016.
Support Board where she is also a member of the Remuneration Minnow spent 35 years with Deloitte where he became a Partner in Committee.
Ros is the Deputy Chair of the Council of the University 1985.
Minnows audit client portfolio included companies within the of Southampton, where she holds an Honorary Doctorate, as well same sector, and with similar business models, as Computacenter.
as a Non-Executive Director of the Government-sponsored Your He is a Chartered Accountant and was a member of the Auditing Life initiative encouraging 14-16 year olds to pursue qualifications Practices Board for six years.
Ros served as the Chief Operating Officer for Smith & Nephew plc and has held senior management positions in global companies in the areas of supply chain management, logistics, manufacturing, IT, procurement and systems.
