Governance and Directors Report OTHER STATUTORY DISCLOSURES This Directors Report forms part of the management report as Payment of the recommended final dividend, if approved at the required under DGTR 4.
The Strategic Report on pages 1 to 33 2017 AGM, will be made on 20 February 2017 to shareholders includes an indication of future likely developments in the registered at the close of business on 20 January 2017.
The Company, details of important events and the Companys shares will be quoted ex-dividend from 19 January 2017. business model and strategy.
The Corporate Governance Report During the year, the trustees of each of the employee benefit on pages 34 to 57, the Other Statutory Disclosures on pages 80 trusts which operate in connection with the Companys share to 84 and the Directors Responsibilities statement on page 86 plans waived their rights to receive dividends on any shares are incorporated into the Directors Report byreference.
Details of the trusts can be found on page 82 of The following disclosures have been included elsewhere within this Report.
The amount of dividends waived during the year the Annual Report and are incorporated into the Directors ended 30September 2016 in relation to the trusts was 7,725 Report byreference.
DISCLOSURE PAGE As at the date of this Report, there were 11,550,642 ordinary Financial Risk Management 24 5 10 8pence shares held in treasury for the purpose of satisfying Going Concern 25 the Companys obligations under the Companys employee Viability Statement 25 equity incentive schemes.
Shares held in treasury are not entitled to receive dividends.
Therefore, 3,743,780 worth of Risk Management 27 dividends were not paid during the financial year in relation Carbon Emissions 31 to treasury shares.
Corporate Governance Report, including Reports from each principal Board Committee 34 A dividend reinvestment plan is available to eligible Directors Responsibilities statement 86 shareholders.
Details can be found on page 160.
DIRECTORS SHARE CAPITAL Particulars of the directors in office at the date of this Report GENERAL are listed on pages 38 to 40.
In accordance with the Code, each As at the date of this Report, 1,654,289,837 ordinary shares of 5 director will retire and submit himself or herself for election or 10 8pence each of which 11,550,642 are held in treasury have re-election at the 2017AGM.
been issued, are fully paid up and are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
The total voting rights attaching to the issued There were a number of changes to the composition of the ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares at the date of Board and its committees during the year.
In addition, the Company sponsors Don Robert succeeded Sir Ian Robinson as SID.
On 1 December a Level I American Depositary Receipts programme with 2015, Johnny Thomson succeeded Dominic Blakemore as Group BNY Mellon, under which the Companys shares are traded Finance Director, Andrew Martin stepped down as the Chief on the over the counter market in the form of American Operating Officer of Europe & Japan and Dominic Blakemore DepositaryShares.
became Chief Operating Officer, Europe on the same day.
Sir Ian Robinson stepped down from the Board at the During the year ended 30 September 2016, 2,666,477 options conclusion of the Companys AGM on 4 February2016.
were exercised and 1,126,121 awards released pursuant to the Companys share option schemes and long term incentive plans.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS Of those options exercised and awards released, all were satisfied In the year ended 30September 2016, the Group delivered an by the reissue of 3,780,997 treasury shares with an additional increase of 12.8% in Group underlying profit before tax from 11,601 shares released from the Compass Group Employee Share 1,192 million to 1,344 million and an increase of 14% in Group Trust.
A further 25,245 treasury shares have been used to satisfy profit before tax from 1,159 million to 1,321 million.
awards under these schemes since the end of the financial year to the date of this Report.
A summary of the dividends on ordinary shares for the year ended 30September 2016 compared with 2015 is shown below: There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in YEAR DIVIDEND PENCE PER SHARE the capital of the Company other than certain restrictions which 2016 Interim 10.6 may from time to time be imposed by law, for example, insider 2016 Final recommended 21.1 trading law.
In accordance with the EU Market Abuse Regulation which came into effect on 3 July 2016, certain employees are 2016 Total 31.7 required to seek the approval of the Company to deal in its shares.
2015 Interim 9.8 2015 Final 19.6 The Company is not aware of any agreements between 2015 Total 29.4 shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or votingrights.
The 2016 interim dividend of 10.6 pence per share The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended 2015: 9.8pence was paid to shareholders on 25 July 2016. by special resolution at a general meeting ofshareholders.
80 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ISSUE OF SHARES The Company is not aware of any significant agreements to which it is party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a At the 2017 AGM, the directors will ask shareholders to renew change of control of the Company following atakeover.
the authority last granted to them at the 2016 AGM to allot equity shares representing approximately one third of the issued More detailed information relating to the rights and obligations ordinary shares calculated at the latest practicable date prior to attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, in addition to the publication of the Notice of AGM the section 551 authority those conferred by law, are set out in the Companys Articles of and, in accordance with the Investment Association Share Association, which are available on the Companys website as Capital Management Guidelines, the directors again propose well as on pages 24 and 25 of the Annual Report for the year to extend this by a further one third of the Companys issued ended 30 September 2007.
The 2007 Annual Report is available ordinary share capital, provided that such amount shall only be on the Companys website at www.
used in connection with a rights issue.
If approved, the authority will expire no later than 15 months from the date on which the REPURCHASE OF SHARES resolution is passed, or at the conclusion of the AGM to be held From 1 October 2015 to 31 March 2016 the Company in 2018, whichever is thesooner.
5 repurchased 6,560,656 ordinary shares of 10 8pence for a consideration of 72.7 million including expenses.
These The limited power granted to the directors at the 2016 AGM shares were subsequently transferred to be held in treasury to allot equity shares for cash other than pro rata to existing for the purpose of satisfying the Companys obligations under shareholders expires no later than 3 May 2017.
Subject to the employee equity incentive schemes.
From 1 April 2016 to terms of the section 551 authority, this authority is in line with 30 September 2016 and from 1October 2016 up to the date of the Statement of Principles on Pre-emption Rights issued by 5 this Report, 2,110,923 and 376,622 ordinary 10 8pence shares the Pre-Emption Group and supported by the Investment were repurchased for a consideration of 27.5 million and Association and the Pensions and Lifetime Savings Association 5.2 million including expenses respectively, and subsequently the Principles.
If granted, this authority will give the directors cancelled.
Shares held in treasury are not eligible to participate the ability until the AGM to be held in 2018 to issue ordinary in dividends and do not carry any voting rights.
shares for cash, other than pro rata to existing shareholders, in connection with a rights issue or up to a limit of 5% of the issued Returns to shareholders continue to be an integral part of our ordinary share capital whether or not in connection with an business model and it is the Boards intention to continue to acquisition or specified capital investment calculated at the maintain strong investment grade credit ratings by returning latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice any surplus cash toshareholders.
of AGM and, in accordance with the Principles, the directors At the 2017 AGM, a special resolution will be proposed to renew propose to extend this by an additional 5% of the Companys the directors limited authority to repurchase ordinary shares in issued ordinary share capital calculated at the latest practicable the market, last granted at the 2016 AGM.
The directors consider date prior to the publication of the Notice of AGM, provided that it desirable for these general authorisations to be available in the additional authority would only be used for the purpose of an order to maintain an efficient capital structure whilst at the same acquisition or a specified capital investment which is announced time retaining the flexibility to fund any infill acquisitions.
contemporaneously with the issue or which has taken place in the preceding six month period and is disclosed in the The authority sets the minimum and maximum prices which announcement of the issue.
This year, in line with recommended may be paid and it will be limited to a maximum of 10% of the best practice, the Company has split the section 561 resolution Companys issued ordinary share capital calculated at the latest into two separate resolutions.
The first resolution seeks practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of AGM.
authorisation for 5% of the issued ordinary share capital to be Any purchases of ordinary shares will be by means of market issued on an unrestricted basis, whilst the second resolution purchases through the London Stock Exchange and any seeks authority for the additional 5% of the issued ordinary shares purchased may be cancelled or placed into treasury in share capital to be used for an acquisition or a specified accordance with the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares capital investment.
In line with best practice, the Company has not issued more than 7.5% of its issued ordinary share capital on a non-prorated basis over the last three years.
The directors have no present intention to issue ordinary shares, other than pursuant to the Companys employee equity incentive share schemes, and this authority will maintain the Companys flexibility in relation to future share issues, including any issues to finance business opportunities, should appropriate circumstancesarise.
Details of repurchases into treasury shares and the reissue of treasury shares made during the year, together with details of options granted over unissued capital, are set out in note 21 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 134 and 135.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 81 Governance and Directors Report Other Statutory Disclosures continued SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS EMPLOYEE POLICIES AND INVOLVEMENT The following major shareholdings have been notified to The Group places particular importance on the involvement the Company as at 30September 2016 and up to the date of of its employees, keeping them regularly informed, through this Report.
informal bulletins and other in-house publications, meetings and the Companys internal websites, on matters affecting them % OF COMPASS % OF ISSUED GROUP PLCS as employees and on the issues affecting their performance.
1 1 CAPITAL VOTING RIGHTS Since 1996, those Group businesses in the European Economic Blackrock, Inc. 9.99 9.99 Area EEA have been represented on the Compass European Invesco Limited 4.95 4.95 Council CEC, which provides a forum for exchanging Massachusetts Financial information and engaging in consultation on the Groups Services Company 9.96 9.96 performance and plans, and relevant transnational issues affecting those countries in the EEA.
the Groups CEC Article 13 Agreement terminated in December 2012.
A process of negotiation commenced through a Special Since the disclosure date, the shareholders interests in the Negotiating Body, which comprised employee representatives Company may have changed.
from each of the countries in which the Group operates within The number of shares held by the directors as at the EEA.
On 22 March 2016, a new Agreement was reached 30September 2016 can be found on page 78 in the Directors between the employee representatives and management on Remuneration Report.
behalf of the total EEA workforce under the EU Council Directive 2009 38 EC, and will operate for an initial period EMPLOYEE SHARE TRUSTS of three years.
The Compass Group Employee Share Trust ESOP and The Compass Group Employee Trust Number 2 CGET were Permanent UK employees are normally invited to join the Companys defined contribution pension scheme, Compass established on 13 January 1992 and 12 April 2001 respectively in connection with the Companys share option plans.
The Retirement Income Savings Plan CRISP, on the completion of two years service this includes any service that may have Compass Group Long Term Incentive Plan Trust LTIPT was established on 5 April 2001 in connection with the Companys transferred across under the Transfer of Undertakings Protection of Employment Regulations 2006 TUPE.
CRISP long term incentive plans.
Details of all employee equity incentive schemes are set out in the Directors Remuneration has a corporate trustee.
Nigel Palmer, a former employee of the Group, is chairman of the trustees.
The other five trustee Report on pages 58 to 79.
The trustees of the ESOP, LTIPT and CGET hold nil 2015: 11,601, 16,198 2015: 16,198 and directors are UK based employees of the Group, two of whom have been nominated by CRISP members.
nil 2015: nil ordinary shares of the Companyrespectively.
Those UK employees who transferred from the public sector The Compass Group Executive Option Share Trust and the Compass Group Executive Share Trust were established on under TUPE have been eligible to join the Compass Group Pension Plan the Plan, a defined benefit pension arrangement 15and 22 February 2010 respectively in relation to the operation of equity incentive schemes in Australia.
No ordinary shares which is otherwise closed to new entrants.
However, under the Governments revised guidance for Fair Deal for staff pensions, were held by these trusts as at 30 September 2016 2015: nil.
the expectation is that the Group will in future participate in AWARDS UNDER EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES the relevant public sector pension scheme and close the Plan Details of awards made during the year and held by executive to future new entrants.
The Plan also has a corporate trustee.
directors as at 30 September 2016 are set out in the Directors Phillip Whittome is the independent chairman.
There are a Remuneration Report on pages 58 to 79. further six trustee directors, five of whom are either UK based employees or former employees of the Group three of whom Details of employee equity incentive schemes and grants made have been nominated by Plan members, and the sixth is an during the year ended 30 September 2016 to, and extant awards independent trustee director.
held by, employees are disclosed in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 136 to 140.
82 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company became subject to the automatic enrolment Our people are instrumental in our success: we respect and value regulations for its workforce in the UK on 1November 2012, the individuality and diversity that every employee brings to the but deferred its staging date for automatic enrolment of eligible Group.
We base our relationship with our employees on respect employees to 2 January 2013 as permitted by the regulations.
for the dignity of the individual and fair treatment forall.
Both the Plan and CRISP are compliant arrangements under As at 30 September 2016, there were 527,180 2015: 516,992 these regulations and have been registered as such.
All new people employed by the Group average number of employees UK employees who meet the statutory requirements, and including directors and part-time employees of whom who are not immediately entered into the Plan or CRISP, are 300,493 were female 2015: 294,646 and 226,687 were male automatically enrolled into the National Employment Savings 2015: 222,276.
Of these, 844 were senior managers 646 male, Trust NEST.
The Groups compliance with the auto-enrolment 198 female 2015: 634 male, 173 female which include members regulations, and the performance of NEST, are kept under of our global leadership team and individuals who are statutory regular review by the Groups PensionsDepartment.
directors of the corporate entities whose financial information Permanent employees outside the UK are usually offered is included in the Groups consolidated accounts in this Annual membership of local pension arrangements if and where Report.
In terms of the Companys Board, as at 30 September they exist and where it is appropriate to have Company 2016 there were 12 directors, nine of whom were male and sponsored arrangements.
Prior to any appointment to the Board, the Nomination Committee gives due regard to diversity and Employees are offered a range of benefits, such as private gender with a view to appointing the most suitable candidate medical cover, depending on the local environment.
given to the training of employees and the development of their skills.
Employment of disabled people is considered on merit We seek to create a positive, open working environment with regard only to the ability of any applicant to carry out the wherever we operate.
Our employee policies are set locally to role.
Arrangements to enable disabled people to carry out the comply with local law within an overall Group framework and duties required will be made if it is reasonable to do so.
An we monitor our employee satisfaction and engagement through employee becoming disabled would, where appropriate, be a number of key performance indicators, details of which can be offered retraining.
found on pages 30 to 33 of the Corporate Responsibility section of the Strategic Report.
The Group continues to operate on a decentralised basis.
This provides the maximum encouragement for the development of We also consider the concerns of wider communities where entrepreneurial flair, balanced by a rigorous control framework we operate, including national and local interests, utilising exercised by a small head office team.
Local management teams our relevant expertise to help contribute to the wellbeing of are responsible for maintaining high standards of health and communities which are appropriate to our business objectives.
safety and for ensuring that there is appropriate employee Furthermore, the Group supports the rights of all people as involvement in decisionmaking.
set out in the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights UN Declaration and considers carefully before doing any EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS business in countries that do not adhere to the UNDeclaration.
Our Code of Ethics was developed in consultation with the CEC GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REPORTING and the Institute of Business Ethics and sets out clear standards of behaviour that we expect all of our people to demonstrate The Company is required to state the annual quantity of and adhere to.
The Code of Ethics, which is part of our CBC, emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent from activities underpins our social, ethical and environmental commitments for which the Group is responsible, including the combustion and sends a clear message to our stakeholders of our of fuel and the operation of any facility.
Details of our emissions commitment to responsible business practice.
The 10 principles during the year ended 30September 2016 are set out within of the United Nations UN Global Compact, to which we are the Corporate Responsibility section of the Strategic Report a signatory, underpin our own Code of Ethics.
This UN initiative on pages 30 and 31 and form part of the Directors Report encourages companies to make human rights, labour standards, disclosures.
Further details of the actions which the Group environmental responsibility and anti-corruption part of their is taking to reduce emissions can also be found online at business agenda.
Our annual Communication on Progress can www.
This Annual Report is certified be viewed at www.
carbon neutral by sponsoring a carbon neutral cause to offset against the emissions arising from the production, printing and delivery of this Report.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 83 Governance and Directors Report Other Statutory Disclosures continued DONATIONS AND POLITICAL EXPENDITURE The primary method of communicating with shareholders is by electronic means, helping to make the Company Charitable objectives support the Companys CR strategy more environmentally friendly by reducing waste and and have primarily focused on improving the environment, pollution associated with the production and posting of its education, health and wellbeing, community engagement Annual Report.
The Annual Report and Accounts is available to and responsible business practice.
Donations have included all shareholders and can be accessed via the Companys website employee involvement through fundraising and financialsupport.
The Groups annual and interim GROUP CHARITABLE DONATIONS M results are also published on the Companys website, together 2016 8.5 with all other announcements and documents issued to the 2015 7.9 market, such as statements, interviews and presentations by the Group Chief Executive and Group FinanceDirector.
Since 2004, shareholders have passed an annual resolution, on a precautionary basis, to approve donations to EU political The Notice of Annual General Meeting is circulated to all organisations and to incur EU political expenditure as such shareholders at least 20 working days prior to such meeting terms were defined under the then relevant legislation not and it is Company policy not to combine resolutions to be exceeding a monetary limit approved by shareholders.
The proposed at general meetings.
All shareholders are invited to Board has consistently confirmed that it operates a policy of the Companys AGM at which they have the opportunity to put not giving any cash contribution to any political party in the questions to the Board and it is standard practice to have the ordinary meaning of those words and that it has no intention chairmen of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility, Nomination of changing thatpolicy.
and Remuneration committees available to answer questions.
The results of proxy voting for and against each resolution, No material amount of corporate funds or paid employee time as well as abstentions, are announced to the London Stock has been utilised during the year for political activities and, Exchange and are published on the Companys website as in accordance with the Companys CBC, employees must not soon as practicable after the meeting.
Further shareholder engage in any form of lobbying or have contact with political information is available on pages 160 to 162. representatives, government employees or public interest groups unless they are doing so legitimately and adhering to CREST internal control processes.
Further information regarding the The Companys ordinary shares and sterling Eurobonds are CBC can be found on page 49 of this Annual Report and on in CREST, the settlement system for stocks andshares.
the Companys website at www.
DISCLOSURES REQUIRED UNDER The directors propose to renew the authority granted at the UK LISTING RULE 9.8.
4 2016 AGM for the Group to make political donations and incur There are no disclosures required to be made under UK Listing political expenditure as such terms are defined in sections 362 Rule 9.8.
Details of long term incentive plans can be found in to 365 of the CA 2006 until the Companys next AGM, which the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 58 to79.
they might otherwise be prohibited from making or incurring under the terms of the CA 2006 and which would not amount SHAREHOLDER SERVICES to donations in the ordinary sense of the word.
It is proposed Details of services provided to shareholders can be found in the to maintain the limit of such authority at 100,000.
Shareholder Information section on pages 160 to 162 and on the Companyswebsite.
COMMUNICATING WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Company places considerable importance on AGM communication with its shareholders, including its private The Notice of Meeting setting out the resolutions to be proposed shareholders.
The Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance at the 2017 AGM, together with explanatory notes, is set out Director are closely involved in investor relations and a senior on pages 163 to 171 of this Annual Report and is also available at executive has day to day responsibility for such matters.
The directors consider that each of views of the Companys major shareholders are reported to the the resolutions is in the best interests of the Company and the Board by the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance shareholders as a whole and recommend that shareholders Director as well as by the Chairman who remains in contact vote in favour of all of the resolutions.
with our largest shareholders and are discussed at its meetings.
On behalf of the Board There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and this has been extended to include private shareholders through the AGM.
Contact with institutional shareholders and with financial analysts, brokers and the media is controlled by Mark White written guidelines during the year, in compliance with EU Market Abuse Regulation requirements, the Company updated General Counsel and Company Secretary its Corporate Communications Code and introduced a formal 22 November 2016 Market Soundings Policy to ensure the continued protection of share price sensitive information that has not already been made generally available to the Companys shareholders.
Contact is also maintained, when appropriate, with shareholders to discuss overall remuneration plans and policies.
84 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 86 Directors responsibilities for consolidated and NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Parent Company financial statements 102 Segmental reporting 87 Independent auditors report 106 Operating costs 107 Employees CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 108 Finance income, costs and related gains losses 90 Consolidated income statement 109 Tax 91 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 111 Earnings per share 92 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 112 Dividends 94 Consolidated balance sheet 112 Goodwill 95 Consolidated cash flow statement 114 Other intangible assets 95 Reconciliation of free cash flow 115 Property, plant and equipment 96 Accounting policies 116 Equity accounted investments 117 Other investments 117 Trade and other receivables 118 Inventories 119 Cash and cash equivalents 120 Short term and long term borrowings 122 Derivative financial instruments 127 Trade and other payables 128 Provisions 129 Post employment benefit obligations 134 Share capital 136 Share-based payments 140 Business combinations 141 Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated by operations 141 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 142 Contingent liabilities 143 Capital commitments 143 Operating lease and concessions commitments 143 Related party transactions 143 Post balance sheet events 144 Exchange rates 145 Details of related undertakings of Compass Group PLC Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 85
