CASE STUDY: NGSD HAYS DIGITISING IT SUPPORT Revenue generation at Hays is dependent on the productivity of its sales consultants.
Technology is increasingly being used to streamline the recruitment process, which means employees IT queries and issues need to be dealt with quickly.
Hays became an early adopter of Computacenters NGSD solution at the end of 2015.
NGSD provides a consumer-like, user-centric experience with anytime, anywhere IT support and knowledge delivered via an intuitive online portal and mobile app.
In less than three months, NGSD has transformed IT support and the user experience at Hays.
Via the online portal, 5,500 users in 21 countries can now choose from a range of digitised support features from logging their own incidents and initiating online chats to searching knowledge articles.
Sixty per cent of transactions now happen online, which is well above the original target of 50 per cent.
Online chats have proved particularly popular, with around 1,180 being initiated every month.
Sales consultants can continue working while participating in an online chat in the background.
Users are also self-logging more incidents around 370 per month compared with less than 40 previously.
With NGSD, staff outside of the UK can log an incident at any time instead of having to wait for the service desk to open at 7am.
By giving sales consultants and other members of staff access to relevant and responsive support 24 hours a day seven days a week, Hays can maximise the time spent on revenue generating activities, which helps to drive profitable growth.
A user-centric support experience will also contribute to greater staff retention and satisfaction.
NGSD continues to Make Digital Work.
Users will shortly be able to reset their passwords by using biometrics on their smartphone to unlock the NGSD app and request a reset: at any time from any location.
This new development means users are able to solve all their issues without having to speak to the helpdesk.
Another example is next generation request, which is part of the NGSD solution.
This allows users to see the most popular items as selected by their user community, thereby reducing portfolio diversity, order with one click, track through authorisation, fulfilment and delivery, and finally provide direct feedback on the experience.
Our customers employees adopt these experiences quickly and for some customers, more than 60 per cent of interactions are now digital rather than calls to a service desk.
Existing and future customers increasingly understand the importance of a great user experience and we are delighted to offer NGSD as standard with our managed helpdesk service.
Steve Rayner Group Service Innovation Director, Computacenter 20 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NGSD has streamlined the support experience for our staff, freeing them up to focus on their day job.
It has opened up new engagement channels, providing staff with not only greater choice but also better outcomes.
Simon Gerhardt IT Production Services Director, Hays NGSD 21
