STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 BUILDING FOR THE LONG TERM Our services-led strategy is focused on enabling users and their business.
The Groups progress against its strategic objectives is transparently measured by the following four key performance indicators.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 1 STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 2 To lead with and grow our Services business To improve our Services productivity and enhance our competitiveness 2 1 Services contract base m 3.5% Adjusted Services revenue generated -3.4% 2 per Services head 000 719 86 2016 719 2016 86 2015 695 2015 89 2014 682 2014 88 2013 629 2013 85 2012 618 2012 86 STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 3 STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 4 To retain and maximise the relationship with our customers To innovate our Services offerings to build future growth over the long term opportunities 1 2 Number of customer accounts with 11.1% Adjusted Services revenue m -1.0% 2 contribution over 1 million 100 1,038 2016 100 2016 1,038 2015 90 2015 1,048 2014 87 2014 989 2013 82 2013 941 2012 74 2012 911 15 OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED WHAT WE HAVE ACHIEVED IN 2016 1.
TO LEAD WITH AND GROW Over the medium term our Group Contract Base of services has outperformed the market with 3.5 per cent growth in 2016.
OUR SERVICES BUSINESS Whilst the Group saw growth there was a small decline of 1.1 per cent in the UK in 2016 due to a couple of large contracts ending.
There was progress in the first half, with a significant extension with one of the worlds largest multinational conglomerates and new services won at TSB.
Other new wins came later in the year, particularly in the public sector with the DVLA and Met Office both signing services contracts.
We agreed a  model with a UK-based energy company, which will ensure we maximise the efficiency and effectiveness of its mobile asset base.
This win was helped by our previous investments in our enterprise mobility strategy.
In Germany, the year was dominated by securing significant renewals, giving us greater predictability for the coming years.
We maintained good growth of 4.3 per cent in our Contract Base, with new wins largely coming from existing private sector customers including BASF, and a multinational organisation.
The pipeline looks strong and we are confident of securing more new customers in the short term.
Our success in France was the most promising, with a 19.6 per cent Leading the growth increase in our Contract Base.
Growth mainly came from the private sector, with key wins with a leading tyre manufacturer and Dassault Aviation, helped by our Enabling Users strategy.
These wins, coupled with an agreement in Belgium to support Toyotas end users, make us confident of continuing growth outside the UK and Germany.
WHAT WE INTEND TO DO IN 2017 Despite different levels of market maturity across the regions, our Enabling Users message and, in particular, our Digital Workplace propositions are consistently well received.
This allows us, and our customers, to benefit from sharing successful teams, tools, processes and practises across the Group.
We will invest more in our operating models in 2017, so we stay relevant and competitive, with greater access to new ways of working such as automation, as well as analytic tools.
We will continue to listen to our customers With a promising pipeline in most markets, we can continue to outperform the market, using our expanding capabilities, high levels and prospects, so we can demonstrate of credibility and commercial strength to benefit our customers and how our highly engaged teams can enable prospects.
We will maintain high levels of customer satisfaction, so our customers provide reference points for new opportunities.
their users in this digitalworld.
We will also continue to balance the short and the long term, by winning new Services deals in 2017 while building a healthy qualified pipeline for 2018 and 2019.
Neil Hall 2 Services contract base m 3.5% Director of Business Enablement & Contractual Services 719 IT Services Forecast 2014-2020, Q4 2016 Update, Gartner, shows IT Services across Belgium, France, the UK and Germany at -0.8 per cent Computacenter addressable market 16 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 WHAT WE HAVE ACHIEVED IN 2016 2.
TO IMPROVE OUR SERVICES Last year saw us advance a number of services productivity measures and initiatives.
We reviewed our daily engineering work across our UK PRODUCTIVITY AND ENHANCE Managed Services contracts, using expert consultants.
This allowed us to compare engineering levels and productivity.
We also assessed OURCOMPETITIVENESS the suitability of the contracts for our new Field Force Enablement approach and piloted the technology and process solution with a topthree German customer.
We worked with our German Works Council to show how the investment improves the experience for engineers and customers.
The engineer now receives an optimised work schedule via a smart device and can use the device to capture customer feedback.
As predicted, 2016 saw us expand geographically due to customer demand, opening Service Centres in China and Mexico.
We matured our service offering and capability in France and Hungary, attracting significant new contracts with a leading tyre manufacturer and one of the worlds largest multinational conglomerates.
Our highly productive Service Centre in Cape Town saw existing customers such as Channel 4, Eversheds Sutherland and one of the top four largest UK supermarkets transition their UK-based service desks to take advantage of our experienced South African technical capability and pricing competitiveness.
Providing services from off-shore locations with lower delivery costs, as compared to our key geographies, often Driving efficiency materially reduces prices for the customer.
This makes us more competitive but also makes it difficult to grow this particular KPI, as the headcount used to provide the service often stays the same or increases slightly.
2016 also saw us insource our North American service provision, which was previously delivered through strategic partners.
We established Computacenter USA, headquartered in New Jersey, and have grown to a headcount of around 630 people across the USA and Mexico, primarily by transferring in employees from outsource partners.
This diluted the KPI by just over two percentage points, as we already enjoyed the revenue without having the employees in our headcount.
WHAT WE INTEND TO DO IN 2017 The longevity of our services customer We will leverage Field Force Enablement across our customers.
Most of our large-scale service contracts can embrace this way of relationships and our resulting ability working, improving efficiency, employee engagement and customer toreference them to potential satisfaction.
We will model the benefit into some larger bids and prospects, so we are more competitive from the outset.
customersistestament to our ongoing We will mature the Mexico and China facilities and expand our service competitiveness and relevance in desk offering, exploring new countries to support our customers native language requirements.
Each Service Centre operates in the themarketplace.
same way, so they are quick to initialise and we can share work across them, subject to customer agreement and data protection laws.
We will also continue to invest in market-leading tools and innovative process automation, to drive productivity in our shared remote infrastructure monitoring.
Automation helps us continuously monitor Chris Webb and better alert on customers servers, storage arrays, software, Group Chief applications and networks, whether their arrangements are enabled Operating Officer via their cloud, our Cloud, a partners cloud or all three.
1 Adjusted Services revenue generated -3.4% 2 per Services head 000 86 17 OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED WHAT WE HAVE ACHIEVED IN 2016 3.
TO RETAIN AND MAXIMISE THE At Computacenter, we focus on maintaining and growing our customer relationships over the long term, across our range of RELATIONSHIP WITH OUR products and services.
Delivering high levels of service compared to our competitors and achieving a good return on our customers IT CUSTOMERS OVER THE LONG TERM investment encourages them to increase our share of their spend.
This approach, along with our focus on winning new customers, helps us to increase the number of customers who contribute more than 2 1 million of gross profit in constant currency per year, which remains one of our key performance indicators.
We often take decisions which may be considered detrimental to our Income Statement in the short term but will help us to maintain customer relationships for the long term.
This has been particularly prevalent in 2016, as our customers continually seek to reduce their operating costs.
We are pleased with our 2016 performance across the Group, which saw us increase the number of customers achieving greater than 1million of contribution by 10, from 90 to 100.
WHAT WE INTEND TO DO IN 2017 Maintaining and enhancing our long-term customer relationships At the heart of our customers is deep in the culture of Computacenter, so little will change in the coming 12 months.
However, our increasing geographical footprint enables us to address a larger market, both throughout Western Europe and globally, where we now have a substantial track record of delivering to major customers.
As the IT infrastructure marketplace becomes more competitive, we see weakness from some of our competitors which increases our potential to take market share.
These longer-term potentials are enhanced in 2017 and 2018 by the likelihood of major projects due to operating system enhancements around end user computing.
Number of customer accounts with 11.1% 2 contribution over 1 million At Computacenter, we often take decisions that detract from our short-term financial 100 performance, to secure long-term customer relationships.
Mike Norris Chief Executive Officer 18 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 WHAT WE HAVE ACHIEVED IN 2016 4.
T O INNOVATE OUR SERVICES NGSD: We successfully implemented NGSD at two UK customers with one, Hays, agreeing to be the focus of our case study on page 20.
OFFERINGS TO BUILD FUTURE We won our first contract with a German bank and are building NGSD at a multinational French customer.
NGSD received a 2015 AECUS GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES innovation award.
Cloud: In addition to our growing Cloud Supply Chain and Professional Services businesses, we can now help our customers to plan, build and run their private hybrid cloud environments on standard cloud management platforms.
Refer to the Paddy Power Betfair case study on page 34.
Security: We have enhanced our Cyber Defence Centre capabilities, as part of a newly established Group Information Assurance function.
From this we co-ordinate and support our Managed Security Services, which are embedded in many of our new Managed Workplace and Infrastructure contracts.
Refer to the DekaBank case study on page 26.
In Germany, we were named a Security Leader in Expertons Security benchmark.
Digital Workplace: To address our customers workplace transformation needs and build on our mobility investment, we have Building on the strategy created a holistic Digital Workplace offering, comprising platform, collaboration, user engagement, information access, and identity and security management solutions.
The Union Investment win is early proof of the exciting opportunity pipeline, and is detailed in a case study on page 12.
The flat performance of the KPI overall was due to lost UK contracts, offset by very strong Services revenue growth in Germany, especially in Professional Services.
WHAT WE INTEND TO DO IN 2017 Digital Workplace: As the pipeline is promising in our core geographies, we will focus on supporting pre-sales and industrialising the take-on.
We will continue to develop NGSD in line with customer needs, add capability to manage users digital identities, and develop To us, Making Digital Work is not just a use cases to show how the Digital Workplace improves productivity.
Our offerings and partnerships Cloud: In response to customer demand, we are integrating public are geared to support our customers cloud services, such as Amazon Web Services AWS and Microsoft Azure, into our Cloud management platform, to offer managed digital transformation agenda and make private hybrid cloud orchestration services and build consulting packages for AWS, Azure and OpenStack.
Security: To benefit from the growing IT Security market, we will leverage our 20 years experience and more than 150 security specialists that we have in Germany across our core territories.
Strategic partnerships: We have signed a sales and service partnership Michael Weiss with ServiceNow, the leading provider of service management Head of Group Strategy software solutions from the cloud.
This will help us offer seamlessly & Marketing integrated NGSD and Digital Workplace solutions.
