CASE STUDY: DIGITAL WORKPLACE UNION INVESTMENT WORKPLACE By working with Computacenter, we can provide our employees with a digitally-enabled workplace that maximises productivity and minimises risk.
Frank Henkes Head of IT Infrastructure & Operations, Software Engineering Union IT-Services, Union Investment 12 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INVESTING IN PEOPLE In the highly competitive financial services industry, organisations As part of the new agreement, Computacenter will deliver a Next need flexible, secure and reliable IT services to ensure their users can Generation Service Desk NGSD for Union Investments 3,000 deliver rapid and responsive customer services.
employees, who are based in 21 locations across eight countries.
NGSD features consumer-inspired IT support services, including selfFor 60 years now, the Union Investment Group has been a reliable service features and web chat, delivered via a portal and mobile app.
fund management partner to both retail and institutional investors.
More than four million investors have placed their trust in its wealth With workplace transformation at the top of the agenda, of experience, making Union Investment one of Germanys leading Computacenter will transition users to new hybrid devices, Windows providers.
To ensure its employees can help customers make the 10 and a follow me printing model, which will enhance the companys right investment choices, the company needs to empower them with sustainability credentials, reduce costs and increase security.
reliable and fit-for-purpose IT services.
Computacenter will also introduce risk scoring and certification for For the last 10 years, Union Investment has relied on Computacenter third party mobile apps as part of its mobile device management to provide a wide range of workplace IT services.
Other security enhancements include implementing the investment company renewed its contract with Computacenter advanced analytical tools for Security Information and Event for an additional six years.
These capabilities will help the firm meet regulatory requirements.
The new agreement expands on the existing services to include greater support for todays digital workplace.
Digital Me, By digitalising and personalising workplace services and support, Computacenters user-centric approach to delivering IT services, Union Investment will be able to deliver a richer user experience will ensure that different users needs are met.
for its employees, enabling them to work more efficiently, collaborate more effectively and respond to customers faster.
This will increase productivity and satisfaction and drive greater competitive advantage.
IT and business leaders across the world rank the digital transformation of the workplace environment as critically important to address challenges such as increasingly competitive markets, the war for talent, demographic changes and shifting employee values.
Digital Me takes a user-centric approach to helping our customers achieve their business objectives, by enabling and empowering their people with the most appropriate technologies and tools.
We will continue developing Digital Me to also address industry-specific challenges through the digitalisation of processes and deployment of user-analytics tools.
Andreas Trk Head of Group Propositions, Computacenter 13
