ENGAGING WITH EFFECTIVE ACCESS COLLABORATION TO INFORMATION N O I T E A N R G O A B G A E L S M L E E O C N Y C U T T R I I T T N Y E & D OUR STRATEGY In the workplace, customers want to offer their users a platform that improves productivity through digital office, communications and collaboration technologies.
We see tremendous demand for our Digital MAKING Workplace offering.
It enables users through digital technologies, helps them to collaborate, empowers them through self-service and offers effective access to the information they need.
DIGITAL WORK Client Management Social Collaboration Enterprise Mobility Voice & Video Hybrid Services Messaging Connectivity Workspaces Computacenter understands how the Shift to Digital is affecting Tech Bar Sync & Share customers.
This means we can help them to engage their users, build App Store Analytics and run platforms and automate their delivery.
Integrated Request Print UNDERSTANDING THE CUSTOMER Multi-channel Support Content Management NGSD Our account and service managers give us a high level of customer intimacy, enabling us to understand their businesses and the opportunities and challenges caused by the shift to digital.
We also gain insight through our expertise in a number of verticals, especially AUTOMATING THE DELIVERY in public services, financial services and manufacturing.
At the same Through our  Pass12T methodology, we offer time, we employ experienced consultants, who have worked on a service industrialisation to customers.
Pass12T stands for Prevent broad range of projects and exchange best practice.
Additionally, Automate Self-Serve 1st Line 2nd Line Touch service.
we bring in outside specialists where needed, by partnering with By shifting from right to left along this line, we are increasingly helping management or business process consultancies.
our customers to reduce service cost.
ENGAGING WITH THE USER Touch: We are improving the productivity of our field engineers Computacenters NGSD digitalises interactions with users, offering through our Field Force Enablement app.
them services such as issue logging, knowledge articles, online 1st and 2nd Line: We are systematically introducing chat chat and password reset, through a self-service portal and an app.
functionality in order to move users away from calling the This digitalisation is critical, as only digitised information can be service desk by phone and thus speed-up resolution time.
processed in a highly automated way.
This in turn allows agents to Self-Serve: The initial customers for our NGSD solution are seeing focus on customer satisfaction, complex problem solving, knowledge significant increases in user self-service, with up to 60 per cent creation and service improvements.
Uptake of the NGSD has been digital interaction.
The goal is to relieve the service desk agents, promising, with three contracts up and running in the UK and two so they can provide value-added services.
recently signed in Germany and France.
User adoption is paramount Automate: By applying robotic process automation throughout for success and we have an adoption taskforce to support customers.
the service process, we look to minimise labour-based and repetitive tasks.
BUILDING AND RUNNING PLATFORMS Prevent: We are investigating how we can apply end user Platforms create value by facilitating exchange between provider and analytics to prevent incidents, for example through preventative customer.
They reduce complexity and transaction costs, and can maintenance of hardware or software.
In cloud, customers want a single trusted provider who can manage the complexity of cloud offerings and continuously adjust, transform and improve the cloud environment.
We offer Cloud orchestration platform services and can source, provide and manage private and public cloud services.
Pass12T Service & Systems Management Customers also want their outsourcing providers to commit to the highest level of security.
We build Cyber Defence capabilities, using P a ss 12 T our knowledge of security providers and their products.
This means Robotic NGSD Preventative Field Force we can provide the best-integrated mix of solutions in our managed Process Portal & NGSD Chat Analytics Enablement Automation Knowledge security service.
14 I C L O A M T P I G L I I I A D N M N F R C O O E R F M T A A T L I P O N EMPOWERING THROUGH ENABLING WITH DIGITAL SELF-SERVICE TECHNOLOGIES
