n o i t u r b o i t r t c n o e s c e y u b n e e v u e r n p e u v o r e G R REGIONAL REVIEW REST OF WORLD CORE BUSINESS PERFORMING WELL 5 In the Rest of World region, organic revenue declined by 1.2%.
Excluding the Offshore & Remote business, 1 organic revenue grew by 3.6% while in the Offshore & Remote business, 4 organic revenue declined by 10%.
18 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT We delivered modest growth in Japan with new contract wins including Yame City Health Promotion Facility and the Canon Headquarters.
India and China continue to perform well with growth driven by contract wins such as TCS Mumbai and Flipkart in India, and Ant Financial and Yew Wah International School in China.
Across the Middle East, we saw good levels of new business including contracts with Abu Dhabi Water and Electricity Authority and Zakum Development Company in the UAE, Sidra Medical and Research Centre in Qatar and the Childrens Cancer Hospital Foundation in Egypt.
In Australia, we have won business across all sectors including Riverview College, a prestigious school in Sydney, Melbourne Museums cafs and special event catering, and a number of Seniors contracts including Aurrum and Baptist Care.
In the Offshore & Remote business, Australia saw organic revenue declines of 17%, as expected.
Many construction contracts moved into their production phases and there are ongoing pricing pressures, site closures and lower volumes.
We expect the current revenue decline to accelerate through 2017.
Our other Offshore & Remote businesses in Latin America, Africa and Asia are facing similar pressures.
Underlying operating margins excluding Australia were flat.
The savings from the restructuring programme announced in 2015, along with pricing and ongoing efficiencies, offset the impact of weak volumes in Brazil and our Offshore & Remote business.
However, pricing In the Rest of World region, organic revenue declined by pressures and site closures have reduced the profitability 1.2%.
Excluding the Offshore & Remote business, organic of our Australian business by 26 million.
Underlying revenue grew by 3.6% while in the Offshore & Remote operating profit therefore declined by 8.8% 21 million business, organic revenue declined by 10%.
on a constant currency basis, with the underlying In the non-Offshore & Remote business, good new operating margin down 50 basis points to 6.8%, in business wins in Brazil, which include Centre Norte, line with expectations.
Carrefour and Hospital Novo Metropolitano, have been offset by further negative like for like volumes as a result of a challenging macroeconomic environment.
Across the rest of Latin America, we continue to see strong organic growth driven by contract wins including Hospital Britanico in Argentina, Jabil Chihuahua and Banco Santander in Mexico and San Vicente fide Paul in Colombia.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 19
