OUR BUSINESS MODEL STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Source & Deploy What we do: Computacenter helps organisations remove cost, complexity and risk from the IT Supply Chain.
We unify and simplify CUSTOMER the entire process: from product selection, benchmarking and procurement to build management and deployment.
We have relationships with more than 1,100 vendors and over 200 vendor accreditations.
With our long-term client relationships and broad CENTRIC vendor coverage, we can be our clients one-stop value-added reseller.
How we earn revenue: We have a good mix of large and multiyear frame contracts, project-based sourcing and continuous procurement activities in our client base.
Manage & Transform WHAT WE OFFER What we do: We maintain, support, transform and manage our Our business is diversified across our main territories and across our customers IT infrastructures and operations, improving the quality three business areas, which are described below.
These businesses and flexibility of service, while significantly reducing costs.
Our are distinct but synergistic, as customers increasingly look to buy end services extend from the digital and physical workplace to the to end services and solutions, ranging from consulting, to integration Datacenter, Network and Cloud.
Our Global Infrastructure Operations over the product supply lifecycle, to contracting a Managed Service.
GIO and award-winning Global Service Desk GSD are at the heart of our services, enabling us to support users worldwide.
Dedicated Consult & Change transformation teams minimise disruption and ensure a seamless What we do: We offer proven solutions that optimise customers business take-on process.
technology, enabling effective change so they can achieve their business goals.
We provide in-depth solutions, either within or across How we earn revenue: We increasingly sell a Managed Service, which each technology category Engagement, End user & Collaboration, is a defined set of services with related service level agreements Datacenter, Network or Security.
Combined with our project and either fixed or service-based pricing, such as per user or per management and transformation skills and our intimate customer transaction.
Where customers ask for more flexibility or specific skills, knowledge, we deliver holistic solutions that actually work within our we also provide support and body shopping services.
added reseller, we also offer lifecycle and maintenance services for products, for example on a price per device.
How we earn revenue: Consulting engagements range from long-term transformation programmes to different sizes of consulting and implementation projects: across our portfolio of technology solutions.
Most of the commercial models are time-and-material based but we see a trend towards fixed-price contracts.
OUR SOLUTIONS & SERVICES PORTFOLIO END USER & ENGAGEMENT COLLABORATION DATACENTER NETWORK SECURITY CONSULT & CHANGE Global Service Client Computing Enterprise Local Area Network Endpoint Security Strategy & Desk Compute Advisory Services Enterprise Datacenter Infrastructure Design & Build Services Next Generation Mobility Hybrid Cloud Network Security Integration & Service Desk Migration Services Collaboration Data & Storage Physical Industrial Security SOURCE & DEPLOY Tech Bar Management Infrastructure Supply Chain Services UK Content Cyber Security Management Analytics & Big DataService Provider Information Network fide Security SAP HANA fide Management Production MANAGE & TRANSFORM Network fide Identity & Access Support & Maintenance Management Services Managed Services 07 OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED WHERE WE OPERATE Global reach We have a European footprint that matches where our customers are We have developed our global coverage to mirror our customers headquartered: and global reach to support their worldwide service requirements.
As a result, Computacenter can supply customers in over requirements.
100 countries and support end users in more than 70 countries.
We have over 130 international specialists, who implement and support multiEuropean footprint country solutions.
In total, we support over four million users and ship Computacenter is headquartered in the UK and also does business 25.5 million products worldwide each year.
Our standard international with customers in Germany, France, Belgium and Switzerland.
Our operating model ensures we deliver services which are consistent sales force, service managers, project managers, consultants worldwide, but meet the individual needs of each country or region.
and solutions specialists are based in many locations close to our customers.
In addition, our European footprint includes: Through our global delivery capabilities, we provide seamless, scalable the warehouses and configuration and distribution centres that and cost efficient global services.
The delivery centres comprise our: support our Supply Chain business: our Global Solutions and Customer Experience Centers, where we Global Service Desk GSD : Our goal is to provide a faster and smarter set up Proof of Concepts and showcase potential solutions: response to users.
We deliver end to end user support, locally and our datacenters, where we operate our own and our customers globally, and provide a follow-the-sun service.
The GSD supports back-end services: and around 1.3 million users, using 30 languages.
our field engineers, maintenance technicians and technical consultants, who work onsite with our customers or travel Global Infrastructure Operations GIO : The scale of our operation across the country.
means we can support users and systems anywhere in the world, 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
From networking components USA coverage and virtual servers to user devices, our infrastructure services We have for many years delivered services to our customers in the improve availability and security.
We have more than 1,300 technical USA using our tools, processes and management with contracted and service management experts, in eight shared services centres, staff from partners in the USA.
During 2016, we have transferred the working for more than 200 customers.
majority of these contracted staff into Computacenter USA and the business now has a headcount of around 630 across the USA and Global Network Operations Centre GNOC : Our GNOC helps optimise Mexico.
We have been pleased with the transfer and there has been no our customers network availability, to enable productive end users.
deterioration in customer service during this time.
This new platform, It is the hub of our operational delivery capability, allowing us to Computacenter USA, potentially enables us to attract more American deliver managed network and security services to more than 50 business from our European customer base and extend the range customers around the globe.
The GNOC employs more than 200 of services that we offer these customers.
At this time, it is not our accredited networking engineers.
intention to source customers directly in the USA.
Global Partner Network: Our extensive partner network covers field services and onsite support in Europe outside our core territories.
Over 1,200 engineers support international services.
EUROPEAN IT SERVICES PROVIDER WITH A GLOBAL REACH GERMANY UNITED KINGDOM CHINA UNITED STATES OF AMERICA SPAIN INDIA FRANCE MEXICO MALAYSIA HUNGARY SOUTH AFRICA BELGIUM SWITZERLAND KEY SERVICE DESK INFRASTRUCTURE OPERATIONS GLOBAL SOLUTIONS CENTER CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE CENTER DATACENTER SUPPLY CHAIN GLOBAL RECOVERY CENTRE COMPUTACENTERS GLOBAL CUSTOMER SUPPORT CAPABILITIES 08 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 OUR COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE of customers have been with us for more than 10 years, showing The unique value we offer our customers comes from five key they value this close relationship.
We offer end to end solutions across technologies: From converged infrastructure and Cloud to user productivity and 1.
We are the friend of the Chief Information Officer CIO : The CIO is Security, we have the technological solutions and capabilities the key decision maker and budget holder for our services.
We customers need for an excellent user experience.
Our consultants therefore help CIOs to enable their users and businesses.
This means cut across technology silos and implement solutions end to end.
addressing customer needs only through the CIO and empowering 5.
We partner along the service lifecycle: Some providers them to meet the requirements of their user base, business units or specialise in reselling, consulting or Managed Services.
Our functions, to support their transformation agenda.
customers appreciate that we can support their transformation, 2.
We have absolute focus on our end users: The Next Generation with a full-service portfolio spanning planning, sourcing and Service Desk NGSD shows that we know what users want.
Our building to running their IT infrastructure.
end user focus is in our DNA and we have no distracting legacy assets, such as underused datacenters.
The shift to digital makes these characteristics increasingly essential 3.
We have a culture of customer intimacy: Our sales and service for service providers.
At Computacenter, we are blending them for managers interact almost continuously with customers, especially our customers benefit, so we are their preferred partner for Making where we have a Managed Services contract.
More than 80 per cent Digital Work.
BUSINESS MODEL Solutions Model Engagement Model Our Customers END USER TECHNOLOGY ENTERPRISE INFRASTRUCTURE CIO USER EXPERIENCE Shared Services Model USER CUSTOMER INTIMACY CONSULT SOURCE MANAGE & BUSINESS & CHANGE & DEPLOY TRANSFORM HOW WE GENERATE SHAREHOLDER VALUE We are investing strategically, to further strengthen our key assets: We build and leverage three asset types physical assets, our people The NGSD improves digital interaction and user experience in our and our customer relationships.
These assets support each other, Engagement Model.
benefiting our customers, employees and shareholders.
We invest in services industrialisation and automation, to make our Shared Services Model more competitive.
The Solutions Model delivers change and innovation for And with the Digital Workplace, Cloud and Security, we are building customers across the IT infrastructure spectrum.
As a key asset, digital platform capabilities that enable our sales, service and we build on and nurture our technology experts and look to consulting staff to drive digital transformation in the marketplace.
attract new experts to the Group.
We are an attractive employer because our people work on exciting change projects, utilise Investing in our digital capabilities underpins our strategy to engage cutting-edge technology and vendors, and follow a wide range with the user, build and run platforms and automate delivery.
The Shared Services Model has three revenue streams: Supply Supporting our Strategic Objectives Chain, Professional and Managed Services.
They provide Our business model is the foundation for achieving our strategic complementary entry points for customers and give us a balanced objectives.
The Solutions Model catalyses increased pull-through portfolio for long-term growth.
This is where we run and enhance business, so we maximise our customer relationships and innovate in our physical assets, namely our distribution centres, service desks our service offerings.
Through the Shared Services Model, we increase and operations centres.
productivity and competitiveness across our three main businesses.
Customer access is the key asset in our Engagement Model.
We And our Engagement Model helps us retain and grow our customer have a clear target market, addressing the top 500 customers relationships, especially supporting our Managed Services business.
Through our account managers, sales specialists and service and project managers, we maintain Creating shareholder value unique customer intimacy.
With multiple touch-points through By working towards our strategic goals, we improve customer our Shared Services Model, we continuously improve the physical satisfaction and employee engagement.
This supports operating and digital user experience.
profit and cash flow generation across our core territories.
Realising our financial and non-financial goals enables us to continue to invest in and refine our business model.
