DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Computacenter plc is incorporated as a public limited company Following the payment of a first interim dividend for 2016 of 7.2 pence and is registered in England with the registered number 3110569. per share on 14 October 2016, the total dividend per share for 2016 Computacenter plcs registered office address is Hatfield Avenue, will be 22.2 pence per share.
The Board has consistently applied the Hatfield, Hertfordshire, AL10 9TW.
The Companys registrar is Equiniti Companys Dividend Policy, which states that the total dividend paid Limited who are situated at Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, will result in a dividend cover of 2 to 2.5 times.
Further detail on the West Sussex, BN99 6DA.
Companys Dividend Policy can be found within the Group Finance Directors Review on page 51.
The Directors present the Directors Report, together with the audited accounts of Computacenter plc and its subsidiary companies the Dividends are recognised in the accounts in the year in which they Group for the year ended 31 December 2016. are paid, or in the case of a final dividend, when approved by the shareholders.
As such, the amount recognised in the 2016 accounts, Pages 1 to 91 of this Annual Report and Accounts are incorporated as described in note 12, is made up of the 2015 second interim by reference into the Directors Report that has been drawn up and dividend 15.0 pence per share and the 2016 interim dividend presented in accordance with English company law, and the liabilities 7.2 pence per share.
of the Directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION The Companys Articles of Association set out the procedures for STRATEGIC REPORT governing the Company.
A copy of the Articles of Association, which The Companies Act 2006 requires the Group to prepare a Strategic were not amended during the reporting period, is available on the Report, which commences at the start of this Annual Report and Companys website www.
The Companys Articles Accounts up to page 53.
The Strategic Report includes information of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a about the Groups operations and business model, particulars of general meeting of the shareholders.
all important events affecting the Company or its subsidiaries, the Companys financial performance throughout the year and likely DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS AUTHORITY future developments, key performance indicators, principal risks and The Directors who served during the year ended 31 December information regarding the Groups sustainable development plan.
2016 were Tony Conophy, Philip Hulme, Greg Lock, Mike Norris, Peter Ogden, Minnow Powell, Ros Rivaz, Regine Stachelhaus and Philip Yea.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Biographical details of each Director, as at 31 December 2016, are Under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2, the Company is required given on pages 54 and 55.
The Companys Articles of Association to include a Corporate Governance report within the Directors Report.
require at each AGM that those Directors who were appointed since the Information on our corporate governance practices can be found in last AGM retire, as well as one-third of the Directors who have been the the Corporate Governance Report on pages 56 to 62, and the reports longest serving.
The Board has decided, in accordance with the Code, of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees on pages that all Directors, with the exception of Ros Rivaz, will retire at each 68 to 90, all of which are incorporated into the Directors Report by forthcoming AGM and offer themselves for re-election.
The Nomination reference, as explained previously in this Directors Report.
Committee has considered the re-election of each Director and recommends their re-election.
Further details on the Committees MANAGEMENT REPORT recommendations for the re-election of the Directors are set out This Directors report, together with the other reports, forms the in the Notice of AGM, which summarises the skills and experience Management Report for the purposes of Disclosure and Transparency that the Directors bring to the Board.
At the 2017 AGM, Ros Rivaz will Rule 4.1.
8. offer herself for election to the Board for the first time following her appointment in November 2016.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The Groups activities resulted in a profit before tax of 87.1 million Subject to applicable law and the Companys Articles of Association, 2015: 126.8 million.
The Group profit for the year, attributable to the Directors may exercise all of the powers of the Company.
The shareholders, amounted to 63.8 million 2015: 103.1 million.
Companys Articles of Association provide for a Board of Directors consisting of not fewer than three, but not more than 20 Directors, The Directors recommend a final dividend of 15.0 pence per share who manage the business and affairs of the Company.
may appoint additional or replacement Directors, who shall serve until the following AGM of the Company, at which point they will be required We announced a second interim dividend for 2015 the Second Interim to stand for election by the members.
A Director may be removed from Dividend of 15.0 pence per share, in lieu of a final dividend for 2015. office by the Company as provided for by applicable law, in certain The second interim dividend for 2015 was paid on 5 April 2016. circumstances set out in the Companys Articles of Association, and at a general meeting of the Company, by the passing of an Ordinary The dividend record date is set on Friday 12 May 2017, and the shares Resolution provided special notice has been given in accordance with will be marked ex-dividend on Thursday 11 May 2017.
This is in line the Companies Act 2006. with the normal dividend procedure timetable as set by the London Stock Exchange.
63 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Members have previously approved a resolution to give the Directors authority to allot shares, and a renewal of this authority is proposed at the 2017 AGM.
This authority allows the Directors to allot shares up to the maximum amount stated in the Notice of AGM approximately one-third of the issued share capital.
In addition, the Company may not allot shares for cash unless pursuant to an employee share scheme without first making an offer to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
This is known as rights of pre-emption.
A resolution to allow a limited waiver of these rights was passed by the members at last years AGM.
At the Companys 2016 AGM, members also approved a resolution giving delegated authority allowing the Company to make market purchases of its own shares, up to a maximum of 10 per cent of the Companys issued share capital, subject to certain conditions including price of purchase, amongst others.
Each of these standard authorities will expire on 30 June 2017, or at the conclusion of the Companys 2017 AGM, whichever is the earlier.
The Directors will seek to renew each of the authorities at the 2017 AGM, and full details are provided in the Notice of AGM.
As at 28 February 2017, none of these authorities approved by shareholders at the 2016 AGM have been exercised.
DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES The Company has executed deeds of indemnity with each of the Directors.
These deeds contain qualifying third party indemnity provisions, indemnifying the Directors to the extent permitted by law and remain in force at the date of this report.
The indemnities are uncapped and cover all costs, charges, losses and liabilities the Directors may incur to third parties, in the course of acting as Directors of the Company or its subsidiaries.
DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Board has put in place a process whereby the Directors are required to notify the Company Secretary of any situations appointments, holdings or otherwise, or any changes to such, which may give rise to an actual or potential conflict of interest with the Company.
These notifications are then reviewed by the Board and recorded in a register maintained by the Company Secretary and, if appropriate, are considered further by the Directors who are not conflicted in the matter, to if deemed appropriate authorise the situation.
The register of notifications and authorisations is reviewed by the Board twice a year.
Where the Board has approved an actual or potential conflict, it has imposed the condition that the conflicted Director abstains from participating in any discussion or decision affected by the conflicted matter.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES The interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company, at the start and end of the reporting period, were as follows: As at 1 January 2016 As at 31 December 2016 or date of appointment Number of Number of Number of Number of ordinary shares ordinary shares ordinary shares ordinary shares Beneficial Non-Beneficial Beneficial Non-Beneficial Executive Directors Mike Norris 1,142,157 1,142,157 Tony Conophy 1,786,915 1,786,915 Non-Executive Directors Greg Lock 600,000 70,000 500,000 30,000 Philip Hulme 10,867,582 10,077,815 11,067,582 9,877,815 Peter Ogden 20,119,473 8,718,748 20,119,473 8,718,748 Minnow Powell 1,340 1,340 Ros Rivaz 1,382 1,382 Regine Stachelhaus Philip Yea 8,000 8,000 Between 31 December 2016 and 28 February 2017 there have been no changes to the interests detailed above.
MAJOR INTERESTS IN SHARES In accordance with Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5, between 1 January 2016 and 31 December 2016 the Company was notified of the following updates to disclosable interests in its issued ordinary shares: Percentage of total Name of Major Shareholder voting rights held Philip Hulme 8.86 Schroder Investment Management Ltd 4.14 Investec Asset Management Ltd 5.31 An updated list of the Companys major shareholders is available at www.
64 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND RIGHTS ATTACHING TO SHARES FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS As at 28 February 2017, there were 122,687,970 fully paid ordinary shares The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies are in issue, all of which have full voting rights.
There are no specific discussed in the Group Finance Directors Review on pages 52 to 53. restrictions on the transfer of securities in the Company, which is governed by its Articles of Association, and prevailing legislation.
EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES The Company operates executive share option schemes and a The holders of ordinary shares are entitled, subject to applicable law performance-related option scheme for the benefit of employees.
and the Companys Articles of Association to: During the year, no options were granted under the executive share have shareholder documents made available to them, including option schemes.
notice of any general meetings of the Company: and to attend, speak and exercise voting rights at general meetings At the year end, the options remaining outstanding under these 5 of the Company, either in person or by proxy.
schemes were in respect of a total of nil ordinary shares of 7 pence 9 each 2015: 30,000 shares.
During the year options over 30,000 shares The Company is not aware of any arrangements between were exercised and no options over shares lapsed.
The Company also shareholders which may result in restrictions on the transfer of operates a Performance Share Plan PSP to incentivise employees.
5 securities or other voting rights.
During the year, 609,748 ordinary shares of 7 pence each were 9 conditionally awarded 2015: 690,807 shares.
At the year end, awards Additionally, there were 292,944,196 deferred shares in issue which over 1,988,947 shares remained outstanding under this scheme 2015: carry no voting rights.
Pursuant to the Companys share schemes, 2,279,008 shares.
During the year, awards over 697,747 shares were there are two employee benefit trusts which, as at the year end, held transferred to participants and awards over 202,062 shares lapsed.
5 a total of 2,065,554 ordinary shares of 7 pence each, representing In addition, the Company operates a Sharesave scheme for the benefit 9 approximately 1.68 per cent of the issued share capital.
As at the year end, 4,099,366 options granted under the attaching to each of the Companys ordinary shares and deferred Sharesave scheme remained outstanding 2015: 3,957,127. shares are set out in its Articles of Association.
During the 2016 financial year, no ordinary shares in the Company were issued for CORPORATE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND POLITICAL cash to satisfy the exercise of options exercised under the Companys DONATIONS outstanding option schemes.
During the year, the trusts purchased The Board recognises that acting in a socially responsible way a total of 1,150,633 shares in order to ensure that the maturities benefits the community, our customers, shareholders, the occurring pursuant to these share option schemes could be satisfied.
Further information can be found in In the event that shares are held by these trusts before being the report on pages 28 to 30 and covers matters regarding health and transferred to employee participants pursuant to the schemes then, safety, the environment, equal opportunities, employee involvement in line with good practice, the Trustees do not exercise the voting and employee development.
During the year, the Group did not make rights attaching to such shares.
The Trustees also have a dividend any political donations to any political party or organisation and it did waiver in place in respect of shares which are the beneficial property not incur any political expenditure within the meaning of Sections 362 of each of the trusts.
In the event that another entity or individual takes control of the EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES Company, the employee share schemes operated by the Company The Group acknowledges the importance of equality and diversity have change of control provisions contained within them that would and is committed to equal opportunities throughout the workplace.
Participants may, in certain circumstances, be allowed The Groups policies for recruitment, training, career development to exchange their existing options for options of an equivalent value and promotion of employees, are based purely on the suitability of over shares in the acquiring company.
Alternatively, the options may the employee and give those who may be disabled equal treatment to vest early, in which case, early vesting under the executive schemes their able bodied colleagues.
Where an employee becomes disabled, will generally be on a time-apportioned basis and under the Sharesave subsequent to joining the Group, all efforts are made to enable that scheme, employees will only be able to exercise their options to employee to continue in their current job.
However if, due to the the extent that their accumulated savings allow at that time.
The specific circumstances, it is not possible for an employee to continue Company was granted authority at its AGM on 19 May 2016, to make in their current job, they will be given suitable training for alternative 5 market purchases of up to 12,268,797 ordinary shares of 7 pence employment within the Group or elsewhere.
This authority will expire at the 2017 AGM, where approval from shareholders will be sought to renew the authority.
During the period The Group monitors and regularly reviews its policies and practices no shares were purchased for cancellation.
to ensure that it meets current legislative requirements, as well as its own internal standards.
The Group is committed to making full use of SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS AND RELATIONSHIPS the talents and resources of all its employees and to provide a healthy Details regarding the status of the various borrowing facilities used environment that encourages productive and mutually respectful by the Group are provided in the Group Finance Directors review working relationships within the organisation.
Policies dealing with on pages 50 to 53.
These agreements each include a change of equal opportunities are in place in all parts of the Group, which take control provision, which may result in the facility being withdrawn account of the Groups overall commitment and also address local or amended upon a change of control of the Group.
It is also not regulatory requirements.
extraordinary within our business sector for our longer term Services contracts to contain change of control clauses that allow a counterparty to terminate the relevant contract in the event of a change of control of the Company.
The Company does not have any agreements with any Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a change of control on takeover, except that provisions of the Companys share schemes and plans may cause options and awards granted to employees under share schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
65 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT LONG-TERM VIABILITY STATEMENT The Group is committed to involving all employees in significant The Directors statement regarding the long-term viability of the business issues, especially matters which affect their work and Company is set out on page 60. working environment.
A variety of methods are used to engage with employees, including team briefings, intranet, email and in-house GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS publications.
The Group will use one or more of these channels to The Company is required to state the annual quantity of emissions brief employees on the Groups performance and the financial and in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent from Group activities.
Details economic factors affecting the Groups performance.
In particular, of this can be found within the Sustainable Business section of the the Group operates a Save As You Earn SAYE share scheme, which Strategic Report on pages 28 to 30. is open to eligible employees, where employees are encouraged to save a fixed monthly sum for a period of either three and or five AUDITOR years.
Upon maturity of the scheme at the end of the relevant savings A resolution to reappoint KPMG LLP as Auditor of the Group was period, participants can purchase shares in the Company at a price approved by the Companys shareholders at the Companys 2016 AGM.
set at the commencement of the savings period.
The primary method A resolution to reappoint KPMG LLP as the Auditor of the Group will be used to engage and consult with employees is through team briefings, put to shareholders at the forthcoming 2017 AGM.
where managers are tasked with ensuring that information sharing, discussion and feedback happen on a regular basis.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITOR In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each of The development of employee skills and careers, as well as the the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this report communication of the Groups goals, are driven by our Winning confirms that: Together processes and tools.
Annual assessments via our to the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is no Winning Together processes and tools are a formal requirement information relevant to the preparation of their report of which of all managers.
the Groups Auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all steps a Director might reasonably be Employee consultative forums exist in each Group country to expected to have taken, to be aware of relevant audit information consult staff on major issues affecting employment and matters and to establish that the Groups Auditor is aware of that of policy, and to enable management to seek the views and opinions information.
of employees on a wide range of business matters.
Should there be cross-jurisdictional issues to discuss, a facility exists to engage a European forum made up of representatives from each country forum.
The Group regularly reviews the performance of its employees through a formal review process, in order to identify areas for development.
Managers are responsible for setting and reviewing personal objectives, aligned to corporate and functional goals.
The Board closely oversees and monitors management skills and the development of talent to meet the current and future needs of the Group.
The Board directly monitors and reviews closely, succession and plans for developing identified key senior managers.
BUSINESS ETHICS A Group Ethics policy is now in place, which commits its employees to the highest standards of ethical behaviour in respect of customers, suppliers, colleagues and other stakeholders in the business.
The policy includes a requirement for all employees to report abuses or non-conformance with the policy and sets out the procedures to be followed.
GOING CONCERN Computacenters business activities, business model, its strategic goals and its performance are set out within the Strategic report on pages 1 to 53.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are set out within the Group Finance Directors review on pages 45 to 53.
In addition, notes 26 and 27 to the Financial Statements include Computacenters objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
The Directors have, after due consideration, a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for a period of 12 months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements as set out on pages 96 to 142 of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual Financial Statements.
66 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 LISTING RULE LR DISCLOSURES For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4CR, the information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4R are set out below along with cross references indicating where the relevant information is otherwise set out in the Annual Report and Accounts or can be found in the following locations: Interest capitalised N A Publication of unaudited financial information N A Details of performance share plans Details of the Companys performance share plan scheme can be found in the Remuneration Committee Report on page 77.
Waiver of emoluments by a Director N A Waiver of future emoluments by a Director N A Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash N A Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash in relation to major subsidiary N A undertakings Contracts of significance Details of significant contracts are set out in the Group Finance Directors Review on pages 50 to 53.
Details of transactions with related parties are set out on page 136 in note 33 to the Financial Statements.
Provision of services by a controlling shareholder N A Shareholder waiver of dividends The Trustees of the Companys employee share schemes have a dividend waiver in place in respect of shares which are the beneficial property of each of the trusts.
Shareholder waiver of future dividends The Trustees of the Companys employee share schemes have a dividend waiver in place in respect of shares which are the beneficial property of each of the trusts.
Agreements with controlling shareholder Any person who exercises or controls on their own or together with any person with whom they are acting in concert, 30 per cent or more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetings are known as controlling shareholders.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules now require companies with controlling shareholders to enter into a written and legally binding agreement a Relationship Agreement which is intended to ensure that the controlling shareholder complies with certain independence related provisions.
The Company confirms that it has undertaken a thorough process during the reporting period to review whether it has any controlling shareholders.
Following this process, it was determined that there was no requirement on the Company to enter into a Relationship Agreement with any of its shareholders.
The Company confirms that this remains the case as at 31 December 2016, but will keep the matter under review.
Mike Norris Tony Conophy Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director 13 March 2017 67
