CASE STUDY: SECURITY DEKABANK SECURITY 26 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 S EC U RE W ORKPL AC E SERVI C E S As a systematically important financial services institution operating Computacenter works with trusted partners to provide WAN and in the investment management market: security, compliance and Cisco-based voice and telephony services, and offered DekaBank customer service are critical to DekaBanks operations and business the ease and assurance of a single contract with stringent service growth.
The bank was keen to find a new IT services partner that level agreements.
The contract incorporates end to end SIEM and would help it further improve and reinforce these key factors vulnerability management.
Leveraging its depth of experience in the financial services sector and DekaBank sought a partner that would not only provide workplace best-practice processes, Computacenter helped reduce the risk of and local area network services and support, but that could also take transitioning the services from previous suppliers.
responsibility for its wide area network WAN and voice and telephony provision.
Security, compliance and the highest levels of service DekaBank is now able to offer a secure and high quality workplace IT needed to be ensured across all domains.
service for all its users from desk-based administrators through to mobile representatives and the high-performance needs of its DekaBank was able to fulfil all its requirements through a single traders.
This will help the bank fulfil compliance requirements and contract with Computacenter.
The IT services and solutions company also enhance the service it provides to customers, helping it maintain provides secure workplace services from on-site and mobility its market-leading position.
support to central services such as file, email, print, virtual desktop infrastructure and software distribution for all of DekaBanks 6,000 workplaces users, including locations in New York, Tokyo, Singapore, Paris and London.
The importance of protecting customers identities and data is higher than ever.
Security is a product feature for all industries and is increasingly embedded in existing IT infrastructures, whether on premise or cloud-based.
Security is not only about preventative controls.
It is also about continuously detecting and responding to attacks, so users are secure in their business and private environments.
Computacenters approach is to embed security in every IT solution and help organisations with their cyber defence programmes across all IT silos.
We understand IT and security and know that without security, there is no IT.
Jan Mller Solution Director of Security, Computacenter 27
