Key performance indicators We measure our performance Strategic driver 1: 1.
Group revenue and revenue growth $m Performance in 2016 Risks against our strategic priorities Macroeconomic At constant currency, revenue grew 4% to $1,688m.
Our AWC franchise had a further strong year Growth 4.0% through both financial and Governmental Social Health with revenues up 6.5% at constant currency.
We continued to see consistent growth in our Care Policy non-financial KPIs.
AQUACEL product lines and an increasing contribution from AQUACEL Foam dressing.
Our Intellectual Property and Ostomy Care franchise grew 1.7% at constant currency as our strategies to return the franchise to Product Innovation that these KPIs represent, .
Regulatory consistent growth continued to gain traction.
This reflects our actions to improve our engagement meaningful and relevant Product Quality and Safety with the nursing community, invest in our direct-to-consumer programme and launch new Ethics, Bribery and measures of our performance, .
We also continued to grow revenues in both our CCC 3.6% at constant currency and Corruption and are an important Infusion Devices 4% at constant currency franchises.
illustration of our ability to 2.
Adjusted earnings before interest, tax, Performance in 2016 Risks achieve our objectives under Macroeconomic and depreciation & amortisation EBITDA At constant currency, Adjusted EBITDA increased 6.5% to $508 million in 2016, primarily due to 6.5% Foreign Exchange each of our strategic drivers.
growth $m steady revenue growth combined with a strong increase in gross margin.
This was largely due to Governmental Social Health the benefits of our MIP programme which was ahead of schedule in 2016.
In addition we Care Policy m. maintained solid cost control with adjusted operating expenses increasing 1.8%, a lower rate than Intellectual Property and Product Innovation the revenues as a result of FX benefits in the year.
m. Regulatory Our strategic drivers Product Quality and Safety Our strategic drivers are set out below.
Further detail is provided on pages 24 Data loss Mistreatment and 25.
Number of products launched Performance in 2016 Risks Growth Governmental Social Health In 2016 we continued to see the benefits of our innovation, bringing 13 new products to market Innovation 13 We aim to optimise revenue growth Care Policy with key product launches across all our franchises.
In AWC we expanded our AQUACEL family Intellectual Property and from our strong portfolio of with the launch of AQUACEL Foam Pro and Foam Lite dressings, the expansion of our reach into Product Innovation differentiated products.
new surgical indications with AQUACEL Ag Surgical SP dressing and our entry into the fastRegulatory Product Quality and Safety growing disposable segment of the NPWT market with the launch of the Avelle System in the UK Innovation and Nordic regions.
In Ostomy Care we have introduced our Esteem Flex Convex range of We aim to continue our long and one-piece products in Japan, Italy and the Netherlands and our InvisiClose drainable pouch closure successful track record of developing system across the Natura, Esteem and Esteem synergy ranges.
In CCC we launched the Infusion Devices AWC Ostomy Care CCC and commercialising new innovative GentleCath Glide intermittent catheter range and also our Flexi-Seal Fecal Management technologies for the benefit of 1 System with odour barrier.
In Infusion Devices we launched the Mio 30, a 30-degree soft cannula customers and healthcare providers.
infusion set with retractable needle.
Number of programmes in development Performance in 2016 Risks We strive to simplify the way we operate Intellectual Property and Building on our world leading research and development capabilities we will continue to drive 60 to reduce complexity, increase efficiency Product Innovation innovation to develop technologies that anticipate and address the needs of people living with Regulatory and free up resources to reinvest chronic conditions.
We continue to maintain a strong and healthy pipeline of innovation and have 19 Product Quality and Safety elsewhere in our business.
programmes at or nearing the launch phase through broad-based innovation across all our franchises.
See our development pipeline on page 22.
Concept Development At or nearing launch Strategic driver 3: 5.
Adjusted gross margin % Performance in 2016 Risks Macroeconomic and In the fourth quarter of 2015 we launched our MIP, to drive efficiencies in our manufacturing and Efficiency 60.9% 130 bps Foreign Exchange distribution cost base.
The MIP is targeting a minimum net impact on margins of 300 basis points Product Quality and Safety.
In 2016 we delivered 130 basis points of gross margin benefit of which approximately 90 points were driven by the MIP programme and the remainder by foreign exchange.
programme delivered ahead of plan in 2016 and we aim to deliver half of our 300 basis points target during 2017.. 6.
Adjusted EBIT margin % Performance in 2016 Risks Macroeconomic and Adjusted EBIT margin increased 150 basis points to 28% of revenue.
This increase was primarily 28.0% 150 bps Foreign Exchange driven by the benefits of our MIP outlined above and to a lesser extent a reduction in our operating Governmental Social Health.
expenses as a percentage of revenue due to foreign exchange benefits in the year.
Care Policy Intellectual Property and Product Innovation.
Regulatory Product Quality and Safety.
Ethics, Bribery and Corruption Data loss Mistreatment Revenue and EBITDA growth at constant currency.
Certain financial measures in this Annual Report, including adjusted results above, are not prepared in Principal risks and uncertainties accordance with IFRS.
All adjusted measures are reconciled to the most directly comparable measure Page 28 prepared in accordance with IFRS on pages 90 to 93.
26ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 Strategic driver 1: 1.
Group revenue and revenue growth $m Performance in 2016 Risks Macroeconomic At constant currency, revenue grew 4% to $1,688m.
Our AWC franchise had a further strong year Growth 4.0% Governmental Social Health with revenues up 6.5% at constant currency.
We continued to see consistent growth in our Care Policy, .
Our Intellectual Property and Ostomy Care franchise grew 1.7% at constant currency as our strategies to return the franchise to Product Innovation, .
This reflects our actions to improve our engagement Product Quality and Safety with the nursing community, invest in our direct-to-consumer programme and launch new Ethics, Bribery and, .
We also continued to grow revenues in both our CCC 3.6% at constant currency and Corruption Infusion Devices 4% at constant currency franchises.
Adjusted earnings before interest, tax, Performance in 2016 Risks Macroeconomic and depreciation & amortisation EBITDA At constant currency, Adjusted EBITDA increased 6.5% to $508 million in 2016, primarily due to 6.5% Foreign Exchange growth $m steady revenue growth combined with a strong increase in gross margin.
m. Regulatory Product Quality and Safety Ethics, Bribery and Corruption m -.
Data loss Mistreatment Strategic driver 2: 3.
Number of products launched Performance in 2016 Risks Governmental Social Health In 2016 we continued to see the benefits of our innovation, bringing 13 new products to market Innovation 13 Care Policy with key product launches across all our franchises.
In AWC we expanded our AQUACEL family Intellectual Property and with the launch of AQUACEL Foam Pro and Foam Lite dressings, the expansion of our reach into Product Innovation new surgical indications with AQUACEL Ag Surgical SP dressing and our entry into the fastRegulatory Product Quality and Safety growing disposable segment of the NPWT market with the launch of the Avelle System in the UK and Nordic regions.
In Ostomy Care we have introduced our Esteem Flex Convex range of one-piece products in Japan, Italy and the Netherlands and our InvisiClose drainable pouch closure system across the Natura, Esteem and Esteem synergy ranges.
In CCC we launched the Infusion Devices AWC Ostomy Care CCC GentleCath Glide intermittent catheter range and also our Flexi-Seal Fecal Management 1 System with odour barrier.
In Infusion Devices we launched the Mio 30, a 30-degree soft cannula infusion set with retractable needle.
Number of programmes in development Performance in 2016 Risks Intellectual Property and Building on our world leading research and development capabilities we will continue to drive 60 Product Innovation innovation to develop technologies that anticipate and address the needs of people living with Regulatory chronic conditions.
We continue to maintain a strong and healthy pipeline of innovation and have 19 Product Quality and Safety programmes at or nearing the launch phase through broad-based innovation across all our franchises.
Ethics, Bribery and Corruption Data loss Mistreatment 1.
Mio 30 is a trademark of Medtronic-Minimed.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc27
