Our markets Leading positions in large chronic care markets.
Our chronic care markets are underpinned by the following fundamental growth drivers which are increasing the demand for our products and technologies.
Growth driver: Growth driver: Growth driver: Ageing Increasing prevalence Increased life population of chronic conditions expectancy What this means What this means What this means The number of people in the The incidence of several Due to earlier detection and world aged 60 years or over is chronic diseases that can be more effective treatment, projected to more than double related to lifestyle, such as people with chronic conditions in size reaching nearly 2.1 billion diabetes and obesity, is are living longer.
Life expectancy of people with Type 1 diabetes has risen from 53 years for What this means for us In the United States the prevalence of people born between 1950 and 1964 to There is a strong correlation between obesity is forecast to increase by 33% by 69 years for people born between 1965 age and the incidence of diseases 2030 source: Finkelstein 2012 and and 1980 source: The Pittsburgh requiring wound, ostomy and the number of the global population with Epidemiology of Diabetes Complications incontinence treatment and infusion diabetes is forecast to increase from Study Cohort 2012. products source: Gist, Tio-Matos, 8.4% to 9.7% by 2030 source: Falzgraf, Cameron, Beebe 2009.
What this means for us Many of our customers stay with us for What this means for us life and as they live longer the period The increasing prevalence of chronic during which they are reliant on our conditions, which are often experienced products is extended.
Commercially this over a long duration and generally gives us long-term visibility of underlying progress slowly, is driving demand for our demand for our products.
For example, globally there are about 50 million source: Frost & Sullivan reported cases of patients suffering from hard-to-heal wounds, including foot ulcers and venous leg ulcers, which affect over 600,000 people source: Espicom in the United States alone each year.
As treatment of such conditions is non-discretionary, our revenues are largely predictable and recurring.
In 2016 we generated approximately 74% of our revenues from products used by people with chronic care conditions.
Our strategy Page 24 16ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 Market size Market growth.. 46%.
We operate in a $10 billion chronic care market which is.
bn projected to grow, on average, at 46% per annum over the next five years... Advanced Wound Care.
bn We hold leading positions in each of our markets 1 2 3 4 Advanced Wound Care Ostomy Care Continence & Critical Care Infusion Devices Market size Market size Market size Market size $5.0bn $2.4bn $1.8bn $0.5bn Market growth Market growth Market growth Market growth 56% 46% 35% 56% Key competitors Key competitors Key competitors Key competitors Mlnlycke Coloplast Coloplast Smiths Smith & Nephew Hollister Dansac Bard Ypsomed Acelity Others Wellspect Others Market position Market share Market position Market share Market position Market share Market position Market share Global advanced wound dressing Global ostomy Retailer in intermittent Global disposable infusion #2 17% #3 21% catheters in the US sets for insulin pumps #1 25.7% #1 85% Global silver US #1 31% #2 US fecal management systems #1 67% Global hydrocolloids Europe UK and France #1 46% #3 Global alginates and gelling fibrous dressings #1 45% Operational review Operational review Operational review Operational review Page 37 Page 39 Page 41 Page 43 1.
The AWC market includes advanced dressings global alginates and gelling fibrous dressing sectors combined, contact layers, hydrogels, hydrocolloids and super absorbents other advanced dressings : silver antimicrobials: and foam, biologics and negative pressure wound therapy.
Expected CAGR is for the period from 2015 to 2020.
The Ostomy Care market includes pouching systems and ostomy care accessories including deodorants, skin barriers and clothing but excludes irrigation products.
The CCC market comprises the US and Europe intermittent catheter and fecal management market.
Expected CAGR is for the period from 2015 to 2022 in the United States and 2015 to 2019 in Europe.
Source: iData Research and GHX.
The Infusion Devices market size refers to disposables for insulin infusion pumps.
Expected CAGR is for the period from 2016 to 2020 and refers to the insulin pump market.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc17 Our markets continued Key dynamics Market trend: Market trend: A number of key trends are Use of more advanced Greater access to healthcare evident in our markets.
technologies to deliver A large proportion of the growing middle better outcomes class in emerging markets are gaining access to private insurance and use of The increasing prevalence of chronic healthcare products and services is wounds is driving demand for products increasing.
which better enhance quality of life and limit the risk of more serious health problems.
As a result treatment and management is moving from traditional wound care products to more advanced offerings which provide an optimal healing environment.
These advanced technologies include foam, alginates, gelling fibrous dressings and antiinfective substances such as silver.
Market trend: Pressure on healthcare costs Our products are predominantly sold to hospitals and long-term care facilities and direct-to-consumer home health.
Funding of our products varies by country but generally includes government sponsored healthcare and private medical insurance.
Increased longevity, combined with worldwide government austerity programmes, has accelerated efforts to reduce overall healthcare spending.
In particular, many healthcare systems are seeking to limit overall cost increases through pricing pressure and by increasing the emphasis on products and services that deliver better patient outcomes, limit the risk of infection and reduce the time a patient has to spend in hospital.
Our strategy Page 24 18ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 Market trend: Increasing regulation and compliance Our industry is subject to rigorous regulation by governmental authorities such as the Food and Drug Administration FDA, notified bodies in the European Union and other national and local governmental authorities in the countries where we manufacture and sell our products.
These regulations cover all aspects of our business, including the safety, clinical efficacy and effectiveness of our products, their packaging and our sales and marketing activities.
Generally the regulatory obligations we must comply with are becoming more onerous and across our industry, enforcement is increasing.
We must also comply with a wide range of anti-competition, antifraud and anti-bribery laws, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and similar laws in other countries that relate to anti-corruption compliance.
Acting with integrity at all times is at the heart of our values-driven culture and to reinforce this our employees regularly participate in training and compliance programmes.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc19
