Executive Committee An experienced leadership team with proven track records in the MedTech sector.
Paul Moraviec Nigel Clerkin Antonio La Regina Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer President, EMEA Paul was appointed Chief Executive in Nigel was previously the Executive Vice Antonio has been President, EMEA since 2014.
He joined ConvaTec Limited in President and Chief Financial Officer 2015.
He joined ConvaTec in 2006 as 2009 as President of EMEA.
Previously CFO of Elan Corporation, a DublinManaging Director for Italy and since then he held senior positions with a number of based biotechnology company, where he has held a number of senior management leading global medical device companies, held a series of roles in strategic planning roles including Vice President and General including Abbott Laboratories where he and finance prior to becoming CFO in Manager of UK Ireland and Italy Greece.
Earlier in his career, Nigel was an Prior to joining the Company, Antonio Commercial Operations covering EMEA, auditor with KPMG.
He is a fellow of worked for Zambon Group and BMS in APAC, Latin America and Canada, Chartered Accountants Ireland.
both Italy and France in a variety of Johnson & Johnson where he held a commercial and functional roles.
He is a series of increasingly senior international board member of MedTech Europe, an management and marketing roles and industry body that represents the medical Bausch & Lomb where he was a country technology sector in Europe.
Prior to joining ConvaTec he was Chief Executive of a specialist surgical robotics company.
Timothy Moran John Lindskog George Poole President, Americas President, Infusion Devices President, APAC Timothy joined ConvaTec in 2015 & Industrial Sales George joined ConvaTec in 2015 from from Medtronic, where he was Vice John joined ConvaTec in 2008 following Medtronic, where he spent 14 years President and General Manager of the Companys acquisition of in leadership roles in commercial, the Patient Care and Safety Division.
marketing, operations and general After joining Kendall in 1997, he held He has 25 years of experience in the management including most recently a number of sales, marketing and infusion devices industry which began at Vice President Managing Director, general management roles within Tyco PharmaPlast, which later merged with Southeast Asia.
Prior to joining Healthcare, Covidien and Medtronic.
Maersk Medical and became Medtronic, he was with Welch Allyn Earlier in his career he held sales Unomedical.
positions with a number of medical and communications technology firms in the US.
14ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 Symeria Hudson Michael Sgrignari Robert Steele President, Global Franchises Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, & Innovation Global Operations Quality, Regulatory & Clinical Affairs Symeria joined ConvaTec in 2016 from Michael joined ConvaTec in 2015 from Robert joined ConvaTec in 2014 from Baxter, Inc. where she was Global Medtronics Covidien group, where he Stryker where his most recent role was Franchise Head, Renal Home Therapies.
was Senior Vice President of Quality and Vice President of Regulatory Affairs, Prior to joining Baxter, she held a number Operations.
In 1991 he joined Covidiens Quality Assurance and Clinical.
Previously of senior roles at Hospira, helping to predecessor company, Tyco Healthcares he held a variety of roles with medical transform the company following its US Surgical Division, and held a number technologies company KCI, including Vice spin-off from Abbott.
She began her of senior management roles including, President of Global Quality.
Robert career in accounting, moving into from 2007, Vice President of Global began his career as an engineer working marketing and management, with a Operations for Tyco Healthcare.
at medical device manufacturing number of leading FMCG and business companies in the United Kingdom.
Marc Reuss Adam Deutsch Douglas LeFort Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President, Human Resources General Counsel Corporate Development Marc joined ConvaTec in 2015 from Adam joined ConvaTec in 2014 from Douglas was appointed Senior Vice Novartis, where he was Global Head of Biomet, Inc. where his positions included President of Corporate Development Human Resources at the Vaccines and Corporate Vice President and Associate in October 2015.
He joined ConvaTec in Diagnostics division, and, most recently, General Counsel-Litigation, Investigations 2011 from Freehand Surgical Ltd. where at Sandoz, Novartis large generics & Risk Management, as well as Chief he was Chief Executive Officer from division.
Previously Marc spent eight Compliance Officer.
Prior to joining Freehand years with Boston Scientific, serving in Biomet, Adam was a partner in a Surgical Ltd. Douglas held leadership senior international Human Resources prominent Chicago-based law firm, positions with Abbott Laboratories roles, and began his career at a number focused on complex commercial and class Diabetes Care Division, Chiron of leading aerospace, financial services action litigation, regulatory and Corporation and SC Johnson Inc. and high-technology companies.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc15
