Our strategy Our strategy is designed Strategic driver 1: proposition we offer our Ostomy Care to drive sales and earnings customers and caregivers, and has a Growth momentum by building number of differentiating features from on our strong portfolio of similar programmes offered by our major We aim to optimise revenue competitors.
It provides access to differentiated products with specialist nurse support and other growth from our strong portfolio leading positions in large resources, such as an inspirational of differentiated products.
community platform, and also provides do this through: education for healthcare professionals to ensure people are provided with the best We look to excel across the Leveraging our existing capabilities, products to meet their needs.
We believe following three strategic drivers: technologies and commercial me will not only aid new customer platforms to enter new addressable Growth capture in Ostomy Care, but will also market segments and geographic enhance retention by providing people Innovation regions: with educational resources to ensure Efficiency they are informed about the best Progress to date includes: products as their needs evolve.
Launched the Avelle System in the relatively new and fast-growing Continued to operate 180 Medical, our disposable NPWT segment following the nationally accredited and highly approach utilised during our successful successful direct-to-consumer provider foam sub-segment launch.
The Avelle of sterile-use catheters, as well as other System, which uses our proprietary disposable medical supplies.
180 Medical Hydrofiber Technology, delivers value is the largest medical equipment for our customers with longer usage up distributor of intermittent catheters in to 30 days.
the US and its differentiated service offering has been a key driver of growth, Future priorities with the company rating very highly in Launch further differentiated products relation to customer focus and in the NPWT segment.
Following the success of the GentleCath intermittent catheter in Future priorities the US market, enter the large Continue to develop our technologies international intermittent catheter and the me programme globally.
market leveraging our extensive Leverage direct-to-consumer existing sales and support engagement across our other infrastructure.
In particular we Continue to examine other market have developed a version of me opportunities to follow similar growth that will be partnered with new strategies, which we will pursue either products and expanded into the global organically or through bolt-on intermittent catheter market.
Continue to grow 180 Medical in the US and build on this expertise in other Building direct and deeper markets.
As our addressable markets engagement with our customers in the US increasingly shift focus from through investing in direct-tosales to hospitals to sales to end-user consumer platforms: customers, we will continue to invest in our retailer network.
Progress to date includes: Delivered continued growth from our Key performance indicators Ostomy Care franchise on a constant Group revenue growth currency basis, through execution of our Adjusted EBITDA growth refocused strategy which includes a see page 26 direct and deeper engagement with our customers.
This direct customer engagement is becoming increasingly relevant in our markets, reflecting a number of factors including customers becoming more connected and willing to share personal data.
Expanded our direct-to-consumer me programme, which focuses on supporting and expanding our relationships with people living with ostomies.
The programme is a key Key performance indicators element of the overall product Page 26 24ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 Strategic driver 2: Strategic driver 3: Our Margin Improvement Innovation Efficiency Programme We aim to continue our long We strive to simplify the way we The key elements of the MIP are: Structured approach to and successful track record of operate to reduce complexity, procurement to drive identified developing and commercialising increase efficiency and free up sourcing cost savings.
resources to reinvest elsewhere Reduction in our manufacturing This strategy enhances our in our business.
Implementation of LEAN position in our existing markets Progress to date includes: manufacturing processes and and accelerates our access to In the fourth quarter of 2015, we workflows which focus on new markets.
launched our MIP, to drive efficiencies in standardisation of metrics, our manufacturing and distribution cost monitoring frequency and training, Progress to date includes: base.
The MIP is targeting a minimum net as well as application of specific Long and successful track record of impact on margins of 300 basis points tools in the manufacturing commercialising new technologies, by 2020. environment focused on including groundbreaking platforms such continuous improvement, use of as AQUACEL dressings with In 2016 we delivered 130 basis points of inventory-control systems, Hydrofiber Technology and AQUACEL gross margin benefit of which analysis of waste sources and Ag dressings designed to address approximately 90 points were driven by improvements to overall chronic wounds, ConvaTec Moldable the MIP and the remainder by foreign equipment effectiveness across Technology, the Flexi-Seal Fecal exchange.
In 2016 targeted savings were our production facilities, alongside Management System and GentleCath ahead of plan.
Key milestones included: expansion and refitting activities intermittent catheters.
The closure of our operations at our at our Slovakia and Dominican CCC plants in Mexico and Malaysia.
In 2016, we launched the Avelle System The redevelopment and expansion of Partial insourcing of AQUACEL in the disposable NPWT segment, our sites in Slovakia and the Dominican Foam production, reflecting the marking our entry into this fast-growing Republic and the start of the transfer achievement of critical mass in segment of the advanced wound care of production lines.
this product line following its market.
In 2005, Infusion Devices Training of approximately 2,000 launch in 2012. launched the first infusion set with a employees across the business in Rationalisation of certain product built-in insertion device for painless LEAN manufacturing principles.
lines in Ostomy Care and CCC, insertions.
Final determination of product following a detailed cost benefit portfolio changes in our Ostomy Care review.
Future priorities and CCC franchises.
Develop and commercialise our Successfully completed negotiations Of the 300 basis points net margin significant development pipeline, for several third party sourcing impact, approximately 200 basis including 14 programmes at the contracts.
points are expected to result from concept phase, 27 programmes at the the manufacturing footprint development phase and 19 Future priorities optimisation, implementation of programmes at or nearing the launch We now expect to deliver 150 basis LEAN manufacturing processes, phase.
See our development pipeline points of our 300 basis points target AQUACEL Foam insourcing and on page 22. during 2017.
Our key areas of focus will Ostomy Care and CCC rationalisation.
Planned key new product releases and be: The other approximately 100 basis enhancements include, within our Progressing our site rationalisation points are expected to result from AWC franchise, further NPWT programme.
launches and additional AQUACEL Completion of the Dominican Republic Foam product lines: a new catheter process qualifications by the end of the system using FeelClean technology third quarter.
within CCC: consumer-led design and In Slovakia, complete the validation enhancements to optimise our milestones including for ostomy Ostomy Care product portfolio: and, in adhesives equipment, also by the end Infusion Devices we will continue to of the third quarter, and for new APS innovate to ensure that our products closed pouch lines, by the end of the continue to lead in the market in terms fourth quarter.
During the year complete more of our sourcing initiatives including ostomy Key performance indicators filters in the first quarter and adhesive Number of products launched raw materials by the end of the third Number of programmes in quarter.
development see page 26 Key performance indicators Adjusted gross margin Adjusted EBIT margin see page 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc25
