Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 Directors report The Directors present their Annual Report on the aairs of the Dividends Group, together with the Financial Statements and auditors The Companys dividend policy is set out on page 11 in the report, for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Any decision to declare and pay dividends will be made at the discretion of the Directors and will depend on, The Corporate governance report set out on pages 56 to 59 among other things, applicable law, regulation, restrictions, the forms part of this Directors report and is incorporated by Groups financial position, working capital requirements, reference.
Disclosures elsewhere in the Annual Report are restrictions on dividends in the Groups banking facilities, finance cross-referenced where appropriate.
Taken together, the costs, general economic conditions and other factors the Strategic report on pages 10 to 52 and this Directors report Directors deem significant.
In February 2017 the Company fulfil the requirements of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules carried out a capital reduction to convert the amount standing to provide a management report.
to the credit of the share premium account to distributable reserves to facilitate its ability to declare and pay dividends Post balance sheet events subject to the discretion of the Directors.
Further, a resolution Details of significant events since the balance sheet date are will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to authorise the contained in Note 25 to the Financial Statements.
An indication Directors to implement a scrip dividend scheme within the next of likely future developments in the business of the Company three years from the date of the AGM for those shareholders and details of research and development activities are included who elect to avail of such scheme.
on pages 22 to 25 and 37 to 43 of the Strategic report.
Capital structure Disclosure of information to the auditor Share capital Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with this Annual Report confirms that: details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit during the year are shown in Note 20 to the Financial information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and Statements.
As at 31 December 2016 the Company had two the Director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as classes of share: ordinary shares of 10p each and non-voting a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit redeemable preference shares of 1.00 each.
On 7 February information and to establish that the Companys auditor is 2017 the Company redeemed all of its non-voting redeemable aware of that information.
preference shares such that the Company has only one class of share: ordinary shares of 10p each.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provision of Section 418 of the Companies Shareholders rights Act 2006.
The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are governed by the Companys Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
Deloitte have expressed their willingness to continue in office as There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding.
auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at Subject to applicable law and the Articles of Association, holders the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
of ordinary shares are entitled to receive all shareholder documents, including notice of any general meeting, attend, Going concern speak and exercise voting rights at general meetings, either in The Directors have, at the time of approving the Financial person or by proxy, and participate in any distribution of income Statements, a reasonable expectation and a high level of or capital.
confidence that the Group and the Company has the adequate liquid resources to meet its liabilities as they become due and Restrictions on voting will be able to sustain its business model, strategy and There are no specific restrictions on voting rights, save in operations and remain solvent for the foreseeable future.
Thus situations where the Company is legally entitled to impose such the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in restrictions usually where amounts remain unpaid on shares preparing the Financial Statements.
after request, or the shareholder is otherwise in default of an obligation to the Company.
Currently all issued ordinary shares Financial Instruments are fully paid.
Information about the use of financial instruments by the Company and its subsidiaries is contained in Note 24 to the Shares held by the Companys employee benefit trust Financial Statements.
The Companys offshore employee benefit trust the EBT is used to purchase the Companys shares for the benefit of Branches of the Company employees, including satisfying outstanding awards made under There are no branches of the Company.
In respect of all shares held in the EBT, the trustee has waived its right to receive dividends.
Further details regarding the EBT are contained in Note 20 to the Financial Statements.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc83 Directors report continued Restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares Company Secretary From admission of the Companys securities on the Main Market The Company Secretary provides ongoing support to the Board of the London Stock Exchange, the companies ultimately owned in relation to corporate governance issues and compliance with by Nordic Capital and Avista the Significant Shareholders the Listing Rules.
She is responsible for establishing, entered into a lock-up period of 180 days and the Companys implementing and monitoring the corporate governance Directors and certain senior employees entered into a lock-up framework, attending all Board and committee meetings, period of 365 days.
During the lock-up periods, the Significant advising on effective board processes, advising on directors Shareholders, the Directors and certain senior employees agree statutory duties, disclosure obligations and Listing Rule not to dispose of any securities in the Company.
Certain of the requirements, and working in conjunction with investor relations underwriting banks may, however, waive the restrictions in and corporate affairs regarding dialogue with investors.
respect of the lock-up periods before they expire and there was an exception for the security interests granted to margin loan Political donations lenders.
No political donations, including non-EU political parties, were made during the period.
The transfer of ordinary shares is governed by the general provisions of the Companys Articles of Association and Substantial shareholdings applicable legislation.
There are no restrictions on the transfer At 31 December 2016, the Company had been notied, in of ordinary shares other than i as set out in the lock-up accordance with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency arrangements described in the preceding paragraph: ii as set Rules, of the following voting rights as a shareholder of the out in the Articles of Association: iii certain restrictions which Company.
may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations and No.
of ordinary Percentage of pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority Shareholder shares voting rights the Listing Rules whereby Directors and certain officers and The Capital Group Companies, Inc 99,839,000 5.11% employees of the Company require approval to deal in the Companies owned by ordinary shares in accordance with the Companys share dealing Nordic Capital 849,181,983 43.52% policies and the Market Abuse Regulation.
Companies owned by Avista 366,540,257 18.78% Directors The membership of the Board and biographical details of the During the period between 31 December 2016 and 17 March Directors are included in the Governance section on pages 54 2017, being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this and 55.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of Annual Report, the Company did not receive any notications Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of under Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Association, the Code, the Companies Act and related legislation.
The Articles themselves may be amended by special Relationship agreement with controlling shareholders resolution of the shareholders.
The powers of the Directors are Nordic Capital and Avista together own the majority of the described in the Boards terms of reference, which can be found Companys shares.
The Company entered into on Listing a at www.
com and in the Corporate governance relationship agreement with Nordic Capital and Avista as report on page 56. controlling shareholders as required by Listing Rule 9.2.
Given its significant investment in the Company, Nordic Share issues Capital is entitled to appoint two Non-Executive Directors to the Under its Articles of Association and authority granted under a Board for so long as it and its associates are entitled to exercise, shareholder resolution on 25 October 2016, the Company has or to control the exercise of, 25% or more of the votes able to be authority to issue 1,951,472,651 ordinary shares out of which cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetings of the authority 1,300,000,000 shares were issued as part of the Company.
Nordic Capital and Avista together are entitled to reorganisation, details of which are contained in Note 3 to the appoint one Non-Executive Director to the Board for so long as Financial Statements, and 651,472,651 shares were issued on they and their associates are entitled to exercise, or control the Listing.
exercise of, 10% per cent or more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetings of the Significant agreements Company.
Pursuant to the relationship agreement, if Nordic There are also a number of other agreements that take eect, Capital and Avista transfer such number of shares as represent alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company 15% or more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all such as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property matters at general meetings of the Company in a single lease arrangements and employees share plans.
None of these transaction to another entity New Shareholder, they will be are considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on able to offer such New Shareholder the right to appoint one the business of the Group as a whole.
Furthermore, the Non-Executive Director on substantially the same terms as the Directors are not aware of any agreements between the relationship agreement, provided that, among other things, the Company and its Directors or employees that provide for Board is satisfied that the New Shareholder is a long term compensation for loss of oce or employment that occurs investor, such as a charitable foundation or a sovereign wealth because of a takeover bid.
fund as opposed to a more typical institutional investor in the public market or a hedge fund which is not a competitor of the Directors indemnities Company: the Nomination Committee may prevent a proposed The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity appointment if it is not in the best interests of the Company: provisions for the benefit of its Directors which were made there will be no more than three Nordic Capital, Avista or New during the year and remain in force at the date of this report.
Shareholder appointed Non-Executive Directors: and there may only ever be one such appointment.
In the period from Listing to 31 December 2016 and also from 31 December 2016 to 17 March 2017, being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Annual Report, the Company has complied with the 84ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 independence provisions of the relationship agreement, and so Special business far as the Company is aware, Nordic Capital and Avista and their The Annual General Meeting will be held at Reading Town Hall, associates also complied with the independence provisions.
Blagrave Street, Reading, Berkshire RG1 1QH, on 11 May 2017 at 11am.
Notice of the meeting, containing details of the resolutions Acquisition of Companys own shares to be put to the meeting, will be available on the Companys At the end of the year, the Directors had authority, under the website.
shareholders resolutions of 25 October 2016, to purchase through the market up to 10% of the Companys ordinary shares at prices per share at the higher of i up to 105% of middle market quotations of the price of shares for the five business days prior to the date of purchase, and ii an amount equal to the higher of the last independent trade and the highest current Clare Bates independent bid at the time of purchase.
This authority expires Company Secretary at the date of the Companys AGM and the Company will seek 17 March 2017 its renewal at the AGM.
It is confirmed that no acquisition of the Companys own shares have been made under such authority.
ConvaTec Group Plc is registered in England No.
10361298 Related party transactions Details of the Companys one related party transaction are contained in Note 26 to the Financial Statements.
Disabled employees Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event of members of sta becoming disabled every eort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
Employee consultation The Group places considerable value on creating a positive collaborative working environment and to ensuring that all employees are engaged and motivated.
Details of employee engagement are provided on page 47 of the Strategic report.
A resolution is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to approve an all employee share scheme of the Group.
The Directors believe that such a scheme is a benefit to the Company as it will facilitate the ability for all employees to purchase shares in the Company, thus enabling them to benefit directly from the anticipated growth and success of the Company in the future.
Greenhouse emissions reporting The disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions required by law are included in the Strategic report on page 48.
Listing Rules compliance with LR 9.8.
4C Section Applicable sub-paragraph within LR 9.8.
4C Location 1 Interest capitalised Group Financial Statements, Note 3, page 111 4 Details of long term incentive schemes Remuneration Committee report, page 66 14 Confirmation of relationship agreement Directors report, page 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc85
