Viability statement The Board considers the Companys Consideration was also given to a The Strategic report was approved by financial status and viability on a regular number of other individual risks and the Board of Directors on 17 March 2017 basis as part of its programme to events.
In the Boards estimation these and signed on its behalf by: monitor and manage risk.
The Board has events would not plausibly occur to a concluded that the most relevant level of materiality that, in themselves, outlook period for this review should be would endanger the Companys viability.
Three years has been chosen taking into Conclusion account the Companys research and Based on the consolidated financial Paul Moraviec development and production cycles and impact of the sensitivity analysis and Chief Executive Officer its ability to respond in a timely manner associated mitigating internal controls to reasonably possible Company specific and risk management actions, as and market events.
In addition, the Board described in detail for each principal risk has taken into consideration the on pages 30 to 33, the Directors Companys solid business model, its concluded that the Company will be able diverse product portfolio and the to operate within its existing bank Nigel Clerkin growing markets and market segments covenants and maintain sufficient bank Chief Financial Officer that it operates in.
These attributes facilities and cash reserves to meet its enable the Company to deliver relatively funding needs over the Viability Period.
consistent, recurring revenue across the In concluding this, the Board considered AWC, Ostomy Care, CCC and Infusion the Companys solid business model, its Device franchises.
diverse product portfolio and the growing markets and market segments The annual strategic planning and that it operates in, that enable the budgeting processes were used as the Company to deliver relatively consistent, starting point for assessing the recurring revenue across the AWC, Companys viability.
While the annual Ostomy Care, CCC and Infusion Device strategic planning process and franchises.
associated financial plan covers a period of five years, the first three years of the Confirmation of longer term viability plan are considered as a combination of The assessment of principal risks facing latest 2017 budget and 2018-2019 the Company and robust downside strategic plan to contain the key sensitivity analysis, all of which are assumptions that will provide the most described above and on pages 28 to 33, appropriate information on which to leads the Board to a reasonable assess viability, and a reasonably visible expectation that the Company will time horizon.
remain viable and continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they become Assessing viability due over the Viability Period through to In making their assessment, the Board December 2019. took into account the potential impact of the principal risks that could prevent the The Groups Going Concern Statement is Company from achieving its strategic detailed on page 83. objectives.
The principal risks used in the assessment are described in detail in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section of this Annual Report on pages 28 to 33.
Plausible downside scenarios were then designed to conduct sensitivity analysis and measure the financial impact these risks would bring to the business.
The plausible downside scenarios were modelled individually and in combination.
These included the impacts of a global change in macroeconomic trends causing a significant appreciation of the US dollar against all other currencies, commercial execution headwinds causing flat organic revenue growth in the Viability Period, a delay in achieving gross margin improvements associated with the Companys Margin Improvement Programme and significant capital overspend across the Viability Period.
52ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
