Our business model We are a global medical Resources and relationships we need to create value include: products and technologies group committed to behaving responsibly in everything we People who are dedicated to World-leading research and do.
We exist to improve the improving peoples lives development R&D capabilities lives of the people we touch.
A leadership team with extensive and differentiated new products This clear purpose, together MedTech experience and a track Extensive intellectual property record of performance and delivery portfolio which is strongly protected with our focus on delivering Sales and marketing activities which State-of-the-art manufacturing long-term value for all our drive and support demand for our facilities stakeholders, drives our products in over 100 countries Extensive quality management business model.
Partners, including specialist nurses system programmes and doctors, who support people Robust compliance and regulatory living with chronic conditions processes Our business model responds Financial resources to support and to the markets in which we grow our activities operate and our strategy sets out how we continue to adapt and grow our business.
Our business model: Our resources Page 22 20ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 We create and capture value by: The benefits our business model creates include: Our customers Value chain Products that address the needs and improve the lives of people R&D Manufacturing Distribution living with chronic conditions Research findings that benefit the chronic care market Increased awareness and Driving innovation and excellence to Striving for excellence in all we do understanding about certain deliver advanced technologies that Continually improving efficiencies chronic conditions through our anticipate and address patient and through our Margin Improvement direct-to-consumer engagement customer needs Programme see page 25 programme see page 35 Delivering products with proven Behaving responsibly to enhance our Solutions that address healthcare clinical performance relationship with key stakeholders providers significant concerns, A supply chain strategy which including infection control and skin ensures high levels of product quality integrity and supply in line with customer demand Our shareholders Long-term, sustainable returns for our shareholders Value proposition Our people Engaging directly with all our Building relationships with A positive work environment and consumers and providing ongoing healthcare professionals and rewarding careers for our support to people living with chronic clinicians employees conditions Our wider stakeholders Broader socio-economic benefits for a range of stakeholders Everything we do is including support for employment underpinned by our values: in our supply chain and the caring for people, driving innovation communities where we operate and excellence and earning trust Corporate Principal risks responsibility and uncertainties Page 44 Page 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc21 Our business model Our resources Our skilled and dedicated people To complement our sales and marketing In this section we provide more Our people are key to our success.
It is activities and help support patients, detail on the resources that we essential that we attract the best people customers and the nurses, surgeons and use to run our business and who are focused on improving the lives physicians who prescribe our products, of people with chronic conditions and we provide educational materials, create value.
who are able to drive innovation, specialist training programmes and performance and change.
We recruit support through our call centres.
using multiple channels including external search firms and our own internal Through our me platform, available in recruitment team who monitor both the a number of key markets, we provide external talent market and our own personalised solutions for people living internal talent pipeline.
A number of our with an ostomy, as well as support for businesses have well established clinicians and caregivers.
The graduate and internship programmes empowering and holistic programme that support early talent development combines ongoing resources, useful and we also work closely with a UK tools, honest information and emotional bioscience network to source UK interns.
Read more about our people on page 47.
Partners including doctors and Our experienced leadership team specialist nurses Read more about our leadership team In many circumstances the decision to and their extensive MedTech experience buy our products is made by doctors and on pages 14 and 15. specialist nurses.
For details of how we support them see above and page 35.
Our sales and marketing activities which drive and support demand for Our world-leading R&D capabilities our products in over 100 countries Our R&D team is dedicated to driving Our sales and marketing function is science, and developing new organised on a regional basis across the technologies and products focused on Americas, EMEA and APAC, each of which customer needs, improving clinical is led by a regional president and managed outcomes and advancing clinical practice.
In our larger The team is based at our R&D Centres of markets which include UK, US, Denmark Excellence in Wales and Denmark, with and Switzerland, where there is limited process development and life cycle customer overlap between franchises, we management teams located at our have dedicated sales teams.
In our smaller manufacturing sites in Slovakia and markets, where there is significant Belarus.
customer overlap, we market our products through sales teams that operate across our franchises.
Our development pipeline Our development pipeline of phase and 19 programmes at or proprietary technologies and products, nearing the launch phase.
Programmes which spans our four franchise at or nearing the launch phase include businesses, currently includes products that are being 14 programmes at the concept phase, commercialised for roll-out in new 27 programmes at the development markets and or for new indications.
Concept 14 phase Development 27 phase At or nearing 19 launch phase 22ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 The following four core areas of Our intellectual property portfolio Our own manufacturing capability is competency underpin our research and We own an extensive portfolio of patents supported by third party contract development platform: and trademarks including over 230 manufacturers and is linked to a reliable Skin and tissue healing and protection.
active patent families and more than supply chain and broad distribution Infection detection and prevention.
2,000 patents and patent applications network.
Each external third party Adhesives.
The majority of our patents manufacturer is required to have in place Advanced mechanical designs.
relate to our key technologies, regulatory qualification, where necessary, compositions, processes or product and is subjected to initial and recurring Our four franchises share know-how, features including our core Hydrofiber site inspections and audits by the Group best practice and technology in order to Technology, our ConvaTec Moldable and others.
facilitate collaborative work, maximise Technology for use in our ostomy synergies and drive innovation.
By way of products, our infusion device Our manufacturing and supply chain example, our adhesive technologies are technologies and our AWC NPWT strategy is focused on aligning used in many of our Ostomy Care and technologies.
manufacturing locations with our AWC products and infection prevention franchises and product life cycle is a feature of a number of our products We actively protect and defend our management.
New products are including CCCs GentleCath catheter intellectual property rights.
Patents and primarily launched through our range which is designed to reduce both patent applications are filed and technology centres, while mature insertion-related traumas and the risk of maintained in those countries in which products are typically produced at our infection.
we have, or where we have an ambition larger scale manufacturing centres or by to have, a strong business presence and external manufacturing partners.
All 2016 highlights we regularly monitor our competitors products are delivered to hub thirdWe launched the following key new product development for potential party logistics distribution centres based products during the year: infringement of our patents and on a continuous replenishment model, AWC: the Avelle System, AQUACEL vigorously defend our position when with dynamic inventory monitoring.
This Foam Pro dressing and the Foam infringement is identified.
strategy ensures high levels of product Lite ConvaTec dressing.
quality and delivery in line with customer Ostomy Care: Esteem Flex Convex When patents expire historically we have demand.
one-piece range, our InvisiClose been successful in bringing new drainable pouch closure system across commercially viable patentable features our Natura, Esteem and Esteem to market, effectively upgrading our synergy ranges.
older product offering including for CCC: GentleCath Glide intermittent example the successful migration from catheter range and Flexi-Seal Fecal AQUACEL to AQUACEL Extra, Management System with odour AQUACEL Ag and AQUACEL Ag.
addition to patent protection, we rely on 1 Infusion Devices: Mio 30, a trade secrets and manufacturing 30-degree soft cannula infusion set know-how in particular with respect to with retractable needle.
our products that incorporate our Hydrofiber Technology, which is Looking ahead produced using complex manufacturing Building on our world-leading research and chemical processes to protect the and development capabilities we will competitive position of our products.
continue to drive innovation to develop technologies that anticipate and address Our manufacturing footprint, supply the needs of people living with chronic chain strategy and distribution conditions.
In particular in: network AWC: we are developing further Our global network of manufacturing negative pressure wound therapy sites provides significant operational NPWT systems and additional flexibility and the ability to drive AQUACEL Foam product lines as continuous improvements in productivity well as other new products to further and overall profitability.
As at year-end prevent wound infections.
2016, our own manufacturing network Ostomy Care: we plan new consumerincluded nine sites in seven countries, led design and enhancements to many of which are in relatively low cost optimise our portfolio.
In 2017, as a result of our CCC: we have in development a new Margin Improvement Programme catheter system using our FeelClean MIP, this network will be consolidated technology to expand our to eight sites in six countries.
details about our MIP are set out on page Infusion Devices: we will continue to 25. innovate to ensure that our products continue to lead in the market in terms of advanced mechanical design.
Mio 30 is a trademark of Medtronic-Minimed.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc23
