com DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements ofCountryside Properties PLC the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group for the year ended 30 September 2016.
RELATIONSHIP AGREEMENT WITH The Directors Report comprises pages 70 to 72 of this report, in addition to the sections of CONTROLLING SHAREHOLDERS theAnnual Report incorporated by reference, including the Board biographies, the Corporate Where a listed company has a controlling Governance Report, the Audit Committee Report, the Nomination Committee Report and the shareholder, it is required to have in place at all Directors Remuneration Report.
times a written and legally binding agreement In accordance with the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules LR 9.8.
4C, the information which is intended to ensure that the controlling to be included in the Annual Report and Accounts, where applicable, under LR 9.8.
4, is set out in shareholder complies with the independence this Directors Report, with the exception of the information set out in the table below, which can provisions set out in LR 6.1.
A controlling be found at the location specified.
shareholder is defined as any person who exercises or controls on their own, or together Listing rule Information Location with any person with whom they are acting in concert, 30per cent or more of the votes able LR 9.8.
4 4 Details of long-term incentive schemes as Not applicable tobe cast on all or substantially all matters required by LR 9.4.
3, regarding information atgeneral meetings of a company.
4D about the recruitment of a director requires that the agreement must contain LR 9.8.
4 11 Details of contracts for the provision of services Not applicable undertakings that: to the Company by a controlling shareholder a t ransactions and arrangements with the LR 9.8.
4 14 Details of transactions with controlling Not applicable controlling shareholder and or any of its shareholders associates will be conducted at arms length and on normal commercial terms: b neit her the controlling shareholder nor any of GENERAL INFORMATION DIRECTORS AND THEIR INTERESTS its associates will take any action that would Countryside Properties PLC is a public limited There were no changes to the Board during the have the effect of preventing the listed company company, listed on the London Stock Exchange, reporting period and up to the date of this report.
from complying with its obligations under the incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The registered For more details on the members of the Board, Listing Rules: and address of the Company is Countryside House, see page 42 to 43.
The Corporate Governance c neit her the controlling shareholder nor any of The Drive, Brentwood, Essex CM13 3AT.
The Report on page 44 gives more information on its associates will propose or procure the proposal Company acts as the holding company and how the Board functioned during the year.
of a shareholder resolution which is intended ultimate parent for the Group.
TheDirectors interests in the shares and share or appears to be intended to circumvent the options of the Company are shown on page 66 proper application of the Listing Rules.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND of the Remuneration Report.
STRATEGIC REPORT The Board confirms that, in accordance with the Countryside is a UK home builder and urban SIGNIFICANT CONTRACTUAL Listing Rules, on 29 January 2016, the Company regeneration partner operating in London and AGREEMENTS entered into such an agreement the Relationship the South East of England and with a presence in The Strategic Report describes the most Agreement with, among others, OCM Luxembourg the West Midlands and the North West of England.
important customer and supplier contracts Coppice Topco S. R. L. and various Oaktree We operate through two divisions: Housebuilding andother arrangements essential to the Group.
funds together, the Oaktree Shareholders and Partnerships.
Our Strategic Report on pages We do not consider ourselves to be dependent who currently have a combined total holding 2 to 39 sets out detailed information on the Group on any single contractual agreement.
Countryside ofapproximately 56per cent of the Companys and its strategy, its principal activities, the operation entered into anew 300m revolving credit facility voting rights.
Under the terms of the Relationship of the businesses and the results and financial on 12 May 2016.
The facility will expire in May 2021 Agreement, the Oaktree Shareholders have agreed position for the year ended 30 September 2016. and has the potential to be extended by a further to the independence obligations contained in the Information on the principal risks and uncertainties year on each of the first and second anniversaries Relationship Agreement.
facing the Group, trends and economic factors of signing with the banks consent.
impacting the business and likely future developments can also be found in the Strategic Report.
T he Oaktree funds are: Oaktree Opportunities Fund VIIIb, L. P. Oaktree Opportunities Fund VIIIb, Parallel, L. P. Oaktree Opportunities Fund IX, L. P. Oaktree Opportunities Fund IX Parallel, L. P. Oaktree Opportunities Fund IX Parallel 2, L. P. Oaktree European Principal Fund III, L. P. and Oaktree European Principal Fund III Parallel, L. P. 70 COUNTRYSIDE PROPERTIES PLC GOVERNANCE The Board confirms that, since the entry into the SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS Relationship Agreement on 29 January 2016 until At 14 November 2016, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Annual 14 November 2016, being the latest practicable Report, the Company has been notified of the following interests amounting to threeper cent date prior to the publication of this Annual Report: ormore of the voting rights in the issued share capital of the Company: i t he Company has complied with the independence provisions included in the Non-controlling interest Interest in Countryside subsidiaries Relationship Agreement: and OCM Luxembourg Coppice Topco s. a. r. l. 56.1% ii so f ar as the Company is aware, the Aviva Investors 6.0% independence provisions included in the Relationship Agreement have been complied Members of senior management 4.0% with by the Oaktree Shareholders and theirassociates.
The Groups policy INDEPENDENT AUDITORS As there are no controlling shareholders of the isto offer appropriate training and career The Board is satisfied that  Company other than the Oaktree Shareholders development to disabled persons that are, as far LLP PwC remained independent for the purpose ifand when they have an interest exceeding as possible, identical to other employees and in of the 2016 audit.
During 2016 the Company 30per cent, there is no need for the Relationship line with best practice.
In the event of a member initiated a competitive tender process for the Agreement to require the OaktreeShareholders of staff becoming disabled, the Group makes audit contract.
A number of contending candidates to procure compliance byany third parties with every effort to continue employment, arrange were invited to tender for the role of auditors the independence provisions of the appropriate retraining and offer opportunities for ofthe Company.
For more information on our diversity thepotential candidates, the Audit Committee statistics, please refer to the Our People concluded that PwC was the most suitable SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS section on page 30. provider.
Upon the Audit Committees CHANGE OF CONTROL recommendation, the Board approved the Upon a change of control of Countryside EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT recommendation and the re-appointment Properties PLC, a number of significant The Group systematically provides employees ofPwCwill be presented to shareholders for agreements take effect, alter or terminate withinformation on matters of concern to them, approval as the Companys auditors at the 2017 asfollows: consulting them or their representatives regularly, Annual General Meeting.
Information about so that their views can be taken into account when non-audit services obtained from PwC can be Revolving credit facility: Under the terms of making decisions that are likely to affect their found in the Audit Committee Report on page 47. the 300m revolving credit facility, entered interests.
Employee involvement in the Group is into on 12 May 2016, and provided by a syndicate encouraged, a common awareness on the part of CORPORATE GOVERNANCE of banks to Countryside Properties PLC, the all employees of the financial and economic factors A report on Countrysides corporate governance lenders may, following such change in control, affecting the Group plays a major role in maintaining framework, together with its compliance with the elect to continue to provide such facility, or the Groups customer-focused approach.
For more principles and provisions of the UK Corporate alternatively cancel it and require all monies information on how the Group engages its Governance Code, can be found in the Corporate borrowed under such facility to be repaid.
employees, refer to page 30 of the report.
For Governance Report on page 44.
The Corporate Directors and employees: There are no more information on how employees can participate Governance Report forms part of this Directors agreements between the Company and in the Groups performance through membership Report and is incorporated into it by cross-reference.
itsDirectors or employees providing for of the LTIP and SAYE employee share schemes, compensation for loss of ofce or employment refer to page 114 of the report.
that occur because of a takeover bid or change of control.
POLICY ON FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The policy with respect to financial instruments is EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES covered in the accounting policy Note 3 to the The Group is committed to employment policies financial statements.
The notes to the financial which follow best practice based on equal statements include the Companys policies and opportunities for all employees, irrespective of processes for managing its capital: its financial risk gender, race, nationality, colour, disability, marital management objectives: details of its financial status, sexual orientation, age or religion.
All instruments and hedging activities: and its decisions relating to employment practices are exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
objective, free from bias and based upon work COUNTRYSIDE PROPERTIES PLC 71 .
com DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS PURCHASE OF THE COMPANYS The Group does not make political contributions.
OWN SHARES During the course of the reporting period, the DIVIDEND Company made no purchases of its own shares in The Directors recommend the payment of a final accordance with the authority granted at Admission.
WE HAVE DEVOTED dividend of 3.4 pence no prior year is available for SIGNIFICANT TIME AND comparison per ordinary share which, if approved STATEMENT OF DISCLOSURE OF by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, will INFORMATION TO AUDITORS EFFORT TO ENSURE be paid on 3 February 2017 to those shareholders Each Director of the Company confirms that, as GROUP COMPLIANCE on the register at the close of business on far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant 13January 2017. audit information of which the Companys auditors WITHRECENT are unaware and that each of the Directors has LEGISLATION, SUCH AS POWER OF THE DIRECTORS taken all the steps they ought to have taken individually Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, as a Director in order to make themselves aware THE MODERN SLAVERY the Companies Act and any directions given by of any relevant audit information and to establish ACT AND THE MARKET the Company by special resolution, the business that the Companys auditors are aware of of the Company will be managed by the Board thatinformation.
which may exercise all powers of the Company.
GOING CONCERN DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES The Directors have reviewed the liquidity By means of a Deed of Indemnity entered into positionof the Group for the 12-month period separately by the Company and each Director, from 28November 2016.
The cash ows of the ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING there is a qualifying third party indemnity provision Group have been assessed against the Groups The Annual General Meeting of the Company as per the Companies Act 2006 that provides, available sources ofnance on a monthly basis to willbe held at Linklaters LLP, One Silk Street, for the financial year ended 30 September 2016 determine theminimum and maximum expected LondonEC2Y 8HQ at 2.30 pm on 26January2017.
andas at the date of this document, that the Company levels ofheadroom.
Based on this analysis and The notice convening the meeting, together with may pay for Directors indemnities out of its own anassessment of the potential cash risks, the details of the business tobe considered and assets.
The Company has obtained directors Directors have a reasonable expectation that explanatory notes for eachresolution, is andofcers insurance for this purpose.
theGroup has adequate resources to continue distributed separately to shareholders.
It inoperational existence for at least 12 months isalsoavailable on our website.
SHARE CAPITAL from the date of this report.
The Group By order of the Board At the date of this report, 450,000,000 ordinary therefore continues to adoptthe going concern shares the same number as at Admission to the basis in preparing itsconsolidated financial London Stock Exchange of 0.01 each have been statements.
The Directors Viability Statement Gary Whitaker issued, are fully paid up and are admitted to trading can be found intheStrategic Report on page 37.
Company Secretary on the London Stock Exchange.
The Companys 28 November 2016 An outlook statement can be found in the Group Articles of Association, copies of which can be Chief Executives Review on page 7. obtained from the Companys website, set outthe rights and obligations attaching to the CARBON EMISSIONS Companys ordinary shares, as well as the powers Details of the Groups approach to the environment, of the Companys Directors.
including information in relation to its carbon Details of employee share schemes are provided emissions, are set out in the section headed in Note 30 to the Group financial statements.
Environment on page 33, forming part of the Sustainability Report of the Annual Report on page32.
