CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited financial statements of the Company and the Group for the year ended 31 March 2016.
The Directors Report consists of pages 72 to 75 and has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon applicable English company law, and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
The Report includes: Strategic Report, including Strategy, Principal Risks and Corporate Social Responsibility, on pages 2 to 43: Corporate Governance Statement, including reports from the Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee, on pages 48 to 71.
DIRECTORS AND THEIR INTERESTS The membership of the Board and biographical details of the Directors are given on pages 46 and 47.
Details of the Directors beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the Company and in share options over the ordinary share capital of the Company are included in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 60 to 71.
In accordance with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors will stand for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES The Company has in place directors and officers liability insurance which gives appropriate cover against the costs of defending themselves in civil proceedings taken against them in their capacity as a director or officer of the Company and in respect of damages resulting from the unsuccessful defence of any proceedings.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Company has a register in place for managing conflicts of interest with the Directors which is reviewed and updated annually.
The Directors have a continuing duty throughout the year to update any changes to these conflicts.
DISCLOSURE REQUIRED UNDER LISTING RULE 9.8.
4R The only information that is applicable to the Company in respect of the requirements of the Listing Rule 9.8.
4R are the details of the Longterm Incentive Scheme which can be located in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 60 to 71.
PROFIT AND DIVIDENDS The profit for the financial year, after taxation, amounts to 45.4 million 2015: 41.3 million.
The Directors have declared dividends as follows: 2016 2015 Interim dividend per share paid on 29 January 2016 11.6p 10.6p Final dividend per share proposed 25.9p 23.4p Total dividend 18.7m 16.8m Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid in cash or scrip form on 2 September 2016 to members on the register at the close of business on 1 July 2016.
The shares will go ex-dividend on 30 June 2016.
The proposed final dividend for 2016 together with the interim paid in January 2016 amount to 37.5 pence per share which is 10.3 per cent higher than the previous year.
SHARE CAPITAL The Company has one class of shares, being ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
There are no special rights pertaining to any of the shares in issue, each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
The allotted and fully paid up share capital is shown in Note 23.
During the year the share capital increased by 589,108 shares.
The increase comprised 422,789 of shares issued relating to share options exercised during the year and 166,319 of shares issued in respect of scrip dividends.
MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS The Company has been notified of the following interests of 3 per cent or more in the issued share capital of the Company: At 31 March 2016 Number of % of issued share shares capital Nature of holding Invesco Perpetual 12,310,980 24.70 Direct & Indirect Woodford Investment Management 3,461,663 6.94 Direct Wellington Management 3,138,483 6.30 Direct Standard Life Investments 2,391,128 4.80 Direct Legal & General Investment Management 2,148,086 4.31 Direct Fidelity Management & Research 1,496,901 3.00 Direct We were notified on 18 May 2016 that Invesco Perpetuals holding has been reduced by 354,816 shares, giving them a holding of 23.98%.
There have been no other notifications of any significant changes, a different whole percentage movement, to these shareholdings as at 24 May 2016.
72 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Highlights Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information CAPITAL RAISING AND SHARE REPURCHASES The Directors of Cranswick plc have received limited authority to disapply Shareholders pre-emption rights in certain circumstances, to authorise the Company to buy back a proportion of the Companys share capital and to allow the Directors to allot shares.
Further resolutions will be placed before the Annual General Meeting to be held on 25 July 2016 to renew these powers.
At the last Annual General Meeting the Directors received authority from the Shareholders to: Allot Shares This gives Directors the authority to allot authorised but unissued shares and maintains the flexibility in respect of the Companys financing arrangements.
The nominal value of ordinary shares which the Directors may allot in the period up to the next Annual General Meeting, to be held on 25 July 2016, is limited to 1,641,979 which represented approximately 33 per cent of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares as at 4 June 2015.
The Directors do not have any present intention of exercising this authority other than in connection with the issue of ordinary shares in respect of the scrip dividend offer and the Companys share option plans.
This authority will expire at the end of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 25 July 2016.
Disapplication of pre-emption rights This disapplies rights of pre-emption on the allotment of shares by the Company, or to grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert securities into ordinary shares or sell treasury shares for cash.
The authority will allow the Directors to allot equity securities for cash pursuant to the authority to allot shares mentioned above, to grant rights for ordinary shares and to sell treasury shares for cash without a pre-emptive offer to existing Shareholders, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 246,296, representing 5 per cent of the Companys issued share capital as at 4 June 2015.
To buy own shares This authority allows the Company to buy its own shares in the market, as permitted under the Articles of Association of the Company, up to a limit of 10 per cent of the Companys issued share capital.
The price to be paid for any share must not be less than 10 pence, being the nominal value of a share, and must not exceed 105 per cent of the average middle market quotations for the ordinary shares of the Company as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary shares are purchased.
The Directors have no immediate plans to exercise the powers of the Company to purchase its own shares and undertake that the authority would only be exercised if the Directors were satisfied that a purchase would result in an increase in expected earnings per share and was in the best interests of the Company at the time.
The Directors would consider holding any of its own shares that it purchases pursuant to this authority as treasury shares.
The Company did not repurchase any shares during the year and at the year end the Group held no treasury shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between Shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and for voting rights.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than where certain restrictions may apply from time to time, on the Board of Directors and other senior executive staff, which are imposed by laws and regulations relating to insider trading laws and market requirements relating to close periods.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AND SPECIAL BUSINESS TO BE TRANSACTED AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting of Cranswick plc will be held at the Mercure Hull Grange hotel on Monday 25 July 2016.
A notice convening the Annual General Meeting can be found in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting accompanying this Report & Accounts.
Details of the Special Business to be transacted at the Annual General Meeting are contained in the separate letter from the Chairman which also accompanies this Report & Accounts, and covers the Directors authority to allot shares, the partial disapplication of pre-emption rights and the authority for the Company to buy its own shares.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of the Shareholders.
CAPITAL STRUCTURE The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise value for Shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Group regards its Shareholders equity and net debt as its capital and manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic conditions.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to Shareholders, return capital to Shareholders or issue new shares.
No changes were made to the objectives, policies or processes during the years ended 31 March 2015 and 31 March 2016.
The Groups capital structure is as follows: 2016 2015 m m Net funds debt Note 26 17.8 17.3 Cranswick plc Shareholders equity 368.0 332.4 Capital employed 350.2 349.7 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Cranswick plc 73 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED CHANGE OF CONTROL There are no agreements that the Company considers significant and to which the Company is party that would take effect, alter or terminate upon change of control of the Company following a takeover bid other than the following: the Company is party to a number of banking agreements which upon a change of control of the Company are terminable by the bank upon the provision of ten working days notice: there are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occur because of a takeover bid other than as stated in the Remuneration Committee Report, on page 64, relating to Martin Davey: and there are certain provisions in the Companys Save As You Earn share option plan and the Long-Term Incentive Plan that may cause options and awards granted to vest on a takeover.
The proportion of the awards that are capable of exercise will depend on the time in the scheme and as far as the LTIP is concerned the extent to which the performance targets as adjusted or amended have been satisfied.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS FUNCTIONAL CURRENCY The functional currency of all Group undertakings is Sterling.
FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK The main foreign exchange risk facing the Group is in the purchasing of charcuterie products.
The currency involved is the Euro.
The policy of the Group is to seek to mitigate the impact of this risk by taking out forward contracts for up to twelve months ahead and for amounts that commence at approximately 25 per cent of the requirement and move progressively towards full cover.
The Finance Director is consulted about the key decisions on currency cover.
INTEREST RATE RISK The Groups current policy is to manage its cost of borrowing using a mix of fixed and variable rate debt.
Whilst fixed rate interest-bearing debt is not exposed to cash flow interest rate risk, there is no opportunity for the Group to enjoy a reduction in borrowing costs in markets where rates are falling.
In addition, the fair value risk inherent in fixed rate borrowing means that the Group is exposed to unplanned costs should debt be restructured or repaid early as part of the liquidity management process.
In contrast, whilst floating rate borrowings are not exposed to changes in fair value, the Group is exposed to cash flow risk as costs increase if market rates rise.
The Group has reduced its borrowings significantly in recent years and at 31 March 2016 gearing had fallen to zero 2015: 5 per cent.
Given this conservative debt structure the Group has not fixed the interest rate on any part of its current facility.
The Board will keep this situation under constant review and will fix the interest rate on a proportion of the Groups borrowings at such time as it becomes appropriate to do so.
The monitoring of interest rate risk is handled entirely at head office, based on the monthly consolidation of cash flow projections and the daily borrowings position.
CREDIT RISK Practically all sales are made on credit terms, the majority of which are to the major UK food retailers.
Overdue accounts are reviewed at monthly management meetings.
The incidence of bad debts is low.
For all major customers, credit terms are agreed by negotiation and for all other customers, credit terms are set by reference to external credit agencies and or commercial awareness.
Every attempt is made to resist advance payments to suppliers for goods and services: where this proves commercially unworkable, arrangements are put in place, where practical, to guarantee the repayment of the monies in the event of default.
LIQUIDITY RISK The Group has historically been very cash-generative.
The bank position for each site is monitored on a daily basis and capital expenditure is approved at local management meetings at which at least two members of the main Board are present and reported at the subsequent monthly main Board meeting.
Major projects are approved by the main Board.
Each part of the Group has access to the Groups overdraft facility and all term debt is arranged centrally.
The Group renewed its bank credit facilities in March 2014.
The facility is made up of a revolving credit facility of 120.0 million including a committed overdraft facility of 20.0 million.
The Group manages the utilisation of the revolving credit facility through the monitoring of monthly consolidated cash flow projections and the daily borrowings position.
The current facility extends the maturity of the Groups available financing to more than two years, providing it with reduced liquidity risk and medium-term funding to meet its objectives.
Unutilised facilities at 31 March 2016 were 120.0 million 2015: 101.9 million.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS The Company is required to state the annual quantity of emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent from activities for which the Group is responsible.
Details of these greenhouse gas emissions are included within the Corporate Social Responsibility section on pages 36 to 43.
POLITICAL DONATIONS The Group has made no political donations during the year ended 31 March 2016.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Group remains at the forefront of new product development offering consumers a wide range of products.
Through innovative use of existing and emerging technologies, there will continue to be a successful development of new products and processes for the Group.
EMPLOYMENT POLICIES The Groups policy on employee involvement is to adopt an open management style, thereby encouraging informal consultation at all levels about aspects of the Groups operations.
Employees participate directly in the success of the business by participation in the SAYE share option schemes.
74 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Highlights Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Employment policies are designed to provide equal opportunities irrespective of race, colour, nationality, religion, sex, martial status, family status, sexual orientation, disability or age.
Full consideration is given to applications for employment by and the continuing employment, training and career development of disabled people.
More details on people management and employment policies, including human rights information, can be found within the Corporate Social Responsibility section on pages 36 to 43.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS On 8 April 2016, the Group acquired 100 per cent of the issued share capital of CCL Holdings Limited Crown for net cash consideration of 39.3 million.
The principal activities of Crown are the breeding, rearing and processing of fresh chicken, as well as the milling of grain for the production of animal feed.
Further details are provided in Note 30.
FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS Future developments are described in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 43.
GOING CONCERN The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the review of activities.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described above, as are the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with strong trading relationships with its key customers and suppliers.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risk successfully.
After reviewing the available information, including business plans and making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
AUDITORS A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as independent external auditor will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting, together with the authority for the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration.
A statement on the independence of the external auditors is included in the report of the Audit Committee on pages 56 and 57.
DIRECTORS STATEMENT AS TO DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving the Directors Report are listed on pages 46 and 47.
Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the Companys auditors, each of these Directors confirm that: to the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is no information relevant to the preparation of their report of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT Each of the Directors of the Board listed on pages 46 and 47 confirms that to the best of their knowledge: the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair review of the assets, liabilities, financial position and results of Cranswick plc and its subsidiaries included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Directors Report and the Strategic Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of Cranswick plc and its subsidiaries included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The Directors Report was approved by a duly authorised committee of the Board on 24 May 2016 and signed on its behalf by: Malcolm Windeatt Company Secretary 24 May 2016 Company number: 1074383 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Cranswick plc 75
