STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES INTRODUCTION TO OUR STRATEGY We will do this by focusing primarily on the OUR PURPOSE IS TO DELIVER growing quality end of the markets in which we operate and by establishing meaningful and long-lasting relationships with all our GREAT TASTING FOOD FOR OUR customers.
This will be supported by a combination of product development and CUSTOMERS AND CONSUMERS, high service levels.
We will continue to invest in quality facilities and the latest equipment AND IN SO DOING CREATE so that we can operate as efficiently as possible and to provide a safe and secure LONG-TERM VALUE FOR ALL working environment for our employees.
OUR STAKEHOLDERS OUR GROWTH STRATEGY Our long-term growth strategy is to consolidate existing market positions, develop new products and channels in our core UK market and grow our international operations and customer base.
I am pleased to report that we have made good progress against each of these strands of our growth Adam Couch strategy during the year under review.
Chief Executive 24 May 2016 Our organic growth drivers continue to be complemented by targeted acquisitions.
The acquisition of Benson Park in October 2014 and our more recent purchase of Crown Chicken both serve to highlight the progress we are making against our strategic objective of developing a meaningful and sustainable presence in the UK poultry sector.
OUR VALUES Our growth strategy and business model are underpinned by our four guiding principles: Quality, Value, Innovation and People.
Our vision is to provide high quality food, which is sustainably and ethically produced.
We remain focused on developing innovative, great tasting food for our customers.
Producing high quality food which is great value for the consumer has been central to our success so far and will continue to be at the core of our future development.
Substantial ongoing investment in our production facilities, in ethical and sustainable supply chains and in our people at all levels of the business provides the foundation for our successful long-term growth and development.
Over the following pages we provide further details of our strategy and the strategic pillars which support it, the key performance indicators we use to monitor our performance and the principal risks and uncertainties we face in delivering our strategy.
We then provide a market overview, and the plans that are in place to develop our business going forward.
Finally we provide an evaluation of the Groups progress and performance in the Operating and Financial Reviews.
10 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Highlights Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC OVERVIEW OUR PURPOSE Everyday great food experiences, authentically made, for todays consumer OUR DIFFERENTIATORS Committed British Authentically Entrepreneurial To Taste Heritage Made Spirit See page 8 See page 17 See page 23 See page 34 OUR GUIDING PRINCIPLES Read more on page 12 QUALITY VALUE INNOVATION PEOPLE OUR STRATEGIC PILLARS Read more on page 13 Quality Operational Sales Sustainability Products Efficiency Growth WHAT WE DELIVER Great British Taste Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Cranswick plc 11 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR STRATEGY OUR BUSINESS MODEL The markets in which we operate are We also supply artisan pastry products Supply chain security and integrity is a crucial competitive both in terms of pricing from into both retail and food to go channels component of our business model.
Robust fellow suppliers and the retail environment from our purpose-built facility in Malton, technical audit and traceability systems in general.
Despite this, we have a long North Yorkshire.
ensure that our products are responsibly track record of increasing sales and profits and sustainably sourced from suppliers through a combination of investing in The recent acquisition of Benson Park whose values are aligned to our own.
modern efficient factories, developing has added premium cooked poultry to a range of quality products and making our product portfolio and also supports We also own our own pig breeding value-added acquisitions.
our focus on the fast growing food to go and rearing operations which supply sector.
In April 2016 we acquired Crown approximately 20 per cent of our British pig Our operations are focused on the Chicken, a leading integrated poultry requirements.
This gives us even greater production and supply of premium food producer.
These acquisitions represent supply chain transparency, security and products.
We operate primarily in the UK, important progress in developing a efficiency.
For further information on our with a small, but increasing proportion of meaningful presence in the poultry supply chain model, see pages 18 and 19. sales being exported.
sector over the longer term.
The business is under the control of stable, We produce a range of high quality, We operate from fifteen highly efficient, experienced and talented operational predominantly fresh products including fresh well-invested food production facilities management teams supported by a skilled pork, sausages, bacon and cooked meats for across the UK.
We offer training and specialist sale to high street food retailers.
We supply a that these facilities have sufficient capacity support where needed to ensure that our range of pre-sliced, pre-packaged charcuterie headroom to meet our growth aspirations, people feel empowered, dedicated and products for sale to these same customers, that they operate as efficiently as possible enthusiastic with a shared vision for the together with pre-packed sandwiches and provide a safe and secure working long-term success and development of predominantly for food service outlets.
OUR GUIDING PRINCIPLES QUALITY VALUE INNOVATION PEOPLE With a clear focus on premium Targeted acquisitions and Innovation lies at the heart of Our success is built on our quality products and continued investment in our business, with dedicated people, who form an integral categories, we use authentic, our operating facilities teams exploring consumer part of our business.
We artisan processes wherever have enabled us to provide trends and food innovation pride ourselves in creating a possible to maintain the innovative, high quality, good opportunities across the supportive but entrepreneurial heritage and integrity of value food solutions to our globe.
We constantly research environment, which allows our food.
customers from some of and test new recipes and both individuals and the the most efficient food ideas, allowing us to deliver business to prosper.
Our production facilities in the UK, unique product offerings to ability to work closely with driving growth in profitability our customers.
Innovation our customers allows us to and Shareholder value.
within the supply chain is also constantly develop new a key differentiator, with products for the changing significant investment made retail environment.
in breeding systems, and feed and genetic research to improve product quality and breeding efficiency.
12 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Highlights Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information OUR STRATEGIC PILLARS QUALITY OPERATIONAL SALES SUSTAINABILITY PRODUCTS EFFICIENCY GROWTH The production of high quality Continued investment ensures Our long-term sales growth We invest heavily to secure products, which are safely that our factories are some strategy is to consolidate our supply chains and provide produced in technically and of the most efficient food existing market positions, career opportunities to our legally compliant facilities, production facilities in the UK.
develop new products and employees, and these underpins everything we do.
channels, and grow our investments provide international operations and confidence that we have customer base.
Organic a sustainable business in growth initiatives are the longer term.
See Corporate Social See our Supply Chain Model See Operating Review Responsibility on See below on pages 18 and 19 and CSR on pages 24 and 25 pages 36 to 43 on pages 36 to 43 OUR SALES GROWTH STRATEGY DRIVING THE CORE EXPANDING OUR OFFER SEEKING NEW OPPORTUNITIES Consolidation of existing market positions Developing new products and Growing our international operations Around three quarters of our revenues come channels in our core UK markets and customer base from our retail customers.
In recent years, We continue to differentiate through our focus We continue to develop our export business provenance and food quality have become on developing innovative premium products.
to maximise the value of our products.
increasingly important for the retail sector.
6.1 per cent of revenues in the current year The Far East is a particularly important For many years we have invested heavily in are attributable to new product launches.
We have a dedicated business our production facilities to ensure that they The hugely successful Agriculture and development manager based in Shanghai, are some of the most efficient and safe in Horticulture Development Board AHDB and over the last year volumes shipped to the UK food manufacturing sector, and pulled pork campaigns in the last year also the Far East have increased by 32 per cent.
this, together with increased focus on our highlight the way in which innovative and Overall around 27 per cent of the tonnage supply chains, underpins our core category focused marketing can deliver positive results.
produced by the Groups two primary growth and supports the development of processing facilities is exported.
sustainable long-term contracts with our The recent acquisition of Benson Park has key retail customers.
further diversified our product and customer The majority of ribs processed are exported range and also supported the development of to the US, where prices for this cut of meat are our growth in the food to go sector.
We have US Department of Agriculture Park has made an important contribution USDA accreditation to ship ribs from our Hull to our growth since acquisition, and we primary processing facility and are investing see further significant growth opportunities heavily in our Norfolk facility with a view to following the capital expenditure which achieving the same accreditation for that site.
doubled the sites capacity during the current year.
Building on this, the Crown Chicken We will continue to expand our international acquisition in April 2016 has further diversified footprint by developing our products and our offering as well as securing our chicken offering a broader product range.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Cranswick plc 13 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR STRATEGY STRATEGIC PROGRESS Strategic Pillars Progress During The Year See page 13 for See pages 24 to 27 for Operating and Our Strategic Pillars Financial Reviews Our facilities have continued We have also increased the QUALITY PRODUCTS to undergo exacting technical number of supply chain audits audits carried out by independent carried out by our technical teams auditing bodies, customers, to assure the safety, traceability, government authorities and quality and provenance of our our own compliance teams to raw materials.
See Corporate Social Responsibility on pages 36 to 43 During the year the Group has We have also invested in OPERATIONAL invested 34 million in capital operational staff training and EFFICIENCY equipment to support future the roll out of Lean initiatives growth and increase efficiency.
to further improve operational efficiencies within our facilities.
The Benson Park extension, which doubles capacity and improves efficiencies was completed on time See Operating Review on pages 24 and 25 and to budget during the year.
Total revenue was 6.6 per cent Underlying sales were 4.7 per SALES GROWTH ahead of the prior year, driven by cent higher than prior year, with strong volume growth across most corresponding volumes up 9.5 per product categories.
cent as the Groups customers and UK consumers continue to see the benefit of the Groups lower input prices.
See Sales Growth Strategy on page 13 We have continued to invest in We have boosted our graduate SUSTAINABILITY dedicated supply chains, which recruitment and apprenticeship creates a point of difference schemes and have funded for retailers and has enabled extensive training and us to secure long-term supply development programmes at agreements.
all levels across the business.
See our Supply Chain Model and Corporate Social Responsibility on pages 18 and 19 and pages 36 to 43 14 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Highlights Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Key Performance Indicators Future Plans Principal Risks See pages 28 and 29 for See pages 30 to 33 for Our KPIs Principal Risks and Uncertainties Number of BRC grade As 14 7.7% Our Research and Development Food scares and product contamination programme aims to enhance Number of supplier audits 191 20.1% Disease and infection within pig flavours, improve animal welfare herd poultry flock increase efficiency and improve Complaints per million units 24 -29.4% food safety.
We are one of the founding members of the Centre for Excellence in Livestock, a new 70 million innovation centre, which aims to transform the productivity of the UK livestock industry.
Adjusted operating margin 6.2% Upgrade of our Norfolk primary Business continuity 34 bps processing facility is in progress, with Interest rate, currency, liquidity a focus on maximising efficiencies and Free cash flow 83.4m 55.8% and credit risk achieving USDA accreditation.
Return on capital employed 18.5% Business acquisitions Major upgrades of our Cooked Meats 150 bps sites at Hull, Barnsley and Milton Cyber security Keynes are also in progress.
Underlying revenue 1,032.3m 4.7% We are continuing to develop products Consumer demand that appeal to online and convenience Non-EU export sales 39.7m 22.1% Reliance on key customers and exports shoppers, such as grab and go and modern single meal solutions.
Sales from new products 65m 6.1% Competitor activity of total revenue We are also increasing and improving our range of healthy eating options to meet demand in the fast growing food to go sector.
Relative carbon footprint 0.219 tonnes We aim to maintain our Tier 2 rating Recruitment and retention of workforce CO e per tonne sales -11.7% in the Business Benchmark on Farm 2 Pig meat availability and pricing Animal Welfare report, the highest Pigs travelling less than 50 miles 75% grading awarded to any company Health and Safety 1.4% in the pork production sector.
RIDDOR accidents per 100 employees We remain focused on meeting our 0.66 -15.4% commitment to reduce our carbon footprint by 30 per cent by 2020, with further investment in energy reduction technologies.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Cranswick plc 15 STRATEGIC REPORT PROPORTION OF TOTAL PROPORTION OF PIGS BRITISH PIGS THAT ARE PROCESSED TRAVELLING PROCESSED BY LESS THAN 50 MILES CRANSWICK 75 26 16 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Highlights Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information BRITISH HERITAGE WE ARE PART OF BRITISH FARMING HERITAGE, CONTINUALLY INVESTING, INNOVATING AND BUILDING FOR THE FUTURE.
OUR GOAL IS TO PRODUCE EXCEPTIONAL FOOD BY SECURING THE SUPPLY CHAIN FROM FARM TO FORK AS ONE OF THE LARGEST PIG PRODUCERS CHARLES BOWES DIRECTOR, IN THE COUNTRY, WITH FARMS ACROSS WAYLAND FARMS YORKSHIRE AND EAST ANGLIA, WE GUARANTEE THE QUALITY OF THE BRITISH PORK WE PRODUCE BECAUSE WE NURTURE OUR PIGS FROM BIRTH.
WITH AN EMPHASIS ON ANIMAL WELFARE, SUPPLYING UNDER THE RSPCA FREEDOM FOOD FARM ASSURANCE SCHEME FOR FREE RANGE, OUTDOOR BRED AND REARED PORK, WE OFFER OUR CUSTOMERS A GENUINE CONNECTION TO THE FOOD THEY BUY FROM US.
Cranswick continues to commit to research and development on our Wayland and Wold farms.
Investment has been made in farming development for indoor and outdoor breeding systems, as well as into feed and genetic research in order to improve product quality and to generate production efficiencies.
OUR OUTDOOR REARED HAMPSHIRE HERITAGE BREED Specific farms and premium British pig breeds, such as Hampshire and Duroc, have been The Hampshire breed is well developed for key retail customers.
These known for its rapid growth dedicated supply chains create a point of and superior lean meat.
difference for our customers and have enabled us to secure long-term supply agreements.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Cranswick plc 17
