Directors Report Other Disclosures Pages 34 to 79 inclusive together with the Apart from the share option schemes, Share capital sections of the Annual Report incorporated longterm incentive schemes and service At the date of this Report, 135,124,108 by reference constitute a Directors Report contracts, no Director had any beneficial Ordinary Shares of 10.357143p each have that has been drawn up and presented in interest in any contract to which the been issued and are fully paid up and accordance with applicable English Company or a subsidiary was a party quoted onthe London Stock Exchange.
company law: the liabilities of the Directors during the year.
Atthe date of this Report, the Company in connection with that report are subject has issued and fully paid up 21,900 7.5% A statement indicating the beneficial and to the limitations and restrictions provided Cumulative Preference Shares, 498,434 non-beneficial interests of the Directors in by that law.
6.6% Cumulative Preference Shares and the share capital of the Company, including 615,562 5.9% Cumulative Preference share options, is shown in the Directors Research and development Shares, all of 1 each the Preference Remuneration Report on page 73.
Research and development activities are Shares.
The rights and obligations The Directors are responsible for managing undertaken with the prospect of gaining attached to the Companys Ordinary the business of the Company and may new scientific or technical knowledge Shares and Preference Shares are set out exercise all the powers of the Company andunderstanding.
in the Articles, copies of which can be subject to the provisions of relevant obtained from Companies House inthe UK statutes, the Companys Memorandum Dividends or by writing to the Company Secretary.
and Articles and any directions given by The Directors are recommending a final There are no restrictions on the voting special resolution.
rights attached to the Companys Ordinary Ifapproved by shareholders, total Shares or on the transfer of securities Directors indemnities dividends for the year will amount to 74p inthe Company.
The 7.5% Cumulative The Company maintains Directors and per share 2015: 169p including the special Preference Shares do not confer on Officers liability insurance which gives dividend.
Details of dividends are shown theholders any right to receive notice of appropriate cover for any legal action innote 8 on page 102: details ofthe orto be present or to vote at any general brought against its Directors.
The Companys Dividend Reinvestment Plan meeting of the Company unless the Company has also granted indemnities can be found on page 137.
The Company cumulative preferential dividend on such toeach of its Directors and the Company has established various Employee Benefit shares is more than 12 calendar months Secretary which represent qualifying third Trusts EBTs in connection with the inarrears.
The 6.6% and 5.9% Cumulative party indemnity provisions as defined by obligation to satisfy future share awards Preference Shares do not confer on the Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, under employee share incentive schemes.
holders any right to receive notice of in relation to certain losses and liabilities The trustees of the EBTs have waived their ortobe present or to vote at any general which the Directors or Company rights to receive dividends on certain meeting of the Company unless the Secretary may incur to third parties in the Ordinary Shares of the Company held in cumulative preferential dividend on such course of acting as Directors or Company the EBTs.
Such waivers represent less than shares is more than six calendar months Secretary or employees of the Company 1% of the total dividend payable on the inarrears or the business of the general or of any associated company.
In addition, Companys Ordinary Shares.
Further meeting includes the consideration of a such indemnities have been granted to details of the EBTs can be found in note 24 resolution for reducing the share capital other officers of the Company who are on page122.
ofthe Company, to sell the undertaking Directors of subsidiary companies within ofthe Company or to alter the Articles.
The Company has also granted Directors Noperson holds securities in the Company an indemnity representing qualifying The Companys Articles of Association that carry special rights with regard to pension scheme indemnity provisions theArticles give the Directors power control of the Company.
The Company asdefined by Section 235 of the toappoint and replace Directors.
Under isnot aware of any agreements between Companies Act 2006 to a paid Director theterms of reference of the Nomination holders of securities that may result in ofthe corporate trustee of the Groups UK Committee, any appointment must be restrictions on the transfer of securities pension scheme.
Such indemnities were recommended by the Nomination oron voting rights.
inplace during 2016 and at the date of Committee for approval by the Board approval of the Group financial statements.
The present Directors of the Company are shown on pages 34 and 35.
In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, each Director will be standing forre-election at the AGM.
Details of the Directors service contracts are given intheDirectors Remuneration Report onpage69.
Croda International Plc 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors Report Power to issue or buy back shares Employees demands of our customers, especially At the 2016 AGM, authority was given inrelation to enhanced creativity, Diversity: We are committed to the tothe Directors to allot unissued shares innovation and customer service.
During principle of equal opportunity in inthe Company up to a maximum amount 2016, 86.7% of our employees received employment and to ensuring that no equivalent to approximately one third of the training, totalling over 102,000 hours.
applicant or employee receives less issued share capital excluding shares held favourable treatment on the grounds in treasury for general purposes, plus up Involvement: Croda is committed to ofgender, marital status, race, ethnic to a further one third of the Companys ensuring that employees share in the origin, religion, disability, sexuality or issued share capital excluding shares held success of the Group.
Owning shares age, or is disadvantaged by conditions in treasury, but only in the case of a rights inthe Company is an important way or requirements which cannot be shown issue.
No such shares have been issued.
ofstrengthening involvement in the to be justified.
Group HR policies are development of the Business and A further special resolution passed at that clearly communicated to all our bringing together employees and meeting granted authority to the Directors employees and are available through shareholders interests.
In 2016, 83.5% to allot equity securities in the Company theCompany intranet.
of our UK employees and 56.8% of our forcash, without regard to the pre-emption non-UK employees participated in one Recruitment and progression: It is provisions of the Companies Act 2006. of our all-employee share plans, established policy throughout Croda that Both these authorities expire on the date indicating employees continued desire decisions on recruitment, career ofthe 2017 AGM, that is 26 April 2017, to be involved in the Company.
development, promotion and other andso the Directors propose to renew employment related issues are made them for a further year.
Employees are kept informed of matters solely on the grounds of individual ability, of concern to them in a variety of ways, At last years AGM the members renewed achievement, expertise and conduct.
including Croda Way the Company the Companys authority to purchase up to magazine, quarterly updates, Croda Croda gives full and fair consideration 10% of its Ordinary Shares.
No purchases Connect the Company intranet, team toapplications for employment from were made during the year.
As a result briefings, webinars and Croda Now people with disabilities.
Should an theCompany will be seeking to renew its email messages.
These employee become disabled during their authority to purchase its own shares at the communications help achieve a employment with Croda, they are fully 2017 AGM.
Shares will only be purchased common awareness of the financial and supported by its Occupational Health ifthe Board believes that such purchases economic factors affecting the provision.
Efforts are made to continue will improve earnings per share and be performance of Croda and of changes their employment with reasonable inthe best general interest of shareholders.
Croda is also adjustments being made to the Itis the Companys intention that any shares committed to providing employees with workplace and role where feasible.
purchased will be held as treasury shares.
opportunities to share their views and Retraining is provided if necessary.
At the date of this report the Company provide feedback on issues that are holds 3,876,348 shares intreasury.
Development and learning: Croda important to them.
All regions have recognises that the key to future undertaken an employee survey since success lies in the skills and abilities 2010.
The largest of these, targeting our ofits dedicated global workforce.
European employees, was completed The continuous development of our during 2011. employees is key to meeting the future Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 77 Directors Report | Other Disclosures Articles of Association Other disclosures References in this document to other documents on the Companys website, Unless expressly specified to the contrary Certain information that is required to be such as the Sustainability Report, are inthe Articles, the Companys Articles may included in the Directors Report can be included as an aid to their location and be amended by a special resolution of the found elsewhere in this document as arenot incorporated by reference into Companys shareholders.
referred to below, each of which is anysection of the Annual Report incorporated by reference in to the andAccounts.
Significant contracts Directors Report: andchangeofcontrol Information on greenhouse gas Independent auditors The Group has borrowing facilities which emissions can be found on page 28 Our auditors,  LLP, may require the immediate repayment of all An indication of likely future have indicated their willingness tocontinue outstanding loans together with accrued developments in the Groups business in office and, on the recommendation of interest in the event of a change of control.
can be found in the Strategic Report, the Audit Committee, aresolution The rules of the Companys employee starting on page 02 regarding their reappointment and share plans set out the consequences remuneration will be submitted to the ofachange in control of the Company An indication of the Companys Annual General Meeting.
onparticipants rights under the plans.
overseas branches can be found Generally, such rights will vest and become onpages 134 to 136 Audit Information exercisable on a change of control subject There have been no events affecting the The Directors confirm that, so far as to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
Company since the financial year end to theyare aware, there is no relevant audit None of the Executive Directors service report to shareholders in accordance with information of which the Companys contracts contains provisions whichare the Accounts Regulations and Disclosure auditors are unaware and that they have affected by a changeof control and there and Transparency Rules.
each taken all the steps they ought are no other agreements to which the tohavetaken as a Director in order to For the purposes of Listing Rule 9.8.
4R, Company is a party which take effect, make themselves aware of any relevant theinformation required to be disclosed alteror terminate inthe event of a change audit information and to establish that byLR 9.8.
4R can be found on the following ofcontrol of the Company which are theCompanys auditors are aware pages of this Annual Report: considered to be significant in terms ofthatinformation.
oftheir potential impacton the Group.
Section Topic Page reference The Company does not have any contractual 1 Capitalised interest Page 78 or other arrangements whichare essential 2 Publication of Not applicable to the Business oftheGroup.
unaudited financial information Political donations 3 Smaller related Not applicable No donations were made for political partytransactions purposes during the year 2015: nil.
4 Details of long term Not applicable incentive schemes established Financial risk management specifically to The Groups exposure to and management recruitor retain of capital, liquidity, credit, interest rate and aDirector foreign currency risks are contained in note 5 6 Waiver of Not applicable 19 on pages 113 to 117. emoluments byaDirector Capitalised interest 7 8 Allotments of Page 77 equitysecurities The Groups policy for capitalising forcash borrowing costs directly attributable 9 Participation Not applicable tothepurchase or construction of fixed inaplacing of assets is set out on page 96. equitysecurities 10 Contracts of Page 78 significance 11 14 Controlling Not applicable shareholder disclosures 12 13 Dividend waiver Page 76 All the information cross referenced aboveis incorporated by reference into theDirectors Report.
Croda International Plc 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors Report The Directors Report and the Strategic Statement of Directors The Directors are responsible for Report, including the sections of the responsibilities keeping adequate accounting records Annual Report and Accounts incorporated that are sufficient to show and explain by reference, is the management report The Directors are responsible for the Companys transactions and for the purposes of the Financial Conduct preparing the Annual Report, the disclose with reasonable accuracy at Authority Disclosure and Transparency Directors Remuneration Report and any time the financial position of the Rules DTR 4.1.
It was approved by the thefinancial statements in accordance Company and the Group, and enable Board on 28 February 2017 and is signed with applicable law and regulations.
them to ensure that the financial on its behalf by Company law requires the Directors statements and the Directors toprepare financial statements for Remuneration Report comply with the eachfinancial year.
Under that law Companies Act 2006 and, as regards theDirectors have prepared the Group the Group financial statements, Article 4 financial statements in accordance of the IAS Regulation.
They are also Tom Brophy withInternational Financial Reporting responsible for safeguarding the assets Group General Counsel Standards IFRSs as adopted by the of the Company and the Group and and Company Secretary European Union, and the Company hence for taking reasonable steps for 28 February 2017 financial statements in accordance the prevention and detection of fraud withUnited Kingdom Generally and other irregularities.
Accepted Accounting Practice United The Directors are responsible for Kingdom Accounting Standards and themaintenance and integrity of the applicable law.
Legislation in In preparing the Group financial theUnited Kingdom governing the statements, the Directors have also preparation and dissemination of elected to comply with IFRSs, issued by financial statements may differ from the International Accounting Standards legislation in other jurisdictions.
Under Company law the The Directors consider that the Annual Directors must not approve the financial Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, statements unless they are satisfied that is fair, balanced and understandable and they give a true and fair view of the state provides the information necessary for of affairs of the Group and the Company shareholders to assess the Companys and of the profit or loss of the Group for position and performance, business that period.
In preparing these financial model and strategy.
statements, the Directors are requiredto: Each of the Directors, whose details are Select suitable accounting policies set out on pages 34 and 35 confirm and then apply them consistently that, to the best of their knowledge: Make judgements and accounting The Group financial statements, estimates that are reasonable and which have been prepared in prudent accordance with IFRSs as adopted State whether IFRSs as adopted by by the EU, give a true and fair view the European Union and applicable ofthe assets, liabilities, financial UK Accounting Standards have position and profit of the Group been followed, subject to any The Directors Report and Strategic material departures disclosed and Report include a fair review of the explained in the Group and development and performance of Company financial statements the Business and the position of the respectively Group, together with a description of Prepare the financial statements on the principal risks and uncertainties the going concern basis unless it is that it faces.
inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 79
