Directors Report Our Board A strong leadership team 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1.
Jez Maiden Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board Appointment: Appointed to the Board in Appointment: Appointed to the Board as inMarch 2015 and Chairman since July 2010 and Group Chief Executive since Group Finance Director in January 2015.
Key strengths and experience: Key strengths and experience: Anita Key strengths and experience: Strong Extensive experience in financial has been on plc boards for 20 years and business, operational and strategic management, acquisitions and disposals, has extensive leadership and international leadership, and wide-ranging sales and and a wealth of experience working in the experience, together with a broad marketing experience.
Steve joined Croda speciality chemical sector.
Jez was Group knowledge of strategic management as a graduate trainee in 1990 and has held Finance Director at National Express across a range of sectors including a number of senior management positions GroupPlc from 2008 to 2014.
Prior to that, speciality chemicals.
Anita was Chairman in the Group, becoming President of Croda he was Group Finance Director at Northern of Victrex Plc until 2014 and Senior Europe in July 2010.
Prior to this, Steve Foods Plc and he has been Chief Financial Independent Director of Aberdeen Asset held a number of Managing Director roles Officer at British Vita Plc as well as Group Management PLC and IMI plc.
She has across Crodas European business.
Finance Director at Hickson International held executive director roles at Abbott Plc, both listed speciality chemical External appointments: Mead Vickers and WPP Group, as well as companies.
Former Chairman of the Audit Chairman of the Chemical Growth various investment and marketing roles at Committee and Senior Independent Partnership CGP.
Scottish Provident Institute and The Royal Director of Synthomer Plc.
Jez is a fellow E F ET N R SHEQ Bank of Scotland Plc.
External appointments: Anita is Deputy External appointments: Chairman of Lloyds Banking Group plc and Non-Executive Director and Audit a Non-Executive Director of BHP Billiton Committee chairman of PZ Cussons plc.
Plc and BHP Billiton Limited.
R E F SHEQ N RM Croda International Plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
