Strategic Report | Our Sector Performance Life Sciences Performance Asdrug actives become more complex and find broader application, the need for Innovation and acquisition drove a good higher purity delivery systems is increasing.
result in Life Sciences, with the majority We are expanding technical and production ofthe business delivering robust sales capacity to support this growth.
This was a creditable performance, achieved despite lower sales Crop Protection outperformed a challenging from our North American generic Active agrochemical market through increased Pharmaceutical Ingredient API contract, collaboration with major customers.
where increased competition saw lower Thishas built stronger relationships, market pricing and a halving of sales creatinga supportive programme of from2015.
Sales increased by 30.5% innovation with more intellectual property to292.2m 2015 restated: 223.9m and and greater technical engagement.
were 19.0% higher in constant currency.
Wehave better access tocustomers The growth in adjusted operating profit pipelines for new product launches.
wasmore modest, up 9.2% to 82.0m Theexisting Crop Protection business 2015 restated: 75.1m and 3.6% higher alsobenefited from integration with inconstant currency.
This reflected dilution Life Sciences comprises Health Incotec.
We have repositioned this from the acquisition of Incotec and reduced acquired business, focusing on high value Care, which develops products for API profitability, resulting in return on sales niches invegetable and field crop seed pharmaceutical and nutraceutical declining to 28.1% 2015 restated: 33.5%.
treatments and rationalising the markets markets, CropProtection inwhich we operate, to target those We are investing in faster growth whichdevelops products for withthe greatest potential.
Sales grew in both Health agrochemical companies to help anewR&D facility inthe Netherlands and Care and Crop Protection delivery systems, farmers achieve superior yields areexpanding in China.
Return on sales where we create innovative solutions has begun to grow in line with our and Seed Enhancement which forpharmaceutical and agrochemical acquisition plan.
companies to maximise the benefit from develops products that improve their complex active treatments.
In Health The API platform continues to develop seed performance and Care, we are aligned with rapid growth in newsales opportunities globally to offset farmingyields.
global demand for high purity excipients, reduced North American demand and particularly in Asia and North America.
remains anopportunity for future growth.
Keith Layden President, Life Sciences Highlights Robust sales and profit growth Strong performance in IP-rich delivery systems Seed enhancement focused on New product innovation markets with greatest potential Suncrust Sunflower, by Incotec, is an encrustation technology that successfully increases the seed kernel weight of sunflower Sales seeds without changing thier shape or performance.
This ensures that healthy, 292.2m 2015: 223.9m smalland lightweight seeds meet export regulatory requirements and, therefore, farmerneeds for the market standard weight Adjusted operating profit they demand.
With all seeds meeting the required size, 82.0m 2015: 75.1m thistechnology also ensures that existing planting and processing equipment can be usedforoptimum crop sowing.
Return on sales 28.1% 2015: 33.5% Restated Note 1 p98 Croda International Plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
