Strategic Report Our Sector Performance Personal Care Performance Personal Care is connecting to faster growth geographies.
Asia was the strongest growth Personal Care achieved a good profit region and we have invested additional performance through innovation and growth resource.
Growth with local customers was in the premium Actives business, despite particularly robust, driven by digitalisation slower demand in the Specialities business and new global trends from Korea, where partly due to the impact of the distributor we opened a new laboratory.
Sales rose 11.5% to expanding hair care development inBrazil 420.6m 2015: 377.3m but on a constant and have opened a centre of excellence currency basis were 0.8% lower.
Adjusted forethnic skin and hair care inSouth Africa.
operating profit increased by 14.9% to Wecompleted distributor exits in China, 143.1m 2015: 124.5m, up 4.0% in Indonesia and Brazil, givingus direct access constant currency.
The better product mix to many more local customers.
Globally, saw return on sales increase by 100 basis weare well positioned to grow with the new points to 34.0% 2015: 33.0%.
Indie customers, which develop new As more mature markets in Personal Care brands quickly and with agility.
slowed, Croda successfully connected to Our Personal Care market sector The market for Specialities products faster growth technologies.
Sales in the wasslower in 2016 and sales declined focuses on ingredients for skin, Actives business grew 6%, led by the skin by3%.
This was impacted by slower export actives business, Sederma: new product hair, sun protection and colour markets and multinational customer demand launches included Citystem, a plant cell cosmetic products.
Our broad in North America, continued weakness in culture which fights pollution damage to the portfolio includes anti-ageing consumer spending in Latin America and skin.
We continued to grow in other premium ingredients for skin, conditioning the distributor exit programme, which niches, including colour cosmetics, with agents for hair care and metal temporarily reduced the inventory pipeline.
innovative physical sunscreens produced to To return to growth we are driving increased oxides for UV filters.
meet enhanced regulatory standards, and in product differentiation by growing innovation, hair actives, where Crodaplex strengthens Sandra Breene particularly with multinational customers, hair fibres and defends against damage from President, Personal Care and expanding oursustainable product colouration and bleaching.
Consumer demand for ethical an exciting encapsulation technology, andsustainable raw material sourcing is Inventiva, giving Croda a new delivery Highlights increasing and Croda is recognised as an system for the Personal Care market.
NPP industry leader and trusted supplier.
Building sales increased and now account for 40% Strong performance in premium on our success with responsibly sourced ofall Personal Care sales.
We are targeting market niches palm oil ingredients, in2017 we will launch 50% of sector sales to come from high value anew ECO range ofbio-surfactants, NPP sales reach record level 40% niche markets in the medium term.
providing customers with a 100% renewable Action to improve less differentiated alternative to petrochemical based business areas surfactants, made using renewable energy and with identical product performance.
Sales New product innovation 420.6m 2015: 377.3m Citystem is a natural active ingredient, which was developed using Sedermas eco-designed Adjusted operating profit HTN plant cell culture process to fight visible and invisible pollution damage to the skin.
Inresponse to the identification of the consumer 143.1m 2015: 124.5m need worldwide, Citystem protects skin cells from the penetration of pollutants, neutralises toxic oxidants, strengthens the skin barrier and Return on sales restores cell metabolism.
Consumer and clinical studies evidenced that 34.0% 2015: 33.0% Citystem offers instant and long term cosmetic benefits including refined skin grain, purified complexion and smoother skin.
Croda International Plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
