Directors Report Main changes to policy In operating our revised policy, the Remuneration Policy Committee intends to ensure that its The Remuneration Policy described below 20172020 Report application will reflect shareholders includes a small number of changes when interests and the Committee will consider compared against the Remuneration Policy Our proposed Remuneration Policy will all aspects of corporate performance approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
bepresented to shareholders at the 2017 before approving any rewards through the AGM and is intended to operate until the The only substantial change is the increase careful consideration of all financial and expiration of the AGM in 2020.
Changes in the maximum potential bonus for the health and safety underpins with disclosure tothe Policy have been minimised and the CEO from 125% to 150% of salary and the of the factors considered in doing so Committee believes that these changes Group Finance Director from 100% to 125% disclosed in the Annual Report on areright for the business, reflect the values of salary.
These increases are made against Remuneration each year.
ofthe organisation and remain reasonable the backdrop of tougher performance These changes have also been made andproportionate.
requirements set under the refined bonus below the Board with a revised approach structure and the committees view of the Objectives of the new policy to target setting being implemented for very good performance of the senior team.
PSP participants at the Group Executive The Committee has spent several months Our Business has increased in size and Committee level and below.
Refining the considering the effectiveness of the current complexity since 2013 when we designed targets to be weighted towards metrics policy and any potential changes for the our current policy, and the move made in that these executives have greater ability to future.
This review has been completed 2014 to global market sectors has been influence towards was considered aligned with the following five principal objectives successfully integrated and has facilitated with the Committees objective of affording inmind: our continued organic growth and enabled the CEO the flexibility necessary to drive the smooth integration of our targeted To achieve the closest possible sales and profitablegrowth.
acquisitions which have broadened our alignment with the Companys strategy business capabilities and potential.
Also, with regard the application of the To raise the profile of performance and Policy, the income targets broadly being With regard to the application of the policy to ensure that it is judged against true ameasure of our success in achieving profit the metrics for the PSP have been business competition growth adjusted for movements in working changed.
The EPS and relative TSR To ensure that the policy properly capital over theyear will be set and performance metrics will remain, subject reflects the various concerns of assessed eachyear on a constant currency tochanges in weighting to accommodate shareholders as to structure and basis, removing the external volatility an additional metric, NPP.
For 2017, awards metrics ofcurrency translation from reward.
will be granted based on 40% relative TSR, 40% EPS and 20% based on NPP To ensure that target setting year by Finally, as previously reported and agreed compared with 50% EPS and 50% TSR year sets truly stretching ambitions and in 2014 and implemented in April 2016, the currently.
The NPP metric is a three year that the scale of reward is proportionate UK defined benefit pension changed to a target aligned to internal KPIs and is a tried Career Average Revalued Earning scheme The Committees method of operation and tested measure within Croda.
The forall employees with amaximum accrual will be flexible and dynamic taking NPP metric requires NPP sales growth to rate of 1 60th and asalary capof 65,000. account of external changes and be twice non NPP sales growth.
In addition In line with policy the Executive Directors business performance Group profits will also have to increase pension allowances were increased from Additionally, the Committee has sought overthe performance period, along with 20% to 25%.
tosimplify the operation ofthe policy anabsolute growth in NPP sales at an wherever possible to give the CEO flexibility average of 5% per annum over the three that both he and the Committee believe year vesting period.
For TSR a bespoke isnecessary to continue the underlying peer group will be adopted, replacing the sales and profit growth and the current FTSE 350 peer group.
This peer consequent rewards toshareholders.
group has been carefully chosen to identify a more relevant benchmark of true global business performance that is less impacted by the volatilities of unrelated sectors in the FTSE.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 59 Directors Report | Remuneration Report | Remuneration Policy 2017 2020 Report Main components of Crodas Remuneration Policy Link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Basic salary Reviewed annually with increases effective from 1 January.
Salaries may be increased each year in percentage To assist in the recruitment and ofsalary terms.
Base salaries will be set by the Committee, taking retention of high-calibre intoaccount: The Committee will be guided by the salary increase executives.
budget set in each region and across the The performance and experience of the individual workforcegenerally.
concerned Any change in responsibilities Increases beyond those linked to the region of the Pay and employment conditions elsewhere Executive or the workforce as a whole in percentage of intheGroup salary terms may be awarded in certain circumstances Rates of inflation and market-wide wage increases such as where there is a change in responsibility, across international locations experience or a significant increase in the scale of the The geographical location of the Executive roleand or size, value or complexity of the Group.
Rates of pay in international manufacturing and The Committee retains the flexibility to set the salary pan-sector companies of a comparable size ofanew hire at a discount to the market level initially, and andcomplexity.
to implement a series of planned increases in subsequent years, in order to bring the salary to the desired positioning, subject to individual performance.
Framework used to assess performance and for the recovery of sums paid The Committee considers individual salaries at the appropriate Committee meeting each year, taking due account of the factors noted in operation ofthe salary policy.
Benefits The Group typically provides the following benefits: Cost of benefits is not pre-determined and may vary To provide competitive benefits fromyear to year based on the cost to the Group.
Company car or cash allowance to act as a retention mechanism Private fuel allowance and reward service.
Health and other insured benefits Other ancillary benefits, including relocation expenses arrangements as required.
Additional benefits might be provided from time to time egin circumstances where an Executive Director is recruited from overseas.
The Committee will consider whether the payment of any additional benefits is appropriate and inlinewith market practice when determining whether theyarepaid.
Framework used to assess performance and for the recovery of sums paid None.
Performance related bonus Compulsory deferral of one third of any bonus paid into Group Chief Executive: 150% of salary To incentivise and reward shares for three years through the Deferred Bonus Group Finance Director: 125% of salary delivery of the Groups key Share Plan DBSP.
Other Executive Directors: 100% of salary annual objectives.
The Committee has the discretion to permit DBSP To contribute to longer term awards to benefit from dividends on shares that vest.
The balance of the bonus is paid in cash.
Framework used to assess performance and for the recovery of sums paid Details of the performance measures used for the current year and targets set for the year under review and performance against them is provided inthe Annual Report on Remuneration.
Bonus will be fully or largely based on a challenging range of financial targets set in line with the Groups KPIs eg income growth targets.
The Committee has the flexibility to include, for a minority of the bonus, targets related to the Groups other KPIs where this is considered appropriate.
For each objective set, bonus starts to accrue once the threshold target is met 0% payable rising on a graduated scale to100% for out-performance.
The Committee has the flexibility to take health, safety and environmental performance into consideration when determining the actual overall level of individual bonus payments and it may reduce the bonus awards if it considers it appropriate to do so.
Bonusespaid are subject to provisions that enable the Committee to recover value overpaid through the withholding of variable pay previously earned orgranted malus or through requesting a payment from an individual claw back in the event of a material misstatement of results or serious misconduct.
The provisions will operate for a three-year period following the date on which the bonus is paid.
Croda International Plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors Report Link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance Share Plan The PSP provides for awards offree shares ie either Normal maximum opportunity of 200% of salary.
PSP conditional shares or nil-cost options normally made In exceptional circumstances eg recruitment, awards may To incentivise and reward the annually which vest after three years subject to continued be granted up to 300% of salary to compensate for value execution of business strategy service and the achievement ofchallenging performance forfeited from a previous employer.
To reward sustained Shares on an after tax basis are subject to a two year growthin i profit and post-vesting holding period.
The Committee has the discretion when awards are granted, topermit awards to benefit from the dividends paid onshares that vest.
Framework used to assess performance and for the recovery of sums paid Granted subject to a blend of challenging financial eg EPS, shareholder return eg relative TSR and strategic targets eg NPP.
Targets will normally be tested over three years.
In relation to financial targets eg EPS growth and TSR 25% of awards subject to such targets will vest for threshold performance with a graduated scale operating through to full vesting for equalling, or exceeding, the maximum performance targets no awards vest for performance below threshold.
In relation to strategic targets, the structure of the target will vary based on the nature of target set i. e. it will not always be practicable toset such targets using a graduated scale and so vesting may take place in full for strategic targets if specific criteria are met in full.
Vesting is also dependent on satisfactory underlying financial performance of the Group over the performance period and subject to potential claw back in the event of a material misstatement of results or serious misconduct.
The claw back provisions will operate for a three year period following the date on which the awards vest.
All-employee share plans Periodic invitations are made to participate in the The maximum participation level for UK-based employees To encourage long term GroupsSharesave Plan and Share Incentive Plan.
is as per HMRC limits see Annual Report on Remuneration shareholding in the Company.
Shares acquired through these arrangements have To provide all employees with significant tax benefits in the UK subject to satisfying the opportunity to become certain HMRC requirements.
shareholders in the Company The plans can only operate on an all-employee basis.
Theplans operate on similar terms but on a non-tax favoured basis outside the UK as appropriate.
Framework used to assess performance and for the recovery of sums paid There are no post-grant performance targets applicable to these awards.
Pension Pension benefits are typically provided either Career Average Revalued Earnings Scheme with To provide competitive through i participation in the UKs defined benefit upto1 60th accrual up to a capped salary currently longtermretirement benefits.
pension plan with a cash supplement provided above setatup to 65,000 plus cash allowance of up to 25% anypension salary cap or ii a cash supplement ofsalary above the cap.
The salary cap may be reduced To act as a retention mechanism providedin lieu of pension.
due to annual allowance regulations.
Only basic salary is pensionable.
Or Cash allowance of up to 25% of salary.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 61 Directors Report | Remuneration Report | Remuneration Policy 2017 2020 Report Bonus plan and long term Shareholding guidelines Financial targets are set, where possible, incentivepolicy based on sliding scales thattake account The Committee operates share ownership of internal planning and external market The Committee will operate the annual guidelines which apply to all Executive expectations for the Group.
Only modest bonus plan, PSP and all-employee plans Directors and the Group Executive rewards are available for delivering according to their respective rules and in Committee.
The Group Chief Executive threshold performance levels with accordance with the Listing Rules and issubject to a share ownership guideline maximum rewards requiring substantial HMRC rules where relevant.
The of200% of salary and the other Executive out-performance of the challenging plans Committee retains discretion, consistent Directors to 150% of salary.
approved at the start ofeach year.
with market practice, in a number of It is expected that the guideline will be regards to the operation and administration No performance targets are applied to the metwithin a five year time period from of these plans.
These include the following all-employee plans which are aimed at itsadoption or date of joining for new plan limits and performance targets encouraging broad based equity ownership.
appointments through a combination restricted to the descriptions detailed in ofshare purchases and the retention Further details of the annual bonus metrics thepreceding policy table : ofincentive shares.
On the exercise of to be used for the current financial year Who participates in the plans Sharesave options or the vesting of awards areset out in the Annual Report on from the Companys long term incentive Remuneration.
The targets for awards to The timing of grant of award and plans, Executives are required to retain be granted under the PSP in the current orpayment shares awarded representing 50% of the financial year are consistent with the policy The size of an award and or payment net of tax gain until the ownership target set out above and are also set out in the ismet or exceeded.
The determination of vesting Annual Report on Remuneration.
Dealing with a change of control eg the Choice of performance measures How Executive Directors timing of testing performance targets and approach to target setting Remuneration Policy relates or restructuring The performance metrics that are used tothewider group Determination of a good bad leaver for forannual bonus and long term incentive The Executive Directors Remuneration incentive plan purposes based on the plans are a subset of the Groups KPIs.
Policy provides an overview of the structure rules of each plan and the appropriate that operates for the Group Executive Under the annual bonus plan, an treatment chosen Directors and those senior Executives underlying profit-based objective such as forming the Group Executive Committee Adjustments required in certain income growth will be used as the primary noting, however, that there are some circumstances eg rights issues, performance metric.
Such a measure will differences in PSP participation and levels corporate restructuring and special be used as it looks to reward two KPIs that within this group.
dividends are used within the business, namely the growth in underlying profitability and the The Committee is made aware of pay The annual review of performance efficient use of working capital.
Other structures across the Group when setting conditions, including metrics and metrics based on the Groups KPIs may be the Remuneration Policy for Executive weightings, for the annual bonus used in the future where it is considered Directors.
The key difference is that, overall, planand PSP that they provide clear alignment with the the Remuneration Policy for Executive The Committee also retains the ability evolving strategy of the Group.
In any Directors is more heavily weighted towards toadjust the targets and or set different event, the achievement of profitable growth variable pay than for other employees.
measures and alter weightings for the whilst ensuring that efficient management Base salaries are operated under the same annual bonus plan and to adjust targets of ROIC ROCE and cash is fully policy as detailed in the Remuneration forthe PSP if events occur eg material encouraged and will be central to the Policy table with any comparator groups divestment of a Group business which Committees deliberations.
used as a reference point being country cause it to determine that the conditions are In terms of long term performance targets, and or industry specific.
The Committee no longer appropriate and the amendment PSP awards will vest subject to challenging considers the general basic salary increase is required so that the conditions achieve financial targets eg EPS growth that are for the broader Group and, in particular, their original purpose and are not materially informed by the long term levels of growth theUK based employees when less difficult tosatisfy.
targeted by the Group, shareholder return determining the annual salary review for targets eg relative TSR which provide theExecutive Directors.
clear alignment of interests between The performance related bonus scheme shareholders and executives and strategic operates on a tiered basis from 150% of targets eg NPP that are aligned with salary down to 30% of salary across the Companys targeted long term KPIs.
Outside of the most senior tiers of Executives, the PSP isnot operated as this arrangement is Croda International Plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors Report reserved for those anticipated as having The Committee takes due account of Remuneration scenarios the greatest potential to influence Group remuneration structures elsewhere in the forExecutive Directors level performance.
Group when setting pay for the Executive The Groups policy results in a significant Directors for example, consideration is proportion of remuneration received However, the Committee believes in wider given to the overall salary increase budget byExecutive Directors being dependent employee share ownership and promotes and the incentive structures that operate onGroup performance.
The graph below this through the operation of the HMRC tax across the Group.
illustrates how the total pay opportunities approved all-employee share schemes for the Executive Directors varies under which are open to all UK employees.
How the views of shareholders three different performance scenarios: Othersimilar share schemes are offered aretaken into account below target, on-target and maximum.
inother jurisdictions where local securities The Remuneration Committee considers When reviewing the graph, it should be lawsallow.
shareholder feedback received in relation noted that it has been prepared based to the AGM each year and guidance from onthe policy detailed above and ignores, How the views of employees shareholder representative bodies more for simplicity, the potential impact of future aretaken into account generally.
In late 2016 and early 2017 the share price growth.
The Company, in line with current market Committee undertook an extensive practice, does not actively consult with consultation process with shareholders employees on Executive remuneration.
explaining in advance the proposed TheGroup has a diverse workforce operating Remuneration Policy.
This feedback, plus globally in 36 different countries, with various any additional feedback received during local pay practices, which hinders effective any meetings held with shareholders from consultation and so the Group Human time to time, is then considered as part of Resources Director updates the Committee the Committees ongoing review of periodically on feedback received on Remuneration Policy.
remuneration practices across the Group.
Salary levels on which other elements ofthe package are calculated are based on those applying on 1 January 2017.
Thevalue oftaxable benefits is based onthe cost of supplying those benefits asdisclosed on page 70 for the year ending 31December 2016.
The pension value is based on the assumptions used tovalue pensions for the emoluments table asdisclosed on page 70 and asalary supplement in lieu of pension at 25% ofsalary where relevant.
The Executive Directors can participate in the all-employee share plans on the same basis as other employees.
The value that may be received under these schemes is subject to tax approved limits.
Forsimplicity, the value that may be received from participating inthese schemes has been excluded from the graph above.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 63 Below Threshold Target Maximum Below Threshold Target Maximum Below Threshold Target Maximum Directors Report | Remuneration Report | Remuneration Policy 2017 2020 Report Recruitment and promotion policy For Executive Director recruitment and or promotion situations, the Committee will follow the guidelines below: Remuneration element Policy Base salary Base salary levels will be set in accordance with the Groups Remuneration Policy, taking into account the experience and calibre of the individual eg typically around market rates in companies of comparable size and complexity.
Salarylevels may be set below this level eg if the individual was promoted to the Board.
Where it is appropriate to offer a below market rate of pay initially, a series of increases to the desired salary positioning may be given over the subsequent few years subject to individual performance.
Above market salaries may also be offered if the experience and calibre of the candidate is considered to justify such an approach being taken by theCommittee.
Benefits Benefits in accordance with the current policy.
In addition, where necessary, the Committee may approve the payment ofrelocation expenses to facilitate recruitment.
Pension A Company pension contribution or cash supplement in accordance with the current policy.
Annual bonus The annual bonus would operate in accordance with the current policy in terms of the maximum opportunity and performance targets, albeit pro-rated for the period of employment.
Any increases in ongoing annual bonus opportunity above the normal limit will be contingent on the Company receiving shareholder approval for an amendment to its approved policy.
Long term incentives Share awards will be granted in accordance with the current policy.
An award may be made shortly after an appointment subject to the Company not being in a prohibited period.
For an internal hire, existing awards would continue over their original vesting period and remain subject to their terms as at the date of grant.
The maximum ongoing annual award level is as per the current policy.
Buy out awards In the case of an external hire and in exceptional circumstances, if it is necessary to buy out incentive pay or benefit arrangements which would be forfeited on leaving the previous employer, this would be provided for taking into account the form cash or shares, timing and expected value ie likelihood of meeting any existing performance criteria of the remuneration being forfeited.
Replacement share awards, if used, will be granted using the Companys existing share plans within the limits detailed inthe current policy table.
Awards may also be granted outside of these schemes if necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
sums accrued up to the date of termination Directors service contracts and assurance.
Annual bonuses and long term will be made if such an event occurs.
payments for loss of office incentives are non-contractual and are dealt with in accordance with the rules Executive Directors service contracts are Other than in the event of a redundancy, ofthe relevant schemes.
terminable by the Company on up to one retirement or other good leaver years notice and by the Director on at least The Committees policy is also for contracts circumstances, at the discretion of the six months notice.
to contain provisions which enable the Committee, no bonus may be payable Company to terminate contracts at any unless the individual remains employed In respect of termination, the Committees time with immediate effect.
The Executive and is not under notice at the payment policy is to deal with each case on its Director would be entitled to receive date.
Inthe event that an individual does merits, in accordance with the law and any compensation equivalent to a maximum cease employment for one of the good further policy adopted by the Committee oftwelve months salary plus the value leaver reasons detailed, bonuses would atthe time.
In the event of early termination, oftheir pension benefits currently valued become payable pro-rata based on the other than for cause, the relevant Directors at25% of basic salary and the value of number of complete calendar months then current salary and contractual benefits other benefits, payable in equal monthly worked in the relevant year.
The policy would be taken into account in calculating instalments over the full notice period or, foranew hire would be based on terms any liability of the Company.
For clarification, ifless, the remainder of any notice period that are consistent with these provisions.
the Companys policy is that no entitlement not yet completed.
Such payments would to unearned bonus will be taken into The treatment for share-based incentives discontinue or reduce to the extent that account when determining payments previously granted to an Executive Director alternative employment is obtained.
will be determined based on the relevant An Executive Directors service contract plan rules.
The default treatment will be for The principal contractual benefits provided may be terminated without notice for outstanding awards to lapse on cessation in addition to salary are the provision of a certain events such as gross misconduct.
In relation to awards car or car allowance, private fuel allowance, No payment or compensation beyond granted under the Companys long term pension, medical insurance and life Croda International Plc 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors Report incentive plans, in certain prescribed The treatment for share awards granted to Non-Executive Directors circumstances, such as injury or disability, facilitate part deferral of annual bonus will be lettersofappointment redundancy, transfer or sale of the determined based on the relevant plan rules.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors employing company, retirement with Ordinarily, deferred share bonus awards will have letters of appointment for aninitial theCompanys agreement or other vest on their original vesting date other than fixed term of three years subject to earlier circumstances at the discretion of the in certain circumstances eg dismissal for termination by either party on written notice.
Committee reflecting the circumstances gross misconduct when they will lapse.
In each case, this term can be extended that prevail at the time good leaver bymutual agreement.
Non-Executive It is the Companys policy to honour statuswould be applied.
If treated as a Directors have no entitlement pre-existing award commitments good leaver, awards will be eligible to vest tocontractual termination payments.
subject to performance conditions, which The dates of the initial appointments will be measured over the performance External appointments oftheNon-Executive Directors are set out period from grant to the normal vesting Executive Directors can accept external in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
date, and which will be reduced pro-rata non-executive appointments with the prior unless the Committee consider it approval of the Board.
It is normal practice appropriate to do so to reflect the for Executive Directors to retain fees proportion of the performance period provided for non-executive appointments.
Non-Executive Directors fees The policy on Non-Executive Directors fees is: Link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Fees The fees for Non-Executive Directors including the Fee levels will be eligible for increases during the period To provide a competitive fee Chairman are typically reviewed each year.
that the Remuneration Policy operates to ensure they which will attract those highcontinue to appropriately recognise the time commitment Fee levels are set by reference to the expected time calibre individuals who can of the role, increases to fee levels for Non-Executive commitments and responsibilities, and are periodically further the interests of the Directors in general and fee levels in companies benchmarked against relevant market comparators, Groupthrough their experience, ofasimilarsize and complexity.
asappropriate, reflecting the size and nature of the role.
stewardship and contribution The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are paid tostrategic development.
anannual fee which is paid monthly in cash and do notparticipate in any of the Companys incentive arrangements or receive any pension provision.
The Non-Executive Directors receive a basic Board fee, with additional fees payable for chairmanship of the Companys key Committees and for performing the SeniorIndependent Director role.
All Non-Executive Directors are reimbursed for travel andrelated business expenses reasonably incurred inperforming their duties so that they are fully recompensed forundertaking Company business.
The Committee recommends the remuneration of the Chairman to the Board.
The Chairmans fee is determined by the Committee during which the Chairman has no part in discussions and recommended by them to the Board.
TheNon-Executive Directors fees are determined bytheChairman and the Executive Directors.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 65
