Strategic Report | Our Sector Performance Performance Technologies Performance In Lubricants, investment in friction modification and wear control technologies 2016 was an excellent year for Performance led to new business wins in the automotive Technologies.
Following a subdued first six industry, helping customers meet lower months, Performance Technologies emissions and improved fuel efficiency recovered well in the second half of the year.
In Home Care, new product Full year sales rose by 13.4% to 402.5m opportunities are being developed for 2015: 354.8m and by 1.4% on a constant bio-surfactants.
Adjusted operating profit increased by 16.5% to 66.2m 2015: Markets in Europe improved during the 56.8m, up 12.1% in constant currency.
year with new customer gains supporting Return on sales improved 40 basis points growth momentum.
continued to expand, particularly outside Europe.
Performance Technologies is also Business quality continued to improve.
investing in growth in North America and From alow base, NPP sales have reached Asia, particularly in China through our joint 19.4% 2015: 18.2%, the innovation venture, Sipo, where capacity will be pipeline is robust and the sector is moving Our Performance Technologies added in 2017.
Sipo is one of three sites for to capture high-tech growth opportunities.
the Polymer Additives business, where we market sector delivers innovative A preliminary regulatory step was achieved are the global market leader.
With capacity for MyCroFence, a novel non-leaching ingredients for five key business inPolymer Additives now fully committed, anti-microbial technology acquired in 2014. areas: Lubricants, Coatings & we are investing 27m to expand our plant Anti-microbial coatings is one of the fastest Polymers, Polymer Additives, in the UK to support future growth and growing functional coatings markets.
Geo Technologies and innovation in novel slip additives.
Coatings & Polymers improved product HomeCare.
mix by delisting less differentiated products to concentrate on higher value-add Maarten Heybroek opportunities.
Geo Technologies returned President, Performance Technologies to growth, following a stabilisation in oil markets and through expansion into new geographies, supported by JD Horizons, Highlights aflow assurance technology business Adjusted operating profit increased acquired in 2014. by 12.1% inconstant currency Enhanced product mix improving margin Building market leading positions inhigh tech niches Sales New product innovation MyCroFence is a safe and durable anti-microbial 402.5m 2015: 354.8m technology for coatings, resulting from our investment into disruptive anti-microbial technology.
It prevents algal, fungal and Adjusted operating profit bacterial growth on the surface of the paint and replaces more toxic additives.
With its long term 66.2m 2015: 56.8m effect and unique anti-microbial mechanism itcan be used in exterior wall, bathroom and kitchen paints and also in coatings for high Return on sales hygiene areas such as schools and hospitals.
16.4% 2015: 16.0% Croda International Plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Innovation every day Eliminating solvents Our ingredients for water-based coatings help protect paintwork from stone chipping and UV damage.
This increases the longevity of the paint and car bodywork, whilst allowing solvents to be replaced with water, delivering environmental and healthbenefits when applying Effective cleaning thecoatings.
Durability Our ingredients provide effective Our speciality lubricant and cleaning performance, enabling fuel components reduce highly concentrated formulations friction and wear throughout and increased bio-based the car, leading to lower fuel products.
This can lead to lower consumption, lower water usage and less packaging, emissions and improved which reduces demands vehicle life.
Improve fuel economy Our polymer additives are used Performance to improve the processing and enhancement performance of plastics for Our ingredients enable engineering automotive components by reducing plastics to be modified to improve cycle time and improving scratch their endurance to friction, flexing, resistance.
They also enable light weight temperature and grease in plastics to be used as substitutes for applications where the plastics are traditional materials to help used to protect critical components improve fuel economy.
such as constant velocity joints and air ducts, thus prolonging their life.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 19
