Directors Report Our Board A strong leadership team 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1.
Jez Maiden Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board Appointment: Appointed to the Board in Appointment: Appointed to the Board as inMarch 2015 and Chairman since July 2010 and Group Chief Executive since Group Finance Director in January 2015.
Key strengths and experience: Key strengths and experience: Anita Key strengths and experience: Strong Extensive experience in financial has been on plc boards for 20 years and business, operational and strategic management, acquisitions and disposals, has extensive leadership and international leadership, and wide-ranging sales and and a wealth of experience working in the experience, together with a broad marketing experience.
Steve joined Croda speciality chemical sector.
Jez was Group knowledge of strategic management as a graduate trainee in 1990 and has held Finance Director at National Express across a range of sectors including a number of senior management positions GroupPlc from 2008 to 2014.
Prior to that, speciality chemicals.
Anita was Chairman in the Group, becoming President of Croda he was Group Finance Director at Northern of Victrex Plc until 2014 and Senior Europe in July 2010.
Prior to this, Steve Foods Plc and he has been Chief Financial Independent Director of Aberdeen Asset held a number of Managing Director roles Officer at British Vita Plc as well as Group Management PLC and IMI plc.
She has across Crodas European business.
Finance Director at Hickson International held executive director roles at Abbott Plc, both listed speciality chemical External appointments: Mead Vickers and WPP Group, as well as companies.
Former Chairman of the Audit Chairman of the Chemical Growth various investment and marketing roles at Committee and Senior Independent Partnership CGP.
Scottish Provident Institute and The Royal Director of Synthomer Plc.
Jez is a fellow E F ET N R SHEQ Bank of Scotland Plc.
External appointments: Anita is Deputy External appointments: Chairman of Lloyds Banking Group plc and Non-Executive Director and Audit a Non-Executive Director of BHP Billiton Committee chairman of PZ Cussons plc.
Plc and BHP Billiton Limited.
R E F SHEQ N RM Croda International Plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors Report Key N | Nomination Committee E | Group Executive Committee Chairman of the Committee RM | Remuneration Committee ET | Group Ethics Committee Member of the Committee A | Audit Committee F | Group Finance Committee Secretary of the Committee R | Risk Management Committee SHEQ | Group SHEQ Committee 4.
Keith Layden Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chief Technology Officer and PresidentLife Sciences Appointment: Appointed to the Board Appointment: Appointed to the Board inJuly 2011. inFebruary 2014.
Appointment: Appointed to the Board as Chief Technology Officer in February 2012.
Key strengths and experience: Extensive Key strengths and experience: international financial management and Wealthof experience in consumer Key strengths and experience: board experience.
Alan was Chief Financial marketing and innovative product Deepunderstanding of chemical innovation Officer and a Director of Lonmin Plc until development.
Helena worked for Unilever and broad operational and management December 2010.
Prior to that he was Group for 23 years and held senior positions in experience.
Keith joined Croda in 1984, Finance Director of The BOC Group until brand management, consumer marketing isresponsible for global R&D and is 2006.
Before then hespent 22 years in a and strategy development.
Helena has President Life Sciences.
Until January 2016 variety of roles at Inchcape Plc, including six aPhD in Engineering from the University he was responsible for the Technology years as Group Finance Director from 1999. ofCambridge.
External appointments: Helena is External appointments: Keith represents External appointments: Alan is Senior aNon-Executive Director of Greggs Plc Croda as a member of the advisory board Independent Director of Johnson Matthey and People Against Dirty.
She runs a for chemistry at the Universities of Nottingham Plc and Non-Executive Director of The Weir consulting business working with a range and York.
At the University ofSheffield Group Plc.
He chairs the Audit Committees of organisations, helping them to develop heserves as a member of Council, at both of these companies.
Alan is also the and implement strategies.
aRepresentative of the Learning and Senior Independent Director of Marshall Teaching Committee, Careers Advisory A RM N Motor Holdings Plc, an AIM listed company, Board and Alumni Board.
Keith is a Fellow where he chairs the Audit Committee.
of the Royal Society of Chemistry and a Alansits on the Business Policy Panel Trustee and member of Council at the oftheInstitute of Chartered Accountants Royal Society ofChemistry.
Tom Brophy Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Group General Counsel SeniorIndependent Director &CompanySecretary Appointment: Appointed to the Board Appointment: Appointed to the Board inJuly 2010.
Appointment: Appointed as Secretary inJune 2009 and Senior Independent tothe Board in December 2012.
Key strengths and experience: Extensive Director since August 2011. industry, legal and board experience.
Key strengths and experience: Key strengths and experience: Broad Stevewas General Counsel and Chief Legal Tom is asolicitor and has responsibility for City experience having spent over 35 years Officer of Unilever plc andUnilever NV from legal affairs, corporate governance, human as a corporate financier.
From 2004 until 2010 he resources and insurance.
Prior to joining Chairman of Numis Securities Ltd and was Senior Independent Director of Arriva Croda, Tom spent seven years at Wolseley Deputy Chairman of Numis Corporation Plc Plc.
From 1995 until 2004 he was a Plc in a number of legal and governance from 2005 until his retirement in 2007.
Non-Executive Director of Bunzl Plc.
roles, including as Deputy General Counsel From2000 until 2005 he was with ABN and Company Secretary.
Before then he External appointments: Steve is AMRO with responsibility for the Global worked as a corporate lawyer at City law aNon-Executive Director of Whitbread Corporate Finance and Global Equities firm Hogan Lovells.
PLCwhere he is also Chairman of the Divisions.
Between 1985 and 2000 he ET A RM N R E SHEQ Remuneration Committee.
In addition, waswith Lazard where he was aManaging Steve is a Non-Executive Director of Director and a member oftheSupervisory Eversheds LLP and a senior adviser Board.
He is Chairman of External appointments: Senior the fide La Warr Pavilion Charitable Trust Independent Director, and Chairman of the and a member of the Board of Leverhulme Remuneration Committee of Genus Plc.
Trust and Moorfields NHS Trust.
A RM N RM A N Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 35
