Strategic Report Market Opportunities and Strategy Maximising opportunities for growth Our strategy is shaped by our response to three global mega trends, which all relate to the rapid expansion of the worlds population.
They provide opportunities for us to maximise our growth bydelivering product benefits to consumers and also to futureproof our Business.
Global Mega Trends Changing demographics Largely due to revolutions in sanitation and health care over the last 100 years, people in developed economies are living longer and have more income and better access to buy a wider range of health, beauty and wellbeing products.
In the developing world, population growth is driven by lower mortality rates which, together with an expanding middle class, is generating new markets for products that make a difference 9bn toliving standards.
people by 2050 Fragile world 4.9bn The impacts of global warming are 22% accelerating as a result of increasing middle class of the population consumers by 2030, greenhouse gas emissions from the over 60 by 2050 with over 60% burning of more fossil fuels by an in Asia expanding population, coupled with thedegradation of the natural means ofthe planet to counteract these effects.
The consequences include water and land shortages and crop failure at a time when the world needs to support a 50% growing population.
Regulators are also 50% of consumers have lost demanding more stringent standards carbon intensity trust in Business because ofenvironmental and social protection.
reduction they fail to contribute needed by 2050 to the greater good 7bn Changing expectations andbehaviours people will face water scarcity Fuelled by the convergence of social, by 2050 mobile and big data, consumers expectations are changing.
They want greater choice and control, demanding more transparency in the products andservices they use and anywhere, anytime access to information.
Digital technologies make it easier for them to have their voices heard and also increase the speed at which new trends are adopted.
Reacting to these demands, businesses are engaging start-ups, smallindependent Indie customers and virtual communities as co-creators.
Croda International Plc 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report To find out how we create value, readourBusiness Model on p06 and 07 Our Strategic Approach Delivering Growth Driving Innovation Sustainable Solutions Through our direct selling business model, Innovation plays a critical role across We continue to build on our renewable our people build intimate relationships ourBusiness, with dedicated business raw material heritage to create, make withour customers large and small, sector Research and Development teams andsell sustainable solutions today, working closely with them totarget niche, developing new ingredients in collaboration topositively influence tomorrow.
Through rapidly growing markets where our with our customers.
Working with our the investments we make in innovative innovative and sustainable approach open innovation partners identifies product design and flexible operations, isvalued.
We have a flexible and agile uniqueopportunities that add value we are working with our supply chain structure for growth that enables our toourcustomers products and satisfies todevelop products that deliver more people to stay local to our customers the needs of their consumers.
It is a benefit, with less impact.
This, coupled around the world, whilst working together combination of our products and the way with active participation inregulatory as one global team torespond quickly we operate that enables our customers to debates, ensures that we are at the todemands identified by changing build on our innovations, so that together forefront of providing answers to the demographics in a fragile world.
we address the challenges of the three challenges presented by the three global mega trends.
KPIs: KPIs: KPIs: Return on sales p22 NPP sales as % of group sales p22 Non-fossil fuel energy % p23 % Group sales outside Europe p22 NPP sales growth compared with overall Lost time injury rate p23 sales growth p22 Key risks: Key risks: Key risks: Revenue generation in established and Product and technology innovation p31 Product liability claims p31 emerging markets p31 Protect new intellectual property p31 Major safety or environmental incident p32 Talent development and retention p31 Talent development and retention p31 Security of raw material supply p32 Major capital project management p32 To find out what we have done in 2016 seep10 and 11 Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 05
