Strategic Report | Our Sector Performance Industrial Chemicals reducing by almost 20,000 tonnes.
Sales Highlights increased by 2.1% to 128.3m 2015 restated: 125.7m due to currency translation but Further refinement in sales mix were 8.5% lower on a constant currency basis.
Adjusted operating profit was 6.9m Lower volume of low value-add 2015 restated: 7.8m.
The decline in profit co-products reflected a programme to divert some co-products for internal use.
Sales Industrial Chemicals is innovating selectively to develop niche products 128.3m 2015: 125.7m fornew applications.
CrodaTherm, abio-based phase change material that Adjusted operating profit helps maintain a consistent temperature ina range of environments and materials, gained sales during 2016.
Other new 6.9m 2015: 7.8m product development will enable customers Industrial Chemicals is a small, to achieve better performance and higher Return on sales levels of sustainability.
diverse market sector selling co-streams, developing novel Together with the transfer of some 5.4% 2015: 6.2% co-products to internal applications, we are niche industrial applications and creating a smaller sustainable,  toll processing.
Restated Note 1 p98 orientated Industrial Chemicals business.
Maarten Heybroek In2016 this included a new bio-fermentation Performance President, Industrial Chemicals plant in the Netherlands, which converts 2016 saw the continued transformation of aglycerine co-product stream into green Industrial Chemicals, with the volume of low energy, reducing sales but increasing value-add co-products and tolling business profitability through lower power costs.
Innovation Saving energy Our advanced material every day additives allow the particles used in the latest technologies for display screens to be evenly dispersed, which enable them Energy efficiency to run at lower energy levels Our phase change while still giving the best and materials can be incorporated brightest experience.
into sportswear to help regulate body temperature, orinto building materials tosave energy and increase comfort.
Prolonging Minimising productlife environmental impact Our ingredients help the Our textile finishing products performance oflithium ion help to reduce the amount batteries andprolong ofwater and energy that product lifetimes, therefore manufacturers need when reducing material needs making high quality and replacement costs.
textiles for upholstery and clothing.
Croda International Plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Sustainability Sustainable Product Innovation Key Material Areas Making high performance, high quality products with the sustainable benefits our customers want Product Design Deliver the most innovative Our customers are influenced by At Croda, product innovation and andsustainable ingredients consumer concerns, which are toour customers sustainability go hand in hand stronglyinfluenced by health and the with customer intimacy.
environment, leading to their demands We know that it is only by being close for products that have low social and Product Stewardship toour customers that we can understand Ensure that the ingredients we environmental impact while offering and fulfil their needs in terms of new produce contribute positively costbenefits.
tothe environment and society ways to improve sustainable product throughout their lifecycle performance and reduce negative From our focus on innovation in product impacts.
We assess the everyday design and the way we ensure supply Environmental Impact impact of our products in two ways: chain transparency and traceability of Minimise the impact of ouroperations intrinsic, referring to attributes such as raw materials, to the steps we take to renewable raw material content, product safeguard customer satisfaction through purity and cradle to gate carbon our rigorous quality assurance processes: footprint: and extrinsic, which refers to we continually seek to differentiate Quality Assurance the social, environmental and financial ourselves through our sustainability Contribute to, and proactively seek, higher quality standards impacts our products have in use or as programme, futureproofing our across product and operational they biodegradeat the end of their life.
Businessthrough the value and product aspects of our Business to ensure consumer safety advantages we bring to ourcustomers.
Highlights 12 Principles of Green Chemistry We continue to apply the 12 Principles of Green Chemistry the Principles 62% 1 1 or 1 2 as an industry recognised independent of our raw materials were from renewable is the score our new ingredients mostly framework to assess our New and sources, an industry leading position meetagainst the 12 Principles of Green Protected Products NPP.
On average, Chemistry our 2016 NPP launches met 11.6 of the 12 Principles and a review of our key existing products, the top 25 by value across our Business, met an average of 63% CDP 11.3, demonstrating our consistently increase in sales of products made with awarded us Afor our Forest Report on strong performance in this area.
Atplus RSPO certified palm oil derivatives compared palmoil, putting us amongst just 15 others DRT100 is a top 25 product that meets to 2015 toachieve this score all12 Principles, it is 100% renewable and enables more accurate application of pesticides, reducing their negative impact on the surrounding environment.
Top 1% EXCiPACT Anastas, P. T. : Warner, J. C. Green Chemistry: Theory and Practice, Oxford University Press, with Gold Status is where we are placed certification has been received at all New York, 1998 amongst all companies assessed by the ofourmanufacturing sites supplying sustainability platform EcoVadis thepharmaceutical industry To find out more, read our 2016 Sustainability Report at www.
com sustainability Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 21
