Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements COMPANY NOTES COMPANY NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS TO THE ACCOUNTS and assumptions that affect the application of accounting 40.
Company related party transactions policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income The Company is incorporated in the UK and registered in During the year there have been transactions between the Company, controlled entities of the Company, and other related and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
All companies listed in note 42 are related parties to the Company.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an The Company financial statements of CYBG PLC, the Parent The Company receives and provides a range of services with its principal subsidiary undertaking, including loans and deposits.
Revisions to accounting estimates are Company the Company, which should be read in conjunction recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised with the Group Directors Report, have been prepared on a and in any future periods affected.
going concern basis in accordance with International Financial Amounts due from controlled entities of the Company 2016 2015 Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU and with m m The accounting policies of the Company are the same as those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to those of the Group which are set out in note 2 of the Loans 15 - companies reporting under IFRS.
No individual statement of consolidated financial statements except that the Company Subordinated debt 483 - comprehensive income is presented for the Company, as has no policy in respect of consolidation.
These accounting permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
Total amounts due from related entities 498 - policies have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these financial statements.
Basis of measurement The financial information has been prepared under the The financial information for the comparative period is Included within the amounts due from related entities is 15m 2015: Nil of cash and cash equivalents.
shown as Nil throughout as the Company only had 50,000 of share capital funded by a bank deposit as at On 8 February 2016, the Company purchased 475m of 10 year, callable, fixed 5% subordinated debt with a final maturity date The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with 30 September 2015. of 9 February 2026 from CB PLC.
IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates Amounts due to controlled entities of the Company 2016 2015 m m Other payables 7 - Total amounts due to related entities 7 - As discussed in note 36 to the consolidated financial The key management personnel of the Company are the key statements, the Group provides share based compensation to management personnel of the Group, with relevant employees through a number of schemes, all in relation to disclosures given in note 12 to the consolidated financial shares in the Company.
The cost of providing these benefits is statements.
The Company has no employees 2015: Nil.
recharged to the employing company, CB PLC.
Recharges are calculated based on the fair value of awards expensed in the period in accordance with IFRS 2: Share Based Payments.
