Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements DELIVERING TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS SUPPORTING COMMUNITIES WHERE WE LIVE AND WORK To be sustainable we need to create value that lasts for our stakeholders.
Financial performance isnt the only indicator of success and we take pride in managing our business responsibly for our customers, colleagues, communities and other key stakeholders.
Our aim is to: Customer Ensure we get the basics right for our customers with We pride ourselves on our customer focused culture.
Its why quality products and services: this year weve listened and responded to our customers Invest in the skills, aspirations and capabilities of our needs by investing in our branch network, digital journey, colleagues: restructuring our business and Executive Leadership Team to provide an even greater focus on service, and launched our Recognise our responsibility to society by managing our new flagship product B. environmental impact from our day to day operations and supporting the many projects which we undertake through our community partnerships.
Beyond getting the basics right for our customers with quality products and services, we aim to attract new customers by How we achieve this being innovative and providing market leading services.
Our omni-channel approach allows us to continue to recognise BIG ENOUGH TO By building an open and honest culture and engaging actively issues of accessibility, financial inclusion and responsible lending with stakeholders we aim, wherever possible, to understand while also providing support for our vulnerable customers.
the impacts that are created through our operations, products Weve worked tirelessly to improve the complaint handling and services.
We also integrate environmental and social MATTER AND SMALL process and speed of response to existing and new customers.
considerations into day to day business decision making and operational practices to help make this a great place to work.
Progress in 2016 We care about here a simple statement that encapsulates ENOUGH TO CARE our enduring focus on serving our key stakeholders creates a Customer numbers remained level during the year at 2.8 sense of pride in everything we do and shines a light on the million.
Customer satisfaction and advocacy remained a key customer focus that is core to our DNA.
measure NPS showed improvement with our brands in line Since we first opened our doors in 1838, we set out to support the with their peer groups.
Brand reputation exceeded that of our communities where we live and work.
Being close to our customers is at We focus on four key areas: peer groups.
the heart of everything we do: because we care about here means always Caring for our customers and providing products and We understand how we would like to be treated and try to services that meet their evolving needs and expectations: understanding how to serve the people who live here.
Since becoming treat our customers with the same trust and respect.
We aim Creating an engaging and supportive working environment to get our service right first time every time, learning from independent this commitment has never been stronger.
for our colleagues: mistakes and driving continuous improvements.
The total Managing our environmental impacts direct and indirect: number of complaints received from customers excluding PPI reduced year on year by 41% and the number of Investing in the communities in which we operate.
reportable complaints excluding PPI reduced year on year by 7%, reflecting our progress in this area.
When we do make We do this while working with our suppliers to find the best mistakes, our goal is to provide our customers with fair operating performance as well as meeting due governance outcomes, consistently and promptly.
Tour fide Yorkshire 20 21 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 SWPix.
com Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements DELIVERING TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS HIGH NET PROMOTER SCORE WITH REPUTATION TRACKING AHEAD OF PEERS Moneynet.
co. uk Awards 2016 Best First Time Buyer Mortgage Provider and Best Personal Loan Provider 1 2 2016 Primary PCA relationship NPS Brand Reputation 43% Your Mortgage Awards 2016 Yorkshire Bank Best Regional Lender 25% Moneyfacts Awards 2016 11% 8% Best Card Provider Introductory Rate and Current Account Provider of the Year CB Peers CB YB Peers YB 20% 47% Help for our customers Colleagues Volumes of reportable complaints Caring for our customers and providing products and services FY 2014 15 - 26,437, FY 2015 16 - 24,588 Our people are integral to the ongoing success of the 7% that meet their evolving needs and expectations is a key area Bank.
As the public face of our business, they connect us for us.
We recognise that sometimes events or circumstances with our customers and other external stakeholders, and take over and our customers can become vulnerable.
We act as a valuable source of ideas for ways in which we can launched a new learning module to be completed by all continually improve our processes, products and services.
In addition, when complaints are referred to the Financial Products and services a new way of banking employees, to help them better understand and identify their Ombudsman Service FOS the number of instances when Customers told us that they wanted a digital banking proposition roles and responsibilities in the identification and support of Only through the engagement and support of our people FOS disagrees with the Groups decision has continued to which would not only meet their expectations of mobile vulnerable customers.
We also increased the prominence of can we help our customers achieve their financial goals.
reduce during the year, demonstrating favourable comparison banking, but compared favourably with the very best digital the support available by providing easy access via the home Our annual feedback survey, myVoice, showed a 6 against the industry averages.
They asked for a product that would put them back page of cbonline and ybonline.
percentage point increase in engagement relative to the in control, and give them tools to analyse their spending better, previous year, taking us to 2 percentage points above the We continued to respond to customers needs by almost as well as budget and plan for the future.
In May 2016 we In addition: UK financial services industry norm.
It also showed a 10 doubling the number of branches open on a Saturday.
We also responded to our customers with the launch of B. percentage point increase in colleague advocacy.
We launched our mortgage calculators to help customers introduced free Wi-Fi and issued iPads to our branches to understand their personal circumstances better whilst provide easy online access.
Retail and business staff were Over 11,000 customers were engaged during the As we continue to build a high performing PLC, our aim is searching for their dream home.
brought together into Customer Banking Centres.
development of B and while meeting many of their needs at to foster a culture that attracts, retains, motivates and We ran our first ever Fraud Week, holding customer launch, our ongoing programme of work and regular feature rewards people who consistently deliver the right In November, we held our fifth Business week of activities events to provide tips and guidance about how to avoid updates are based on their feedback.
We are proud of our customer-focused outcomes regardless of where they entitled, Growth through innovation, which involved 760 financial crime.
market leading offering and customers have given us work or what they do across the Bank.
events and visits across the country and over 10,000 overwhelmingly positive feedback.
B has supported us in We partnered with Get Safe Online as our online safety business customers and employees took part.
acquiring a younger demographic with a wider range of awareness partner and published top tips for safe online Supporting and empowering our people financial needs.
The platform has also helped to extend our and mobile banking.
Continuing our digital transformation we have maximised In difficult times we have continued to support our reach and appeal outside of our core regions.
We expanded our email communications to customers and the use of technology, introducing tools that enable our customers.
During the winter floods we contributed to the introduced lifestyle articles into our regular communications.
people to develop the right skills, knowledge and UK Community Foundation UKCF Winter Flood Recovery In addition to B, we also took steps to improve our other In August we emailed over 700,000 customers to ask experience to deliver great customer outcomes.
Appeal with our employees offering practical assistance as products and services.
This resulted in us winning awards them for feedback on the bank, over 20,000 provided well as collecting donations via our West Yorkshire branches.
across our main product areas: mortgages, current accounts, detailed feedback.
A 20k donation was made from our charitable foundation.
Offering our people access to the highest quality personal loans, insurance and credit cards.
We recognise customer development material is a key part of our approach and requirements continue to grow, hence we continue to invest Priorities for next year why we invested in a new interactive learning tool known to meet these changing expectations.
Our priorities for the year ahead are to build on the success of as myLearning at the start of the year.
myLearning delivers this year, listen to our customers and continue to invest in our an end-to-end learning experience that encompasses products.
We will roll out further functionality for B and technical skills, compliance and personal development to continue to invest in capability that allows customers increased help people perform their role and progress their career 1 Source: Internal NPS survey August 2016.
2 flexibility in how and when they choose to bank with us.
Source: YouGov BrandIndex, Reputation metric.
Data based on the period 1st January to 31st July 2016.
Data has been filtered by those who have an opinion positive or negative of the brands.
YB score is based on respondents in the North East, North West, Yorkshire and the Humber, East Midlands, West Midlands and CB score is based on respondents in Scotland.
Sample sizes are as follows: YB n 1,379: CB n 409.
22 23 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements DELIVERING TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS The launch of our new intranet, Our World, was another We are committed to creating an environment in which s1jobs Recruitment Awards 2016 important step in our digital journey, bringing together the people from all backgrounds can work together harmoniously Best Recruitment Campaign and Best Digital Creative 2016 information people need to perform their role.
Containing and where all colleagues are entitled to: information on our strategy, brand, the communities where Chartered Institute of Public Relations CIPR Excellence Awards 2016 be treated with dignity and respect at work we live and work, as well as the latest products and services Best Corporate and Business Communications Campaign a workplace free from bullying, harassment or victimisation available, it is a valuable resource for colleagues across all experience no form of discrimination, and parts of the Group.
Business in the Community Scotland Awards 2016 Scottish Volunteering Team and Scottish Employee Volunteer of the Year be valued for their skills and abilities Recognising the unique requirements of those working across our network, this year we developed our first ever Disability Symbol tablet based application for colleagues.
The myComms app Two Ticks is the symbol that shows we are helps us communicate better with customer facing a Disability Friendly Employer and like Our employee network groups also play an important role in Paul Skovron from our Innovation and Change Team and colleagues who dont always have instant access to email or Opportunity Now and Race for making sure our colleagues feel included, engaged and Chairman of our LGBT employee network, was the intranet.
It has been extremely popular, has enabled Opportunity, demonstrates to customers supported.
They offer advice, support, guidance and nominated as a positive role model for the upcoming colleagues to spend more time on supporting customers and and employees that we embrace diversity opportunities in all areas of equality, diversity and inclusion.
National Diversity Awards paved the way for more innovation in this area.
Chief Executive Officer CEO, David Duffy, was shortlisted Over the year, these groups have sponsored, led and Equality, Diversity and Inclusion for CEO of the Year at the Scottish Business Awards and Our strong, diverse, and engaged network of colleagues participated in many events and activities that reflect our brand nominated for Business Leader of the Year at the Equality, diversity and inclusion are integral to who we are.
These include World Aids Day, West of Scotland Yorkshire Variety Business Awards.
strive to provide our customers with high quality experiences 6,313 Core FTE as at 30 September Deaf Childrens Society and International Womens Day.
every day, and to do so from a workforce that represents Our board now has three women and ten men Priorities for next year those communities in which we are proud to live and work.
Awards Recognising diversity of thought and valuing differences Our aim is to create a culture that supports a high performing Weve introduced more women into our Executive The importance we place on the recruitment and amongst our colleagues are key to achieving this.
That is why Leadership Team, with three out of nine being women business, encouraging greater accountability, customer development of our colleagues has been recognised through we are committed to fostering and sustaining an inclusive centricity and commercial viability.
Ensuring we nurture and 73% of our senior management are male, 27% female as a number of awards this year: culture where every colleague can reach their full potential.
reward those who actively foster that culture is a priority.
at 30 September From a new reward structure to the development of talent Young Thinker Awards 65% of our staff are female, 35% male We aim to create an open and transparent workplace where and leadership across our business, we have a number of National Diversity Nomination initiatives in plan to help achieve that.
respect, dignity, fair treatment, equality, tolerance and CYBG once again participated in the Business in the S1 Recruitment Award for Best Employer Brand understanding are at the core of how people behave and Community Diversity and Well Being Benchmark survey.
Introducing operational excellence in our core support areas is the UKs most comprehensive gender and race benchmark, We are delighted that our colleagues have been recognised is helping design and deliver best-in-class operational which now introduces elements of age, diversity and as role models and leaders, both in the financial services capabilities, while investing in our people to develop enhanced employee well-being.
Assessment against a robust diversity, industry and beyond: leadership, coaching and capability skills.
inclusion and well-being framework identifies strengths and Our Internal Communications team won Best weaknesses by peer comparison.
We have achieved Gold for Recognising the benefits flexible working brings to our people, Communication Strategy as well as the Gold Award for the Gender Banding.
our customers and our business overall, we are investing in best submission across all categories from the Institute of new and innovative digital solutions that will provide more Internal Communications Scotland Awards March 2016 flexibility and create a greater sense of community for Our Media Team were awarded Best Corporate and Total number of employees colleagues, regardless of where they work.
Business Communications Campaign at the Chartered 7,673 6,313 Core FTE Female Male Institute of Public Relations Awards June 2016 Following the recent introduction of our Simply Thank You Peter Bevilacqua from our SME segment was named employee recognition scheme and our new approach to England and Wales Young Thinker Autumn 2015 and 3 3 27% bonus, we will continue to evolve and grow our reward and 35% Nicola Baillie from our Operations and IT graduate recognition package, enabling us to recognise positive 6 10 65% 73% programme received the Scotland Young Thinker Award customer-focused behaviours and performance consistently Winter 2015 and fairly across the Bank.
Douglas Peacock from Procurement and Supplier Services Board Members Executive Leadership Team Senior Management Staff was named Employee Volunteer of the Year by Business in the Community Scotland.
Gender split based on total number of employees.
24 25 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements DELIVERING TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS with maths.
Over 50,000 Count Me In activity booklets have Community been supplied via our branches.
The activity booklets also We believe that the strength and sustainability of our business promote the online story book and game which is available to is related to the health and wellbeing of the communities we download on Apple and Android services.
We play a positive role in the communities where we operate through direct donations to charities and working in Charity Partnership partnership with a broad range of organisations.
We Our official charity partner, for the ninth year, was Hospice UK, encourage our employees to get involved and play an active the umbrella organisation providing support to hospices role working with charities and projects as well as volunteering across the UK.
Our Customer Banking Centres are twinned in their local communities.
with 87 local hospices across the country and fundraising by our employees is matched by the Group.
To date over 5.2m Charitable Foundation has been raised for hospice care in the UK.
Wear One Thing Our independent Charitable Foundation sanctions our Yellow to Work Day took place on 1 March and raised over donations to charities and our support for employee 20k for the charity.
Also, 124 employees volunteered to volunteering both in time and grants.
In its fourth year, our take part in a marathon hike on 16 September in the annual Spirit of the Community Awards provided grants of Yorkshire Dales and raised over 100k for hospice care.
5,000 to 30 charities supporting a wide range of community activities under the headings of Employability, Employee Engagement Financial Education and Environment.
In total, 113 charities We encouraged our employees to support their local have received awards totalling 700,000. community by taking two days paid leave for volunteering per year.
In addition, for those who volunteer in their own time we Financial Education provided Employee Volunteer Grants of 500 for their chosen Our Count Me In 123 financial education programme has Community Partnerships Scotlands native species and natural habitat.
A double charities and community groups.
Over 11,000 volunteering been running for over 10 years.
As well as helping pre-school decker bus has been converted into a unique classroom.
hours were recorded during the year and 331 grants were We consciously moved away from traditional sponsorship children with numeracy skills via libraries in Glasgow and The bus has visited over 330 schools across all of assets and engaged with a range of charities and not-formade with a total value over 163k.
20% of our employees Leeds, our online materials provide access for all parents and Scotlands 32 regions and over 37,000 people have been donated to charity via Payroll Giving, one of the highest take profit organisations that demonstrate our social purpose and carers to engage with their pre-school children and have fun engaged with the programme.
In 2016 we introduced that we care about the communities where we live and work.
up rates of the UK high street banks.
planting trees at each school to help balance the emissions These community partnerships vary depending on the from the bus.
To date, 420 trees have been planted.
To geographic and social needs of the customers and complement the visits, online learning was launched to communities served by our separate brands.
provide pre and post lessons for schools and pupils.
In addition to the bus visiting schools and community groups, For Clydesdale Bank we have three strong partnerships our community partnership enabled over 6,500 people aligned to our brand that demonstrate that we know our from charities supporting young people and families such neighbourhood: as Barnardos to have a fun Wild about Scotland day at Our community partnership with Scotlands Charity Air Edinburgh Zoo and Highland Wildlife Park that they Ambulance was launched in May 2014.
Our support helps otherwise would not have been able to afford.
keep Scotlands only charity-funded emergency air Our community partnership with the Royal Zoological ambulance in the air and saving lives.
Our staff have Society for Scotland received a Silver Award from the British volunteered their skills and time to help this new charity and Irish Association of Zoos and Aquariums.
become sustainable by fundraising, as well as sharing their The Hydro partnership was launched in 2012.
One of the marketing skills.
We have helped promote the life-saving busiest entertainment venues in the world, it enables us to work of the charity by raising awareness on social media, reward and engage our customers and the wider public online banking and ATMs as well as featuring the charity in through hospitality and seat upgrades.
Our quarterly Centre one of our television adverts.
Stage Programme continued to recognise deserving people The Royal Zoological Society of Scotland community for helping in their local communities and to date over partnership, Wild about Scotland, was launched in August 1,000 winners have benefitted from upgrades to our 2014.
It provides an education service for primary school exclusive VIP area, The Vault, and Centre Stage places.
children and the wider communities where they live about 26 27 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements Charlotte Graham DELIVERING TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS risk of delays due to bad weather, and has benefits for the Environment environment in terms of reducing emissions from air, car As well as our commitment to our customers and communities, and rail travel.
we believe in the importance of doing this in the most In December 2015 we completed a review to ensure sustainable way.
This is not only good for the environment but compliance with the requirements of the Energy Saving is also important for the long term growth and success of the Opportunities Scheme ESOS and we also completed the Group.
process to obtain our Carbon Trust Standard Recertification for the next two year period and retained Our commitment to managing our business environmental our ISO14001 accreditation in our Leeds offices.
impact is guided by our Environmental Standard that recognises the Groups commitment to meet key legislative compliance In the last 12 months we have also continued to work with requirements and voluntary commitments and covers our some of our key suppliers, in areas we can influence, to approach to environmental management, controls and ensure products and services used in our business are reporting, including: environmentally sound and that any waste is minimised.
environmental risk setting of environmental targets Reporting on Greenhouse Gas emissions direct operational environmental impacts The reporting period for Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions in indirect via customers and suppliers impacts of our the Group runs from 1 July 2015 to 30 June 2016.
The table operations below shows the Group has reduced total emissions by 7% in reporting and assurance the last year driven both by the initiatives outlined above and For our Yorkshire Bank brand we recognise the importance of May 2016 - The Banks were awarded the HM employee awareness and community involvement changes to the property estate.
cycling in the region and the ambitious aim for every child in Government Platinum Payroll Giving for 20% of our governance Yorkshire to have access to a bike.
Our Yorkshire Bank Bike employees donating through Payroll Giving.
Libraries community partnership with Welcome to Yorkshire November 2015 - Clydesdale & Yorkshire Banks awarded Achievements in 2015 16 was launched in December 2014.
To date, over 4,000 bikes Scope 2016 2015 Outstanding Contribution to Hospice Care Hospice UK By measuring, monitoring and controlling our consumption we have been donated and there have been over 20,000 CO e CO e awards.
2 2 aim to mitigate harmful impacts on the environment by tonnes tonnes opportunities for children to borrow a bike at 32 Yorkshire Amy Robertson, Craig J Ryce, Sarah Lindsay, Patricia Khan, conducting our business in a sustainable, ethical and responsible Bank Bike Libraries.
The bike libraries are social enterprises that Scope 1 emissions 3,829 3,835 David H Black, Thomas Mathie, Emma Cooke and Stevie way.
During the year, we made a contribution towards the drive have received awards of up to 10,000 from the Yorkshire Generated from the gas and oil used Quinn from Business Change won Volunteering Team of for a low carbon and more resource efficient economy: in all buildings where the Group Bank Bike Libraries Social Enterprise Fund.
So far, over the Year through Business in the Community Scotland in operates: emissions generated from 222,000 has been awarded to libraries across Yorkshire.
recognition of their support of the charity Possibilities for Group-owned vehicles used for We continued to roll out advanced building efficiency business travel: and fugitive Each & Every Kid PEEK, a former winner of Clydesdale management systems as part of the branch refurbishment Our support for the Tour fide Yorkshire TdY was established in emissions arising from the use of air Banks Spirit of the Community Awards in 2014. programme.
Such systems are monitored centrally and help conditioning and chiller refrigerant March 2015.
Yorkshire Bank is an official Partner of TdY and April 2016 - Kevin Elliot, Head of Business & Private automate controls to ensure we only operate air plant to service the Groups sponsors the Sprinter Jersey.
Our sponsorship enabled us to property portfolio.
Banking at Yorkshire Bank in South Yorkshire, received a conditioning units and boilers within set operational hours raise awareness of our community support for cycling via the national award for volunteering, celebrating his and can respond quickly to changes in temperatures.
We Scope 2 emissions 16,743 18,216 Yorkshire Bank Bike Libraries initiative.
Activities around the commitment to helping young people gain the skills they have also implemented a number of energy saving initiatives Generated from the use of event included supporting materials and competitions in our electricity in all buildings from which need for career success.
The award, given by national including replacement of standard bulbs with LEDs and Yorkshire Bank branches, online activities, customer the Group operates.
charity Career Ready, recognises Kevins hard work in centrally monitored automated lighting controls to allow us communication and television advertising.
The social activity Scope 3 emissions 8,339 7,630 giving his time, energy and passion to support young to power down non-essential lighting when appropriate.
reached over 32m people and the media activity reached over Relates to business travel people as they prepare for the world of work.
During the course of the year we re-procured 100% 20m people.
The event proved very popular on the ground undertaken by all colleagues using renewable green energy for electricity contracts within and over 2m people lined the streets to watch the three day rail, private vehicles, hired vehicles, Priorities for 2016 17 the Groups direct control.
We continued with a policy of contracted taxi services and air event.
Thousands took part in the free fun activities that we travel.
Continue to deepen our relationships with the communities no travel months in December and January and we also organised in our marquees at the start and finish lines each day.
we are part of through our employees who donate their time installed video conferencing in more locations to enable Total 30,384 28,208 and skills: develop brand partnerships that align to our strategy tele and video conferencing to help reduce travel.
This has In addition to the partnerships described above, a number of KPMG LLP undertook a limited assurance exercise using the assurance standards and provide a range of charitable support, including financial associated benefits for employees in terms of reducing our colleagues working within the broader bank framework ISAE 3000 and ISAE 3410 over this GHG data.
education, through our independent Charitable Foundation.
business travel during periods when there is an increased have actively been involved in their communities with both the bank and some of our staff being nationally recognised: 28 29 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements DELIVERING TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS We continue to raise awareness and the profile of environmental initiatives to ensure that all colleagues are empowered Intensity Ratio Independent Assurance to make a difference.
The Group has chosen to use an intensity ratio of GHG per KPMG LLP were engaged to undertake a limited assurance FTE.
Using FTE offers a simple way to measure and monitor exercise using the assurance standards ISAE 3000 and ISAE our performance on emissions and is also a useful way to 3410 over the GHG data highlighted in this report with a benchmark and compare with others.
KPMG has issued an unqualified opinion over the selected GHG data.
The full opinion can be seen on the CYBG website.
Scope 1,2&3 2015 2016 CO e CO e 2 2 Use of Resources tonnes tonnes Our systems and process to measure resources used are GHG emissions per average FTE 3.88 3.92 improving year on year.
The table below shows how the Group has performed against five environmental targets in We have achieved full compliance with the Regulations for the comparison to a baseline in June 2013.
All five targets have whole of our property portfolio.
The only estimated emissions been met and the Group is working towards establishing a new in the GHG emission data relate to energy consumed in set of environmental targets and measures for the three year properties where the landlord controls the supply and period to 2019.
At the same time we continue to raise recharges the Group via a service charge arrangement.
In awareness and the profile of environmental initiatives to these instances an average rate per Kwh has been used.
ensure that all colleagues are empowered to make a difference.
Area Target 2013 2016 Target Year 0 Year 3 % Met?
GHG CO emissions tonnes 5% reduction 33,464 28,208 -16% Yes 2 Waste & Recycling incl 2nd line Increase to 98% from 82% on 2nd line 82% 100% n a Yes Water Meters On 90% properties 89% 94% n a Yes Water Consumption KL Zero increase 84,910 77,286 -9% Yes Energy GJ 5% reduction in gas & electric usage 210,672 169,114 -20% Yes 2nd line recycling refers to waste which is manually sorted into all categories of recycling including composting and fuel.
By 2016 100% of our waste was diverted from landfill.
The Humber Bridge, near Kingston upon Hull 30 31 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 S St tr ra at teg egic ic R Re epo por rt t Fi Fina nan nc ciia all R Re es su ullt ts s G Go ov five er rn na an nce ce R Ris isk k R Rep epor ort t F Fiin na an nci cia all St Sta ate tem me en nt ts s RISK OVERVIEW RISK MANAGEMENT Achievements in 2016 Standalone Risk Management delivered on a number of initiatives and activities to support the IPO and transition to a standalone Effective management of risk is a key capability for a successful financial services Bank: bank: provider and is fundamental to the Groups strategy.
The Group has The establishment of a standalone Risk Model including enhancements to the Risk Management Framework, refreshing responsibilities across the 3 Lines of Defence and delivery of Policy Standards aligned to the Groups implemented significant changes to strengthen its risk capabilities since risk profile: becoming stand alone and continues to develop in line with industry The successful delivery of new external reporting requirements through the Pillar 3 disclosure framework: The inception of a comprehensive insurance programme tailored to the Groups risk profile providing mitigation developments and best practice.
for any future loss in respect of operational or financial crime risks.
Commencing To enhance already strong and well embedded risk management disciplines, a programme has been initiated to the IRB Journey support the Groups objective of securing regulatory approval to adopt an IRB approach to determine Credit RWAs.
This programme is also supporting changes in the Collective Provision calculations required by IFRS9 which will be Risk Principles Risk Culture adopted on 1 October 2018.
For further information on IFRS 9, please refer to pages 214 to 215.
The Groups approach to risk management is based on a The consistent fair treatment of customers is fundamental to Growth SME - A number of operational improvements, including Lending Authority enhancements, were delivered to improve both efficiency and customer service levels.
principle that risk management capability must be embedded the success of the Groups business model and strategy and is across all areas of the Group to be effective.
This overriding underpinned by a risk culture which shapes behaviours and Retail - To further support customers, enhancements have been made to Responsible Lending procedures and principle embodies the following concepts: decision making at all levels of the bank.
The interests of ongoing support has been provided to Digital Growth initiatives.
customers, employees, shareholders and our communities are Commercial decisions are made on the basis of proactive Improving As part of the ongoing investment plan and to support demerger activities, system enhancements to further aligned to deliver the Groups strategic aim of sustainable system strengthen the Groups infrastructure have been implemented maintaining continuity of service whilst delivering new consideration of risk and the potential impact on customer growth.
This is supported by a robust Risk infrastructure standalone systems and strengthening transaction monitoring functionality.
Areas of focus have included Financial customers: Framework and independent Risk Management Function Crime, Operational Risk and certain Credit systems.
Business managers use the Risk Management Framework driven by the Groups core principles and We Care About Regulatory Significant support has been provided to enable the implementation of the Senior Managers & Certification Regimes to support decision making involving risk and reward trade Here ethos.
Change including the design of required processes, controls and ongoing training for participants in the two Regimes.
offs: and Priorities for 2017 Employees are responsible for risk management in their A strong risk culture is founded on a risk management day to day activities.
accountability model and formal delegation framework where IRB Journey The Group continues to work towards attaining IRB accreditation alongside delivering IFRS 9 implementation.
As this personal accountability empowers employees to take journey continues, Risk Management will support the new requirements whilst maintaining business as usual.
Further detail is provided in the Risk Report from page 138. ownership.
It is a consideration in all people management Digitisation As the industry and environment in which the Group operates continues to evolve, the Groups digital operations practices, particularly performance management.
It is also continue to be developed through new systems, enhanced monitoring and streamlining processes whilst maintaining supported by independent escalation procedures for appropriate risk awareness.
Macro Whilst the Group operates in an uncertain macro environment, work continues to monitor risk profiles and ensure Environment that appropriate mitigating actions are in place.
Of particular focus is the ongoing uncertainty stemming from the vote to leave the EU and operating within a low for longer interest rate environment.
Transitional Focus remains on successfully completing the TSA exit strategy as referred to on page 36, ensuring that sufficient Service control and oversight is maintained.
Agreement TSA Exits Regulatory The Group continues to embrace the changing regulatory environment and will remain fully compliant with all Change applicable current and future regulations.
Balance Sheet The Group remains focused on maintaining the Balance Sheet strength with particular attention being paid to risks regulatory developments including the Countercyclical Capital Buffer CCyB and MREL.
Growth & The Group continues to drive growth in the Lending portfolios, appetite settings will ensure controlled growth, and Efficiency regulatory guidance relative to areas such as BTL will be monitored and addressed.
Equally, initiatives to deliver efficiencies and simplification across the Group will be subject to continued risk assessment.
Assurance During FY2016, considerable progress has been made to simplify risk policies, standards and frameworks.
Many Framework benefits flow from these enhancements including greater consistency of application of the Risk Management Framework across all 3 Lines of Defence.
Further steps will be taken during FY2017 to further strengthen risk capabilities, risk identification and mitigation.
