Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements COMPANY NOTES COMPANY NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS TO THE ACCOUNTS 42.
Company investments in controlled entities and associates 42.
Company investments in controlled entities and associates continued 2016 m The key assumptions involved in these calculations are set out below.
At 30 September 2,193 Key assumptions used in impairment testing The recoverable amount of the cash generating unit has been derived from a value in use calculation using discounted cash flow The acquisition of CYBI is explained within the share for share of the Group.
For the Company, the substance of the techniques and a forecasted performance approved by the Board.
Cash flows beyond the forecasted period have been exchange section of note 31 of the Groups consolidated indemnity agreement is that of variable consideration in relation extrapolated using similar forecasted assumptions as in the forecast period.
The following rates are used by the Company: financial statements.
2016 On 30 September 2016 the Company acquired the issued When a claim is raised under the Capped Indemnity, the % share capital of Clydesdale Bank PLC the Bank, from its Company recognises a receivable from NAB presented within subsidiary CYBI for consideration of 1.
The purpose of the amounts due from other banks with a corresponding decrease Post tax discount rate 10.0 transaction was to eliminate the requirement to retain CYBI as in the cost of the Companys investments in controlled entities Projected terminal growth rate 2.5 an intermediate holding company, with a view to ultimately and associates.
The Company does not recognise any income liquidating the company and simplifying the Groups structure.
or expense in relation to claims under the Capped Indemnity.
It The calculation of the value in use is based on a Board Projected terminal growth rate is intended that upon collection of the claim proceeds from approved five year forecast projection and is then Immediately prior to the transfer, the Company held the NAB the capital impact of providing for Relevant Conduct The projected terminal growth rate is based on extrapolated forward with a terminal growth rate applied.
The Matters in the Bank is mitigated by the Company using the investment in CYBI at cost of 1,764m.
The value of the managements expectation of the long term average growth five year forecast projections encompass a range of investment in CYBI is primarily supported by the net assets and proceeds to subscribe for share capital.
During the year ended prospects for UK GDP after taking into account the broader economic indications such as GDP growth, unemployment 30 September 2016 a 426m reduction to the investment in future cash flows of the Bank, the main trading subsidiary of the historic UK economic outlook and trends.
statistics as well as a range of other business assumptions Group.
It is the Companys policy in this situation to transfer the CYBI was recognised in relation to Conduct Indemnity specific to the Bank such as asset volumes, product volumes adjustments and the Company subscribed for 426m of proportion of the carrying value of the investment in CYBI Sensitivity to changes in assumptions and margins which are commercially sensitive.
The Board is relating to its investment in the Bank, to the cost of the newly additional share capital in CYBI.
Changes in the post-tax discount rate or projected terminal satisfied that the assumptions used both within and beyond recognised direct investment in the Bank.
This method growth rate will impact the Companys assessment of the the forecasted period are appropriate and reasonable at the recognises that part of the cost to the Company of this Where provisions for Relevant Conduct Matters are increased value in use of Clydesdale Bank PLC.
If adjusted balance sheet date.
transaction is a reduction in the value of its investment in CYBI.
in respect of a reporting period, but proceeds from that claim independently of all other variables, a 10 basis point increase Applying this approach, the Companys cost of the investment are not received from NAB prior to the reporting date, CYBG in the post-tax discount rate would not result in an Discount rate in the Bank excluding the pre-existing investment in the Banks has put in place an agreement with the Bank in order to impairment charge and a 10 basis point decrease in the AT1 instruments is recorded at 1,762m, calculated as the mitigate the effect of capital losses at the end of the reporting The discount rate applied reflects the current market projected terminal growth rate would also not result in an consideration paid, plus a 1,762m transfer from the carrying period.
Upon raising a provision for a Relevant Conduct Matter, assessment of the risk specific to the Bank.
The discount rate impairment charge.
value of the investment in CYBI.
There are no gains or losses The Company indemnifies the Bank for the Qualifying Conduct was calculated by reference to a series of internal indicators recognised in the Banks income statement as a consequence Costs excluding the Groups loss share until it subscribes for an combined with certain identifiable and available sector specific of the transfer.
equivalent amount of capital in the Bank.
The impairment model used is based on post-tax recognises a capital contribution within investments in cash flows and utilises a post-tax discount rate.
controlled entities and associates and a liability in amounts due On 8 February 2016, the Company acquired Perpetual Subordinated Permanent Write Down Notes fixed 8% with a to other entities in respect of these amounts.
This totalled 7m at 30 September 2016 2015: Nil.
principal amount of 450m from the Bank.
These are carried at cost in accordance with IAS 27.
These are perpetual securities with no fixed maturity or redemption date and are structured Impairment review for subsidiary undertakings to qualify as AT1 instruments under CRD IV.
As highlighted in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements, an impairment test on the carrying value of the As disclosed in note 27 to the consolidated financial statements, Companys investment in Clydesdale Bank PLC has been the Company and NAB have entered into the Conduct undertaken during the year.
This testing did not result in any Indemnity Deed.
Claims under the Conduct Indemnity Deed impairment.
For the purposes of the impairment test, are made by the Company, whilst the provisions in respect of Clydesdale Bank PLC is regarded as the cash generating unit the qualifying conduct costs are raised and incurred by the with the value in use calculation compared to the current Bank.
As a consequence, the recognition and measurement carrying value of the investment in Clydesdale Bank PLC in the basis of the Capped Indemnity in the Company differs from that Company balance sheet.
