Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Objectives For many years we have been single minded in the pursuit of the Groups objective of achieving long term, low risk growth in net asset value and in prudently growing our rental income and dividends.
Net asset value per share Dividends per share p 100 100 90 80 90 70 60 80 50 40 70 30 20 60 10 0 50 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 restated Strategy The strategy for achieving our objectives has three principal elements: Management of our property portfolio to maximise net rental income and thereby enhance capital values Identification and completion of value enhancing development opportunities within our portfolio Identification and completion of new property acquisitions which have the potential, through development or otherwise, for long term enhancement to net asset value In pursuing this strategy we take the view that property is a long term business which does not always fit conveniently into the annual reporting cycle.
Development opportunities, in particular, can take many years from first idea to first letting and will often involve substantial investment over a period of years before any gain is achieved.
We carefully monitor our exposure to ensure that the impact on our resources remains manageable.
Business model The main activity of the Group, as carried on through its subsidiary companies, is investment in commercial, industrial and residential property in the UK and also on the eastern seaboard of the USA.
The Group generally holds its properties for the long term in order to generate rental income and capital appreciation although in the right circumstances any property could be available for sale.
The Group operates a substantially outsourced business model.
Day to day management of the Groups properties in the UK is carried out by Highdorn Co. Limited and Freshwater Property Management Limited.
These companies also provide the staff who carry out all of the UK functions of the Group.
Further details of the relationship with these companies are set out in Note 17 to the financial statements.
Similar arrangements with local managing agents operate in the USA.
Managing risk Whilst retaining an entrepreneurial culture, the Group has a low appetite for risk.
This underpins our approach to all aspects of the business and is appropriate to our strategic objective of delivering long term, low risk growth in net asset value per share.
The Board has undertaken a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those threatening its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
In relation to financial instrument risk, the Group operates a cautious financial policy on a nonAbove and right: speculative and long term basis in order to enable the Group to carry on its business in confidence Park West, and with strength.
The Group aims to ensure that the cost of capital is kept to a minimum through London W2.
the maintenance of its many long standing relationships with leading banks and other financial Page 4 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report continued institutions.
The Group seeks to minimise the risk of sudden or unexpected rises in finance costs by way of fixed rate debt and financial derivative instruments whilst retaining some flexibility in relation to short term interest rates.
As explained in Note 1 g to the financial statements, the Group does not hedge account.
Note 16 to the financial statements details the Groups exposure to the various financial instrument risks.
Managing risk has been central to the success of the Group over many years and in particular gearing has been kept at a relatively low level for the property industry: currently gearing is 14.9%.
The Board recognises that, in common with all companies, it can only have limited control over many of the external risks which it faces.
The largest of such uncontrollable factors is the economic cycle which has a major impact on the demand for and price of property and the ability of the Group to achieve its strategic objectives.
The principal risks facing the Group are described in the following paragraphs together with the steps which are taken to mitigate and manage them.
External risks Economic outlook Following the recent referendum decision to leave the European Union EU, the UK economy faces a period of unprecedented uncertainty.
The Bank of England has forecast a sharp reduction in anticipated growth with the distinct possibility of moving into recession.
Past experience of similar circumstances warns us to expect the risk of downward pressure on rental and capital values and an increase in vacancy rates and bad debts.
The USA presents a much brighter picture with continuing economic growth and sustained demand for commercial space and residential accommodation.
This is the background which provides the risks and opportunities for our residential tenants and for the businesses of our commercial tenants and their demand for space.
We seek to mitigate and manage such risk by: Continuous monitoring of the economic outlook Continued maintenance of low gearing Rigorous tenant covenant checks including independent assessments for major lets.
In the case of smaller properties we undertake such checking as is appropriate Enhanced rent collection effort to minimise the possibility of bad debts Availability of finance on acceptable terms In recent years the UK property finance market has developed positively with a somewhat greater availability of debt finance at lesser margins and an improving appetite for risk.
It remains to be seen the extent to which this will be sustained in the present period of economic uncertainly.
Fortunately the banks are now much better capitalised than at the start of the last downturn which gives cause for some optimism that finance on acceptable terms will continue to be made available.
Nevertheless any reduction in the availability of finance for property at an acceptable cost and for an appropriate period would adversely affect the Groups ability to undertake acquisitions and major schemes of redevelopment and refurbishment.
We seek to mitigate and manage this risk by: Monitoring funding trends and the development of banking regulations Sustaining relationships with our principal financing partners, both banks and other lending institutions Above and right: Securing term finance facilities to meet our foreseeable requirements Park West, London W2.
Ensuring that the maturities of major loan arrangements are spread over a period of years Page 6 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report continued Movements in currency rates of exchange With almost 25% by value of the Groups property portfolio located in the USA, any significant strengthening in the sterling dollar exchange rate could adversely impact our reported results.
In the period since the decision to leave the EU the sterling dollar exchange rate has fallen materially which will, if maintained, have the effect of increasing the reported value of our USA assets and profits.
We mitigate and manage this risk by: Funding US assets by US dollar borrowings and local retained earnings.
This means that the impact of movements in the exchange rate is limited to accounting adjustments in the Groups consolidated accounts.
The overall impact on the results for the current year is immaterial: an accounting gain of 5.6 million arises in reserves on the re-translation of the opening net book value of assets in the USA Regulation Regulations aimed at the control of residential rental levels or shorthold tenancy arrangements could have an adverse impact on the Group.
Similarly, increased regulation on environmental, health and safety or planning matters could impose additional costs.
We seek to mitigate and manage this risk by: Careful monitoring of developments in legislation with the help of our professional advisers Catastrophic events The operations of the Group could be adversely affected by a significant catastrophe such as extreme weather, fire, cyber-attack, civil disturbance or terrorism which could result in the loss of any of our principal buildings or offices and the records therein.
Page 8 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 We seek to mitigate and manage this risk by: Insuring buildings with third parties Physical building security Fireproof storage of leases and other documents of title Dispersal of business critical IT systems and enhanced data security measures Tenant default Tenant default constitutes a risk to income and, ultimately, to capital value.
The multi-tenanted nature of the portfolio, with rental income derived from numerous properties, provides a natural measure of protection against the risk of individual default.
In addition, we seek to mitigate and manage this risk by: Seeking tenants with strong covenants Credit checks on new tenants including independent assessments for major lets Careful monitoring of tenants showing signs of financial stress Internal risks Opposite page Regional concentration in UK portfolio and below: the Within the UK the majority of our properties are situated in and around the London area.
In recent newly completed Southgate Lodge, years the increase in value of our UK portfolio has been almost entirely derived from the London South Croydon, area which has enjoyed a period of well publicised growth.
A slowdown in the London market such as has occurred over the last year will significantly reduce the net annual revaluation uplifts in the Greater London.
Page 9 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 UK portfolio.
Changes in aggregate property value have a direct impact on the net worth of the Group.
We seek to mitigate and manage this risk by: Continuing to invest in the USA Regular monitoring of the property market for opportunities, not just in London but throughout the UK Regular professional revaluations by our independent surveyors in the UK and USA Acquisitions The Group seeks well priced acquisitions which will meet the strategic objective of adding long term, low risk growth in net asset value.
The Groups oft stated aversion to undue risk means that in a period of economic uncertainty opportunities for acquisition will be approached with extreme caution.
There is nevertheless a risk that an inappropriate or ill-judged acquisition could destroy value.
We seek to mitigate and manage this risk by: Rigorous pre-acquisition screening of all buying opportunities and appropriate due diligence Development The Group continues to seek development opportunities, principally from within the portfolio but also elsewhere.
Development provides an opportunity to enhance income and net asset values but carries risk as to planning, construction timing, costs and letting.
We seek to mitigate and manage these risks by: Rigorous screening of all development opportunities including external professional advice and, where appropriate, market research Focusing on a limited number of developments at any one time Close monitoring, together with our external advisers, of active developments People The Group relies heavily on the involvement of key directors in both strategic and day-to-day affairs.
Loss of this involvement would be disruptive to business.
We have sought to mitigate and manage this risk by: The appointment some years ago of two new directors from the next generation of the Freshwater family Investment properties The pictures on these A professional valuation of all of the Groups properties was carried out at 31 March 2016.
The UK pages comprise properties were valued by Colliers International Property Advisers UK LLP, Chartered Surveyors.
In properties in the the USA, properties were valued by Joseph J. Blake and Associates, Inc. and Metropolitan Valuation Services, Inc. both of which are Certified General Real Estate Appraisers.
block bordered by Berwick Street, The table below shows a summary of the valuation of our investment property at 31 March 2016: Oxford Street and Valuation Percentage Wardour Street, March 2016 change London W1.
m in year Above: Oxford Street.
Commercial property Opposite page clockwise from UK 884.4 4.0% top left: USA 61.2 16.1% 1: Berwick Street, Residential property 2, 3 & 4: UK 648.4 9.1% Oxford Street, USA 426.7 16.8% 5&6: Total 2,020.7 8.5% Wardour Street.
Page 11 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report continued Whilst the percentage changes shown above are, in the main, attributable to net surpluses arising on revaluation they also include movements resulting from purchases, capital expenditure, disposals and changes in currency rates of exchange.
This is shown in the analysis below: 2016 2015 m m Opening valuation 1,855.2 1,546.7 New acquisitions 10.4 35.0 Additions to existing properties 16.6 8.4 Disposals 3.7 4.7 1,878.5 1,585.4 Revaluation gain 117.9 229.7 Foreign exchange gain 13.0 40.1 Closing valuation 2,009.4 1,855.2 In this table and in the financial statements, the total valuation of 2,020.7 million 2015 1,862.6 million has been reduced by an amount of 11.3 million 2015 7.4 million relating to lease incentives, as required by accounting standards see Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements.
Above and right: Witley Court, London WC1 Page 12 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Analysis by property type Property UK Property USA Residential Residential Commercial 426.7m Commercial 648.4m 884.4m 61.2m Commercial Property UK Commercial Property USA Retail Industrial 3.1m 36.8m Offices Land & Offices 58.1m Development 359.3m 40.9m Leisure & Services 83.3m Retail 364.1m Analysis by location UK Valuations USA Valuations North & Scotland Wales & Pennsylvania Greater 56.7m West 37.3m London Baltimore 58.5m New York 1,206.6m 23.0m Midlands & 245.1m East Anglia New Jersey 86.6m 36.6m South East 124.4m Boston 55.6m Florida 90.3m Page 13 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report continued Overall the net UK valuation surplus is 5.5% 2015 15.5%.
Commercial property values have been driven by rent increases with only modest adjustments to yields.
We continue to see weakness in the values of provincial commercial and retail properties.
In central London top end residential property values have remained flat while residential property values in the outer suburbs have shown strong growth.
Our USA properties have produced an uplift in dollar terms of 9.8% 2015 13.4%.
In New York City we have also seen a slowdown in the growth rate of residential property values in the central areas of Manhattan and Brooklyn but an increase in the more affordable outer area of Queens.
Acquisitions and Developments In November 2015 the Group acquired Chalet Court in Tampa, Florida for $14.9 million.
Chalet Court is a garden apartment complex comprising a total of 244 residential units.
In the UK, work commenced on the 26 million construction contract for our pre-let Travelodge Hotel offering 395 bedrooms in Aldgate on the eastern edge of the City of London.
This represents the culmination of planning and preparation work carried out over many years to enhance the value of our long held Cromlech Street site.
Results for the year The profit before taxation for the year ended 31 March 2016 amounts to 173.2 million 2015 277.5 million.
The result includes a net valuation gain of 117.9 million arising on investment properties 2015 229.7 million.
Page 14 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 The table below shows the performance of our core rental business before and after valuation movements: 2016 2015 m m Restated Total rental and related income from investment property 138.2 129.0 Property operating expenses 70.0 70.1 Net rental and related income from investment property 68.2 58.9 Profit on disposals of investment property 11.7 12.0 Administrative expenses 13.0 11.8 Net operating profit before net valuation gains 66.9 59.1 Below: Net valuation gains on investment property 117.9 229.7 an artists Net financing expense 11.6 11.3 impression of the Profit before taxation 173.2 277.5 Travelodge Hotel, Comparative figures have been restated to reflect the impact of a change in accounting policy for fixed rate loans Middlesex Street, and borrowings as set out in Note 1 b on page 46.
Opposite page: Total rental and related income from investment property has increased in the year by 7.1%.
the site prior to Increases in rental income have been achieved across many properties in both the UK and USA.
demolition and Newly acquired properties and those acquired part way through the prior year have also contributed to this growth.
Page 15 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Service charge income has increased due to a number of major works programmes across the UK portfolio together with new lettings.
Our programme of refurbishment and re-letting vacant residential units continues to produce increases in rental income.
Overall we have seen increases in the UK in both our commercial and residential rent rolls.
In the USA our new acquisition, Chalet Court, contributed rental income of $0.8 million.
Significant rent review rises were obtained on our properties in Baltimore and Boston.
As in recent years, the profits on disposals derive principally from leasehold extensions and enfranchisements in the UK.
Increased borrowing in the USA to fund newly acquired property, combined with the weakness of sterling have produced an increase in net interest costs: this has been partially offset by an increase in fair value gains on financial instruments.
The Groups effective tax rate for the current year was 17.5% 2015: 18.0%.
The current year tax charge benefitted from a reduction in the future tax rate to 18% which has reduced deferred tax liabilities.
This reduction was largely offset by a greater proportion of total profits arising in the USA, where tax rates are higher than in the UK.
Earnings per share This year earnings per share stands at 8.77.
14 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Above, left and opposite page: Clifton Park Estate, Sutton Coldfield, East Midlands.
Page 17 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report continued Underlying profit The profit reported in the financial statements has for some years included property revaluation movements and fair value adjustments to financial instruments.
In addition to this measure of performance we also focus on underlying profits which do not include these valuation items.
Underlying profits for the last two years are set out below: 2016 2015 m m Profit before tax per the income statement 173.2 277.5 Property valuation surplus 117.9 229.7 Financial instruments fair value adjustments 0.8 0.1 Adjustment to measurement of disposal profits 1.3 1.7 Underlying profit before tax 55.8 49.4 This years underlying profit of 55.8 million represents an increase of 13% on the previous year.
Underlying profit represents that element of our reported results which has actually been realised and is not dependent on valuation judgements.
It represents the performance of our core rental business together with disposal profits which tend to fluctuate from year to year.
It is our underlying profit which generates the cash we use to re-invest in the business and to pay dividends and taxes.
Gearing Gearing, the ratio between our borrowings and the value of our total assets, is 14.9% 2015 15.5% for the Group as a whole.
In the UK the ratio is 7.2% 2015 7.8% whilst in the USA, where each property is financed separately on a ring-fenced basis, it is 38.3% 2015 40.7%.
Above, right and opposite page: Clare Court, London WC1.
Page 18 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report continued Prior year gearing ratios have been restated to reflect the change in accounting policy set out in Note 1 b on page 46.
Shareholders funds At 31 March 2016 shareholders funds amounted 1,480.0 million, an increase of 10% on last years figure of 1,345.8 million.
Shareholders funds have grown in recent years as follows: 1600 1400 1200 1000 800 600 400 200 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Dividend The proposed total dividend for the year of 93p per share represents an increase of 5.7% 2015 88p.
Outlook In his introduction on page 2, the Chairman has set out the general political and economic issues which provide the background against which the business will be conducted in the coming year.
Within the business our focus will continue to be the enhancement of our overall rent roll in order to increase both income and capital growth.
The uncertainty in the UK economy means that we will approach the coming year with more than usual caution and a bias towards the conservation of our cash resources.
Notwithstanding the immediate economic uncertainty, we continue actively to consider a number of significant schemes of redevelopment which we hope to bring to fruition over the coming years.
By way of example, during the year a programme was drawn up for the development in the UK of some 250 new residential flats spread over a number of our existing sites at an estimated cost of 50 million.
The first block, Southgate Lodge, was completed in January 2016 and the programme will extend over several years with the speed dictated by market conditions.
The current economic uncertainty is likely to result in a slower roll out than was originally planned.
In the UK, current market sentiment is that we are at or about the peak of this property cycle.
Although it is likely that modest valuation gains may continue, significant uplifts will be dependent upon the completion of successful developments, rent reviews and lettings.
In the USA we continue to seek suitable acquisition opportunities and, whenever possible, to refinance existing properties on more advantageous rates.
It is a very competitive market with many buyers seeking similar opportunities, but we are rigorous in our approach and prepared to take time to select the right transactions where we can identify opportunities to enhance rental income and capital value.
Employees As mentioned above, day-to-day activities are outsourced to management companies who are responsible for the provision of the services of the staff on which we rely to run the business.
As part of the arrangements with the management companies in the UK, those individuals engaged on the Groups affairs hold joint employment contracts but the management companies retain sole Page 20 million Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 responsibility for setting recruitment, employment, training, health and safety, diversity and human rights policies for their staff.
Whilst the Group supports and encourages good practice in all of these areas, detailed responsibility for the establishment and execution of such policies lies with the management companies.
As a result, this report does not contain the kind of information mentioned in the Companies Act 2006 s414C 7 b ii and iii.
So far as health and safety is concerned, the Board recognises the importance of ensuring that our properties provide a safe and healthy environment for all users.
With this in mind the Board has requested that the management companies ensure that: All its employees receive appropriate training in the identification and management of health and safety risks.
Every employee is required to be familiar with health and safety policies and has responsibility for ensuring that they are followed in their area of work Regular cyclical risk assessments are undertaken by external consultants on all properties for which the Group has responsibility.
A dedicated team is tasked with resolving issues raised by such assessments and with monitoring policy compliance An annual presentation is made to ensure that awareness of the importance of this issue continues at the highest level within the Group.
All Directors of the Company are male and no new recruitment to the Board is planned which would cause this to change in the near future.
Community The Group has long recognised the importance of supporting the communities in which we operate.
Many companies encourage and facilitate their employees to donate their time and efforts to community projects: because our staffing is outsourced this route is not available to us.
Our support therefore takes the following forms: Donations, largely to educational charities: this year the donations amounted to 150,000 2015 150,000 Dividends on donated shares: following the donation some years ago to charities of shares representing 6.3% of the capital of the Company, dividend payments in the year of 909,010 2015 847,000 have passed to charitable companies Above and left: Aspen Grove, Bucks Landing Florida, USA.
Page 21 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report continued Environment As mentioned above, all the staff engaged in the business and who control our buildings are provided by management companies.
We do not have responsibility for the greenhouse gas emissions related to the employment of those people.
The greenhouse gas emissions arising from our let properties are the responsibility of our tenants.
In consequence, we have no disclosures to make in relation to greenhouse gas emissions and therefore this report does not contain information of the kind mentioned in Part 7 of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
However, when we undertake new developments or major schemes of refurbishment we strive to achieve the highest environmental standards consistent with the nature of the building and the scheme being undertaken.
So, for example, the hotel which we are developing for Travelodge has been designed to achieve a BREEAM excellent rating.
The environmental features include combined heat and power for energy efficiency, management of surface water run-off, energy efficient lighting, and the use of recycled aggregates and sustainably sourced construction materials.
The scope for enhancing the environmental standards across the majority of our properties is limited.
In the main they were constructed before the advent of modern standards and it would be neither practically nor economically feasible to undertake a complete upgrade to meet modern requirements.
However, we do take the opportunities which arise each year as part of programmes of repair and refurbishment to improve the energy efficiency of our buildings and the plant therein.
Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have considered the Groups viability, taking into account its current financial, strategic and operational position, the Boards future plans for the business and the principal risks faced by the Group, described on pages 6 11 of the Strategic Report.
The Board have carried out a comprehensive assessment of the likelihood and the plausible worstcase potential impact of the principal risks.
Whilst carrying out this assessment, the Board considered the strength and effectiveness of the controls in place to mitigate risks.
The directors have had to make assumptions regarding the plausible worst-case impact.
In particular, they have considered in detail and sought advice on the potential impact to UK property prices, demand for UK property and the willingness of financial institutions to lend to UK property companies, following the recent decision for the UK to leave the European Union.
Headroom on loan covenants has been stress-tested and maturities of loan agreements reviewed.
The Directors consider five years to be an appropriate time horizon for the business and this is consistent with the period which has been used for strategic planning.
The Group has a low risk, balanced portfolio of properties, with many commercial properties occupied by tenants with long leases.
Based on current trends, the Directors believe that the Group will continue to be able to grant short term leases on residential properties and new leases on commercial properties at comparable rents, taken overall, for at least five more years.
The Group is dependent on external funding and has long term loans, mortgages, and available and committed facilities which are spread over a period of years.
Most UK bank finance is available for an initial term of five years and 77% of the Groups current bank facilities mature between March 2020 and March 2021.
Discussions regarding the renewal, replacement or repayment of such facilities will occur in advance of their maturity.
The Directors confirm that, based on the analysis, they have a reasonable expectation that the Group can continue to operate and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five year period of their assessment.
By order of the Board Above: 260 West End Avenue, Manhattan, M R M Jenner New York.
