oUr STrATeGy Dairy Crest has a clear our strategy Progress 2015 16 Future priorities Key performance indicators and performance in the year ended 31 March 2016 strategy against which we continue to make Combined volumes of four key brands up 2%.
our focus will remain on our key brands, To generate 1 overall sales of four key brands down only 2% in Cathedral City, Clover, Country life and Frylight.
growth by period of continuing price deflation: Continued investment in advertising and - building strong Cathedral City continues to grow market promotion - Our key performance indicators positions in share and is now bought by nearly 60% of UK Supporting the successful rebranding of are summarised opposite.
Cathedral City These KPIs are also used as added value Successful launch of Clover no Artificial - Continue to grow our categories in partnership measures for our Long Term - markets ingredients bringing 500,000 new households with our customers through the Dairy for life Alignment Plan LTAP for into the brand in the second half initiative developed in 2014 15 Directors and senior Country life grew volumes by 4% - Developing a strong pipeline of innovation employees.
See pages 56 to Frylight showed strong growth to become the - Working with Fonterra, our sales agent, to 57 for more detail.
UKs number 1 oil brand accelerate returns from our investment in new innovation Centre opened on Harper Adams demineralised whey and GoS at Davidstow University campus in December 2015 investing 2 million in further developing our Production of demineralised whey and GoS GoS business hascommenced Following the sale of our Dairies business and the investment at Davidstow almost 100% of Dairy Crests revenue is branded or added value The sale of our Dairies business has resulted in To implement a 3 year programme to replace To simplify, 2 a simpler business: core iT systems to deliver a less costly and make more simpler iT infrastructure more appropriate for Fewer staff from c. 4,500 to less than 1,200 - resilient and the retained business reduce costs Fewer operating sites from 9 down to 5 - Continue to seek cost reductions and drive operational efficiency improvements across increased management focus on the profitable - the business.
We expect to reduce costs by parts of the business 5million in 2017 18 reduced complexity - Dairy Crests retained business has increased Free cash flow expected to increase in 2016 17 To generate 3 cash flow from operations by 46%.
as capital expenditure falls and no Dairies losses cash and are incurred Drains on cash flow associated with the - reduce risk Dairies business have been removed, Distribution and warehousing partnership with namely Dairies losses, large restructuring Fowler Welch Coolchain ltd in order to maximise requirements and transaction costs fully the potential throughput at nuneaton We now have 5 well-invested manufacturing Continued sales of properties will provide cash sites reducing need for large capital expenditure to the business in the near term We have developed an innovative new milk purchasing contract which has been taken up by 98% of our supplying farmers refinancing of both bank facility and loan notes completed with reduced interest rates in future Acquisition of outstanding 50% of Promovita We will continue to look for value-enhancing To make 4 ingredients limited, gives us sole control over acquisitions which meet our stringent acquisitions operational performance page 18 the direction and pace of GoS development requirements where they will Financial performance page 12 Successful sale of the Dairies business was Corporate responsibility performance generate value completed in December 2015. page 22 See how we make The most from milk through our integrated business model page 4 Further details of our lTAP pages 43 and 49 to 52 6 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 our strategy Progress 2015 16 Future priorities Key performance indicators and performance in the year ended 31 March 2016 Combined volumes of four key brands up 2%.
our focus will remain on our key brands, To generate Deliver progressive dividends Grow our four key brands 1 overall sales of four key brands down only 2% in Cathedral City, Clover, Country life and Frylight.
with cover between 1.5 and 2.5 ahead of the market.
growth by period of continuing price deflation: times.
Continued investment in advertising and - In the year ended 31 March 2016 building strong Cathedral City continues to grow market promotion - In the year ended 31 March 2016 three of our four key brands grew positions in share and is now bought by nearly 60% of UK the Board is recommending a total ahead of the market 31 March Supporting the successful rebranding of - branded and households.
This is covered 2015: two key brands grew ahead Cathedral City added value 1.6 times.
Successful launch of Clover no Artificial - Continue to grow our categories in partnership - markets ingredients bringing 500,000 new households with our customers through the Dairy for life into the brand in the second half initiative developed in 2014 15 Grow earnings before interest, Country life grew volumes by 4% Deliver cost savings initiatives.
- Developing a strong pipeline of innovation tax and depreciation adjusted Cost reduction projects initiated Frylight showed strong growth to become the - eBiTDA and adjusted profit Working with Fonterra, our sales agent, to in the year ended 31 March 2016 UKs number 1 oil brand before tax adjusted PBT.
accelerate returns from our investment in have delivered annual benefits new innovation Centre opened on Harper Adams demineralised whey and GoS at Davidstow In the year ended 31 March 2016 ahead of our annual target.
University campus in December 2015 EBITDA increased 2% and PBT fell investing 2 million in further developing our by 2%.
However in a deflationary Production of demineralised whey and GoS GoS business environment this represents an hascommenced Achieve revenue targets for improved margin percentage yearFollowing the sale of our Dairies business and products developed in the last on-year.
the investment at Davidstow almost 100% of 3years.
Dairy Crests revenue is branded or added value In the year ended 31 March 2016 around 8% of our total revenue Deliver an acceptable return The sale of our Dairies business has resulted in To implement a 3 year programme to replace and 11% of our key brand revenue To simplify, 2 on capital employed roCe.
a simpler business: core iT systems to deliver a less costly and came from such sales against a make more simpler iT infrastructure more appropriate for ROCE for the year ended 31 March target of 10% 31 March 2015: 6% Fewer staff from c. 4,500 to less than 1,200 - resilient and the retained business 2016 was 15% based on proforma of total revenue: 7% of key brand reduce costs Fewer operating sites from 9 down to 5 operating assets excluding Dairies.
- Continue to seek cost reductions and drive The disposal of the Dairies business operational efficiency improvements across increased management focus on the profitable - has improved return on assets.
We expect to reduce costs by parts of the business 5million in 2017 18 improve corporate reduced complexity - responsibility measures.
Maintain net debt eBiTDA Dairy Crests retained business has increased Free cash flow expected to increase in 2016 17 In the year ended 31 March 2016 To generate 3 within the range 1 2 times.
cash flow from operations by 46%.
as capital expenditure falls and no Dairies losses we have improved health and safety.
cash and are incurred Following the sale of Dairies, we are At 31 March 2016 net debt EBITDA Drains on cash flow associated with the - reduce risk resetting our targets for the future to was 2.69 times 31 March 2015: Dairies business have been removed, Distribution and warehousing partnership with ensure we continue to lead the field 1.97times namely Dairies losses, large restructuring Fowler Welch Coolchain ltd in order to maximise in this area.
requirements and transaction costs fully the potential throughput at nuneaton We now have 5 well-invested manufacturing Continued sales of properties will provide cash sites reducing need for large capital expenditure to the business in the near term We have developed an innovative new milk purchasing contract which has been taken up by 98% of our supplying farmers refinancing of both bank facility and loan notes completed with reduced interest rates in future Acquisition of outstanding 50% of Promovita We will continue to look for value-enhancing To make 4 ingredients limited, gives us sole control over acquisitions which meet our stringent acquisitions the direction and pace of GoS development requirements where they will Successful sale of the Dairies business was generate value completed in December 2015.
There is a more detailed review of our performance against KPIs on pages 56 and 57.
ROCE is calculated as product group profit from continuing operations for the year divided by the average operating assets of the continuing operations over the year.
Operating assets are defined as property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets, inventories, trade and other receivables, trade and other payables, and provisions.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 7 Strategic report
