Board of directors and advisers Dairy Crest is led by an experienced Board of Directors, which today comprises two Executive Directors, one Non-executive Chairman and three independent Nonexecutive Directors.
Together, the Executive Directors have over 30 years experience of thebusiness.
the Board sets strategy and monitors progress.
day-today matters are the responsibility of the Management Board, which today comprises the two executive directors, the company secretary & General counsel andthree other senior managers.
Mark allen 5. andrew carr-Locke chief executive non-executive director Appointed a Director in 2002 and became Chief Executive in January Appointed as a Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit 2007.
He joined Dairy Crest in August 1991.
He was formally with Committee in August 2009.
A Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Shell UK Ltd.
He is a Trustee for The Princes Countryside Fund a Management Accountants, he has previously held senior finance Non-Executive Director of Howden Joinery Group Plc and a member positions at Courtaulds Textiles, Diageo, Bowater Scott and Kodak of the GLF Schools Board and the Dairy UK Board.
and was Group Finance Director at George Wimpey plc until 2007.
More recently he was Executive Chairman of Countryside Properties.
2. tom atherton He has previously held Non-executive directorships at Royal Mail Group finance director Holdings, Venture Production and AWG and was appointed a Nonexecutive Director of Grainger plc in March 2015.
A Chartered Accountant who has worked for Dairy Crest for over 10 years.
Prior to his appointment to the 6. sue farr Board he served as Director of Financial Control.
He has previously non-executive director held senior finance positions in Logica plc and Thorn plc.
Appointed as a Non-executive Director in November 2011 and 3. stephen alexander Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee in November chairman 2014.
She is a special advisor to Chime Communications PLC, having previously been a member of the Executive Management Appointed as a Non-executive Director in January 2011, as Team.
Sue has extensive marketing communications experience Chairman in September 2014 and Chairman of the Nomination having served as Marketing Director of the BBC for 7 years, Director Committee in March 2015.
He is Chairman of Immediate Media of Corporate Affairs, Thames Television for 3 years and Director Company Ltd and of Rhubarb Food Design Ltd, an Operating of Corporate Communications, Vauxhall Motors.
Sue is a NonPartner at OpCapita LLP and Chairman of Look Ahead Care and executive Director of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc, Accsys Support.
Previously Chairman of Maltby Capital Ltd parent company Technologies PLC and British American Tobacco p. l. c. She has of EMI Group, Chairman of Odeon Cinemas, Chief Executive of previously held positions as a Trustee of the Historic Royal Palaces Hillsdown Holdings Ltd and held senior positions with Allied Domecq and as a Non-executive Director of Motivcom plc.
He was also Senior Independent Director at Devro plc.
7. robin Miller company secretary & General counsel # 4. richard Macdonald non-executive director Appointed in April 2008.
He is a solicitor having worked in private practice and in-house in both retail and international manufacturing.
Appointed as a Non-executive Director in November 2010, as Senior Independent Director and a member of the Audit Committee in May 2012 and as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in November 2014, prior to which he was Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Richard had a 30 year career with the National Farmers Union, serving as Director General for 13 years.
He is a Non-executive Director of Moy Park Limited and the Environment Agency, a Governor of The Royal Agricultural University Cirencester, Vice Chairman of the National Institute of Agricultural Botany and became Chairman of Farm Africa in 2013.
In March 2016 Richard was appointed acting Deputy Chairman of the Environment Agency.
audit committee Member Auditor Corporate Brokers remuneration committee Member ernst & Young LLP shore capital Group Ltd nomination committee Member Solicitors Peel Hunt LLP corporate responsibility eversheds LLP Registered Office committeeMember Principal Bankers claygate House, Management Board Member the royal Bank of Littleworth road, # not a Board Member scotland plc esher, surrey Kt10 9Pn rabobank London Registered in England Lloyds tsB plc no.
3162897 santander UK plc Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 29 Governance
