Directors report The Companies Act 2006 CA 2006 together with the UK Listing viability of the Group, the Board has considered the potential Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs and Listing impact that the crystallisation of a severe but plausible risk may Rules LRs require companies to make certain disclosures in their have on the Group meeting its bank covenants.
To make the information being presented more The assumption has been made that the Group will be able to accessible and to present it in a more logical and readable source an appropriate level of funding following the cessation of sequence, a number of the disclosures required to be made in the the 80 million bank facility in October 2018.
Directors report have been made elsewhere in other sections of this Annual Report.
The Strategic report and the Corporate Future developments: Future developments are described in the Governance report can be found at pages 2 to 27 and pages 31 to Strategic report at pages 2 to 21.
Details of the Directors in office at the date of this Annual Report can be found at pages 28 to 29.
The aboveGroup results: The Groups consolidated income statement set mentioned sections are expressly incorporated by reference into out on page 69 shows a loss for the financial year of 113.0 million this, the Directors Report.
compared with 20.5 million profit in 2014 15.
Going concern: The Group and Companys business activities, Dividends: the Directors are recommending a final dividend of together with factors likely to affect future development, 16.0p 2014 15: 15.7p per ordinary share, which if approved, will performance and position are set out in the Strategic report from be paid to members whose name appears on the register at the pages 2 to 21.
The financial position, cash flows, liquidity position close of business on 8 July 2016.
Together, the final dividend and and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial review on interim dividend 6.1p per ordinary share paid on 28 January 2016 pages 12 to 15 which also form part of the Strategic report.
In make total dividends for the year of 22.1p per ordinary share addition, Notes 30 and 31 to the Accounts include the Group and 2014 2015: 21.7p.
Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its Directors: Details of the Directors of the Company at the date of financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to this Report are set out at pages 28 to 29. credit risk and liquidity risk.
As highlighted in Note 30, the Company and Group meet day-to-day working capital Directors interests: Details of the interests in the shares of the requirements through syndicated revolving credit facilities and cash Company of the Directors holding office at the date of this Report, to ensure that forecast net borrowings plus reasonable operating along with those of the Directors who held office during the year headroom are covered by committed facilities which mature at but retired or resigned from office, and their immediate families least 12 months after the year end.
At 31 March 2016, effective appear in the Remuneration Report on page 54.
Details of the headroom was 235.3 million.
There were no breaches of bank Directors service contracts and letters of appointment appear in covenants in the year ended 31 March 2016 and projections do not the Remuneration Report on page 46.
No Director had a material indicate any breaches in the foreseeable future.
Having reviewed interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of its and taken into account Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: subsidiaries during the year.
Procedures for dealing with Directors Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, published by the conflicts of interest are in place and are operating effectively.
The Financial Reporting Council in October 2009, the Directors are Company maintains liability insurance for its Directors and Officers satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate and those of its subsidiaries.
The Directors, Company Secretary resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
For this and other Officers of the Company and those of its subsidiaries are reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing indemnified by the Company to the extent permitted by company the financial statements.
That indemnity provision has been in place during the year and remains in force.
Viability statement: In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, the directors have assessed Disclosure of information to the Auditor: So far as each the viability of the Group over a three year period.
The directors Director in office at the date of approval of this Report is aware, have determined that a three year period to 31 March 2019 is an there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys appropriate period over which to provide its viability statement.
External Auditor, Ernst & Young is unaware.
Each of the Directors This is the period reviewed by the Board in the strategic planning has taken all steps that they might reasonably be expected to have process where assumptions are made around future growth for the taken in order to i make themselves aware of any relevant audit existing business, new market opportunities, investment needs information and ii establish that the External Auditor is aware of and funding requirements of the Group.
A robust financial model of such information.
For the purposes of this statement on disclosure the Group is built by product and the metrics for the Groups KPIs of information to the External Auditor, relevant audit information is and bank covenants are reviewed.
the information needed by the Companys External Auditor in connection with the preparation of its report at pages 65 to 68.
Taking into account the Groups current position and potential impact of the principal risks documented on pages 16 and 17 of political Donations: No political donations or expenditures were the Annual Report, the directors confirm that they have a made or incurred during the year.
reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue to operate and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to Financial instruments: Details of the use by the Company and 31 March 2019. its subsidiaries of financial instruments and any related risk management objectives and policies including hedging policy and In making this statement the Board carried out a robust exposure, including to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those flow risk of the Company in connection with such financial that would threaten its business model, future performance, instruments can be found at Note 30 to the financial statements.
The Board considers all of the principal risks, the likelihood of crystallisation, the potential net profit impact and the mitigating controls.
In assessing the impact of a risk on the Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 61 Governance DIRECTORS' REPORT CONTINUED post balance sheet events: Maturity of Fixed Coupon Loan share capital: The authorised and issued share capital of the Notes On 4 April 2016, the Group repaid $123 million 70.2 Company together with details of movements in the Companys million and 10 million of 2006 fixed coupon loan notes on issued share capital during 2015 16 are shown in Note 24 to the maturity.
As at the date of this Report, 140,726,919 ordinary 25p shares were in issue and fully paid with Settlement of liability in relation to Farmright Limited an aggregate nominal value of 35,181,729.
On 9 May 2016, the Group paid 1.0 million in full and final settlement of claims arising out of the debt originally owed to rights and obligations attaching to shares: The holders of Farmright Limited.
Claims between the Group, Farmright Limited ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys Reports and and Quadra Foods Limited and any asignees of the claims are Accounts: to attend and speak at General Meetings of the now resolved.
At 31 March 2016, amounts owed to the Group by Company: to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
To be Quadra Foods limited had been fully provided for and the Group effective, electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting instructions must be received at the Companys registered office, carried a creditor balance of 3.1 million for potential future or such other place in the United Kingdom specified in the relevant liabilities in relation to Farmright Limited.
Following settlement, 2.1 notice of meeting, not later than 48 hours before a General million will be released as an exceptional item in the year ending 31 Meeting.
None of the shares carry any special rights with regard to March 2017. control of the Company.
There are no known arrangements under which financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of research and development: The Group has adopted a target of the shares and no known agreements on restrictions on share delivering 10% of its annual turnover through new product transfers or on voting rights.
Shares acquired through Company development.
Focus continues to be on offering consumers a wide share schemes and plans rank pari passu with the shares in issue product mix, and especially the development of lower fat variants and have no special rights.
Dairy Crest remains at the forefront of dairy industry developments to reduce packaging waste through transfer of shares: Subject to applicable statutes and innovation.
regulations, there are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of any class of shares and no requirements for prior employees: At the end of March 2016, the Group employed approval of any transfers.
It depends on the skills and commitment of its employees in order to achieve its objectives.
shareholder waiver of dividends: The Company established an Personnel at every level are encouraged to make their fullest employee benefit trust in 1996 which holds shares in connection possible contribution to Dairy Crests success.
Details of the with the Groups employee share incentive plans.
As the registered Groups employment policies can be found on page 25.
Employees holder, the voting rights in the shares are exercisable by the are kept regularly informed on matters affecting them and on trustee.
However, the trustee does not ordinarily exercise those issues affecting the Groups performance through a variety of rights and waives its entitlement to dividends.
communication tools, including the Group intranet.
Employee surveys enable an understanding of, amongst other matters, the issue of shares: At the AGM on 14 July 2015, shareholders general satisfaction level of employees with their employment, any renewed the authority for the Board under the Articles to exercise questions or concerns which employees have in relation to the all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities up to an business of the Group, an understanding of the effectiveness of aggregate nominal amount of 22,961,296. management of and communication with employees.
Following employee surveys, specific action plans are drawn up and purchase of own shares: At the AGM on 14 July 2015, implemented on a site by site basis to address issues which are shareholders granted the Company authority to make market raised through the surveys.
The Chief Executive holds monthly purchases of up to 13,776,777 of its issued ordinary shares of 25 meetings with employees rotating around the Groups sites.
Those pence each, provided that: the minimum price which may be paid meetings involve question and answer sessions when employees for any such ordinary share is 25 pence exclusive of expenses and have the opportunity to question the Chief Executive on any appropriate taxes : the maximum price exclusive of expenses and subject they choose.
In the past, the senior management team has appropriate taxes which may be paid for any such ordinary share conducted road shows which all employees are invited to attend.
shall be not more than 5% above the average of the middle market They provided a forum for, amongst other matters, the prices for an ordinary share in the Company, as taken from the communication to employees of the performance of the business London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business of the Group, anticipated future developments, significant matters days immediately preceding the date of purchase.
The Company of required focus for the coming period, and the opportunity for did not exercise this authority during the year and made no market employees to ask questions of senior management.
Except in relation to a purchase of ordinary shares, the change in size and structure of the Group after the sale of the contract for which was concluded before this authority expires and Dairies business, we are evaluating alternative approaches to more which will or may be executed wholly or partly after such expiry, regular face-to-face communication with employees, especially the authority granted shall expire at the conclusion of this years face-to-face communication with the senior management team.
The Directors believe it advisable to seek renewal of both of The Group has well-established consultation and negotiating the above-mentioned authorities or replacement of them with arrangements with established trade unions.
Employees are suitable alternatives, annually at the AGM.
Approval will be sought encouraged to acquire shares in the Group through participation in from the shareholders at this years AGM to renew the authorities the savings-related share option scheme Sharesave Scheme.
Details of the Sharesave Scheme are set out in Note 26 to the financial statements 62 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 substantial shareholdings: As at 31 March 2016, the Company Greenhouse gas emissions: The Company is required to state had been notified in accordance with the Disclosure and the annual quantity of emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide Transparency Rules issued by the Financial Services Authority of equivalent from activities for which the Group is responsible, the following where interests had fallen below 3% in the Companys including the combustion of fuel and the operation of any facility.
existing issued ordinary share capital.
Details of our emissions during the year ended 31 March 2016 and the actions which the Group has taken to reduce them are set out Notified on pages 22 to 23 and form part of the Directors report percentage of disclosures.
of issued share shares capital Directors responsibility statements: The responsibility The Muller Group S. E. C. S 3 statements required under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1 UBS Investment Bank and are set out on page 64.
UBS Group AG 3 Branch offices outside the UK: The Company has no branch offices.
No changes to the above have been disclosed to the Company in Accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 5 Annual general meeting: The AGM will be held at Eversheds during the period 1 April 2016 to 18 May 2016.
LLP, One Wood Street, London, EC2V 7WS on Tuesday, 19 July 2016 at 3.30 pm.
The Notice convening the meeting will be issued Articles of association: Changes to the Articles must be separately, together with details of the business to be considered approved by the shareholders in accordance with the legislation in and explanatory notes relating to each of the resolutions being force from time to time.
significant agreements change of control: A change of Auditor: Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to control of the Company following a takeover bid may cause a continue as Auditor of the Company.
A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys Auditor will be put to the number of agreements to which the Company or its subsidiaries forthcoming AGM.
are party, to take effect, alter or terminate.
The agreements that are considered significant are as follows: The Directors Report from pages 61 to 63 has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by Borrowing facilities Non-compliance with the change of control clauses in the Groups funding arrangements, or failure to reach robin Miller Company Secretary & General Counsel agreement with the parties on revised terms, would require any 18 May 2016 acquirer to put in place replacement facilities.
Dairy Crest Group plc Supply agreements Certain supply agreements contain Company No: 3162897 provisions whereby on a change of control of the Group, they may be terminable.
Accordingly, a change of control of the Group could result in the need for the Group to source alternative supply for certain materials or services.
No compensation for loss of office: The Company does not have agreements with any Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the Companys share schemes and plans may cause options and awards granted to employees under such schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
pensions: The Company employs only the Executive Directors.
Most employees in the Group are employed by the Companys main subsidiary, Dairy Crest Limited.
Relevant companies within the Group became subject to the automatic enrolment regulations on 1 April 2013.
Depending on their grade, effective from 1 April 2013 employees either enter the auto enrolled pension arrangements for the Group which are provided by Zurich or into the Groups defined contribution pension scheme also provided by Zurich.
The Groups defined benefit pension fund is closed to future accrual and is now in run-off.
It remains under the control of a corporate trustee, Dairy Crest Pension Trustees Limited, the board of which comprises four directors nominated by Dairy Crest Limited and three directors elected by all members.
Its assets are held separately from those of the Group and can only be used in accordance with the rules of the fund.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 63 Governance
