CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED BOARD OF DIRECTORS Governed with experience.
SIR IAN CHESHIRE Left to right: Dennis Millard, Terry Duddy, Martina King, Role: Sir Ian joined the board in January PeterFitzgerald, Matt Smith, Stephen Ingham, 2016 and became Chairman of the board Sir Ian Cheshire, Mark Rolfe, and of the Nomination Committee in and Suzanne Harlow April 2016.
Sir Ian is also a member of theRemuneration Committee.
Key strengths: Sir Ian has vast experience Committee membership at year end ofa range of businesses in both executive and non-executive capacity.
He spent 17 Remuneration Nomination Audit Sustainability years with Kingfisher plc, including seven years as group chief executive between Sir Ian Cheshire 2007 and 2014, where he drove consistent Matt Smith and significant growth in shareholder value.
Sir Ian was formerly Chairman of the British Suzanne Harlow Retail Consortium.
Terry Duddy Current external directorships: Senior independent director of Whitbread plc, Peter Fitzgerald Chairman of Menhaden Capital plc, Stephen Ingham anon-executive director of Maisons duMonde and the government lead Martina King non-executive and a non-executive Dennis Millard boardmember of the Cabinet Office.
Heis also president of the Business Mark Rolfe Disability Forum and chair of the Committee member advisoryboard of the Cambridge Committee chairman Institute for Sustainability Leadership.
42 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance MATT SMITH ACA 2007.
From 1999 to 2007, Peter worked MARK ROLFE FCA Role: Chief Financial Officer since forAmazon in Europe and the USA.
Current external directorships: None director since October 2010.
Mark is Key strengths: Matt brings extensive chairman of the Audit Committee and experience of international and multiSTEPHEN INGHAM amember of the Remuneration and channel retailing to his role as Chief Role: Independent non-executive director Nomination committees.
Matt worked for since January 2013 and a member of the Key strengths: Mark is a chartered Mothercare as CFO from 2013 and, Remuneration Committee.
accountant and has considerable financial priorto that, he held a number of Key strengths: Stephen has been Chief and accounting experience including seniorfinance roles within Home Executive Officer of PageGroup plc since 20years spent with Gallaher Group plc RetailGroup plc including Finance 2006 having worked for that business invarious finance and executive roles Director of Argos.
Hisexperience of building including that of Finance Director.
He has accountant who has also worked for aninternational business at PageGroup also served as a non-executive director of KPMG in London andSydney.
supports our aim to expand the Hornby plc andThe Sage Group plc and Current external directorships: None.
as Chairman of Lane Clark & Peacock LLP.
Current external directorships: Chief Current external directorships: SUZANNE HARLOW Executive Officer of Michael Page Non-executive director of Barratt Role: Group Trading Director since International plc.
Stephen is also a Developments plc.
December 2013. member of Great Ormond Street Key strengths: Suzanne had led Hospitals corporate partnership.
Appointments since year end Debenhams design, buying and merchandising activities in the role of MARTINA KING LISA MYERS Group Trading Director since 2008 and was Role: Independent non-executive director Role: Independent non-executive appointed to the board in December 2013. since August 2009 and a member of the director since 6 September 2016.
Lisa is She has worked for Debenhams since 1994 Audit and Nomination committees.
In also a member of the Audit Committee.
and her roles have included trading January 2016, took over the chair of the Key strengths: Lisa spent 19 years at director of womenswear, lingerie and Remuneration Committee.
She also Franklin Templeton, where she was an beauty between 2005 and 2008 and buying chairsthe Sustainability Committee.
Executive Vice-president and lead andmerchandising director of various Key strengths: Martina has accumulated portfolio manager of some of Templetons divisions between 1999 and 2005.
Suzanne extensive experience in management and flagship global funds, managing or is a member of the advisory council of marketing through holding a number of co-managing more than $10 billion of theBritish Fashion Council andthe senior positions in marketing and online assets.
The coordinator of Templetons development council of Ballet Rambert, media including as managing director global consumer research, Lisa had direct anda representative of the International ofAurasma, Yahoo!
research responsibility for the retail, textile Association of DepartmentStores.
She has also served as a non-executive and apparel and luxury goods sectors.
Current external directorships: Ermes director of Capita.
As Chief Executive Most recently, Lisa was Co-Head of Global Department Stores Plc Officer of Featurespace Limited, Martina Partnership Investing at BTG Pactual, a also has data analytic experience.
Lisa TERRY DUDDY Current external directorships: Chief studied at the University of Pennsylvania Role: Senior Independent Director since Executive Officer of Featurespace and obtained a law degree at Georgetown January 2016 following appointment as Limited and a non-executive director University.
She is the Chairperson of an independent non-executive director in ofCineworld Group plc.
Penns Secondary School Committee April 2015.
Terry is a member of the Audit, forthe Bahamas and is also a board Nomination and Remuneration committees.
DENNIS MILLARD CA SA, MBA member of YESI, a Bahamian non-profit Key strengths: Terry was Chief Executive Role: Non-independent non-executive organisation dedicated to empowering of Home Retail Group, following its director since January 2016, having youth through sport and education.
demerger from GUS in October 2006, served as an independent non-executive Current external directorships: None until March 2014, having previously director since May 2006.
Dennis is a served as CEO of Argos since its member of the Nomination Committee.
SERGIO BUCHER acquisition by GUS in 1998.
He previously Key strengths: As Chairman and Deputy Sergio Bucher joined the Company held senior executive roles at Dixons Chairman of two other retail public on17October 2016 as Chief Executive Stores Group, latterly as MD at PC World.
companies and with past experience as a Officer.
His biographical details can Current external directorships: Finance Director, Dennis brings relevant befound on page 3.
Non-executive director of Hammerson and broad experience to the board.
plc and Chair of the Retail Trust.
Hewas asked to stay on beyond his nine-year term as a non-independent PETER FITZGERALD non-executive director to provide Role: Independent non-executive continuity and balance through the board director since October 2012 and a changes this year.
Dennis has previously member of the Audit Committee.
served as Chairman of Connect Group Key strengths: Peters experience as PLC and as a non-executive director of aleading e-commerce executive is Premier Farnell plc.
invaluable to Debenhams as we continue Current external directorships: to grow our multi-channel business.
Peter Chairman of Halfords Group plc and Deputy is country manager at Google Japan Chairman of Pets at Home Group plc.
where he oversees every aspect of Google Japans business.
Before this, hewas country sales director for Google UK Eire, the biggest market for Google outside the US.
Peter joined Google in Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 43
