Strategic objectives Identify RISK REVIEW Safeguarding future returns The board of Debenhams, which items such as viability, going concern, Internal audit team hasoverall responsibility for risk principal risks and that the report is fair, In relation to risk management, the internal management and internal control, balanced and understandable: and the risk audit team is responsible for providing considers it important that there should committee which monitors and reports on independent assessment of:the design, be a regular and systematic approach all aspects of risk management through operation and effectiveness of the risk tothemanagement of risks in order to anumber of specialist subcommittees, management framework and process: provide assurance that strategic and such as health and safety, data security, management of key risks, including the operational goals can be met and the andBrexit.
effectiveness of the controls: reporting Groups reputation is protected.
ofrisk and control status: and reliability Heads of function ofassurances provided by management.
The board has conducted a review Heads of function are responsible for: oftheGroups risk management and identifying and evaluating the risks that Whistleblowing theeffectiveness of internal controls relate to their areas and activities: Two main routes are available to andis satisfied that those in place implementing appropriate controls to employees to raise concerns over remainappropriate please see the manage risks in line with the Groups malpractice.
The first encourages section on How Governance Supports riskappetite: and taking ownership for employees to talk to their line manager, Strategy on page 36 for more detail risks and controls within their area of their managers manager or, if still responsibility, including the use of concerned, to call the central human To support this system for internal segregation of duties to protect against resources team directly.
The second route control, the Group has a risk management override of controls.
is a confidential reporting line where management framework figure 1 employees can speak to the Groups thathighlights the central role that the Risk management team anti-fraud team.
If an employee feels that management of risk plays in strategic The risk management team is responsible the matter is so serious that itcannot be planning and the successful delivery of for: developing, implementing and discussed in any of these ways, s he can strategic objectives and the fact that this reviewing the risk management framework contact the Company Secretary or the process is dependent upon people and process: promoting effective risk Director of Internal Audit and Risk fulfilling their clearly defined roles management at all levels of the Group: Management.
The Groups policy on andresponsibilities.
encouraging an appropriate risk culture whistleblowing and these methods of within the Group: liaising with other raising issues are published on the intranet Roles and responsibilities: functions that advise on specialist areas: and on posters.
The policy is reviewed The board coordinating responses where risks impact annually by the Audit Committee and any The board is responsible for: approving more than one area: reporting, escalating serious matters identified are raised with the risk management policy and related and communicating risk management the chairman of the Audit Committee.
framework: setting and communicating issues to key internal stakeholders: and the Groups risk appetite and related providing assurance regarding risk Risk management activities: policies: setting the tone and culture management within the Group.
The team Risk identification formanaging risk: providing strategic also manages corporate insurance, Risks are identified through a number of direction and guidance on risk-related business continuity planning, travel risk routes.
These include strategic planning decision making: ensuring that risk management and the whistleblowing exercises, ongoing operational reviews management processes are adopted line, amongst other things.
by management, project governance across the whole Group: obtaining processes, internal audits, control assurance on the effectiveness of, and environment reviews, environmental compliance with, the risk management framework: reporting on the Figure 1: Debenhams risk management framework management of risk to stakeholders: andsigning off public disclosures Strategic objectives relating to risk and risk management.
Report The Audit Committee assists the board define risk appetite Executive Committee Audit Committee in fulfilling its responsibilities by Risk reporting satisfying itself that key risks are define principal risks Risk management monitored by senior management and Risk identication and risk treatment team the internal audit plan is focused on high priorityareas.
Risk identication Divisions Specialist functions Risk evaluation The Audit Committee is supported by twosubcommittees, the annual report Evaluate compliance committee which ensures Strategic objectives thatexternal statements accurately reflect 20 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic objectives Treat Strategic report scanning eg market research and the degree of change across one or management committee and health membership of industry bodies, more key performance indicators.
changes to legislation and enterprise riskmanagement best practices.
Risk treatment Principal risks and uncertainties The risk score, derived from the risk The risks detailed on pages 22 to 25 In addition to this, an extensive review of ranking matrix, is compared to the arethe principal risks and uncertainties the organisations risk universe hasbeen riskappetite matrix figure 3, which that may impact the Groups ability to undertaken to verify that allkeyrisks provides guidance on the expected level achieve its strategic and operational have been identified andtoensure that of treatment, timeframes and authority goals.
They are ranked based on management hasconsidered these as levels.
The four methods usedare: overallrisk to the business.
Tolerate take no further action The Group reviews its principal risks and This organisation-wide review is Treat improve implement controls uncertainties on, at least, an annual basis facilitated by the risk management Transfer via insurance contract as part of the risk management process.
teamfor each operating division Terminate eliminate re-engineer The reviews over the last 12 months have onanongoing cyclical basis.
All senior led to the simplification and consolidation managers participate in theexercise, Risk reporting of the risks facing the organisation, for including the Executive Committee.
It The outputs from these processes are example rather than having multiple risks considers strategy, objectives and risks collated into the risk register and linked describing different supplier types, these to their achievement together with the together to define the principal risks are now reported as a single risk.
Where it existing and new controls required to faced by the Group.
These are taken into is believed that a risk could be sensitive to mitigate risk.
Management is required consideration when setting the annual the UK leaving the European Union, this toupdate the register with any new or internal audit plan.
has been reflected in the impact section emerging risks as they are identified.
Individual managers are expected to Risk evaluation define and analyse the reports they It should be noted that any system of In order to understand the impact require to enhance financial and riskmanagement and internal control specific risks would have on the operational performance and to identify isdesigned to manage rather than Group, each risk is evaluated based emerging risks or control failures.
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve onthe likelihood of occurrence and Performance is also reviewed by the business objectives and can only provide itsseverity using a risk ranking matrix board, Executive Committee, Audit reasonable and not absolute assurance figure 2 for consistency, which considers Committee, business continuity against material misstatement or loss.
Figure 2: Risk ranking matrix Frequency of event occurrence Event will probably occur at least once Frequent 4 4 16 36 64 every year Event will probably occur at least once Common 3 3 12 27 48 every three years Event will probably occur at least once Occasional 2 2 8 18 32 every five years Event will probably occur less than once Unlikely 1 1 4 9 16 every five years 2 2 2 2 1 1 4 2 9 3 16 4 Low Moderate Serious Critical Severity of impact based on specified degrees of change across one or more financial or reputational key performance indicators Figure 3: Risk appetite matrix Risk acceptance Risk score Risk matrix zone Action Risk response Treatment timeframe owner Treat or Head of 1, 2, 3 or 4 Green Limited Optional tolerate 9-12 months department Treat or 8, 9 or 12 Yellow Moderate Optional tolerate 6-9 months Line director Treat, transfer 16, 18 or 27 Orange Significant Yes orterminate 3-6 months Executive Committee 32, 36, 48 Treat, transfer or64 Red Ultimate Yes orterminate 0-3 months Board Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 21
