Strategic report STRATEGY IN ACTION DELIVERING A COMPELLING CUSTOMER PROPOSITION Developing our brands and driving full price sales.
New and expanding brand choice last autumn, we have showcased our Managing risk togrow non-clothing mix latest brand presentation and online we Together with the further market We constantly review our product have continued to upgrade the look and opportunities we see in non-clothing andbrand offer in order to deliver feel of our landing pages, with larger categories, such as gifting, accessories, acompelling customer proposition that product images and more inspirational home and food, and with strong is at the centre of group strategy.
Part content on key trends.
Our A Match momentum in beauty, where we have ofour strategy is to grow our mix of Made in Debenhams marketing maintained our market-leading position, non-clothing sales and we have made campaign has built well over the year to we are confident that our diversified excellent progress this year in beauty, showcase some of our key brands and business model will give us some gift and accessories: we have added tell our full price story more effectively.
protection even if difficult clothing exciting new food brands: and launched market conditions persist.
new furniture and lighting ranges.
The We focused on holiday related categories balance of clothing to non-clothing is in the summer season, with our successful In competitive markets, we know it is vital now 48% 52% in our UK sales mix.
marketing campaign featuring Matthew to keep our customers engaged and to Williamson Butterfly swimwear, driving us understand their concerns.
Our We identified a growth opportunity to number one position in the swimwear customer insight team provide us with incasual dining and over the past year market in the UK.
As our customers valuable intelligence to keep us alert to haveintroduced a variety of new dining mindset was on holiday spend, as well as changes in customer priorities.
We also options with high quality third party excellent progress across swimwear and monitor our marketing activity tightly to partners.
As well as introducing a further beach accessories, we saw strong measure its effectiveness and look to 15 coffee shops with Costa Coffee and cross-shopping into luggage, Virgin leverage across channels.
well-known Irish favourite Insomnia, we holidays and travel-money sales.
identified different opportunities for a Optimising our resources and variety of meal solutions in partnership After embarking on a strategy to refocus relationships to create value with Patisserie Valerie and Franco Manca, our promotional activity over two years Our strategy is to complement our own for example.
We also have an exclusive ago, our promotional calendar is now and exclusive brands with a variety of pan-Asian cuisine offer, Chi Kitchen, in our broadly where we want it to be and in international brands and concession offers, Oxford Street store.
Our stores can offer FY2016 the emphasis has shifted towards curated to meet our core customers needs two or three different formats alongside maximising the effect of the events we and wants.
Many of the exclusive designer our own in-store restaurants, where the have whilst reducing further the breadth and supplier relationships and partnerships menu options have also beenrevised.
By this Christmas we will have This has been achieved despite trading We sponsor Graduate Fashion Week, approximately 50 new food offers, and against the background of a clothing market which helped launch the careers of UKfood sales grew 13% across FY2016.
that declined 1% across the trading year, designers such as Giles Deacon, Matthew Our target is to grow food from 3% to and where promotional activity rose in the Williamson and Julien Macdonald all 10%of our sales mix.
As a result, there is further participants in Designers at Debenhams introductions in the autumn season include opportunity for us to grow full price sales.
with a view to identifying new and future a new lighting range in 30 stores and the design talent.
exclusive UK launch of the fastest growing As we continue to reduce stock options, beauty brand in the US, Kat Von D. particularly in more seasonal clothing We have a strong track record of investment categories, we are able to improve visual in brand development and marketing, and Driving full price sales merchandising and present product in a these resources, together with a wellHow we present our brands is critical to less cluttered environment, without invested store base and infrastructure to ensuring that we increase our full price impacting productavailability.
support multi-channel demand, ensure our sales.
In the five new stores we opened ability to serve our customers well and create value for our stakeholders.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 9 STRATEGY IN ACTION INCREASING CHOICE THROUGH MULTI-CHANNEL DEVELOPMENT Bringing channels closer together.
Integrating management of stores further progress in online, with strong them to spend less time in the stockroom and online growth in smartphones which now and more time serving customers.
This Earlier this year, we aligned the account for around 50% of our online technology will also allow us to track management of the UK retail and online traffic driving overall online sales growth customer footfall more accurately and operations within a single structure under of 9.3%.
We have invested in better online identify hot spots in our stores which the leadership of Ross Clemmow as Retail content to improve brand projection, will support our store managers in driving Director.
This is designed to deliver a encourage outfit-building and crossin-store service and sales.
seamless shopping experience across the shopping and we switched some of our UK business.
Similarly, within International, marketing spend into paid-for search.
Managing risk franchise, wholesale and online channels These actions have helped to drive both Mindful of the continued growth of have been aligned under the leadership visits and conversion, with smartphone mobile as a sales channel, we have ofDavid Smith, who joined Debenhams conversion rates up 22%.
We believe established an agile development inMay from Body Shop International.
This weare amongst the market leaders in programme designed to deliver is in tandem with continuing investment mobile development and as customer continuous improvements, with upgrades inITand systems todevelop a flexible expectations increase, wewill continue every four to five weeks.
This minimises androbust infrastructure supporting todevelop this area.
the risk of disruption and ensures we thegrowth of the online channel and arecontinuing to keep pace with the increasing demand from our customers Leveraging mobile across channels demands of our customer.
We have put wherever they are inthe world to Increasingly we are using mobile to drive business continuity strategies in place shopacross channels.
traffic and sales not just digitally, but as a tominimise the risk of service failure.
route to drive customers into stores.
We Smartphones leading online growth continue to make excellent progress with Optimising our resources and The investment we have put behind our click & collect which now accounts for relationships to create value operations to serve our multi-channel 32% of orders and peaked at 46% ahead We are part-way through a multi-year customers better has driven significant of Christmas last year.
There remains investment programme inIT systems.
considerable further opportunity to Ourmulti-channel investment has taken grow this delivery channel, which brings us from behind thepack to top quartile customers back into stores, driving performance in terms of customer service additional spend.
and our work on mobile technology will ensure we remain market-leading.
We are using mobile technology to connect customers and colleagues An important part of our multi-channel toprovide a faster response to our proposition is working with our concession customers needs.
We are rolling out partners so that they can match our new WiFi technology across our store owncustomer service levels for online base, which will support new mobile purchases.
The majority of these will service solutions.
We will offer beable to participate in our next day contactless payment at till points delivery promise for Christmas this year.
inaround half our UK stores and mobilepayment points for our busiestdepartments in key  peak.
Online EBITDA Tablet devices for our colleagues, providing visual display guides, in-store activity packs and stock reports, will allow 14% 10 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report STRATEGY IN ACTION FOCUSING ON UK RETAIL Driving a better return from UK stores.
Building on our destination Rolling programme of store Optimising resources and departments modernisations continues relationships to create value With one in four of the adult population We have continued our modernisation Over 90% of our stores are in the top UK visiting our 165 UK stores every year, programme, upgrading brand retail catchments and our expertise in morecustomers than our two largest presentation and introducing new space management ensures that our department store competitors combined, brandand service offers, including offer remains relevant and compelling.
our stores remain central to our appeal foodbrands.
In FY2016 we completed Our status as an anchor tenant means forcustomers.
Whilst building on our work onflagship stores in Birmingham that our average rent per square foot corestrengths in beauty, gifting and and at Westfield White City, with islow in relation to our peers.
The occasionwear, there are opportunities Lakeside and Chelmsford completed workwe are doing in relation to togrow share in categories where we intime for peak trading.
Fifty of our customer targeting will ensure that under-index or that are growing faster stores have been modernised in the wecontinue toevolve our brand and than our core markets, including in pastfive years and our flagship service mix tomaintain and reinforce servicecategories such as beauty portfoliois in very goodshape.
treatments, travel money and food.
Our space optimisation programme, In FY2016 we introduced a number of new relates primarily to our 40 largest stores brand and service offers to reinforce our and covers approximately one million destination status.
Over the peak Black square feet identified as delivering sales Friday and Christmas trading periods, densities 25% below the chain average.
this supported positive like-for-like growth in UK stores as well as online.
Over 70% of the relevant space has now been filled with a variety of new brands We have identified casual dining as a and services, as well as extensions to particular opportunity, with many of our existing brands, and is on track to be stores able to take a number of different completed within two years, as planned.
food offers, from coffee shops to a full The performance in the space within this dining service.
The Eating Out market programme has delivered our inthe UK is worth 87.1bn, almost three targetedreturn.
times the size of the clothing market, andis forecast to grow at around The lessons we have learnt from this 10%between 2015-2018. programme about how to make our space work harder are now being Whilst we have upgraded service and applied to maximise the performance introduced a new menu into our own ofour top-performing stores as well.
brand restaurants, we have added choice through partnering with a variety Managing risk of third party partnerships, whose We carefully assess the returns from brands score highly with our target newbrands and concessions in order to customers.
Those customers who ensure we maximise profit density from choose to eat in one of our cafs or our stores.
We manage the introduction coffee shops visit more frequently and of new concessions to ensure we are not spend more in our stores, and in those unduly dependent on any one partner.
stores where we now operate two or more food offers, salesparticipation is at least 10%, which is our target for overall food participation.
Source: MCA UK Eating Out Report Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 13 STRATEGY IN ACTION EXPANDING THE BRAND INTERNATIONALLY Evolving the international operating model to drive global growth.
Multi-strand and multi-channel confirmed a site for a franchise store Optimising our resources and international growth inMelbourne, which is due to open relationships to create value Under the leadership of David Smith, our in12months time, but our initial entry Our relationships with key franchise International Division is mirroring the UK tothe market has been via a wholesale partners are long-standing and critical structure to support a fully integrated agreement for six of our brands, selling tothe successful future growth of multi-channel approach.
International in Pepkors Harris Scarfe chain, alongside Debenhams operations in international accounted for 19% of GTV and 25% of a locally-operated online offer.
We are markets outside the own-operated operating profit in FY2016 and has continuing to trial wholesale and online territories of Ireland and Denmark.
Whilst we models for China with different partners.
have a number of growth strands, we are Our own brands and Designer at taking a more focused and coherent Momentum at Magasin du Nord Debenhams ranges are a strong point approach to international markets, We have a market leadership position ofdifferentiation for our partners and identifying the markets we wish to enter inour sector in Denmark through our important to building brand loyalty.
and expand in, and which of our business own-operated store chain and website, Ourexpertise and relationship with models franchise, wholesale, multiMagasin du Nord.
2016 has been a international beauty brands in channel or online-only works best yearof further progress as Magasin particularis an important attraction for forthat market.
consolidates its market position international partners.
With a number andinvests in its proposition to ofour brands now alsoselling via third Our franchise operations have maintainmomentum.
parties in overseas markets, they have experienced a more challenging the capability of building a material year, with core Middle Eastern The flagship store has just completed brand presence in their own right.
markets, wherearound half our amajor refurbishment to its beauty hall franchisestores arelocated, seeing to consolidate its position as the leading Our infrastructure investment, which theeffect of lower oilrevenues on department store in Copenhagen.
hassupported the launch of a new consumer activity.
Nevertheless many Thisseason will see a host of new international web platform this year, markets continue totrade well and brandintroductions to deliver a more offering local payment and local wecontinue to seeastrong long-term contemporary fashion and beauty language capabilities, marks an future in the region, alongside our offer.
We see future opportunity important step forward in supporting longstanding partner, Alshaya.
forthissuccessful, profitable brand theinternational multi-channel beyondits domestic market.
While we are managing our portfolio more actively, including closing some Managing risk under-performing stores, our pipeline Geopolitical risks are carefully with franchise partners stands at 26 new considered before entering into stores andthere remains untapped anynewmarket and we foster close Stores in marketopportunity.
andcollaborative relationships with International franchisepartners.
With acareful markets As an example of our market-led focuson capital allocation, wehave approach, we have entered Australia maintained a capital-light modelfor with a new partner, Pepkor SEAsia overseas investment.
We have 14 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report STRATEGY IN ACTION INVESTING IN OPERATIONAL AND ORGANISATIONAL EFFECTIVENESS Delivering a more flexible and responsive supply chain.
Operational efficiency supported strategy to increase direct sourcing and to present a more consistent service and byinfrastructure investment in FY2016 these two offices accounted brand presentation across whichever We are part-way through a multi-year for almost 18% of own brand intake, channels our customers choose to shop.
investment programme to establish shipping some 15.6m units acrossdenim, aninfrastructure designed tosupport knitwear, shirts and woven bottoms.
Managing risk international multi-channel growth.
We As with any systems programme, are introducing systems andprocesses In FY2016, we also opened an office in thereare execution risks and we tomake our supply chainmore flexible Shanghai, which among other functions, havestrengthened the governance and more efficient.
will increase our capability to include framework around this, while also staging fabric sourcing, to support the other improvements.
We maintain multiple With approximately 35% of our own offices.
Hong Kong will become the sourcing routes to avoid significant bought sourcing costs inUS dollar or business hub for the region, covering impact on product availability.
dollar-linked currency, Debenhams China and South East Asia.
adopts a rolling hedging strategy, Optimising our resources and typically hedging 12-18 months ahead.
Integrating channels to improve relationships to create value We are fully hedged for FY2017 at an efficiency and accountability By FY2020 following further automation average rate c. 5% lower than FY2016.
We In the year under review, we implemented investment, we will have transformed our are partially hedged for FY2018 and a new organisational structure, aligning supply chain from a UK department store therefore the most recent fall in the value online and stores both in the UKand model into a global multi-channel of sterling will not take full effect until International businesses to makethem operation to support future sustainable spring summer 2018.
Wehave growth and to drive our transition from our buying and merchandising function reorganised our buying and apush, to a pull, supply chain.
this should help to mitigate some of the merchandising teams within clothing, additional currency-related costs.
increasing the proportion of category As we increase sourcing through our management buying, whilst maintaining own sourcing offices, this will enable us We are well on the way towards brand clarity through an ambassador for to have more direct, open relationships implementing a single warehouse each of our in-house brands.
with our suppliers, improving flexibility, management system integrating stores control and transparency as well as and online and this will be fully operational We have also integrated our marketing delivering improved margins.
As we transition from functions across online, social media and theexisting multiple system to a single brand advertising.
Whilst delivering cost provider, this is expected to deliver savings, these measures will also allow us Debenhams Hong Kong sourcing office benefits in picking costs and reduced stockholding costs over time.
Investment in further automation will drive cost and serviceefficiencies.
Developing a network ofsourcingoffices We have had a sourcing office in Hong Kong since 2011, which having relocated in June 2013 now employs 58 people and accounts for approximately 12.5% of our own brand sourcing.
In November 2013 we opened a new office in Bangladesh to support our Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 17
