Strategic report OUR APPROACH TO ASSESSING VIABILITY The aim of the Viability Statement is for The board is in agreement that the directors to assess the prospects of Debenhams is a viable business and the Debenhams to meet its liabilities, taking viability statement can be found in the into account its current position and directors report on page 70.
this statement the directors have considered the resilience of Debenhams, Debenhams has developed an annual taking account of its current position and three year strategic plan, which considers historical financial performance, the the Groups cash flows, dividend cover principal risksfacing the business in and other financial key performance severe buttheoretical scenarios, and the indicators over this period.
The three year effectiveness of any mitigating actions.
strategic plan takes into consideration This assessment has considered the sensitivities that encompass a wide potential impacts of these risks on the spectrum of potential outcomes including business model, future performance, changes in like-for-like sales, margin rate, solvency and liquidity over the period.
costs, capital expenditure forecasts and As noted in note 21 of the financial franchise store opening plans.
These statements on page 104, the Groups scenarios are designed to explore the revolving credit facility is due to expire resilience of Debenhams tothe potential inJune 2020 and contains an option impact of the Principal risksset out on torequest an extension to June 2021. pages 22 to 25, or a combination of The directors have no reason to thoserisks.
The directorspaid particular believethat future financing facilities attention tothefollowing principal risks: willnot be available when the current facility expires.
Economic environment Currency and hedging The financial position of the Group, Competition for customers: and including information on cash flow, Business strategy & transformation.
canbe found in the financial review section on pages 26 to 30.
In addition, The three year strategic plan is reviewed thefinancial statements include notes each year by the directors.
Once onfinance costs page 96 and financial approved by the board, the plan is risk management including treasury cascaded across the business and policieson interest rate, liquidity, provides the basis for setting strategic currency and credit risk pages priorities and detailed budgets that 106to111.
aresubsequently used by the board tomonitor and evaluate performance.
The directors have assessed the viability of Debenhams over the three year period to 31 August 2019.
This period hasbeen selected because it reflects thepace of change in retail and aligns with the Groups three year planning process and presents the board and thereaders of the annual report with areasonable degree of confidence whilststill providing an appropriate longer-term outlook.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 31 RESOURCES, RELATIONSHIPS AND SUSTAINABILITY Delivering sustainable growth Our people and culture Debenhams directly employs around Respecting human rights 28,000 people in the UK, Denmark, Republic of Ireland, Hong Kong and acrossour global reach is Bangladesh.
Debenhams is committed toensuring that employees or applicants afundamental part of our for employment are treated equally, regardless of gender including if company ethics and integrity.
reassigned, race, ethnic or national origin, religious, political or philosophical beliefs, disability, marital or civil partnership status, sexual orientation, and age.
Apprenticeships Business information and key messages Currently, we have a small number of are cascaded to all employees via personal Through our equal opportunities policy, apprentices in retail and food, as well as briefings and email.
Briefings are also led we aim to create an environment that early trials of an apprenticeship scheme by the executive team and senior offers all employees the chance to use in head office.
We plan to convert our management to update employees on their skills and talent.
Decisions on in-house development programme for Debenhams performance and strategy.
recruitment, training, promotion, pay retail supervisors aiming for their first We also have an employee consultation terms and conditions and leavers are management appointment, into a level forum, which is attended by elected based solely on objective, job-related three trailblazer apprenticeship.
We will representatives from stores and head criteria, and personal competence therefore be one of the first retailers to office, both as a means of informing andperformance.
use the new Retail Trailblazer standards employees about the Company and giving for apprenticeships.
In 2017 we will them the opportunity to be consulted on Debenhams has a number of policies in review the opportunities to convert other certain activities of thebusiness.
place to protect and promote employee in-house development programmes to welfare and is committed to supporting these standards, supported by our plan Employee engagement all human rights in our business to appoint a national training provider.
We carried out our fourth all-employee operations as well as in our relationships survey and have maintained the with our suppliers and other stakeholders.
Developing employee performance engagement score at last years high level Our statement on Modern Slavery is We continue to roll out a goal-setting of 79%.
Scores on each question response summarised on the following pages.
approach for all head office employees were maintained or improved on previous and are moving performance reviews years surveys and there was a high level of Building a pipeline of leaders toan online system for 2017, which unprompted positive commentary on the for the future willenable better visibility of culture of the organisation.
We adopt a consistent approach to performancelevels.
identifiying and developing talent across retail and head office.
With a clear view Debenhams sourcing office in Hong Kong of our top talent at every level of the organisation, we have been able to make a number of key appointments from within our existing workforce.
We have realigned our retail and head office talent development approach to use a consistent framework - our six-step development programme - which allows easy transferability of talent across retail and head office.
We have continued our business placement programme which brings new talent into the business and extended the programmes reach in focus and growth areas such as e-commerce.
Ourbusiness placement participants undergo an intensive training programme, with around half the participants returning to us on completion of their full-time education.
32 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report LIFE female empowerment programme in India Gender split at financial year end Male Female Executive team 7 2 Senior management 77 70 All direct employees 5,444 17,612 ethical compliance teams visited more than 500 factories during FY2016.
Outside the UK, we use recognised industry standard audit methodology.
In the UK we are a founding member of Fast Forward, an audit initiative designed and developed to help identify all guises of modern slavery in relation to pay and working conditions.
We have joined a new programme with the ETI on eastern European supply chains, where risk also lies with migrant labour and the labour provider sector.
This is the third year of our Learning@ http: sustainability.
com Work Week programme, with 2,000 head debenhams-foundation.
For our associates, including franchise office employees attending learning partners, weare adopting an approach events in a two week period.
For this Global sourcing that is consistent with the principles of initiative we were nominated for the We source our goods from a diverse our human rights policy.
Retail Week Rising Stars awards.
Respecting human rights across our global reach is a fundamental MODERN SLAVERY STATEMENT 2016 The Debenhams Foundation part of our company ethics and integrity.
The Modern Slavery Act came into force The Debenhams Foundation was formed Our ethical responsible sourcing in 2015.
It places a duty on businesses in 2012, with the aim of providing clarity programme covers the entire product todisclose publicly the steps they are and direction on charitable fundraising supply base, which consists of 896 taking to combat forced labour and across the business.
In the four years factories and 512 suppliers of our own human trafficking.
Our commitment since the Foundation was established, branded goods.
China remains our key toprohibiting modern slavery is we have raised over 5 million.
In FY2016, sourcing hub, with half of our factories definedinour Human Rights policy, we have raised over 2 million via located there.
Our other key sourcing ourSuppliercode of conduct and has activities such as in-store fundraising, regions are India, Bangladesh, Turkey, beenincorporated in the conditions dedicated product donation and UK, Romania, Cambodia andVietnam.
oftradingwe have with our suppliers.
These funds enable the Foundation to support Our extensive due diligence evaluation A full version of Debenhams a range of charities including our charity ofsuppliers and factories has stringent statement on Modern Slavery partners, BBC Children in Need, Help for requirements to ensure that our Code maybefound on our website at Heroes and Breast Cancer Now.
For ofConduct is adhered to within the http: sustainability.
com more information visit our webpage at Conditions of Trading.
We have been a member of the Ethical Trade Initiative ETI Debenhams actions in place to support since 2001 and our Code is based on the the Act are as follows: Debenhams ETI and International Labour Organisation Foundation funds ILO core conventions.
Governance raised in 2016 Debenhams operates a Sustainability Intertek, a FTSE 100 listed company, are Committee which, amongst other ournominated global audit partner.
In activities, oversees and monitors actions 2.0m addition to third party compliance audits taken to prevent modern slavery.
Whilst for the entire factory base, our own everyone has a part to play, the director Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 33 SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED No.
of factories of conduct has been reviewed, updated for the UK supply base, Fast Forward has and communicated to suppliers to reflect designed a specific audit model focusing Debenhams support of the Act.
on six key modern slavery indicators.
896 Risk Assessment Debenhams is committed to continuous The Directors of Ethical Trade and improvement in helping prevent and Corporate Responsibility and Internal eradicate any instances of modern Audit have completed a review to slavery across its supply chains through identify actions required to improve effective due diligence, enhanced operational effectiveness in relation to supplier risk assessment and auditing, Tackling modern slavery is complex modern slavery.
This exercise also and by raising awareness of modern and demands new ways of working identified suppliers with a reliance on slavery internally to colleagues and between brands operating in global temporary and flexible workforces who externally to suppliers.
Debenhams is a are reviewed by Fast Forward, the member of the Fast Forward retailer specialists in this field, n conjunction This statement is made pursuant to the initiative to build legal and ethical with Audit for Labour Providers ALP.
In Modern Slavery Act 2015 and relates labour standards compliance within addition, a survey was conducted to toDebenhams financial year end the supply base and isactive in increase supplier awareness of the Act.
3September 2016. encouraging other brands tocollaborate to address human The ethical trade & corporate On behalf of Debenhams plc rights risks.
Debenhams has required responsibility departments sit within the majority of its UK based suppliers thesourcing division.
Both are fully to attend Fast Forward ethical integrated which results in a close compliance training in 2015 and 2016 working relationship between the two which, as well as covering a broad functions.
We are committed to ethical range of ethical labour standards sourcing, mitigating risk and improving SIR IAN CHESHIRE training, covers an introduction to the livelihood of the people in our CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD theStronger Together programme complex operations and supply chain.
providing free guidance and Itis the divisions overall responsibility Environment and energy efficiency resources to support organisations toensure risk is identified and managed, Debenhams is committed to toidentify and tackle modern slavery which includes regular audit and reviews continuously improving the energy within their business and supply of the overall corporate social efficiency of our buildings and chains.
Debenhams sits on the responsibility CSR work.
Five new stores were opened Technical Advisory Committee programme is also under way across in FY2016, each designed withenergy overseeing the development of the thekey functions of our business.
efficiency in mind, utilising LED lighting Clearview Global Labour Provider and energy efficient heating, ventilation Certification Scheme tobe launched Awareness and air conditioning HVAC systems.
I welcome the active We have been collaborating with contributions that Debenhams make industry bodies such as the ETI and Last year, we pledged to spend to these initiatives.
theBritish Retail Consortium to 2million on energy efficiency initiatives improveawareness.
in FY2016: we invested over 4 million in this period, and retro-fitted LED lighting Weinvited Ergon, a specialist in 50 stores.
These projects have not only consultancy inhuman rights, to present delivered excellent results in reducing to senior executives on modern slavery energy use, but have also led to a more DAVID CAMP and otherhuman rights issues.
PROGRAMME LEAD, Wewill be investing 4 million in FY2017 STRONGER TOGETHER Further sessions have been delivered by onenergy efficiency projects, using LED ANDFAST FORWARD Stop the Traffik to train key management lighting where possible, since lighting within our head office in the typically accounts for 35% of energy requirements of the Act.
ofethical trade and corporate Monitoring Greenhouse Gas Report FY2016 responsibility participates in this We have a nominated global audit Debenhams has reported its greenhouse committee and is responsible for driving partner, Intertek, which perform audits gas GHG emissions for its UK, Irish and initiatives internally and externally to internationally across our global supplier Danish operations since 2008.
Since then, support the Act and is developing a human base using the Sedex members ethical its footprint boundary has evolved to rights policy.
In addition the supplier code trade audit SMETA methodology and include areas such as other international 34 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report offices, packaging, hangers material Emissions data are made more Overall, monitoring remains stringent useand recycling, and production of meaningful when compared to a core and during the next few years towards catalogue, brochure and direct mail.
We have used intensity FY2020, we aim to continue to contribute Thissection provides a breakdown of ratios for both the total footprint using positively to the Better Retail Climate ourGHG emissions for this year.
Further the annual turnover and premises floor aspart of our drive to save energy and details of our GHG emissions are found area.
Table 1 shows the total annual protect the environment.
on our website http: sustainability.
turnover and floor area for the whole debenhamsplc.
Total absolute emissions are STRATEGIC REPORT then divided by these figures to provide With the support of Ricardo Energy & tonnes of CO e per million pounds of The strategic report was approved by 2 2 Environment, we have applied the GHG turnover and tonnes of CO e per m of a duly authorised committee of the 2 protocol corporate accounting and floor area, respectively, as shown in Table board of directors on 26 October 2016 reporting standard 2013, and UK 2.
These tables show that the tCO e for and signed on its behalf by: 2 government conversion factors for both intensity metrics have increased.
company reporting to calculate our 1 The location-based method reflects the average carbon emissions.
As of this year, MATT SMITH emissions intensity of grids on which energy following new guidance from the GHG CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER consumption occurs, whereas the market-based method reflects emissions from the electricity that Protocol, Scope 2 emissions are reported 27 OCTOBER 2016 companies have chosen in the market or their lack using two different quantification of choice.
methods: location-based and market- 1 based.
Scope 2 emissions using the Table 1 Scope 1, 2 and 3 absolute GHG emissions shown in tonnes CO e 2 market-based method are lower than with the location-based approach, as a FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 result of our decision to purchase 100% Scope 1 14,850 17,786 15,989 19,668 14,241 renewable electricity in the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland.
Scope 2 location-based 144,536 139,607 149,068 139,354 125,453 Excluding Scope 3 emissions, for which Scope 2 Not calculated: market-based method was the inventory boundary has widened this market-based introducedin 2015 113,134 year, and which is not mandatory, Scope 1 Scope 3 19,071 16,687 28,308 31,908 64,442 and 2 emissions have decreased by 12%.
Total 178,457 174,080 193,365 190,930 204,136 Based on the data provided for Scopes 1, 2, and 3, our overall carbon footprint Total emissions calculated using the location-based Scope 2 emissions figure, covering a 53 week period.
has increased by 7%, from 190,930 tonnes CO e in 2015 to 204,136 tonnes 2 CO e thisyear.
A breakdown of this is Table 2 Data used for intensity measurements 2 shown inTable 1.
FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 The reason for the increase in the overall Turnover m 2,700 2,777 2,824 2,860 2,939 emissions is primarily due to a widening 2 ofthe inventory boundary.
As of this year, Total floor area m 1,838,924 1,808,398 1,850,874 1,894,926 1,888,887 additional emission sources have been included in Scope 3, such as water supply 2015 16 is a 53 week year.
treatment in Hong Kong and Bangladesh: This total floor area included back of store, offices and distribution centres.
UK rail: and plastic material use for carrier bags in UK stores.
Excluding these newlyadded sources, Scope 3 emissions Table 3 Assessment of absolute footprint emissions have decreased by 8%, due mainly to a reduction in business travel.
FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Absolute Emissions The decrease in Scope 1 emissions this tCO e 178,457 174,080 193,365 190,930 204,136 2 year is a reflection of decreased use of Absolute tCO e m gas, fuels and refrigerants across our UK, 2 Turnover 66 63 68 67 69 Ireland and Denmark operations.
Scope 2 2 emissions have decreased as a result of Absolute tCO e m 0.097 0.096 0.104 0.101 0.108 2 changes in fuel mixes, as well as a reduction in overall energy consumption.
Total emissions calculated using the location-based Scope 2 emissions figure.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 35
