DIRECTORS REPORT As required by the Companies Act 2006, Information Location in Annual Report the directors report of Debenhams plc Review of the business, principal risks Our business model, operational review, for the year ended 3 September 2016 &uncertainties and KPIs KPIs and Principal risks iscomprised of these pages 68 to 70 Strategy Strategy in action andinformation found in the following sections of the Annual Report, all of Business model Our business model and Strategy in action which are incorporated into this report Future business developments Operational review and Strategy in action by reference.
Greenhouse gas emissions Sustainability The content of the directors report Environmental matters, employees and Sustainability hasbeen drawn up and presented in social, community and human rights issues accordance with, and in reliance upon, including information about the Companys policies in relation to these matters applicable English company law and any liability of the directors is restricted to Employment policy for disabled persons Sustainability the extent prescribed by the Companies andemployee engagement throughout Act 2006. theworkforce Gender diversity Corporate governance report Profit and dividends The profit after tax for the financial year ending 3 September 2016 was 85.9 The membership of the board and to the Companys Articles of Association million 2015: 93.5 million.
The directors biographical details of the directors are may be made inaccordance with the recommend the payment of a final given on pages 42 and 43.
The business Companies Act2006 by way of special dividend of 2.4 pence per ordinary oftheCompany is managed by the resolution.
Inaccordance with the UK share, to be paid on 24 January 2017 boardwho exercise all the powers of Corporate Governance Code, all of our tomembers on the register at the theCompany, subject to the provisions of directors will retire at the forthcoming closeofbusiness on 9 December 2016. theCompanies Act 2006, the Companys Annual General Meeting of the Company This together with the interim dividend Articles of Association and any and they all, other than DennisMillard, of 1.025 pence per share paid on shareholder resolution.
In accordance with offer themselves eitherfor election, in the 1July2016 gives a full year dividend the Companys Articles of Association, the case of Sir Ian Cheshire, Sergio Bucher of3.425 pencepershare.
directors shall be no less than two and no and Lisa Myers, or re-election in the case more than 25 in number.
Directors may be of all other directors.
An internal Directors appointed by the Company by ordinary evaluation of the performance of each The following persons were directors of resolution or by the board.
A director director, board and its Committees has the Company during the period ended appointed by the board holds office only been carried out and the results were 3September 2016 and unless otherwise until the next Annual General Meeting.
positive confirming that each of the stated at the date of this Annual Report: The Company may, by ordinary resolution, directors continue to be effective and remove any director from office.
The office demonstrate commitment to his or her Sir Ian Cheshire appointed 14 January 2016 of a director is vacated if s he i resigns or role and that the board and its retires: ii becomes bankrupt or makes an committees are operating well and Nigel Northridge resigned 7 April 2016 arrangement or composition with his or effectively.
There is more information Sergio Bucher appointed 17 October 2016 her creditors generally: iii becomes onthe evaluation and its outcome physically or mentally incapable of acting withinthe corporate governance Michael Sharp resigned 24 June 2016 as a director and may remain so for more reporton pages 40 and 41.
Matt Smith than three months, or by reason of his or Suzanne Harlow her mental health a court has made an In addition to the indemnity provisions order that prevents the director from intheir Articles of Association, the Terry Duddy acting and in either case, the board Company and other Group companies Peter Fitzgerald resolves that his or her office is vacated: iv have entered into a direct indemnity Stephen Ingham has been absent for more than six agreement with each of the directors consecutive months without the boards and certain other officers or senior Martina King permission from meetings of the board employees of the Group.
These Dennis Millard held during that period and his or her indemnities constitute qualifying alternate director if any has not attended indemnities for the purposes of the Mark Rolfe in his or her place during that period and Companies Act 2006 and remain in force Lisa Myers appointed 6 September 2016 the board resolves that his her office be at the date of approval of this report vacated: or v receives a notice signed by without any payment having been made not less than three quarters ofthe other under them.
The Company also directors stating that the person should maintains directors and officers liability cease to be a director.
Anyamendments insurance which gives appropriate cover 68 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance for any legal action brought against been disclosed to the Company Voting rights itsdirectors.
pursuant to the Disclosure and If voting on a resolution at any general Transparency Rules as at 3 September meeting of the Company is on a show of No director had, during or at the end 2016.
This information was correct at the hands, every member present in person ofthe year, any material interest in any date of notification.
It should be noted has one vote and every proxy appointed contract of significance in relation to that these holdings may have changed by one or more members has one vote theGroups business.
since notified to the Company.
regardless of the number of shares held Notification of any changes is not by the shareholder or represented by the Major shareholders required until the next applicable proxy.
On a poll, every shareholder who In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
is present in person or by proxy has the following investor interests have onevote for every share held by that shareholder, but a shareholder or proxy Percentage entitled to more than one vote need not Number of of issued cast all his her votes or cast them all the Shareholder shares share capital same way.
No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting of the Schroders plc 185,193,251 15.083% Company, either in person or by proxy, Milestone Resources Group Limited 89,183,155 7.264% inrespect of any share held unless all Old Mutual plc 73,558,385 5.991% monies payable in respect of that share have been paid.
There are no known Standard Life Investments Holdings Ltd 62,804,669 5.115% arrangements which may restrict Brandes Investment Partners LP 61,937,893 5.045% votingrights.
LSV Asset Management 59,976,652 4.885% As at 3 September 2016, the Debenhams ING Groep N. V. 40,515,686 3.300% Retail Employee Trust 2004 the Trust holds 273,537 ordinary shares in the Norges Bank 39,932,025 3.252% Company 0.02%.
Any voting or other similar decisions relating to the shares On 12 May 2016, Sports Direct 644,496 treasury shares were transferred held by the Trust would be taken by the International plc announced that it had out of treasury during the year to satisfy trustees, who may take account of any extended the Put Option Agreement awards granted under the Companys recommendations of the Company.
entered into with Goldman Sachs Performance Share Plan.
International referencing 128,927,113 Transfer of shares ordinary shares of Debenhams plc At the January 2016 Annual General Any member may transfer all or any of his representing 10.5% of the issued share Meeting, shareholders authorised the or her certificated shares by an instrument capital of Debenhams by one year.
Company to purchase up to 122,716,681 of transfer in any usual form or in any form Thematurity period for these option ordinary shares in the market.
Although this which the board may approve.
The board contracts is therefore now October authority was not utilised by the Company may, in its absolute discretion, decline to November 2017. during the last financial year, approval register any instrument of transfer of a willbe sought from shareholders at the certificated share which is not a fully paid No notifications have been received forthcoming Annual General Meeting to share although not so as to prevent since 3 September 2016 upto renew its authority to purchase shares in dealings in shares taking place on an 26October 2016. the market for a further year.
This is a open and proper basis.
The board may standard authority and it is the Companys also refuse to register the transfer of a Share capital present intention, should shares be bought certificated share where the instrument As at 3 September 2016, the issued back, for them to be cancelled or retained oftransfer is invalid.
There are no known sharecapital of the Company was in treasury pending a subsequent sale, arrangements which may restrict the 1,227,821,016 ordinary shares of 0.01 cancellation or transfer.
The directors have transfer of shares.
pence each and 59,041,231 ordinary no present intention of exercising the shares of 0.01 pence each were held authority to purchase the Companys inTreasury.
In addition to the shares ordinary shares.
The authority will be trading on the London Stock Exchange, exercised only if the directors believe that the Company operates a level1 American to do so would result in an increase in depositary receipt programme.
Each earnings per share and would be likely to American depositary share represents promote the success of the Company for four ordinary shares of0.01p each.
the benefit of its shareholders as a whole.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 69 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Significant agreements Events since year end b s he has taken all the steps that s he There are a number of agreements that Lisa Myers was appointed as an ought to have taken as a director in take effect, alter or terminate upon a independent non-executive director order to make herself or himself aware change of control of the Company on6 September 2016 and Sergio Bucher of any information needed by the following a takeover bid.
Details of the joined the Company as Chief Executive Companys auditors in connection significant agreements of this kind are on 17 October 2016. with preparing the report and to asfollows: establish that the Companys auditors Going concern are aware of that information.
The multi-currency revolving credit Having assessed the principal risks and facility dated 25 February 2016 the other matters discussed in connection Independent auditors contains mandatory prepayment with the viability statement, the directors  LLP has The terms and conditions of the considered it appropriate to adopt the indicated its willingness to continue 5.25% senior notes due 2021 contain going concern basis of accounting inoffice and a resolution dealing with a requirement for the Company to inpreparing the financial statements.
itsre-appointment as auditor of the make an offer to repurchase all of Company will be proposed at the the notes at a price equal to 101% Long-term viability statement forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
ofthe principal amount thereof, The directors have assessed the viability of plus any accrued unpaid interest the Group over a three year period.
This Annual General Meeting The Companys performance has taken into account the Companys The Annual General Meeting of shareplan contains provision three-year strategy plan, business model, Debenhams plc will be held at regarding change of control.
risk appetite, and principal risks and Debenhams Head Office, 10 Brock Awards under the plan may uncertainties, along with the Companys Street, Regents Place, London NW1 3FG vestsubject to the satisfaction current financial position.
Based on this on Thursday 12 January 2017.
The Notice ofanyperformance conditions review, the directors confirm that they have is given, together with explanatory a reasonable expectation that the Group notes, in the booklet which accompanies Other than the provisions of the will continue in operation and meet its this report.
Companys share plans, there are no liabilities as they fall due over the three-year agreements providing for compensation period under review.
Further details on the The directors report was approved for directors or employees on change of assessment of the long-term viability byaduly appointed and authorised control.
Details concerning the impact statement can be found on page 31. committee of the board of Directors on share options and share awards held on27 October 2016 and signed on by directors or employees in the event of Corporate Governance Statement itsorder by: a change of control are set out in the In accordance with the Financial Services remuneration policy.
Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rule DTR 7.2.
1, the disclosures PAUL EARDLEY Political donations required by DTR 7.2.
7 COMPANY SECRETARY There were no disclosable expenses andDTR 7.2.
10 are within the corporate made during the financial year which governance report on pages 36 to 41 fallwithin the definition of a political andrisk review on pages 20 to 25 donation under the Political Parties, andaretherefore incorporated Elections and Referendums Act 2000. intothisreport by reference.
Itis the Groups policy not to make donations to political organisations or Disclosure of information to auditors independent election candidates or Each of the directors of the Company at incur political expenditure.
the time when the directors report was approved confirms that: Financial instruments Debenhams does not enter into financial a so far as the director is aware, there instruments for speculative trade.
Details isno information needed by the of financial instruments entered into for Companys auditors in connection underlying risks are set out in note 23 on with preparing their report of which page 111 of the financial statements.
the Companys auditors are unaware: Information regarding the Groups financial and risk management policies is set out in note 22 to the financial statements on pages 106 to 111.
70 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016
