Strategy in Action: Pipeline Delivery From conception to marketing Zycortal making a difference 16 slugline Dechra AR2016 Front.
indd 16 05 09 2016 17:24:59 17Strategic Report Dechra has specialised over the years in treating Strategy in Action: companion animal endocrine disorders through our key brands of Vetoryl, Forthyron and Felimazole.
Pipeline Delivery Identifying an Opportunity to Treat Addisons Disease We identified an opportunity to develop a product, Zycortal, for another endocrine disorder, hypoadrenocorticsm, better known as Addisons disease.
Addisons disease is a relatively rare and under diagnosed condition with complex and often confusing symptoms.
Fundamentally the dog is simply not well, off colour and they look depressed and lack energy.
Given that the disease is more commonly found in young to middle aged dogs, we recognised that a well-supported, efficacious product would be of high value for veterinarians in delivering solutions to concerned pet owners.
There were no approved products in the major European markets and, in the US, there was only one veterinary licensed product.
Developing the Product The development team reviewed the potential product options and decided to work with one of our current active pharmaceutical ingredient suppliers to synthesize the complex DOCP desoxycortone pivalate molecule.
Our formulation chemists were challenged with developing a superior product to the one currently licensed in the US.
We developed a more user friendly product with a subcutaneous injection and flexible duration between dose administration.
Not everything went to plan as a major challenge occurred when our selected contract manufacturing site closed.
This meant a delay in the process while we reviewed alternative options.
We decided to upgrade our own facility in Skipton to manufacture the product and seek FDA approval for the terminally sterilised injections suite.
The investment in this solution also minimises potential supply risks.
Preparing for the Product Launch In parallel to the development process, the central technical and marketing teams worked on the launch, utilising the expertise of key opinion leaders and experienced colleagues from across a wide range of markets.
A proposition encouraging veterinarians to look beyond the obvious was developed as a means to raise awareness and educate them about Addisons disease.
This basic premise was backed up by some striking imagery delivered across support materials ranging from diagnostic brochures and product support pieces to pet owners leaflets and case studies.
A key part of a successful launch plan is the training of Dechra sales teams.
A two day seminar with sessions on sales, marketing and technical training was organised, attended by representatives from all countries.
The product had its first public showing at VetMadrid 2016 AMVAC Asociacin Madrilea fide Veterinarios fide Animales fide Compaa in early March and BSAVA 2016 British Small Animal Veterinary Association in early April.
Several months on, the product has been launched in the US and most of our EU markets, it is being well received by our veterinary customers and pet owners and is making a difference to canine health.
indd 17 05 09 2016 17:25:01 Strategy in Action: a c b Portfolio Focus Increasing our focus on FAP to drive performance 18 18 18 18 18 slugline Dechra AR2016 Front.
indd 18 05 09 2016 17:25:03 19Strategic Report We set up a dedicated FAP Business Unit BU to identify Strategy in Action: growth opportunities, stem the previous years decline and coordinate our response to a tough competitive Portfolio Focus environment.
Our FAP Portfolio Dechra supplies pig and poultry antibiotics that can be administered to the animals through drinking water.
Along with our recognised range of products, we also support our customers by providing in-depth knowledge and Increasing our focus on education which helps veterinarians and farmers manage their livestock in an efficient and correct manner.
Our products, marketed under the Solustab brand, are highly soluble and stable, which ensures animals are treated with the correct dose without causing disruption to the drinking FAP to drive performance water systems.
In addition to the pig and poultry range, Dechra markets a broad range of cattle products, including two premium standard wound sprays.
Adapting Our Organisational Structure Between 2012 and 2015, Dechra faced a decline in the sales of our FAP in our main markets in the EU, as a result of the reduction in the use of antibiotics in the veterinary market due to concerns about increasing resistance in human health.
To stop the decline and return the range back to growth, a FAP BU was created in 2015.
Our aim was to improve our focus on this important part of our Group revenue.
The central FAP BU consists of a mix of commercial, technical and marketing employees.
It is working closely with the local key account managers and customers in the main European markets and with our distributors worldwide.
A Successful Turnaround Since its inception, the BU has started a number of initiatives to accelerate the turnaround of the FAP sales.
There have been four elements to our approach: accelerate growth in markets where, until now, we have had a lower share of the FAP business: support the business by developing marketing tools which will help slow down the decline in the existing markets and drive growth in the new markets: work closely with the product development team to ensure new and improved products are delivered to market in a timely fashion: and prepare the business for the launch of the first poultry vaccines which are coming through registration following the recent acquisition of Genera.
The FAP BU has delivered immediate success with sales increasing for the first time in our recent history.
Our future goal is to increase market share by ensuring that Dechra is seen as the specialist and preferred partner, by offering a wide range of high quality products as well as technical knowledge and professional support.
indd 19 05 09 2016 17:25:05 Strategy in Action: Geographical Expansion and Acquisition Genera A Croatian Listed Business to add four new sales territories and Our Integration Progress So Far On 21 October 2015 Dechra acquired strengthen our manufacturing capabilities Given the complexity of the integration, Genera d. d. the oldest and largest with a GMP approved pharmaceutical we appointed an Integration Manager as manufacturer of animal health products in production facility in a low cost CEO of Genera to lead the project and a Croatia with a strong market share in its local environment.
The market and neighbouring countries.
It operates first few months after the acquisition were Our Ambition and Priorities in a broad range of segments: veterinary spent improving our understanding of the We believe this opportunity represents an pharmaceuticals and vaccines, agrochemicals, business, establishing good relationships with attractive entry strategy to the poultry vaccine human pharmaceuticals, disinfectants, and key members of Genera, and analysing the market with the potential to explore vaccines feed additives: and over the last few years it business segments.
With a good understanding for other species in the long term.
Vaccines had invested significantly in its poultry vaccines of the acquired operations, we formulated and is the fastest growing segment in animal capabilities.
Genera has sales forces in Croatia, executed a clear integration plan to: health as the market is increasingly moving Slovenia, Bosnia-Herzegovina and Serbia, towards preventative medicines.
The market continue the core business activities of and a network of distributors worldwide.
The for poultry vaccines was $1.3 billion in 2013, veterinary pharmaceuticals sales and turnover at the time the of acquisition was representing 22% of the vaccines market, production and the agrochemical business: 28.4 million, with 270 employees.
and is projected to grow at a CAGR of 7.8% invest in vaccines and establish a Broadening our FAP Portfolio and until 2020. dedicated business unit: Entering the Vaccines Market Mitigating Risks The strategic rationale for this acquisition divest the human pharmaceuticals and Although the transaction is expected to be was threefold: disinfectants businesses: earnings neutral in the first two years, it offers to enter the important vaccines segment, great opportunities for our long term ambitions reduce the cost base through a with production and development and success will depend on our ability to redundancy programme: and capabilities: register the poultry vaccines in Western Europe implement a new organisation structure and key world markets.
We have created a to broaden our FAP portfolio, enhancing aligned with our strategy.
dedicated integrated vaccines business unit our ability to develop our presence in to maintain the focus on the delivery of the We are pleased with the progress of the emerging markets: and vaccines registrations and the development of integration and look forward to gaining the future pipeline.
The first vaccine approval approval for the poultry vaccine range in the was obtained in the EU during the period.
EU and targeted emerging markets.
20 20 20 20 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 www.
indd 20 05 09 2016 17:25:08 21Strategic Report Strategy in Action: Geographical Expansion and Acquisition Brovel A Mexican Family Owned Business Mitigating Risks On 13 January 2016, Dechra acquired 100% of As we enter new territories, we take potential reputation the share capital of Laboratorios Brovel S. A. fide risk very seriously.
We rolled out our Anti-Bribery and C. V. a family owned veterinary pharmaceutical Anti-Corruption policy immediately, and are putting in company located in Mexico City, Mexico.
Brovel place a new control framework, such as our Group has been operating in Mexico for over 52 years Delegation of Authorities.
and manufactures and sells quality veterinary The key to success in Mexico will be to establish a strong pharmaceuticals for dogs, horses and cattle.
It has a management team who understands Dechras values diverse product portfolio with a turnover of and ways of working.
We are also providing full oversight MxP$ 66.2 million 2.6 million.
to ensure that manufacturing quality and product Geographic Expansion into Mexico and development processes are in line with our standards.
Latin America Our Integration Progress So Far The acquisition of Brovel will help open the significant Based on the established market presence and the Mexican animal health market to Dechra as well as associated value of the Brovel name, we decided in offer the potential to access other Latin American the immediate future to trade under Dechra-Brovel, markets in the future.
which will create brand awareness for Dechra whilst The initial focus will be to achieve registration of maintaining the current well-known company name.
several existing Dechra products in the market.
Putting the right organisational structure in place is critical Our Ambition and Priorities to the success of the integration.
We appointed a new Dechra will be investing in the registration process to Country Manager and have recently hired a new Finance ensure new products are approved by the Secretariat Director.
We have also restructured the sales organisation of Agriculture, Livestock, Rural Development, Fisheries in order to gain efficiencies and increase productivity.
Dechra is working diligently with SAGARPA to register Through the guidance and support provided by many of the US topical dermatology products acquired Dechra Veterinary Products NA, we hope Brovel can in the Dermapet acquisition, as well as Osphos, become a valued and trusted partner to veterinarians Vetoryl, Canaural and other strategic products.
We in the fields of dermatology, endocrinology and equine have submitted the necessary documentation and medicine.
expect first approvals in the next couple of years.
21 21 Stock Code: DPH 21 slugline Dechra AR2016 Front.
indd 21 05 09 2016 17:25:09 Strategy in Action: Geographical Expansion and Acquisition Putney A US Generic Products Business Mitigating Risks On 22 April 2016, Dechra acquired 100% of the share Since Putney does not have its own manufacturing capital of Putney Inc. a leading developer of FDA facilities, it relies heavily on third party manufacturing.
approved CAP in the US located in Portland, Maine.
There are opportunities in the medium to long term to Putney has been operating in Maine for over ten years leverage our existing manufacturing capabilities with and is the leading provider of high quality, bioequivalent, both existing and future products that could mitigate FDA approved, specialty drugs supporting the US supply risk.
It has a diverse product portfolio As always there is an inherent risk in developing new with annual turnover of $49.6 million.
We have retained a majority of the R&D Accelerating Dechras North American Strategy team who know the projects well.
They will continue to The acquisition of Putney adds critical mass to Dechra progress the five product registration filings that were in the worlds largest companion animal market, by already under way and continue the development work providing immediate access to a high quality product for the other projects.
range that complements our existing therapeutic focus Our Integration Progress So Far areas as well as adding a robust new product pipeline Having identified the synergies early during the integration and the expertise to deliver that pipeline.
Both our planning, we were able to move forward with the team in distribution partnerships and veterinarians will benefit as Portland.
The teams are now working together to drive we add new products to help grow their practices.
several initiatives such as: Our Ambition and Priorities building a telesales team with Putneys experienced Dechra will be investing in the product development inside sales team which complements to Dechras process to ensure the robust pipeline continues its existing outside sales team: successful history of gaining approval by the FDA.
Putney has achieved 43.0% of all US generic CAP integrating the Dechra business to the Salesforce approvals from the FDA since 2012.
We will leverage our Customer Relationship Management CRM platform combined sales and marketing teams and distribution used by Putney to enhance our ability to penetrate channels, as well as share best practices in the areas of the market by leveraging sales analytics: and product development and regulation.
integrating the product development resources and prioritising the combined product pipeline.
22 22 22 22 22 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 www.
