Our Key Products Why we focus on this specialist area Key products Animal Use Endocrinology Endocrine disease stems from Felimazole Cats For the stabilisation of hyperthyroidism in cats prior to imbalance in hormone levels, surgical thyroidectomy and the long term treatment of feline affecting cats or dogs in many hyperthyroidism.
ways, often requiring lifetime medical Forthyron Dogs For the treatment of hypothyroidism.
Many endocrine disorders Thyforon are fatal if not diagnosed and treated.
Veterinarians place a high importance Vetoryl Dogs For the treatment of pituitary-dependent and adrenal-dependent on quality of life and often see hyperadrenocorticism Cushings disease and syndrome.
endocrinology as a challenging and Zycortal Dogs For use as replacement therapy for mineralocorticoid deficiency interesting discipline.
in dogs with primary hypoadrenocorticism Addisons disease.
Dermatology and Care Dermatology represents approximately Animax Cats For the treatment of skin conditions.
It is only approved in the 20% of veterinarians clinical time Dogs United States.
The marketing rights for this product were and is a major focus area for the acquired in May 2007. industry.
Dechras range of topical Canaural Cats For the treatment of otitis externa including the ear mite, products support a holistic approach Dogs Otodectes cynotis.
in the control and maintenance of dermatological disease.
Topical CleanAural Cats A pH balanced routine ear cleaner.
For the removal of moderate therapy ensures that the correct Dogs ear wax and debris where the ear drum is intact.
concentrations of antibiotics are delivered to the site of the infection DermaPet Cats For the treatment of numerous skin and ear conditions.
thereby minimising the use of Products Dogs antibiotics.
Dechras range of licenced and non-licenced topical products Isaderm Dogs For the topical treatment of surface pyoderma in the dog such help veterinarians address the as acute moist dermatitis hot spots and intertrigo skin fold development of antimicrobial dermatitis.
resistance, in line with best practice.
Malaseb Cats Cats: Medicated shampoo to aid the control and treatment of Dogs ringworm due to Microsporum canis in conjunction with griseofulvin.
Dogs: Medicated shampoo for the treatment and control of seborrhoeic dermatitis associated with Malassezia pachydermatis and Staphylococcus intermedius.
30 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 www.
indd 30 05 09 2016 17:25:20 31Strategic Report Why we focus on this specialist area Key products Animal Use Anaesthesia and Analgesia Perioperative sedation and pain Alvegesic Cats For the relief of moderate pain and as a sedative in combination management are challenging but Dogs with other products.
critical for all patients and form a Horses fundamental part of animal welfare.
Atipam Cats Reverses the sedative effects of medetomidine and A comprehensive range of analgesic Dogs demedetomidine.
and anaesthetic products allows Buprenodale Cats For post-operative analgesia for dogs and cats and for veterinarians to adapt their protocols Dogs post-operative analgesia in combination with sedation for horses.
to the individual pet based on their Horses level of discomfort, whilst providing flexible anaesthetic procedures.
Pre-medication for general anaesthesia or Dogs neuroleptanalgesia in combination with a neuroleptic drug.
Phycox Dogs Reduces joint discomfort and swelling.
Horses Sedator Cats For restraint and sedation.
Dogs Vetivex Cattle These products are administered by intravenous infusion for the Cats treatment of dehydration and metabolic acidosis.
They may be Dogs used to correct volume depletion hypovolaemia resulting from Horses gastrointestinal disease or shock.
Cardiovascular Disease As pets increasingly live longer, Cardisure Dogs For the treatment of congestive heart failure originating from managing heart disease efficiently is valvular insufficiency mitral and or tricuspid regurgitation or critical.
This is our only major product dilated cardiomyopathy.
Ophthalmology Eye conditions are very common and Isathal Cats For the topical treatment of conjunctivitis associated with can result in severe complications.
Recent evidence suggests that 7% of Rabbits kittens, 2% to 3% of adult cats and Lubrithal Cats Soothes and moisturises the eye.
2% to 4% of dogs are presented to Dogs veterinarians with ocular inflammation.
Vetropolycin Cats For the treatment of superficial bacterial infections of the eyelid and Dogs and conjunctiva when due to organisms susceptible to the Vetropolycin antibiotics contained in the ointment.
HC Stock Code: DPH 31 slugline Dechra AR2016 Front.
indd 31 05 09 2016 17:25:22 Our Key Products continued Why we focus on this specialist area Key products Animal Use Equine Medicine This is a sector in which few animal Equipalazone Horses For the treatment of musculoskeletal disorders in horses and health companies specialise.
We ponies where the anti-inflammatory and analgesic properties of target both performance horses and phenylbutazone can offer relief, such as lameness associated with hobby horses and have developed osteoarthritic conditions, acute and chronic laminitis, bursitis and a comprehensive range of medically carpitis, and in the reduction of post-surgical soft tissue reaction.
necessary products that give us Domidine Cattle For the sedation and slight analgesia of horses and cattle: to access to equine veterinarians.
Horses facilitate physical examinations and treatments, such as minor surgical interventions.
HY-50 Horses For intra-articular and intravenous treatment of lameness caused by joint dysfunction associated with non-infectious synovitis.
Osphos Horses For the control of clinical signs associated with the bone resorptive processes of navicular syndrome.
Somulose Cats The product is indicated for euthanasia in dogs, cats, horses and Cattle cattle.
Dogs Horses Food producing Animal Products FAP is the largest segment of the Cyclospray Cattle Prevention of infections of superficial traumatic or surgical wounds global animal health market accounting Pigs caused by micro-organisms sensitive to chlortetracycline.
While there is Sheep product can be used as part of a treatment for superficial claw pressure on antibiotic prescribing in the hoof infections, in particular interdigital dermatitis foot rot in EU and the US, the increased demand sheep and digital dermatitis in cattle.
for high quality protein in the Rest of the Methoxasol Broilers Broilers: Treatment and prevention of respiratory infections World continues to drive the demand Pigs caused by Escherichia coli susceptible to trimethoprim and for antibiotics.
sulfamethoxazole where the disease has been diagnosed in the flock.
Pigs: Treatment and prevention of respiratory infections caused by Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae susceptible to trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole where the disease has been diagnosed in the herd.
Octacillin Chickens Treatment of infections caused by bacteria susceptible to Pigs amoxicillin.
Rapidexon Cats Dexamethasone may be used for the treatment of inflammatory Cattle or allergic conditions.
Dogs Horses Pigs Soludox Chickens For respiratory disease in pigs, chickens and turkeys.
Pigs Turkeys 32 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 www.
indd 32 05 09 2016 17:25:24 33Strategic Report Why we focus on this specialist area Key products Animal Use Pet Diets Quality nutrition leads to a better quality Specific Cats Balanced high quality pet diets for therapeutic use and life stage of life for pets and veterinarians and Dogs maintenance diets.
veterinary nurses are best placed to offer nutritional advice.
With our range of nutritional products, along with licenced and non-licenced medicines, we are able to offer holistic solutions to veterinarians to manage their patients in the most appropriate manner.
Poultry Vaccines Prevention is increasingly the preferred Avishield Chickens Vaccination of poultry by water, eye drop or spray administration standard of care in modern animal Turkeys with a range of high quality live vaccines, providing immunisation husbandry.
With pressure on reducing against the most important viral diseases that threaten poultry antibiotic usage, providing customers health, like Newcastle disease, infectious bronchitis and infectious with products to prevent rather than Bursal disease Gumboro.
Worldwide, there is an increasing demand for poultry meat and, as a consequence, the poultry vaccines market is growing.
Stock Code: DPH 33 slugline Dechra AR2016 Front.
