Product Development Although some products may have a slightly Generating Ideas Entering the Development Phase different path, most novel and generic The Exploring phase begins with identifying The Development phase is the longest products follow a fairly standard process a novel molecule, an opportunity to develop part of the process, potentially taking two or containing five phases, defined as: Exploring, a new formulation for an existing molecule, three years.
After the formulation has been Feasibility, Development, Registration and or an in-license opportunity.
Before initiating a demonstrated to be stable, two to three pilot Launch.
development programme, each opportunity batches are manufactured for use in safety is assessed by market need, market value, studies, efficacy studies and stability testing.
Dechra employs a structured process in therapeutic indications, strategic fit and the For generic products, the batches are used its development pipeline while retaining an likely complexity of the regulatory pathway.
in one or more bioequivalence studies to opportunistic and entrepreneurial approach.
demonstrate that activity will replicate the Focus is given to the Groups therapeutic Making the Chemistry Work pioneer product.
If the studies conducted sectors.
New development opportunities The second phase of the process is during the Development phase demonstrate and in-license opportunities are evaluated for Feasibility, which involves the collection of the required safety, efficacy and chemical strategic fit within these sectors: therapies a range of preliminary data.
When initiating stability of the product, regulatory dossiers outside of the key areas are considered for development of a novel product, the are prepared for Registration Filing.
inclusion in the pipeline if they are novel and correct dose has to be titrated and a stable address medical needs in the veterinary formulation, that can be reliably and consistently From beginning to end, the development market.
For a process can take between three and ten generic product, the pioneer formulation may years before Launch.
A products return on investment can vary: not meet the current regulatory requirements novel developments tend to have a medium and may need to be reformulated.
This phase to long term realisation with attractive is vital prior to initiating the development phase high value returns: generic developments which involves expensive clinical trials or generally have shorter time scales with bioequivalence studies.
returns dependent upon the number of other entrants and our speed to market relative to the competition.
Dechras current development pipeline is a mix of short, medium and long term opportunities.
3 10 years Go Go Go No Go No Go No Go Exploring Development Registration Launch Feasibility CTR Safety Indication s determined Formulation Efcacy CTR CAP Active Pharmaceutical Residues CTR CTR Ingredient API 3 Environmental Dose Titration manufacturer selected Novel Pilot Register Launch Risk Assessment batches Start from scratch Ecotoxicology Manufacturing site Preliminary Safety study selected nished User Safety products Studies Commercially Is there a customer need?
FAP CAP Bioequivalence 2 Pilot Study Studies Formulation batches Register Launch Generic or waiver Is it worth taking Copycat product the development idea forward?
Chemistry CAP CTR Companion Animal Product FAP Clinical Trials Required Drives timing, Food producing Animal Product New Formulation of products with existing needs stable Laboratory Studies maximum residue limit MRL formulation 36 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 www.
indd 36 05 09 2016 17:25:28 37Strategic Report Product Pipeline A key strategic priority for the Group is the delivery and strength of the pipeline.
The following chart outlines the status of the major projects.
Owing to the nature of product development, the content of our pipeline will change over time as new projects progress from exploratory to development to market or as projects are terminated.
For competitive reasons, exact project details are not disclosed.
Exploring Feasibility Development Registration CAP Equine CAP Equine CAP Equine CAP Equine FAP FAP FAP FAP Anti-Infective Dermatological Antibiotic for Endocrinology Antiparasitic Endocrinology Antimicrobial Antibiotic for for dogs and and or dental pigs and treatment for for poultry diagnostic for pigs and cattle cats applications for poultry dogs poultry dogs and cats Analgesic Fluid therapy Anti-Infective Antibiotic for Respiratory Antibiotic for Dermatology Neonatal treatment for for cattle for dogs and cattle treatment for cattle treatment for mortality in horses cats horses dogs pigs Parasiticides AntiAnti-Infective Antimicrobial AntiAntibiotic Dermatology Antibiotic for treatment for for dogs inammatory for dogs and inammatory for pigs treatment for pigs and pigs for poultry cats treatment dogs poultry for horses Endocrinology AntiParasiticides Dermatology Antibiotic Vaccine for treatment for inammatory for dogs treatment for for horses poultry cats treatment for dogs poultry Analgesic Parasiticides Vaccine for Vaccine for Anaesthesia treatment for cats poultry poultry treatment for dogs for dogs Analgesic Vaccine for Vaccine for Endocrinology treatment poultry treatment for poultry for dogs horses Key Analgesic, Anaesthesia, Anti-inflammatory Gastrointestinal Vaccine for Analgesic treatment for Antimicrobial poultry treatment horses for dogs Antiparasitic Dermatology Dermatology Endocrinology Vaccine for treatment for poultry dogs Fluid therapy Gastrointestinal Neonatal mortality Analgesic treatment Respiratory for horses Vaccines Stock Code: DPH 37 slugline Dechra AR2016 Front.
