27Strategic Report Creating Value by: Clear Strategic Focus Focused Portfolio We have a defined strategy focused on four main drivers: We have a clear portfolio focus and hold strong market portfolio focus, geographical expansion, pipeline delivery positions in a number of our key therapeutic sectors such and targeted acquisition.
as endocrinology, dermatology, anaesthesia and analgesics, and equine medicine.
Development Pipeline We have a strong pipeline of novel pharmaceuticals, generic Recognised Brand pharmaceuticals and specialist pet diets and a track record Dechra is recognised today as a global animal healthcare of pipeline delivery.
We are proactive in recognising and company with a strong and growing reputation as a provider bringing new development opportunities into the portfolio.
of high quality, specialist veterinary medicines and related products.
Entrepreneurial and Innovative Dechra encourages an entrepreneurial and innovative Expanding International Focus approach from its management team which is underpinned In line with our strategy we are focused on extending the by appropriate internal controls and robust systems and Dechra brand into new countries.
We are also increasing procedures.
distribution of our products on a global basis with selected partners, currently into over 40 countries.
Manufacturing Flexibility Our manufacturing sites offer a wide range of dosage forms People and Expertise and packaging capabilities which can be produced in small We have attracted and retained a qualified and skilled to large-scale production batches.
This flexibility is a key workforce throughout the organisation.
This stable and requirement in producing our varied product portfolio.
motivated team has many years experience within the markets we serve.
Our people strategy is underpinned by Growing Animal Health Market the Dechra Values.
The global animal health market continues to demonstrate growth.
This is driven in developed countries by increased Strong Balance Sheet medical and surgical capabilities for companion animals.
The Group maintains a prudent management of its balance In developing countries the increased demand for high sheet and achieves strong cash flows.
This position provides quality meat protein drives the FAP market.
flexibility to invest in drivers for long term growth.
Our Geographical Footprint Key European Pharmaceuticals North American Pharmaceuticals Export See our International Footprint Manufacturing on pages 34 and 35.
27 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 www.
