Directors Remuneration Report continued Element: Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Purpose and link to strategy The LTIP provides a clear link between the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the creation of value for shareholders by rewarding the Executive Directors for the achievement of longer term objectives aligned to shareholders interests.
Operation Performance measure The Committee intends to make long term incentive awards under the existing LTIP.
Performance measures under the LTIP will be based on financial measures which may include, but are not limited Under the LTIP, the Committee may grant Awards as conditional shares, as nil to, earnings per share growth, relative total shareholder cost options, as forfeitable shares or as cash settled equivalents or may settle return, return on capital employed and free cash flow.
At least 50% of any Award will be subject to a An additional payment in the form of cash or shares may be made in respect performance measure based on earnings per share.
of shares which vest under the LTIP to reflect the value of dividends which would have been paid on those shares during the vesting period this payment Awards will vest as to 25% for threshold performance, may assume that dividends had been reinvested in Dechra shares on a increasing to 100% for maximum performance.
Where an option under the CSOP is granted as part of Awards under the LTIP granted in November 2013 are subject to a malus an APSP Award, the CSOP option will be subject to the provision enabling the Committee to revoke Awards in the event of a material same performance condition as the LTIP Award.
misstatement of the financial statements.
For Awards granted after 1 July For 2017, LTIP performance targets will be based 50% 2014, the malus provision has been extended to provide the ability to revoke, on total shareholder return TSR and 50% on earnings reduce or impose further conditions on unvested Awards in the event of serious per share EPS, with each element subject to an reputational damage to the Company or if a previous annual bonus opportunity underpin based on return on capital employed ROCE as has paid out at a higher level than would have been the case but for the material described on page 89. misstatement or serious reputational damage to the Company.
The Company also has in place a Company Share Option Plan CSOP.
Awards under the CSOP take the form of options to acquire shares, with a per share exercise price equal to the market value of a share at the date of grant.
The Committee may at its discretion structure awards as Approved Performance Share Plan APSP Awards comprising both a tax qualifying option granted under the CSOP and LTIP Award, with the vesting of the LTIP Award scaled back to take account of any gain made on exercise of the approved option.
Other than to enable the grant of APSP Awards, the Company does not intend to grant awards under both the LTIP and CSOP in the same grant period.
Where an APSP Award is granted, the qualifying option under the CSOP will be subject to a malus provision to the extent permitted in accordance with the applicable legislation.
Maximum opportunity The maximum award level under the LTIP in respect of any financial year is 200% of salary.
For the 2017 financial year, the following award levels will apply: Chief Executive Officer 200% Other Executive Directors 100% Although no Award will be made to the Chief Financial Officer in respect of the year ending 30 June 2017 other than the buy-out awards in respect of incentives forfeited as a result of joining Dechra as outlined on page 88, the intention is that he will be eligible to receive an Award of up to 150% in September 2017.
If an APSP Award is granted, the option under the CSOP may be granted over shares with a value of up to 30,000, or any other applicable HMRC limit going forward.
Because of the scale back of the LTIP element of the APSP Award, the value of shares subject to the CSOP option will not count towards the limits referred to above.
Other than where a CSOP option is granted as part of an APSP award, options under the CSOP will not be granted to Executive Directors.
92 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 www.
com slugline Dechra Annual Report Middle 2016. indd 92 05 09 2016 17:27:02 Governance Element: All Employee Share Plans Purpose and link to strategy Provision of the SAYE to Executive Directors creates staff alignment with the Group and provides a sense of ownership.
Executive Directors may participate in such other all employee share plan as may be introduced from time to time.
Operation Performance measure Tax qualifying monthly savings scheme facilitating the purchase of shares at a Not subject to performance conditions in line with the discount.
HMRC qualifying operation of such plans.
Any other all employee share plan would be operated for Executive Directors in accordance with its rules and on the same basis as for other employees.
Maximum opportunity The limit on participation under the SAYE scheme will be that set in accordance with the applicable tax legislation from time to time.
The contribution limit is 500 per month currently.
The limit on participation under any other all employee share plan would be determined in accordance with the plan rules and, where relevant, applicable legislation and would be the same for the Executive Directors as for other relevant employees.
The Committee may amend the terms of awards and options under its share plans in accordance with the plan rules in the event of a variation of Dechras share capital or a demerger, special dividend or other similar event or otherwise in accordance with the rules of those plans.
Policy Table for Non-Executive Directors: Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Fees and benefits To provide fees within a market The fees of the Chairman are Non-Executive Directors are competitive range to recruit and determined by the Committee paid a basic fee with additional retain Non-Executive Directors of and the fees of the Non-Executive fees paid for the chairing of a high calibre with the requisite Directors are determined Committees.
experience required to achieve by the Board following a An additional fee is also paid for success for the Company and its recommendation from both the the role of Senior Independent shareholders.
Chief Executive Officer and the Director.
Where benefits are provided Non-Executive Directors are not to Non-Executive Directors eligible to participate in any of they will be provided at a level the Companys share schemes, considered to be appropriate incentive schemes or pension taking into account the individual schemes.
Non-Executive Directors may be eligible to receive benefits such as travel and other reasonable expenses.
This Directors Remuneration Report, excluding the Directors Remuneration Policy, will be put to an advisory vote at the Annual General Meeting on 21 October 2016.
The Directors Remuneration Report was approved by the Board on 5 September 2016 and signed on its behalf by: Ishbel Macpherson Remuneration Committee Chairman 5 September 2016 Stock Code: DPH 93 slugline Dechra Annual Report Middle 2016. indd 93 05 09 2016 17:27:02 Directors Report Other Disclosures The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Group, together with the audited Group financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016.
Certain disclosure requirements which form part of the Directors Report are included elsewhere in this Annual Report.
Therefore, this report should be read in conjunction with the Strategic Report which includes the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 6 to 59 along with the Corporate Governance Report and Board Committee Reports.
They are incorporated by reference into this Directors Report and include: Details in respect of the Board of Directors: Details in respect of Directors Indemnities: Statement of Directors Responsibilities: Review of the Groups business during the year and any likely future developments: Going concern and viability statements: Employees with disabilities and employee involvement: and Details in respect of Greenhouse Gas Emissions.
Information in relation to post-balance sheet events and financial risk management including the exposure to price, credit and liquidity risk can be found in note 23 to the Financial Statements.
Acquisitions and Disposals The acquisitions during the year under review are as follows: Date of Acquisition Detail Consideration November 2015 Genera d. d. Manufacturer of animal health products The cost of acquiring the 92.26% controlling interest in Croatia with a strong market share in Genera was 36.6 million which was funded from in its local market and neighbouring Dechras existing cash and debt facilities.
Subsequently countries 0.4 million of the minority interest was acquired equating to 1.13% of the voting shares January 2016 Laboratorios A veterinary pharmaceuticals company Consideration of US$5.0 million 3.3 million in cash on Brovel S. A. fide C. V. based in Mexico City completion and a further US$1.0 million 0.6 million is contingent upon Brovel reaching registration milestones for Dechras products in Mexico.
The consideration was funded from the Groups existing cash resources April 2016 Putney, Inc. A developer of generic companion Consideration of US$200.0 million 134.2 million animal pharmaceuticals in the US, funded through a combination of borrowings and equity based in Portland, Maine placing Amendment of the Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by a special resolution of its shareholders.
Significant Agreements Change of Control The Group has bank facilities with a syndicate of banks comprising HSBC Bank Plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Barclays Bank PLC the Banks, these facilities include a change of control provision.
Under this provision, a change of control of the Company could result in withdrawal of facilities.
No other agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid are considered to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the business as a whole.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or employee that provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover, other than the Company share schemes.
Under such schemes outstanding options and awards normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
In the event of a change of control, unvested awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan will vest to the extent determined by the Remuneration Committee taking into account the relevant performance conditions and, unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise, the extent of vesting so determined shall be reduced to reflect the proportion of the relevant performance period that has elapsed.
The Directors consider that there are no contracted or other single arrangements, such as those with major suppliers, which are likely to influence, directly or indirectly, the performance of the business and its values.
Furthermore, there are no contracts of significance subsisting during the financial year between any Group undertaking and a controlling shareholder or in which a Director is or was materially interested.
94 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 www.
com slugline Dechra Annual Report Middle 2016. indd 94 05 09 2016 17:27:02 Governance Directors The Articles of Association state that a Director may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of the shareholders or by the Directors, either to fill a vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board but so that the total number of Directors does not exceed the maximum number of Directors allowed pursuant to the Articles of Association.
The maximum number of Directors currently allowed pursuant to the Articles of Association is ten.
The Articles of Association also state that the Board of Directors is responsible for the management of the business of the Company and in doing so may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the provision of relevant legislation and the Companys Articles of Association.
The powers of the Directors set out in the Articles of Association include those in relation to the issue and buy-back of shares.
Overseas Branches The Company, through its subsidiary Genera d. d. has established branches in Bosnia-Herzegovina and Serbia.
Political Donations and Expenditure No political donations were made during the year ended 30 June 2016 2015: nil.
The Group has a policy of not making any donations to political organisations or independent election candidates or incurring political expenditure anywhere in the world as defined in the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
Research and Development The Group has a structured development programme with the aim of identifying and bringing to market new pharmaceutical products.
Investment in development is seen as key to strengthen further the Groups competitive position.
Further information in relation to product development can be found on pages 36 and 37.
The expense on this activity for the year ended 30 June 2016 was 10,355,000 2015: 8,671,000 and a further 570,000 2015: 1,035,000 was capitalised as development costs.
Results and Dividends The results for the year and financial position at 30 June 2016 are shown in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 107 and Consolidated Statement of Financial Position on page 109.
The Directors are recommending the payment of a final dividend of 12.91 pence per share which, if approved by shareholders, will be paid on 18 November 2016 to shareholders registered at 28 October 2016.
The shares will become ex-dividend on 27 October 2016.
An interim dividend of 5.55 pence per share was paid on 6 April 2016, making a total dividend for the year of 18.46 pence per share 2015:16.94 pence per share.
Share Capital The issued share capital of the Company for the year is set out in note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
As at the end of the financial year 92,746,998 fully paid ordinary shares were in issue, which included 377,235 ordinary shares issued during the year in connection with the exercise of options under the Companys share option schemes.
4,398,600 ordinary shares New Ordinary Shares were offered by way of a placing at an issue price of 1100 pence per share, raising approximately 47.0 million net of underwriting commission.
The New Ordinary Shares were issued on 17 March 2016 fully paid and rank pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary shares.
The holders of shares are entitled to receive dividends when declared, to receive the Companys Report and Accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of shares in the Company, nor are there any requirements to obtain prior approval in respect of any transfer of shares.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements which limit the transfer of shares or curtail voting rights attached to those shares.
The only exception to this being the Trustees of the Dechra Employee Benefit Trust, who hold 2,880 shares and have waived their rights to dividends and in accordance with the Investment Association guidance they abstain from voting at general meetings.
At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 23 October 2015, the Company was authorised to purchase up to 8,797,214 of its ordinary shares, representing 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 14 September 2015.
No shares were purchased under this authority during the financial year.
A resolution will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to renew this authority for a further period of one year.
Under the proposed authority shares purchased may be either cancelled or held in treasury.
The Directors require authority from shareholders to allot unissued share capital to the Company and to disapply shareholders statutory pre-emption rights.
Such authorities were granted at the 2015 Annual General Meeting and resolutions to renew these authorities will be proposed at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
Stock Code: DPH 95 slugline Dechra Annual Report Middle 2016. indd 95 05 09 2016 17:27:02 Directors Report Other Disclosures continued Substantial Interests in Voting Rights In accordance with the requirements in the Listing Rules and the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, the Company had been notified of the following interests exceeding the 3% notification threshold as at the end of the financial year and a date not more than one month before the date of the notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Audit Information Each of the Directors who held office at the date of the approval of the Directors Report confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the external auditor is unaware, and each Director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have undertaken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the external auditor is aware of that information.
The Directors Report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Suzana Cross Company Secretary 5 September 2016 96 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 www.
com slugline Dechra Annual Report Middle 2016. indd 96 05 09 2016 17:27:02
