Board of Directors Michael Redmond Background Non-Executive Chairman Michael joined the Company as a Non-Executive N Director in April 2001, and was appointed Chairman Committee Membership in July 2002.
He began his pharmaceutical career R Nomination Chairman, Remuneration.
with Glaxo and went on to hold a number of senior positions within Schering Plough Corporation.
Skills and Experience In 1991, he joined Fisons plc and in 1993 was Michael has extensive board level international appointed to the Board as Managing Director of pharmaceutical experience, having held their pharmaceuticals division.
Michael left Fisons Non-Executive Director and Chairman roles in a in 1996 following its takeover by RPR.
He also number of healthcare related companies, both held the position of Chairman of Abcam PLC from private and public, in the UK, Germany and February 2009 to November 2014.
Furthermore, as a result of Michaels tenure with the Company, he has a detailed knowledge External Appointments and understanding of Dechra.
Ian Page Background Chief Executive Officer Ian joined NVS, Dechras former services business, at its formation in 1989 and was an integral part of Committee Membership the MBO in 1997, becoming its Managing Director Not applicable.
He joined the Board in 1997 and became Chief Executive Officer in 2001.
Ian has played a Skills and Experience key role in the development of the Groups growth Ian has gained detailed knowledge and experience strategy.
through various positions he has held within the pharmaceutical and veterinary arena.
He has solid External Appointments understanding of how business develops both in In October 2010 Ian was appointed as the UK and globally.
In particular he has extensive Non-Executive Chairman of Sanford DeLand Asset experience in M&A and in the successful delivery Management Limited.
Tony Griffin Background Managing Director, Tony was appointed Managing Director of DVP EU Dechra Veterinary Products EU in May 2012 following the acquisition of Eurovet Animal Health BV from AUV Holding B. V. He joined Committee Membership the AUV Group in 1993 as Director of Exports, Not applicable.
having previously worked at Norbrook Laboratories Skills and Experience and Moy Park.
Tony was promoted to Managing Tony has over 25 years experience in the animal Director of Eurovet in 1996, becoming the Chief health business and has substantial international Executive Officer of the AUV Group in 2006. experience as a result of living and working outside External Appointments the UK since 1993.
He gained broad experience None.
of running an international animal health business with teams in different European countries as Chief Executive Officer of the AUV Group.
Tony is the Board nominated Director responsible for health, safety and environmental matters.
Ishbel Macpherson Background Senior Independent Ishbel joined the Group as a Non-Executive A Non-Executive Director Director in February 2013.
Prior to this she was Head of UK Emerging Companies Corporate N Committee Membership Finance at Dresdner Kleinwort Benson from 1999 Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Chairman.
to 2005, having previously worked at Hoare Govett R and Barclays fide Zoete Wedd.
Skills and Experience Ishbel has a broad range of PLC Board experience External Appointments in a variety of roles, including Chairman, Audit Ishbel is a Non-Executive Director at Galliford Committee and Remuneration Committee Try plc appointed February 2014 and Senior Chairman.
She has knowledge and understanding Independent Director at Bonmarche Holdings plc of City matters gained over 20 years experience appointed October 2013. as an investment banker, specialising in UK mid-market corporate finance.
62 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 www.
com slugline Dechra Annual Report Middle 2016. indd 62 05 09 2016 17:26:50 Governance A Audit N Nomination R Remuneration Chairman Julian Heslop Controller between 2001 and 2005 and as Non-Executive Director Financial Controller of Glaxo Wellcome PLC A between 1998 and 2000.
Prior to this, Julian held Committee Membership senior finance roles at Grand Metropolitan PLC N Audit Chairman, Nomination, Remuneration.
and Imperial Brewing and Leisure.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England Skills and Experience R and Wales.
Julian has considerable financial experience as a result of the senior finance roles he has held in External Appointments the pharmaceutical, food, property and brewing Julian is a Non-Executive Director at Revolymer sectors over the last 30 years.
PLC appointed July 2012 and is their Audit Committee Chairman.
He is also a Director, and Background Chairman of the Audit Committee, of the Royal Julian joined the Board in January 2013.
He served Academy of Arts appointed October 2012. as Chief Financial Officer of GlaxoSmithKline PLC between 2005 and 2011, having previously been appointed its Senior Vice President, Operations Director of Commercial Aircraft and Group MD Tony Rice of Business Development.
He has also served Non-Executive Director A as a Non-Executive Director at Punch Taverns, Committee Membership Spirit Pub Company, Cable & Wireless, Telewest N Audit, Nomination, Remuneration.
Communications and Saab Technologies, and Chairman of Alexander Mann Solutions.
Skills and Experience R Tony has extensive board level experience across a External Appointments range of sectors, including aerospace, healthcare, Tony is currently the Senior Independent telecommunications and retail in both UK and Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the international markets.
Remuneration Committee at Halma plc.
Background Tony joined the Board in May 2016.
He served as Chief Executive Officer at Cable & Wireless and Tunstall Holdings, and prior to that held various roles at BAE Systems including Managing Company Secretary for Speedy Hire plc from Suzana Cross July 2009 to March 2012 and Senior Legal Adviser General Counsel and Company Secretary at United Utilities Group PLC from 2003 to 2008.
Committee Membership Suzana has a corporate and commercial law Not applicable.
background, having worked as a corporate lawyer at Herbert Smith in London and at DLA Phillips Fox Skills and Experience in Sydney, Australia.
Suzana has over 19 years experience as a solicitor, having held positions both in private External Appointments practice and in-house.
Background Suzana was appointed as General Counsel and Company Secretary in November 2015.
Prior to her appointment she was General Counsel and Company Secretary for Victrex plc from April 2012 to November 2015, General Counsel and Officer in April 2013.
Prior to joining the Group, Anne-Francoise Nesmes Anne-Francoise worked at GlaxoSmithKline PLC Chief Financial Officer for over 15 years, where she held a number of Committee Membership finance roles including Senior Vice-President, Not applicable.
Finance, of the global vaccines business unit based in Belgium.
Prior to this, she held finance Skills and Experience roles with John Crane, Tetra Pak, ADP and Anne-Francoise has considerable experience Caterpillar UK.
in the pharmaceutical industry covering all finance activities including R&D, manufacturing, External Appointments commercial and corporate finance.
Background Anne-Francoise resigned on 31 July 2016.
Anne-Francoise was appointed Chief Financial Stock Code: DPH 63 slugline Dechra Annual Report Middle 2016. indd 63 05 09 2016 17:26:52
