Our Marketplace The global animal health market was valued at $30 billion in 2015, a growth of 7% over 2014 at CER.
Read Delivering Our Strategy on pages 13 to 15.
Read about Our Business Model on pages 24 to 27.
Read about our International Footprint on pages 34 and 35.
The Global Market to the increase in the global population and Dechras International The global animal health market was valued at the need for greater farming productivity Footprint $30 billion in 2015, a growth of 7% over 2014 to maximise the use of limited agricultural sales by territory at AER at constant currency.
The market is made resources.
up of two distinct segments, Food producing There is, however, downward pressure in Animal Products FAP i. e. livestock and this sector in recent years as regulators have Companion Animal Products CAP i. e. pets, increasingly focused on reducing the use of which have different financial profiles.
antibiotics due to the potential risk of The FAP market is generally based on large cross-over resistance in humans.
In particular, volumes with pressure on margins due to the EU has taken actions to reduce the high levels of competition, whereas the CAP intensive use of broad spectrum antibiotics in market delivers higher added value especially farm animals.
The US also issued guidance in with specialist or niche products.
Animal April 2012 to phase out the use of medically health customers needs vary across the important antibiotics as growth promoters.
world due to factors such as standards of In the Rest of the World, the focus remains living, disposable income, cultural differences on increasing food safety, meat quality and including dietary preferences for animal improving farming efficiency.
protein, pet ownership, pet care standards Customers Europe 72.8% and veterinarians capabilities.
The primary customers are veterinarians, US 21.8% Food Producing Animal farmers and other major livestock Rest of World 5.4% Products Market integrators.
Products are sold either directly Market Size to large integrators or through veterinarians, This segment covers products or services wholesalers and distributors.
targeted at reducing the incidence and Dechra in the Marketplace spread of disease in livestock.
The global FAP represented 15.4% of our turnover medicines and vaccines market for FAP grew with sales in EU and emerging markets.
by 7% at constant currency in 2015 and Our range of antimicrobial water soluble represented 67% of the overall market.
powders and injectables, targeted mainly at Growth Opportunities swine and poultry, supports the prudent use The growth in this segment has been driven of antibiotics.
The acquisition of Genera in by the rising demand for animal protein due this financial year provides an entry into the 28 28 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 www.
indd 28 05 09 2016 17:25:18 29Strategic Report poultry vaccines market, one of the fastest treatment of chronic diseases contribute to Geographical Split growing sectors of the global animal health an ageing pet population which consumes North America and Western Europe account market in the last five years.
more medication and veterinary services.
for about half of the global animal health market sales.
However, other regions are Our key account managers have an in-depth Customers growing rapidly, notably: knowledge of the market and our customers.
Veterinarians prescribe and generally Our existing business is small but represents a dispense drugs themselves.
In the US alone, growth in Eastern Europe is fuelled by the good base from which we can either increase approximately two-thirds of companion increase in demand for meat, in particular market share or enter into new territories.
animal health prescriptions are fulfilled by poultry: and veterinarians in their practices.
Products Companion Animal Products Market sales in the Rest of the World continue to are sold to veterinarians mainly through Market Size increase due to economic growth and the wholesalers and distributors.
The worldwide medicines and vaccines increased use of vaccines.
market for CAP grew by 7% in 2015 at Dechra in the Marketplace Dechras International Footprint constant currency and represented 33% of We offer a broad range of specialised Dechra competes in the two largest animal the overall market.
Product categories in this pharmaceutical products.
We do not, at this health markets: over 72.8% of our sales market are anti-parasiticides i. e. products time, compete in the anti-parasiticides and are in Europe, 21.8% in the US with 5.4% against ticks, fleas, worms, vaccines, vaccines markets for companion animals.
being in the Rest of the World.
We aim to antimicrobials and other pharmaceuticals.
We continue to grow our established expand our geographical footprint either brands through frequent interaction with our Growth Opportunities organically or through acquisition.
In the last customers, up-to-date marketing campaigns Spending on companion animals is growing few years we opened several subsidiaries and technical support.
We are also globally and pet ownership is increasing in new territories.
In the 2016 financial year, positioning ourselves to capture the growth in both developed and emerging markets.
we completed two acquisitions that open opportunities in emerging markets where pet Advances in diagnostics, greater emphasis access to new geographies for Dechra, ownership is increasing.
on prevention and wellness by veterinarians, including Latin America and Eastern Europe.
improved nutrition and the increase in Source: Vetnosis Market Trends Increased demand for new treatments and medicines as veterinary competencies rise and owners compassion for, and spending on, their pets also grow Preventative treatments increasingly preferred, Growing worldwide fuelling growth of the demand for quality protein vaccines segment We aim to expand our geographical footprint either organically or Risk of price and margin through acquisitions.
Decline in the use pressure due to the of antibiotics in emergence of corporate Western Europe due customers, veterinary buying to concerns over groups and internet antibiotic resistance pharmacies Stock Code: DPH 29 slugline Dechra AR2016 Front.
