Our Business Model Explained Product Development and Regulatory Affairs Our integrated and entrepreneurial approach Delivering the Pipeline Regulatory Environment to product development aims to deliver new Our product pipeline is critical to our future Our Regulatory team understands products successfully and efficiently in the success.
Our novel and generics projects the different regulatory shortest practical time frame.
are very diverse, with the majority building on environments in which we our key therapy areas.
We invest when we Two Skilled Teams operate, specifically the US can identify growth opportunities with a clear The Product Development and Regulatory and Europe as well as other financial return and competitive advantage, Affairs teams include skilled people with the international regulators.
As the focusing on novel therapies to treat unmet expertise and experience to navigate the regulatory hurdles are increasing, needs with intellectual property protection.
hurdles of the development process.
Across we aim to ensure that our staff six locations, project teams manage the wide Our approach aims to ensure we create are updated and have detailed range of projects.
Investment in formulation sustainable growth throughout our targeted knowledge of current legislation.
laboratories in Bladel, Skipton, and Zagreb, global markets.
We strive to anticipate regulatory each with their respective dosage form requirements to avoid delays to Read about Product Development Product Development and Regulatory Affairs expertise, provides the resources required to product launches or disruption to and our Product Pipeline pages 36 and 37. develop novel and generic products production.
Manufacturing Our manufacturing facilities provide a wide Product Development Multi-functional Other Manufacturing range of services which delivers the flexibility The Pharmaceutical Development Team In addition to manufacturing our that the veterinary market requires.
We also Laboratories are integrated with our own products, Skipton, Bladel provide a complete range of products and production capabilities.
The primary objective and Zagreb generate income services i. e. a one-stop shop for external is to formulate and validate products for our through third party manufacturing.
in-house pipeline, which is a major benefit Although the clear focus is on to the Group in order to shorten the time One-Stop Shop Group manufacturing, third party to get a product to market.
Our technical DPM offers an end-to-end service: formulation, manufacturing adds value by making expertise and development capabilities are method validation, stability testing, licensing full use of our unique capabilities and also available to third party customers which support, flexibility in scale of production and Manufacturing our installed capacity.
helps to secure new business.
packaging options to take products to market.
The external offering includes product The supply chain for the majority of products is In-house Outsourced development, formulation, trial short and we offer reliable high service levels.
manufacturing, validation, production Our objective is to deliver exceptional quality and packaging for both human and control throughout.
Strong Dechra Supply Chain and Partnerships Brand Dechra has grown significantly over the past Effective internal ways of working and few years, both through organic growth and strong external partnerships are key to the acquisition.
It has developed a number of successful operation of our supply chains different supply chain models to best serve and is supported by our Dechra Values.
our customers with pharmaceutical, care Our ambition is to continue to develop and diets products in worldwide markets.
DVP EU DVP NA and grow scalable supply chain business In-house and outsourced manufacturing models to meet the needs of our dynamic facilities deliver a range of different product business.
Our priority in the short term is to types including solid dose, liquid and sterile continue with the implementation of a global injectables.
Finished goods are stored Sales and Operations Planning process European Veterinarians US, Canadian and Mexican and delivered to customers using modern across Dechra to integrate our business and and Wholesalers Veterinarians and Distributors See our Group at a Glance warehousing facilities utilising the latest store, optimise supply chain performance.
Export Partners Export Partners pick and pack technology and processes.
indd 25 05 09 2016 17:25:15 Supply Chain and Partnerships Commercialise Manufacture Innovate Integrated Approach Creating Value 26Strategic Report DVP EU DVP EU is committed to marketing products that support the work of veterinarians in many species and which make a difference to the veterinarians, their patients and their customers.
We are expanding the Dechra brand through newly established subsidiaries within the EU and we will continue to develop our international presence through strong relationships with key partners.
Our Expertise We have identified nine core therapeutic sectors where we leverage our expertise: dermatology, ophthalmology, equine medicine, Distribution anaesthesia and analgesia, endocrinology, cardiovascular disease, food producing animal antimicrobials, poultry vaccines, and We employ experienced qualified sales therapeutic and maintenance pet diets.
representatives in all the countries where we have a sales office.
They are In order to forge relationships with customers, technical meetings and highly trained professionals who visit seminars are held to provide a face-to-face programme to educate veterinarians to explain the technical veterinarians on our key therapeutic sectors.
Key opinion leaders, aspects of our products.
Given the at both local and international levels, are recruited for seminars and specialised nature of some of our presentations: additionally, webinars and online interactive educational products, the sales representatives tools are available on the DVP EU website.
engage with veterinarians and discuss how to best treat a disease or a Routes to Market condition.
Our customers are principally veterinarians: however, in most territories the route to market is through wholesalers and, in In most countries, veterinarians a small number of markets, also through pharmacies.
Our order the products they need from a products are distributed through a combination of channels local or national wholesaler of their including direct sales, wholesalers and national distributor choice.
and order veterinary products from all animal health manufacturers, as required, to meet the demand of their customers, the veterinarians.
In the majority of Europe, Dechra DVP NA supplies the wholesalers from our distribution centre in Uldum, Denmark.
DVP NA markets, in the US and Canada, Dechra products for the Occasionally Dechra sells directly to companion animal and equine sectors that solve clinical problems veterinarians, for instance in Germany.
and help veterinarians treat medical conditions.
It also sells Brovel In the countries where we do not products in Mexico.
have a subsidiary and thus a direct Our Expertise sales presence, we trade through Our Dechra brand has gained momentum in the US and in third party partners.
Our selected Canada, building on our strong reputation for customer service, partners market, sell and distribute the quality of an expanding product portfolio, further education Dechras products and retain part of programmes on our key areas of specialisation and high quality the margins.
We currently focus on the following core therapeutic sectors: dermatology, endocrinology, ophthalmology, equine medicine and pain management.
Routes to Market Our customers are primarily small animal and equine veterinarians, of which there are approximately 90,000, working in 26,000 clinics across the US.
In Canada, there are approximately 5,000 veterinarians and 3,400 clinics.
In the US and Canada, veterinarians and clinics are primarily supplied through distributors.
Our sales representatives promote products directly, and also visit clinics together with these distributors.
In Mexico, we sell through numerous local wholesalers.
25 Stock Code: DPH 26 slugline Dechra AR2016 Front.
