Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders Diageo in 2016 DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 01 DIAGEO IN 2016 Diageo is a global leader in beverage alcohol with an outstanding collection of brands across spirits and beer.
Our products are sold in more than 180 countries around the world.
Our brands include Johnnie Walker, Crown Royal, JB, Buchanans and Windsor whiskies, Smirnoff, Croc and Ketel One vodkas, Captain Morgan, Baileys, Don Julio, Tanqueray and Guinness.
Our ambition is to be one of the best performing, most trusted and respected consumer products companies in the world.
We are proud of the brands we make and the enjoyment they give to millions.
We are passionate about alcohol playing a positive role in society as part of a balanced lifestyle.
This is central to our purpose to help people celebrate life.
For more information about Diageo, our people and our brands, visit www.
Visit Diageos global responsible drinking resource, www.
com, for information, initiatives, and ways to share best practice.
In addition, Diageo has prepared a Sustainability & Responsibility Performance Addendum 2016, which is available on www.
It outlines further economic, social and environmental disclosures in line with the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability G4 Guidelines and the United Nations Global Compact advanced reporting criteria.
Cover image Johnnie Walker Black Label on the Contents bottling line at Shieldhall, one of our two packaging sites in Scotland.
Johnnie Walker Black Label is created using Strategic report only whiskies aged for a minimum of 12 years from the four corners of Scotland.
Our business 02 Our global reach 03 Diageo is listed on both the London Stock Exchange DGE and the New York Stock Our brands 04 Exchange DEO.
Breadth and depth across price points 05 This is the Annual Report 2016 of Diageo plc for the year ended 30 June 2016 and it is Our strategy 06 dated 28 July 2016.
The Annual Report is made available to all shareholders on Diageos website www.
Our business model 07 This report includes names of Diageos products, which constitute trademarks or How we measure performance: key performance indicators 08 trade names which Diageo owns or which others own and license to Diageo for use.
Chairmans statement 10 In this report, the term company refers to Diageo plc and the terms group and Diageo refer to the company and its consolidated subsidiaries, except as the context otherwise requires.
Chief Executives statement 12 Diageos consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Market dynamics 14 International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European How we will deliver our Performance Ambition 16 Union EU and IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
References to IFRS hereafter should be construed as references to both IFRS, as adopted How we protect our business: risk management and principal risks 19 by the EU, and IFRS, as issued by the IASB.
Unless otherwise indicated, all financial Group financial review 22 information contained in this document has been prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Business reviews 28 Unless otherwise stated in this document, percentage movements refer to organic movements which are non-GAAP financial measures.
For a definition of organic Category review 38 movement and reconciliations of non-GAAP measure to GAAP measures see page 50.
Sustainability & Responsibility review 40 Share, unless otherwise stated, refers to value share.
Unless otherwise stated in this Definitions and reconciliations of non-GAAP measures document, the percentage figures presented are reflective of a year-on-year comparison, namely 2015-2016, only.
to GAAP measures 50 The brand ranking information presented in this report, when comparing information with competitors, reflects data published by sources such as IWSR, Impact Databank, Governance Nielsen, Beverage Information Group and Plato Logic.
Market data information and Board of Directors and Company Secretary 56 competitive set classifications are taken from independent industry sources in the markets in which Diageo operates.
Executive Committee 57 Diageo plc 2016 Corporate governance report 58 Diageo plc is incorporated as a public limited company in England and Wales.
Diageo Report of the Audit Committee 63 was incorporated as Arthur Guinness Son and Company Limited on 21 October 1886.
Directors remuneration report 66 The group was formed by the merger of Grand Metropolitan Public Limited Company Directors report 86 GrandMet and Guinness PLC the Guinness Group in December 1997.
Diageo plcs principal executive office is located at Lakeside Drive, Park Royal, London NW10 7HQ and its telephone number is 44 0 20 8978 6000.
Financial statements 88 Cautionary statement: this document contains forward-looking statements.
For our full cautionary statement, please see on page 156.
Additional information for shareholders 154 PDF Page: v2 Pg01New 5thAug.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016
