02 DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 Our business Diageo has built a strong platform for OUR BUSINESS growth.
We have grown through investment in our brands, and by acquisition to broaden Diageo is a global leader in beverage alcohol with our geographical footprint and category depth and range.
iconic brands across spirits and beer.
We truly i Our 21 market model has established strong local business units, well positioned understand the consumer and have world-class to win in increasingly competitive and fast marketing and innovation skills to build powerful paced operating environments.
We want to make a positive contribution brands that play a positive role in society.
to society, to communities, to individuals, and to the environment while continuing to prosper as a business.
We actively create the shared value that is part of our heritage, and essential to our future.
Strength through global reach and iconic brands Doing business the right way We build global brands alongside For us, standards are everything, from how local stars.
These brands have broad we produce and market our brands, to how we consumer appeal across geographies to innovate and sell, and in governance and ethics meet demand now and in the future.
as codified in our Code of Business Conduct.
We produce We innovate We market We sell We produce our brands Innovation is a mindset For decades our brands have Everyone at Diageo sells or from more than 150 sites in driving everything we do and been at the forefront of understands how they can around 30 countries.
We are an important growth engine marketing innovation and help sell.
This is just one committed to efficient, for our business.
We combine the same remains true today.
expression of the sales-led sustainable production to our world-leading technical We invest in world-class organisation we are building.
and research capability with marketing to build our brands, We work to extend our Our export-led International investments in smaller start-ups.
focused on programmes which sales reach by ensuring our Supply Centre ISC employs We partner with entrepreneurs recruit and re-recruit consumers.
products are available where over 4,000 people across more to actively experiment in digital We take our obligations to people want them and than 55 sites in Scotland, technology, new business market responsibly and help by delivering memorable England, Ireland, Italy and models and partnerships consumers make informed consumer experiences.
to solve business issues and decisions seriously.
Our role in society Everywhere we operate, we set our purpose celebrating life, provide the information entrepreneurship, employability out to have a positive impact every day, everywhere.
We are consumers need to make and skills: improving access on the world around us.
Doing also committed to tackling informed decisions.
to clean water, sanitation so is good for our business, for alcohol misuse through effective Our distilleries and breweries and hygiene: and helping our communities and for our programmes that prevent and are at the very heart of the to empower women.
reduce alcohol misuse, and work communities in which we work, By reducing carbon At the core of our approach with others to raise awareness which gives us an opportunity to packaging, water and waste is a commitment to create a and change peoples attitudes create shared value.
To do this, we now, we are reducing our positive role for alcohol in and behaviour.
We market our work hard to increase access to environmental impact to society.
This is fundamental to products responsibly and opportunity through: enabling support future opportunities.
i Throughout this Annual Report 2016, reference to Diageos 21 geographically based markets are stated as 21 markets.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016
