36 DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 Business reviews: Asia Pacific Net sales by markets Net sales by categories Net sales by price points ASIA % % % PACIFIC i South East Asia Global Travel, Spirits RTDs Value Super premium Asia and Greater China Beer Other Standard Ultra premium Middle East India Wine Premium Australia North Asia i excluding RTDs Key financials Our strategy in Asia Pacific, which Acquisitions and Organic Reported encompasses both developed and 2015 Exchange disposals movement Net sales 2016 movement ii million million million million adjustment million % emerging markets, is to operate Net sales 2,213 21 28 34 122 2,076 6 across categories in international Marketing 344 1 42 301 13 spirits, local spirits, ready to drink Operating profit before exceptional formats and beer.
We focus on the items 356 5 44 395 11 highest growth categories and Exceptional consumer opportunities, driving i operating items 193 49 continued development of super Operating profit 163 346 112 and ultra premium scotch, and i Disengagement agreement relating to USL in 2016. ii For further detail see page 25. leveraging the emerging middle class opportunity through a in India and further 34 are licensed to we operate through third party distributors.
combination of organic growth produce USL and Diageo brands.
In addition, In North Asia, we have our own distribution and selective acquisitions.
we have bottling plants in Korea, Thailand, company in South Korea, whilst in Japan, the Indonesia and Australia with ready to drink majority of sales are through joint venture Our markets manufacturing capabilities.
agreements with Mot Hennessy and Kirin.
Asia Pacific comprises South East Asia Airport shops and airline operators are Vietnam, Thailand, Philippines, Indonesia, Route to consumer serviced through a dedicated Diageo sales Malaysia, Singapore, Cambodia, Laos, In South East Asia, spirits and beer are and marketing organisation.
In the Middle East, we sell our products through third Myanmar, Nepal and Sri Lanka, Greater China soldthrough a combination of Diageo China, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macau, India, companies, joint venture arrangements, and party distributors.
Global Travel Asia and Middle East, Australia third party distributors.
In Thailand, Malaysia including New Zealand, and North Asia and Singapore, we have joint venture Sustainability and responsibility Asia Pacific is a region of many and varied Korea and Japan.
arrangements with Mot Hennessy, sharing administrative and distribution costs.
Diageo markets, and our 21-market business model Supply operations operates wholly owned subsidiaries in the enables us to address key issues and We have distilleries at Chengdu, in China Philippines and Vietnam.
In Vietnam we own opportunities by market.
Within the context of the Global Producers Commitments, our that produce Chinese white spirit and in a 45.56% equity stake in Hanoi Liquor Joint Bundaberg, Australia that produce rum.
In Indonesia, Guinness is responsible drinking programmes focus on United Spirits Limited USL operates 27 brewed by, and distributed through, third the issues highest on the agenda in each owned manufacturing facilities in India party arrangements.
For example, in Indonesia and Vietnam we focus particularly on illicit alcohol: including one in Nepal, leases 13 facilities In Greater China the majority of our brands are now sold through our wholly in India on drink driving: in Australia on owned subsidiary.
Some brands are consumer information and preventing distributed through a joint venture underage and binge drinking.
Our new DRINKiQ site, launched in January 2016, was arrangement with Mot Hennessy.
In addition, we are the sole distributor of Shui particularly well received in Australia.
Jing Fang, a super premium Chinese white Likewise we tailor our sustainability spirit, through our controlling 39.71% equity programmes to each market.
Our operations in India have the highest concentration of stake in a listed company.
Diageo operates a wholly owned subsidiary in Taiwan.
sites in water-stressed areas, so water, and In India, we manufacture, market and sell the wider WASH agenda is a key focus there.
Indian whisky, rum, brandy and other spirits In Thailand and China, female empowerment is a significant issue, which we address through our 54.78% shareholding in USL.
Diageo also sells its own brands through USL.
directly through our Plan W programme.
In Australia, we manufacture, market and sell the Diageo products and in NewZealand PDF Page: v2 Pg36New.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders Business reviews: Asia Pacific DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 37 Net sales in Asia Pacific grew 2% as a KEY HIGHLIGHTS Challenge and McDowells No.
1 were result of growth in India, South East Asia relaunched during the year performed South East Asia net sales were up 16% and Australia.
In China, Chinese white and contributed to growth with Royal as it lapped the inventory reduction last spirits grew while scotch declined and the Challenge net sales up 54%.
In Thailand performance improved shift towards lower ABV products in Korea grew 17% as Black Dog grew 23% and after a weak first half with net sales led to a decline in net sales.
Global Travel Johnnie Walker grew 22% with strong growing in the second half as the launch Asia and Middle East business declined performance in Johnnie Walker Black of Smirnoff Midnight 100 ready to drink primarily due to the geopolitical Label, Johnnie Walker Red Label and offset the decline in scotch, which gained developments in the Middle East.
The Johnnie Walker Blue Label.
The integration share in a declining category.
In Indonesia changes made to improve performance in of Diageos brands into USL has created net sales increased 1% as Guinness grew USL led to net sales growth of 5% in India, an exceptionally strong brand portfolio due to the focus on the on-trade post largely driven by growth in IMFL whisky in India that participates across all price regulations restricting sale of alcohol in and scotch.
Net sales in South East Asia tiers in the IMFL and imported spirits the off-trade were introduced last year.
grew 16% as the inventory reduction segments.
As a result of the focus on Vietnam was impacted by the special experienced last year ended.
Australia route to consumer, 20% of outlets are consumption tax on imported products net sales grew 2% driven by scotch and now meeting perfect outlet standards introduced in January 2016 resulting in a Guinness.
Reserve brands net sales grew driving recruitment and brand building.
Reserve brands 4% largely driven by the strong Gross margin improved 99bps with the performance was strong with net sales performance of Shui Jing Fang in China growth of prestige and above brands up 27% led by Johnnie Walker Gold Label and Johnnie Walker in South East Asia.
driving positive mix and productivity Reserve and Johnnie Walker Blue Label.
Margin improved 176bps as a result of initiatives that reduced the cost of goods Greater China net sales were down 2%.
reducing marketing in India with the sold.
Operating margin improved 702bps In mainland China, scotch declined 42% termination of USL related party as a result of gross margin improvement, as the continued weakness in premium agreements, and for Johnnie Walker Black lower marketing and the sale by USL of scotch in the traditional on-trade channel Label and Johnnie Walker Blue Label in United Breweries Limited shares.
resulted in distributors reducing China.
The sale by USL of United Breweries Global Travel Asia and Middle East inventory, although Diageo gained share Limited shares also contributed to net sales declined 15% largely driven by in the super deluxe scotch segment.
the Middle East where net sales declined Chinese white spirits net sales grew 19% 20% as geopolitical developments led to as growth in the second half was lower weak performance in the domestic and due to a tougher prior year comparison.
Global Travel Asia In Taiwan net sales grew 8% driven by net sales declined 7% as a result of lower growth in Johnnie Walker.
spend by travellers and currency volatility.
India net sales were up 5%, driven by Australia net sales increased 2% with the premiumisation strategy with good growth in scotch, vodka, liqueurs and gin growth in Prestige and above brands offsetting the decline in the ready to and popular brands net sales flat.
In rum, strong growth of Captain Morgan both in ready to drink and spirits categories, offset the decline Reported Organic Reported Organic volume volume net sales net sales in Bundaberg.
Reserve brands were up movement movement movement movement 7% largely driven by Johnnie Walker, as Markets and categories: % % % % consumers continue to premiumise Asia Pacific 3 2 6 within the spirits category.
India 4 5 11 North Asia net sales were down 5%.
In South East Asia 3 3 16 15 Korea, net sales declined 10%, as Windsor Greater China 5 5 2 suffered from increased competition in Global Travel Asia and Middle East 9 9 15 14 the traditional on-trade with net sales Australia 2 2 2 5 down 20% which offset growth from North Asia 6 6 5 6 W-Ice, an innovation in the growing lower i Spirits 3 1 7 ABV premium whisky segment.
In Japan, Beer 8 8 7 4 net sales were up 8% largely driven by Ready to drink 3 3 3 8 scotch net sales growing 21% capitalising on the growth of the brown spirits Reported Organic Reported segment.
volume net sales net sales ii movement movement movement i Marketing was 12% lower driven by % % % Global giants and local stars : reductions on Johnnie Walker Black Label Johnnie Walker 4 2 2 and Johnnie Walker Blue Label in China McDowell's 2 16 and India where marketing reduced as Windsor 4 10 12 a result of termination of USL related Smirnoff 4 7 9 party agreements.
Guinness 8 7 4 Bundaberg 5 3 10 Shui Jing Fang 55 20 22 i Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
ii Reported equals organic volume movement except for McDowells 0%.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016
