Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders How we protect our business: Risk management and principal risks DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 19 Our Performance Ambition calls on us to be HOW WE PROTECT bold and to act like owners.
Well managed OUR BUSINESS: risk taking lies at the heart of this.
Great risk management drives better commercial Risk management decisions, creating a growing, resilient and principal risks and sustainable business.
Our approach updates to risks and or mitigation plans while the developing sphere of data privacy Our risk management framework is made as necessary.
is introduced as a principal risk this year.
We believe that great risks also range from immediate threats such Further details about the groups risk risk management starts with the right as cyber and political violence, to responding management approach are described in the conversations, to drive better business to the longer-term aims around embedding Report of the Audit Committee on page 63. decisions.
We assign clear accountability for sustainability deeply throughout our Focus in the year managing our risks in the right way.
Our Risk Management global The Diageo Executive and Board considered responsibility of each market and function to standard emphasises leadership behaviours the risks described here as the groups manage its risks directly, and then to report and on ensuring risk management is a basic principal risks for this financial year.
Our on the risks and their management to the part of doing business every day.
principal risks fall into several categories relevant Executive member.
The Diageo Following the vote in the UK referendum and comprise operational, and essentially Executive reviews the effectiveness of risk to leave the EU, we are building on our internal, risks such as talent, to those management through the Audit & Risk existing risk planning, and work closely with responding to a fast changing and Committee, and the Board exercises our industry bodies to seek clarity on the increasingly volatile external environment, independent review through the Audit transition process.
including economic and political change, The Audit Committee also receives Committee, supported by Global Audit and the risk posed by critical industry & Risk.
The Diageo Executive updates the periodic updates on emerging or topical developments.
The increased focus on groups risk assessment annually, which risks.
During the year, the Audit Committee international tax systems has been captured is reviewed by the Board.
Similarly, all received an update on data privacy, which in a separate risk.
The fundamental explained the new EU General Data Protection markets and functions perform annual risk importance of operating in the right way in assessments and, at all levels in the business, Regulation, the broader global context of everything we do is reflected in the risk on risks are reviewed throughout the year, with changing regulations in this area, and our non-compliance with laws and regulations, plan for managing the associated risks.
Viability Statement annual report with a reasonable degree of unfavourable exchange movements In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 assurance while still providing a longer-term in foreign currencies, mainly the euro revision of the UK Corporate Governance perspective.
and US dollar against sterling, and also The three-year business plan is based Code, the Directors have assessed the potential failure to adapt to, or prospects of the group over a longer period on our current strategy.
This plan has been participate in, critical industry than the 12 months required by the Going stress tested by modelling severe but developments Concern statement.
The Directors confirm plausible downside scenarios linked to The principal risks considered in the most principal risks.
In order to reflect the most that they have a reasonable expectation likely combination of downside scenarios that the company will continue to operate likely combination of principal risks affecting V are identified with the symbol on and meets its liabilities, as they fall due, over the business at one time, a combination of page 20 and 21. the next three years from 30 June 2016. the following scenarios was also modelled: Testing also considers the effectiveness severe marketing and or route to market The Directors assessment has been made of mitigation actions and internal control by considering our current position and or fiscal changes are introduced by local systems, makes certain assumptions about prospects, our strategy, the Boards risk governments, temporary reduction in discretionary appetite, and our principal risks and the potential impact of material negative cash flows including capital expenditures how these are managed, as set out on changes in the macroeconomic and dividend payments, and considers pages 2021 in the Strategic report.
environment that could impact the whether additional financing facilities Although the prospects of the company emerging markets, that generated will be required.
are considered over a longer period the 29% of our operating profit before Based on the results of this analysis the Directors believe that a three-year exceptional items for the year ended Directors confirm they have a reasonable assessment is most appropriate as it aligns 30 June 2016, expectation that the group will be able with our normal and well established lower level of synergies captured from to continue in operation and meet its three-year strategic business planning the acquisitions that have been made liabilities as they fall due over the period processes and presents readers of the in recent years, to 30 June 2019.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016 20 DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 How we protect our business: Risk management and principal risks Relevance to strategy Efficient growth Consistent value creation Credibility and trust Motivated people Risk Impact How we mitigate Developments in 2016 One or more Our Alcohol in Society targets include No significant new national regulations against 1.
Responsible alcohol governments impose implementation of Global Producers alcohol, but restrictive national policies are being promotion and restrictions on access Commitments to Reduce Harmful Drinking considered in several markets and three Indian states consumption and or increase tax and and increased focus on programmes in have introduced full or partial prohibition.
Failure to address the or duty.
Several countries increased taxes to raise revenue concerns of multiple Damage to our corporate Strengthen industry response and stakeholder rather than reduce alcohol misuse.
engagement at global and local level.
We introduced new alcohol and nutrition Consumer promotion and consumption V Increase knowledge about alcohol among Information Standards, and relaunched our of alcohol.
stakeholders and consumers by providing responsible drinking website, DRINKiQ, in 25 markets information on packaging, online and via and 12 languages.
We incorporated the Global Producers Commitments to Reduce Harmful Drinking into our business performance review cycle.
Social unrest, liquidity On-the-ground market and country Workshop-based scenario planning exercises 2.
Economic and issues, generalised intelligence to build local preparedness for undertaken in several higher volatility markets to political change downturn, currency rapid change in external environment.
strengthen response to uncertain conditions.
Significant local volatility instability, inflationary Market visits by Chief Executive and other Scenario planning tools introduced into our market or upheaval, uncertainty pressures, possible senior executives to review local strategy.
or failure to react quickly changes to customs enough to increasing Market-sensitive multi-country investment and UK referendum on EU membership has resulted in a duties and tariffs and or volatility, including the UK capacity expansion strategy, and local sourcing vote to leave the EU and is likely to result in a sustained eroded consumer V referendum on the EU.
strategy e. g. to minimise currency risk.
period of economic and political uncertainty and confidence, impacting complexity.
our peoples safety, our Cross-functional steering group keeping risks assets security, business of UK exit from the EU under review.
Consumers move away Highly diversified portfolio of brands to ensure Our mitigation approaches remain unchanged, and 3.
Critical industry from our brands.
we have continued to deploy them in response to developments industry changes.
Less efficient business Continuous assessment and optimisation Failure to shape or participate model compared to key of business efficiencies.
For example, we are piloting a range of digital routein critical industry competitors.
to-consumer technologies with technology partners.
Rigorous processes of strategy development and governance at corporate and market level.
Systematic review of emerging consumer and route-to-consumer trends including potential disruptive technologies.
Failure to achieve our Significant focus and intervention on moving Increased rigour in succession planning process 4.
talent into key local roles in developing markets and more investment in pipeline development Inability to recruit, retain and in accelerating development of highe.
and develop sufficient potential emerging market talent.
Significant investment in commercial learning with commercial and marketing Strengthened learning and development multiple programmes to embed global commercial talent, especially in new areas strategy across the business.
e. g. digital and at senior levels in developing markets.
Proactive talent acquisition strategy for key Targeted external searches resulting in deeper risk areas.
understanding of key talent segments and multiple appointments in critical pipelines e. g. Africa, beer, digital.
Severe damage to our Code of Business Conduct Code and periodic Further embedding control and compliance 5.
Non-compliance corporate reputation training to refresh employees on our global frameworks in recent acquisitions.
with laws and and or significant policies.
Comprehensive Code refresh with global employee regulations financial penalty.
Internal control assurance programme, launch campaign.
Non-compliance with local with local management accountability.
Enhanced automation of controls in our core business laws or regulations, or breach Strong tone from the top, anchored by processes through systems configuration and the of our internal global policies our Performance Ambition of most trusted implementation of continuous monitoring technology.
and standards and or and respected.
significant internal control Implementation of an automated tool to improve the breakdown.
efficiency of our anti-bribery and corruption third party due diligence programme.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders How we protect our business: Risk management and principal risks DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 21 Risk Impact How we mitigate Developments in 2016 Long-term damage to Sustainability & Responsibility Strategy based Alignment of strategy to UN Global Goals and 6.
Sustainability our corporate reputation on material issues and stakeholder introduction of impact framework to improve & responsibility and sustained expectations at global and market level.
assessment towards 2020 targets, with market-based Failure to meet the performance.
Programmed delivery against a clear set of expectations of stakeholders Less influence shaping targets aligned to external stakeholders.
Introduction of human rights impact assessment to make a positive the citizenship and programme supporting UN Guiding Principles on Development of partnerships with external contribution to the sustainability agenda as Human Rights.
stakeholders to support delivery and scale sustainability agenda.
it relates to beverage up of strategy.
Development of sustainable agriculture platform alcohol.
and stronger local raw materials sourcing.
Water management embedded into supply chain, and extension of Water of Life community programmes.
Increase in the cost of Ongoing review of business strategy and tax Preparation and development of process to comply 7. International tax doing business arising policy in light of changing rules and with country by country reporting requirements Significant changes to the from an increase in our stakeholder expectations.
Development of process to comply with the new international tax environment Effective Tax Rate.
Monitoring and, where appropriate, expressing transfer pricing documentation requirements.
such as the OECD Base Changing tax laws lead views on the formulation of tax laws either Erosion and Profit Shifting to unexpected tax directly or through trade associations or initiative and EU anti-tax exposures and similar bodies.
abuse measures alter our uncertainty.
Business case for an Board and Executive Committee regularly track We have continued to monitor the M&A environment 8. Business acquisition is not actual performance against the business case.
acquisitions delivered leading to Global minimum standards for control and Our focus has been on embedding recent acquisitions Failure to deliver value from impairment charges and compliance for post-acquisition entities, e. g. USL and Don Julio, making sure we have the right acquisitions and or integrate failure to meet targets.
subject to internal audit review.
governance and integration platforms in place.
them into Diageo effectively, Market confidence in including failure to embed Diageos ability to deliver Diageos standards of its strategy is weakened.
compliance with laws, internal policies and Prospects for securing V controls.
regulatory approval in future are harmed.
Financial loss, Mandatory security training for all employees, Strengthened rapid emergency response capability 9.
Cyber threat operational disruption with new joiners automatically enrolled, and to tackle serious attacks and breaches.
Theft, loss and and reputational follow-up of non-compliance.
Enhanced technical measures to block phishing misappropriation of our most damage.
Regular phishing exercise for high-risk employees.
Non-compliance with Cyber crisis response exercises held to rehearse Increased capacity to deal with network denial of statutory data protection plans and train crisis teams.
Use of security analytics to identify threats.
Stronger oversight of third party provider compliance to our security standards.
Independent penetration testing to assess effectiveness of security measures.
Diageo employees, Monitoring of local security situation.
Standardised and strengthened above-market security 10.
Politically sites or supply chain assessment process.
motivated violence In-country security managers oversee people threatened and or security, physical security and business Re-instigated intelligence analyst role to monitor Impacts from politically harmed.
specific terrorist groups and high risk regions.
motivated violence, Our ability to operate in Above-market travel security programme for Improved understanding of terrorist cyber threat.
Aboveand in-market liaison with government, academia, and industry on evolving threats and responding to incidents.
Harm to trust and or Data Privacy global risk assessment to Publication of new EU General Data Protection 11.
Data privacy reputation of Diageo, understand full range of specific risks and Regulation GDPR in the Official Journal on 4 May Breach of laws or regulations.
A milestone in the regulation of peoples personal information in the EU.
Fines of up to 24% Briefings to Board, Executive and other senior of global turnover.
leadership on impact and implications of new Know Your Data global campaign launched with key EU Data Protection Regulation.
steps for markets to identify and mitigate data risk.
Significant restriction in ability to deliver our Use of Privacy Impact Assessments in key GDPR workshops have begun in key business areas.
digital productivity and risk areas of business concerning the proper growth plans.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016
