06 DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 Our strategy We aim to grow our participation in Our intent is to build breadth and depth OUR STRATEGY international premium spirits, driven by across drinking occasions by shaping growth in both populations and incomes, consumer demand for our international We pursue the following and the increasing penetration of spirits premium spirits brands.
In developed markets in emerging markets.
To support this, we our strategy is to drive premiumisation strategy to deliver our participate in both beer and mainstream through spirits price tiers up to our reserve spirits selectively to deliver organisational portfolio.
In emerging markets our strategy is Performance Ambition: scale and distribution reach, and to shape to develop from an import-based premium responsible drinking trends in markets spirits model to become a local player where where international premium spirits is appropriate, participating in categories that an emerging category.
give us the scale and access to the fast growing middle-class consumer.
Everywhere we operate, we do so in a responsible and sustainable way.
Prioritised investment in: Targeted investment in: i i Premium core spirits Reserve Mainstream spirits Beer The brands at the core of our Exceptional spirits brands at Spirits-based brands priced at a Provides local scale and route business that provide both above-premium price points to similar amount per serve to to consumer, with focused scale and strong margin capture the global luxury mainstream beer or local spirits participation in markets where contribution.
that enable us to shape local we have leadership positions.
Outcomes of our strategy Efficient growth Credibility and trust Consistent value creation Motivated people We measure progress against our strategy using the following financial and non-financial indicators: Organic net sales growth Return on average Reach and impact of Health and safety invested capital responsible drinking Organic operating margin E mployee programmes Total shareholder return improvement engagement index Water efficiency Earnings per share before exceptional items Carbon emissions Free cash flow See our key performance indicators KPIs pages: 89. i Spirits include ready to drinks RTDs.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016
