28 DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 Business reviews: North America Net sales by markets Net sales by categories Net sales by price points NORTH % % % AMERICA i US Spirits Canada Spirits RTDs Value Super premium DGUSA Other Beer Other Standard Ultra premium Wine Premium i excluding RTDs Key financials North America, the largest market Acquisitions and Organic Reported for premium drinks in the world, 2015 Exchange disposals movement 2016 movement million million million million million % accounts for about a third of our Net sales 3,455 172 159 97 3,565 3 net sales and around half of Marketing 542 23 14 10 541 operating profit.
North America Operating profit before exceptional items 1,448 77 30 56 1,551 7 continues to be a very vibrant Exceptional market and we are focused on operating items 28 setting the business up for longOperating profit 1,420 1,551 9 term growth.
In the year, we disposed of our wine assets in Manitoba: Tullahoma, Tennessee and States.
Diageo Canada distributes our collection of spirits and beer brands across all the United States, and our new Louisville, Kentucky.
Over the last five years, we have made significant changes to our Canadian provinces, which generally operate management team have made supply footprint in North America as we through a provincial control system.
Diageo a number of changes to refocus focus on continuously improving efficiency Canada operates through a single broker marketing activity, upweight on with a dedicated sales force handling our across our supply chain.
Since 2010 we have premise activity, and enhance invested more than $250 million 160 brands in the country.
National brand million in our network and people to strategy, strategic accounts marketing and distributor relationships.
deliver world-class manufacturing and corporate functions are managed at the North America level.
Our markets North America business is headquartered Route to consumer Sustainability and responsibility in Norwalk, Connecticut, and comprises US Route to consumer in the United States is Through our focus on responsible drinking Spirits, Diageo Guinness USA DGUSA and we have built a reputation as a leading voice through the three-tier system and we Diageo Canada.
distribute our products through in the industry in North America, our largest approximately 40 spirits distributors and market.
2015 saw the successful culmination Supply operations brokers, and more than 400 beer distributors.
of our 12-year campaign for alcohol We have nine bottling, distilling, blending companies to be allowed to include alcohol We have a unique route to consumer for our and maturation sites including operations spirits business in the United States, with content and nutritional information per serve in Plainfield, Illinois: Amherstburg, Ontario: approximately 3,000 dedicated distributor on packaging.
In October we followed this Valleyfield, Quebec: Relay, Maryland: Gimli, sales people focused only on Diageo and by putting macro nutritional labels on our Crown Royal packaging a first for any Mot Hennessy spirits brands.
We consolidate our US Spirits business into a alcohol company.
single distributor or broker in 41 states and Operational sustainability is another key the District of Columbia, representing more issue for us.
We have introduced rigorous water management procedures across our than 80% of our US Spirits volume.
The US Spirits business operates through North America sites.
For example, at our three divisions in open states where we sell George Dickel distillery in Tullahoma, to distributors who then sell to retailers, and Tennessee, all water is either reused or through two division in control states where returned to the local water source without we sell to the state, which in turn sells to impact, resulting in zero wastewater leaving state or agency stores and on premise the site.
Our focus on improving energy retailers.
DGUSA sells and markets brands efficiency and reducing carbon emissions including Guinness and Smirnoff Ice.
Beer has made North America Diageos bestdistribution generally follows the three-tier performing region for this metric.
open state regulations across the United PDF Page: v2 Pg28New.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders Business reviews: North America DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 29 North America delivered net sales KEY HIGHLIGHTS largely driven by reserve variants, up 23%.
growth of 3%, following the expected Buchanans net sales were up 9% and Net sales in US Spirits were up 3%, with strong performance in the second half share increased, as the A lo Grande a 10% net sales increase in the second in US Spirits.
Full year depletion and net campaign enhanced the connection with half following a transition to a sales growth in US Spirits was 3%.
Increased replenishment model for innovation in North American whiskey, scotch and investment in the on-trade and focus on launches.
Diageos North American tequila drove positive mix.
North American recruiting new consumers amongst whiskey brands accounted for half of the whiskey, with net sales up 6%, was the millenials had a positive impact on overall net sales growth as Crown Royal main driver of net sales growth as Crown Captain Morgan, which gained share and Bulleit continued to gain share.
Royal and Bulleit continued to gain share in despite weakness in the rum category.
Crown Royal net sales increased 5%, with the category.
Performance of Smirnoff and Net sales for the brand were up 2%, net sales of Crown Royal Deluxe up 5% Captain Morgan improved, with net sales largely driven by the Original Spiced as it benefited from the new The One up 2% for both brands.
In scotch, Johnnie variant and Cannon Blast, which proved Made For A King campaign which Walker and Buchanans both performed to be popular in the shot occasion.
Don focused on the quality and heritage of well, with net sales up 7% and 9%, Julio, with net sales up 34%, was the the brand.
Crown Royal Regal Apple respectively.
Reserve brands performance fastest growing brand in the portfolio continued to benefit from the popularity also improved, with net sales up 5%, driven and gained share.
of the shot occasion and delivered a solid by Johnnie Walker reserve variants, Bulleit, performance, with net sales up 15%, as it DGUSA net sales increased 1%, as Don Julio and Ketel One vodka.
Elsewhere entered its second year after launch.
Croc growth in ready to drink offset a decline in the region DGUSA net sales grew 1%, performance improved in the second in beer.
In ready to drink the launch of with growth in ready to drink offsetting a half, as the brand benefited from the Smirnoff Electric and a solid performance decline in beer, and in Canada net sales launch of its Apple flavour.
Smirnoff net of Smirnoff Ice, which benefited from were up 4%.
Marketing in North America sales were up 2% but it underperformed new flavours and packaging, drove net was down 2% as a result of procurement the vodka category.
Growth from a more sales growth of 7%.
Beer net sales were efficiencies and more focused spend on focused flavours portfolio and the newly down 3% largely driven by a decline in innovation.
Operating margin increased launched Smirnoff Sourced, a blend of Smithwick and Harp.
Guinness net sales 39bps for the year, as improvement in real fruit juice and spirit, offset a decline were broadly flat as the launch of gross margin and lower marketing more in Smirnoff Red which lapped last years Guinness Nitro IPA offset the net sales than offset higher overheads.
brand renovation and promotional decline of Guinness American Blonde activity and continued to be impacted Lager, which lapped the previous year by a competitive price environment.
launch, and Guinness draught which Performance in scotch improved as continued to be impacted by a crowded Johnnie Walkers net sales increased 7%, craft beer segment.
Net sales in Canada increased 4%, largely driven by Crown Royal, which benefited Reported Organic Reported Organic volume volume net sales net sales from the launch of Crown Royal Northern movement movement movement movement Harvest Rye, rated 2016 world whiskey of Markets and categories: % % % % the year by Jim Murrays Whiskey Bible, North America 1 1 3 3 distribution gains, and the We Make US Spirits 1 1 3 4 Whisky The Canadian Way campaign, DGUSA 3 1 5 which highlights the brands quality and Canada 2 2 4 5 craftmanship.
Performance in vodka and i ready to drink was also good, with net Spirits 1 1 3 8 sales up 2% and 6%, respectively.
Beer 3 7 2 2 Marketing reduced 2% driven by Ready to drink 4 1 5 7 procurement efficiencies and more Reported Organic Reported focused spend on innovations.
Spend volume net sales net sales ii was also focused against the largest movement movement movement i Global giants and local stars : % % % brands in US Spirits, with investment in Crown Royal 6 6 12 Smirnoff, Crown Royal and Captain Smirnoff 1 2 6 Morgan up 6%, and fast growing brands Captain Morgan 3 2 6 such as Don Julio, Bulleit and Buchanans Johnnie Walker 5 10 where investment was up 16%.
Ketel One vodka 2 4 10 Croc 6 7 1 Baileys 2 4 Guinness 5 Tanqueray 5 7 13 Don Julio 30 34 42 Bulleit 25 28 36 Buchanans 3 9 16 i Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
ii Reported equals organic volume movement.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016
