Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders Corporate governance report DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 59 In addition, Executive Committee members and other senior BOARD OF DIRECTORS executives are invited, as appropriate, to Board and strategy meetings to make presentations on their areas of responsibility.
All Directors are also provided with the opportunity, and Membership of the Board and Board Committees encouraged, to attend regular training to ensure they are kept up to The Chairmen, Senior Non-Executive Director and other members date on relevant legal developments or changes and best practice of the Board, Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and and changing commercial and other risks.
Remuneration Committee are as set out in this Annual Report in the biographies of Directors and members of the Executive Committee.
Performance evaluation There is a clear separation of the roles of the Chairman and the During the year an evaluation of the Boards effectiveness, including Chief Executive.
The Chairman, Dr Franz B Humer, is responsible for the effectiveness of the Audit Committee, the Nomination the running of the Board and for ensuring all Directors are fully Committee and the Remuneration Committee was undertaken informed of matters, sufficient to make informed judgements.
As internally by way of written questionnaire followed by the Chairman Chief Executive, Ivan Menezes has responsibility for implementing of the Board meeting individually with all Directors.
the strategy agreed by the Board and for managing the company A report was prepared and presented, with the conclusion that and the group.
He is supported in this role by the Executive the Board and its Committees continued to operate effectively, Committee.
meeting the requirements and spirit of the Code.
The climate within The Non-Executive Directors, all of whom the Board has the Board, its capability and the diversity of Board members, were determined are independent, are experienced and influential again seen as significant factors which contributed to the Boards individuals from a range of industries, backgrounds and countries.
No individual or group dominates the Boards decision-making There were, nevertheless, areas identified as being of a particular processes.
focus: executive engagement, aimed at building the relationship On 19 May 2016, it was announced that Javier Ferrn would between the Board and the executive team: understanding be appointed to the Board on 22 July 2016 and would succeed consumer insights and trends and the competitive performance: Dr Humer as Chairman on 1 January 2017. and investor relations, including the communication strategy and execution.
A further objective was succession to the Board, in A summary of the terms and conditions of appointment of the Nonparticular finding a successor to the Chairman, which has been Executive Directors is available at www.
com en-row ourbusiness successfully executed, as highlighted above, with the appointment aboutus corporategovernance.
of Javier Ferrn to the Board.
Activities and duties of the Board In conclusion, and without being complacent, the Board was The Board manages overall control of the companys affairs with considered to be in good shape to deal with the areas identified as reference to the formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board for being of particular focus and to support management in its decision.
The schedule was last reviewed in July 2015 and is available aspirations to deliver the Performance Ambition.
com en-row ourbusiness aboutus A similar, internal, exercise building on this evaluation and corporategovernance.
covering the evaluation of the Board and its Committees will start in The Board has agreed an approach and adopted guidelines for the subsequent financial year.
A report will be prepared for the Board dealing with conflicts of interest and responsibility for authorising to consider.
The results of the evaluation will be reported in next conflicts of interest is included in the schedule of matters reserved for years report.
The Board confirmed that it was aware of no situations The Chairman has confirmed that the Non-Executive Directors that may or did give rise to conflicts with the interests of the standing for re-election at this years AGM continue to perform company other than those that may arise from Directors other effectively, both individually and collectively as a Board, and that each appointments as disclosed in their biographies.
demonstrate commitment to their roles.
The senior Non-Executive In order to fulfil their duties, procedures are in place for Directors Director led a performance evaluation of the Chairman.
Feedback to seek both independent advice and the advice and services of the was discussed in a meeting with the Executive and Non-Executive Company Secretary who is responsible for advising the Board, Directors and then privately with the Chairman.
through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
The Non-Executive It is the Boards intention to continue to review annually its Directors meet without the Chairman present, and also meet with performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
It is the Chairman without management present, on a regular basis.
anticipated that the evaluation in 2017 will be externally facilitated and the results reported in a subsequent Annual Report.
The terms of reference of Board Committees are available at www.
com en-row ourbusiness aboutus corporategovernance.
Nomination Committee Role of the Nomination Committee Induction, training and business engagement The Nomination Committee is responsible for keeping under review There is a formal induction programme for new Directors, which was the composition of the Board and succession to it, and succession followed during the year for Emma Walmsley.
This included meeting planning for senior leadership positions.
It makes recommendations with Executive Committee members and other senior executives to the Board concerning appointments to the Board.
individually and visiting a number of operations and sites around Any new Directors are appointed by the Board and, in accordance the group.
with the companys articles of association, they must be elected at Following the initial induction for Non-Executive Directors, a the next AGM to continue in office.
All existing Directors retire by continuing understanding of the business is developed through rotation every year.
Visits to customers, engagements with employees, and brand events were arranged during the year.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016
