Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 OUR STRATEGY Strategy for growth 1.
Exploit UK and ROI roll-out 3.
Maintain online leadership brand appeal opportunities international markets retail space We aim to consolidate our leadership across all We see continued potential to build on our Our ability to extend the DFS brand to new Releasing former warehouse space in We have the clear market-leading online segments of the upholstered furniture market nationwide store coverage by opening both markets was first demonstrated by our our store estate enables us to generate upholstery platform, accounting for over by increasing our appeal to older and more three to five profitable new stores each year successful expansion into the Republic of incremental retail sales while consolidating 40% of upholstery segment web traffic, and affluent aspirational customers while retaining in the traditional 10-15,000 sq.
ft. DFS store Ireland, where we opened our first store in warehousing and delivery in lower cost and a proven track record of growing marginour core mass market appeal.
format and by developing smaller stores of 2012, and is continuing with our more recent more logistically efficient offsite locations.
enhancing sales through this channel.
ft. in high footfall urban developments in the Netherlands and Spain.
The DFS tradition of making all products to A store-in-store concept to expand the With most customers now beginning their locations.
order, and our own UK manufacturing base, We continue to be encouraged by the results Dwell brand alongside DFS has been research on potential furniture purchases have provided a strong platform to achieve Three new larger format stores were of our trial in the Netherlands.
Our initial store proven to deliver a superior sales and profit online, our website provides both inspiration this by broadening the DFS product range, successfully opened in FY16 at Christchurch, at Cruquius opened in November 2014, while performance compared with trials of using to visit our physical stores and the opportunity developing exclusive brand partnerships and Limerick and Kettering, and we also opened a our second store at Alexandrium in Rotterdam the additional space to retail beds and dining to make direct purchases through a acquiring complementary businesses.
second smaller urban store in Bromley.
opened in September 2015 and is achieving a furniture.
convenient, interactive platform that is comparable performance to Cruquius despite available 24 hours per day throughout the Exclusive brand partnerships with French Our proven, bespoke customer catchment We have accelerated our planned Customer its smaller 10,000 sq.
"Connection, House Beautiful and Country area model enables us to predict accurately Distribution Centre CDC"" conversion Living delivered 35% growth in bookings last where future store opening opportunities exist."
The DFS Spain operation acquired in programme, opening six during FY16 rather Sales completed online continued to show year, building on a 75% uplift in FY15.
October 2015 has benefited from showroom than our initial target of three per annum.
We have already identified locations for more refurbishment and is successfully driving than 15 additional 10-15,000 sq.
ft. stores that We now expect to complete our CDC Integrating online technology into our stores online traffic.
are each predicted to generate over 500,000 conversion programme in FY17 with the through the roll-out of Swoosh furniture of incremental EBITDA net of existing store opening of a further eight CDCs to give us a visualisation technology across the DFS cannibalisation.
total of 19. estate demonstrates our ability to offer our customers a true omnichannel proposition.
GROWTH IN EXCLUSIVE NUMBER OF DFS STORES NUMBER OF INTERNATIONAL STORES WITH CONVERTED ONLINE GROWTH RATE BRAND SALES UK & ROI STORES WAREHOUSE SPACE 35% 4 3 19 15.6% Key performance indicator Key performance indicator Key performance indicator 2016 35 2016 109 2016 3 2015 75 2015 105 2015 1 2014 55 2014 100 2014 0 TARGETS We have an ambition to reach a We will open between three and five Building on our success in We will complete our roll-out of We will continue to maintain a share in the aspirational customer UK and ROI stores each financial the ROI, we aim to develop a 19 UK CDCs by the end of FY17 share of over 40% of upholstery segment of 25% by the end of FY18.
year using our large and medium profitable national network of 10-20 with completion of retail space segment web traffic.
stores in the Netherlands, which conversion occurring in FY18.
We will achieve this target without Our significant investment in key leverages our UK infrastructure weakening our strong share in and focus Each of these traditional formats is Retail space released by our CDC future online technologies, in particular and proven operating model.
targeted to achieve cash payback on our other core customer segments.
openings will either be converted into new mobile web, personalisation and within two years on the initial c. 1m We will develop our Spanish Dwell or Sofa Workshop stores, allow us strengthening the omnichannel operating and capital expenditure store presence to profitably serve to downsize our retail footprint, or be used customer experience will continue.
significant ex-pat communities in to sell an extended range of furniture.
Southern Spain, giving us a foothold We will continue to test and Once fully rolled out, our programme in the overall Spanish market.
learn from our trial small-format is targeted to deliver incremental 2,000-5,000 sq.
annual EBITDA of an average of 650k - 700k per CDC.
12 Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions Strategic report Governance Financial statements DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 1.
F. Fu ull u ll ut tilis ilisa at tiio on o n of s f st to or re e 5 5.
M. Ma ain int ta ain o in on nlin line l e le ea ad fide er rs sh hip ip brand appeal opportunities international markets retail space We aim to consolidate our leadership across all We see continued potential to build on our Our ability to extend the DFS brand to new Releasing former warehouse space in We have the clear market-leading online segments of the upholstered furniture market nationwide store coverage by opening both markets was first demonstrated by our our store estate enables us to generate upholstery platform, accounting for over by increasing our appeal to older and more three to five profitable new stores each year successful expansion into the Republic of incremental retail sales while consolidating 40% of upholstery segment web traffic, and affluent aspirational customers while retaining in the traditional 10-15,000 sq.
ft. in high footfall urban developments in The Netherlands and Spain.
order, and our own UK manufacturing base, We continue to be encouraged by the results Dwell brand alongside DFS has been research on potential furniture purchases have provided a strong platform to achieve Three new larger format stores were of our trial in The Netherlands.
GROWTH IN EXCLUSIVE NUMBER OF DFS STORES NUMBER OF INTERNATIONAL STORES WITH CONVERTED ONLINE GROWTH RATE BRAND SALES UK & ROI STORES WAREHOUSE SPACE 35% 4 3 19 15.6% Key performance indicator Key performance indicator 2016 19 2016 15.6 2015 8 2015 17.5 2014 3 2014 6.7 TARGETS We have an ambition to reach a We will open between three and five Building on our success in We will complete our roll-out of We will continue to maintain a share in the aspirational customer UK and ROI stores each financial the ROI, we aim to develop a 19 UK CDCs by the end of FY17 share of over 40% of upholstery segment of 25% by the end of FY18.
We will achieve this target without Our significant investment in key leverages our UK infrastructure future online technologies, in particular weakening our strong share in and focus Each of these traditional formats is Retail space released by our CDC and proven operating model.
on our other core customer segments.
targeted to achieve cash payback openings will either be converted into new mobile web, personalisation and strengthening the omnichannel within two years on the initial c. 1m We will develop our Spanish Dwell or Sofa Workshop stores, allow us operating and capital expenditure store presence to profitably serve to downsize our retail footprint, or be used customer experience will continue.
