32 DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 Business reviews: Africa Net sales by markets Net sales by categories Net sales by price points AFRICA % % % i Nigeria South Africa Spirits RTDs Value Super premium East Africa Other Beer Other Standard Ultra premium Africa Regional Premium Markets i excluding RTDs Key financials In Africa our strategy is to grow Acquisitions and Organic Reported Diageos leadership across beer 2015 Exchange disposals movement 2016 movement million million million million million % and spirits by providing brand Net sales 1,415 102 54 34 1,401 1 choice across a broad range of Marketing 147 11 6 1 143 3 consumer motivations, profiles, Operating profit before exceptional items 318 67 12 27 212 33 and occasions.
We are focused Exceptional on growing beer faster than the operating items 7 market and accelerating the Operating profit 311 212 32 growth of spirits through continued investment in Supply operations Benin, Burkina Faso, Chad, Mali and Guinea.
Diageo sells spirits through distributors in the infrastructure and brands with We operate 12 breweries in Africa, four sites that produce sorghum beer in South Africa, majority of other sub-Saharan countries.
mainstream spirits being critical cider plants and five facilities which provide to realising the potential of the blending and malting services.
In addition, Sustainability and responsibility region.
Local sourcing is a key The issues we address differ between our beer and spirits brands are produced element of our strategy in Africa: under licence by third-parties in 19 African markets but a key issue in many is illicit countries.
In the year ended 30 June 2016 alcohol.
We work closely with governments it directly supports our commercial we sold our 25% interest in a brewery in and regulators on this significant public operations, while indirectly health issue and specific local issues, such as South Africa.
supporting our position by drink driving in South Africa or bringing in a bringing wider benefits to Route to consumer minimum legal drinking age in Ghana.
In Africa our largest businesses are in Nigeria, aim everywhere is to promote responsible drinking as part of a balanced lifestyle.
where we own 54.3% of a listed company Our markets whose principal brands are Guinness, Orijin, Our overall approach is to consider the The region comprises Nigeria, East Africa Harp and Malta, and in East Africa, where we broader context of our contribution as a local Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Burundi, Rwanda own 50.03% of East African Breweries Limited taxpayer, employer and member of the and South Sudan, Africa Regional Markets community.
Our recent work to assess EABL.
EABL produces and distributes beer including Ghana, Cameroon, Ethiopia, and spirits brands to a range of consumers in human rights impacts throughout the value Angola and a sorghum beer business in Kenya and Uganda, and owns a 51% equity chain was piloted in Kenya.
We source 73% South Africa and South Africa including in Serengeti Breweries Limited located in of agricultural materials locally and we work Republic of South Africa and Mozambique.
with more than 50,000 local farmers for our Tanzania.
Within Africa Regional Markets, we have wholly owned subsidiaries in agricultural inputs.
Fifteen of our production Cameroon, Ethiopia and Reunion and sites in Africa are in water-stressed areas, so majority-owned subsidiaries in Ghana and we focus closely on managing water efficiently and enhancing access to clean the Seychelles.
Angola is supplied via a third party distributor.
In South Africa and water to surrounding communities through Mozambique we sell spirits, beer, cider and our pan-African Water of Life programme.
ready to drink products through wholly This year we launched the Water Blueprint in owned subsidiaries, following the East Africa, to address water stewardship in termination of the agreement with Heineken this water-stressed area.
Our new Sustainable and Namibia Breweries Limited in December Agriculture Strategy will play an important 2015.
Diageo has agreements with the Castel part in strengthening our longstanding and Group who license, brew and distribute mutually beneficial relationships with farmers Guinness in the Democratic Republic of and communities.
Congo, Gambia, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Togo, PDF Page: v2 Pg32New.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders Business reviews: Africa DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 33 Net sales increased 3% with growth in all the Made of Black campaign, robust In Africa Regional Markets, net sales markets except Nigeria where net sales activation during the broadcast grew 9% reflecting the strong growth in declined 15%.
In East Africa, the recovery sponsorship of Barclays Premier League Cameroon, Ghana and Ethiopia.
Ghana of Senator in Kenya following the duty and innovation with Guinness Africa net sales growth accelerated to 30% due change and double digit growth in rum Special led to the growth of Guinness.
to the launch of Orijin Bitters and ready to and vodka led to strong net sales growth.
Malta Guinness also grew, with net sales drink variants.
Beer, driven by Guinness, Net sales in Africa Regional Markets grew up 15%, on the back of You vs brand was up 9% as activation and promotion 9%, led by beer which was underpinned campaign and increased distribution was stepped up behind the Made of by the Made of Black Guinness campaign, particularly into the off-trade.
The Black campaign and Guinness Africa innovation with Guinness Africa Special, business continued to broaden its Special was rolled out.
In Cameroon, net sustained growth of Malta Guinness and portfolio in the value lager segment with sales growth of 12% was driven largely the roll out of Orijin in Ghana.
Vodka, brands such as Satzenbrau offsetting the by good performance in beer coupled particularly Smirnoff 1818, continued to decline in Harp.
with double digit growth in spirits and be the engine of growth in South Africa.
In Ethiopia, net In East Africa, net sales increased 16% Across the region, spirits net sales grew sales grew 8% with Malta Guinness up driven by double digit growth in beer, 4%, with reserve brands up 35% on the 71%.
This more than offset the slight spirits and ready to drink.
Senator grew in back of Croc and Johnnie Walker reserve decline in Meta as competition intensified.
Kenya following the roll back of the duty brands which benefited from the A number of interventions were made, increase early in the year and momentum enhanced route to consumer and the including relaunching Meta in November was sustained throughout the year.
This launch of Johnnie Walker Green Label.
and introducing Azmera in April 2016 to more than offset the decline in Tusker, Operating margin decreased 252bps due recruit value oriented consumers.
Markets which was impacted by the duty increase primarily to the impact of adverse mix and continued to benefit from the enhanced in Kenya and currency volatility in the volume decline in Nigeria as well as weaker route to consumer and capability builds, markets, resulting in 17% net sales growth mix in East Africa.
This was partially offset including the adoption of a sales force in beer.
Mainstream spirits grew 26% led by procurement savings delivered across automation tool.
Angola net sales by Kenya Cane and Kane Extra, together the region.
declined 65% due to the macroeconomic with innovation such as Kenya Cane headwinds and inventory reduction in Coconut and Chrome vodka.
The KEY HIGHLIGHTS view of weakening consumer demand improved route to consumer, with and weaker currency.
In Nigeria, net sales declined 15% due deepening mainstream outlet coverage, primarily to Orijin lapping the successful continued to drive growth in this South Africa grew 5% driven by 13% launch last year and now competing with segment.
Reserve brands grew 24% growth in vodka led by Smirnoff 1818.
The introduction of new following enhanced distribution and Overall, scotch sales were flat reflecting formats at compelling price points, brand activation supported by brand the weaker performance of Bells, White equity building through the Live Orijinal ambassadors.
Ready to drink was up 14% Horse, J&B and Black and White due to campaign and the recruitment of new as Smirnoff Ice Double Black and Guarana increased competition in this price consumers with Orijin Zero have grew with positive gearing driven by sensitive consumer segment.
This was stabilised the brand.
In beer, distribution price increase.
offset by 9% growth in Johnnie Walker expansion, higher brand equity driven by across key variants such as Johnnie Walker Red Label, Johnnie Walker Black Label, Reported Organic Reported Organic volume volume net sales net sales Johnnie Walker Gold Label Reserve and movement movement movement movement Johnnie Walker Green Label which was Markets and categories: % % % % launched in the second half of the year.
Africa 9 19 3 1 Marketing was up 1% in the region with Nigeria 11 11 15 19 investment prioritised behind the biggest East Africa 25 25 16 3 growth opportunities with proven sales Africa Regional Markets 11 57 9 23 drivers.
In Nigeria, marketing declined in South Africa 1 5 5 6 line with net sales, with spend focused i on the Guinness and Orijin brands.
Spirits 2 2 4 7 East Africa up-weighted investment Beer 20 39 11 9 on mainstream spirits and value beer, Ready to drink 37 23 43 35 notably in Kenya Cane and Senator.
In Reported Organic Reported Africa Regional Markets, the innovation, volume net sales net sales marketing campaigns and activation ii movement movement movement i Global giants and local stars : % % % programmes behind Guinness and Malta Guinness 6 6 1 Guinness contributed to the increase in Malta Guinness 14 13 10 marketing.
South Africa maintained spend in Smirnoff to build scale and increased Tusker 15 11 27 investment behind Johnnie Walker.
Senator 151 157 134 Harp 23 26 28 Johnnie Walker 10 1 7 Smirnoff 6 12 4 i Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
ii Reported equals organic volume movement.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016
