H S S L E H I R A I V T S I S T E C R I E I E T D R N I R I A H E C B V R Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 OUR BUSINESS MODEL Creating value KEY COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES: Scale Our upholstery sales are greater than those of our next four specialist competitors combined.
By leveraging our scale when sourcing products, offering interest free credit and spreading the cost of central services and buying advertising, we are able to offer our customers an overall product, value and service proposition that we believe competitors struggle to match.
Furthermore, with over 100 stores giving us nationwide coverage of the UK and Republic of Ireland, our high store sales densities reduce our fixed cost margins for rent and rates.
Design & inspire We inspire our customers to consider a purchase through our dominant and distinctive advertising, our in-house design Vertical integration and buying expertise and with With vertical integration from product design through our market-leading, interactive to installation and service, we benefit from significant website.
advantages in cost, customer service and responsiveness.
Our five factories allow us to shorten lead times and provide valuable cost insights for Service negotiations with external suppliers.
Our well-trained Our own directly-employed delivery in-house delivery and service teams enable us to control crews and service upholsterers interactions with our customers at every stage to ensure allow us to provide a market their satisfaction.
leading installation and aftercare service to our customers.
Expert focus We are sofa specialists with nearly 50 years of expertise in designing, making, selling and servicing upholstered 6 furniture.
Sustained, memorable advertising and regular range innovation mean that our brand has unmatched consumer recognition as the UKs number one sofa retailer.
This has underpinned our proven ability to achieve consistent, profitable, above market growth in a wide range of trading environments throughout our long operating history.
indb 10 12 10 2016 18:06 S I B E E U T C L I R A V M I A A P E G T N S E N U A N I F R A & E C N G T R G U I R S G E E D H S S L E H I I R M A V S T T I E A C R I R I E N T E R N I I A U T H B C R A F Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions Strategic report Governance Financial statements DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 We have a difficult to match business model, with key advantages that deliver sales growth, market share gain and strong margins.
OUTCOMES: Happy customers By using our operational advantages, we aim to delight our customers by offering the best combination of product, service and price.
We monitor our customer satisfaction using NPS, and have seen our score for post purchase satisfaction rise from 40% in January 2012 to an average of 83.9% in FY16.
Retail Our nationwide showroom network is staffed by knowledgeable, well-trained and highly motivated retail sales Gross sales growth teams complemented by our Our target is to achieve gross sales growth transactional website, apps and that is consistently above overall market rates.
We have grown Group gross sales over the last five financial years by over 230m or 30%.
Our success is evidenced by Manufacture consistent growth in our share of the Our five UK factories produce more upholstery segment of the furniture than a quarter of the furniture we market, as estimated by independent sell ensuring we maintain a consultants Verdict Retail.
competitive edge in all product sourcing.
Strong margins and cash ow 6 Our EBITDA margin in FY16 was 12.5%, and 12.6% in FY15.
Our strong profitability and robust business model deliver a consistently excellent cash flow, reflected in a 25.0m reduction in net debt over the last financial year after the payment of 31.0m in returns to shareholders.
Net Promoter Score NPS is an industry standard measure of customer satisfaction, based on the direct question How likely are you to recommend DFS to friends, family or colleagues?.
NPS is calculated by subtracting the percentage of customers who are detractors score of 0 to 6 from enthusiasts score of 9 or 10.
