16 DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 How we will deliver our Performance Ambition Diageos performance drivers and sustainability HOW WE WILL and responsibility priorities are key to achieving DELIVER OUR our aims.
Each of our 21 markets focuses on the PERFORMANCE priorities that are most relevant to driving growth AMBITION and creating shared value in that market.
Our six performance drivers 1 2 3 Strengthen and accelerate growth Win in reserve in every market Innovate at scale to meet new of our premium core brands consumer needs Our premium core brands are sold in Seven years ago we shifted our We are a company built and sustained more than 180 countries around the approach to luxury spirits and made through innovation, which gives us world.
They are enjoyed by consumers reserve a strategic priority.
The results the drive to create new products, new in developed markets and have wide demonstrate what building capability categories and new experiences for appeal in emerging markets.
They and having focus can do.
We are the leaders in our include iconic brands Johnnie Walker, industry, inventing today for tomorrow, Smirnoff, Captain Morgan and Baileys.
staying on the edge of, and anticipating, consumer behaviour.
4 5 6 Build and then constantly extend Drive out costs to invest in Ensure we have the talent to our advantage in route to consumer profitable growth deliver our Performance Ambition We have put the consumer at the centre We want to continuously get more We employ bright, collaborative of our business.
Our route to consumer efficient and effective in everything we people at all levels in our business, transformation has driven a clear do to further enable us to invest in and must continue to do so if we are understanding of what success looks like growth for our business, our people and to achieve our aims.
Our people, in a store, in a bar and in the hands of our brands.
We have set a goal to deliver culture and values are what will our consumers.
We now have the productivity savings of 500 million over make the difference.
the next three years, with two-thirds of this re-invested for growth.
Our three sustainability and responsibility priorities 1 2 3 Create a positive role for alcohol Building thriving communities Reducing our environmental in society impacts We are committed to maintaining our We create value for millions of people We are dependent on the natural leadership position by ensuring we as a buyer of goods and services, as resources we share with the make a positive contribution to society an employer, as corporate citizens, and communities around us, and with and work to tackle alcohol misuse as producers of some of the worlds the wider world.
We want to use alongside the industry.
We will continue best-loved brands.
We want to continue those resources responsibly, and make to operate in a responsible way every to help those communities thrive, by a net positive contribution to the day, everywhere, to remain a trusted and making Diageo a great, safe, and diverse environment through our operations respected business and drive our place to work, by building sustainable and supply chain.
We are working to performance.
We remain focused on supply chains, and through programmes reduce our impacts in the areas of delivering the five Global Producers that empower communities and water, carbon, packaging, and waste.
i Commitments and our own stretching individuals.
i For more information on the Beer, Wine and Spirits Producers commitments, visit www.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders How we will deliver our Performance Ambition DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 17 Here we share a selection of case studies how our approach to sustainability that demonstrate how we are executing and responsibility supports everything our performance drivers at a market and we do.
The case studies also show US Spirits Europe Ireland This brings together our brands longSMIRNOFF REDISCOVERING standing association with music and THE CHALLENGER MINDSET inclusivity with an audience for whom those THROUGH INCLUSIVITY things are an essential part of life.
We are fostering diversity and inclusion through our support for subcultures within electronic Smirnoff has built its purpose around music like female DJs, LGBTQ celebrating inclusivity.
Originating in performers and fans, and music Russia, Smirnoff as always been a brand collectives from a diverse range of of the people and taken pride in cultural backgrounds.
bringing quality to a wide and diverse Smirnoff is being revitalised in audience.
It is part of what has its largest market, US Spirits, where it The experimental Open Gate Brewery, Dublin, Ireland.
made it the worlds largest premium has underperformed in recent years.
It is now again becoming what GUINNESS INNOVATING Smirnoff s therefore a great it should be a challenger and match for millennial consumers, a AT SCALE TO GROW SALES innovator, creating new products generation who value diversity and that meet the needs of a new inclusivity and are willing to generation of consumers, including We have been exploring innovative beer embrace new ideas, accept each the new Smirnoff Sourced, infused making for more than a century at the other and bring people together.
with real fruit juice and naturally experimental Pilot Plants located in the Smirnoff s connecting with the gluten free.
Guinness Brewery in Dublin, Ireland but energy of this powerful consumer until this year we had never invited the movement through Smirnoff Sound Smirnoff ourced, responding to consumer public in to taste our experiments.
In Collective, our programme of demand for natural flavour choices and response to the craft beer movement, support for electronic music artists.
visitors to the Open Gate Brewery bar at St Jamess Gate, which opened in November 2015, can now sample from a range of trial Global Travel Asia and Middle East beers that have been crafted by pioneering set a payback threshold of three years, while brewers operating at the cutting-edge of JOHNNIE WALKER our brand ambassadors ensure that we are creativity and brewing technology.
BRINGING LUXURY selling responsibly through the Diageo The Open Gate Brewery serves up small BRAND EXPERIENCES TO Marketing Code and Code of Business batch innovations that draw on the Guinness Conduct, as well as increasingly through an GLOBAL TRAVELLERS heritage while exploring entirely new beer online course delivered by the Asia Pacific styles, generating immediate customer Travel Retail Associations APTRA feedback.
At the brewery we have also been Our reserve brands are an experience to Responsible Retail Training Programme.
able to collaborate with local food and drink be savoured and luxury-minded global Since Johnnie Walker Houses combine festivals.
Several beers have already made it travellers are enjoying the chance to do just great brand exposure with increased sales, from the Open Gate Brewery to production that in our expanding network of Johnnie we have accelerated our plans to open at scale in Brewhouse No4, with Hop House Walker Houses in international airports.
further airport outlets during 2017 in three 13, Dublin Porter, West Indies Porter and These offer the chance to spend some of the formats standalone house, shop-in-shop, Nitro IPA all finding success with consumers.
golden hour before a flight learning about and counter.
Thanks to this burgeoning innovation the history and provenance of this famous pipeline the number of different types of Scotch whisky with the guidance of trained beers brewed at St Jamess Gate has brand ambassadors.
doubled, alongside improved environmental And we are finding that this innovative performance.
The efficiency gains and extra brand experience is driving performance.
brewing capacity have been delivered This year, we opened new Johnnie Walker through our Manufacturing Excellence Houses in the airports of Auckland, Beijing programme.
and Incheon, building on the success of the In 2015, Brewhouse No4 was the first existing houses in Singapore, Mumbai and major brewery in the world to be awarded Taipei.
These have delivered incremental net Platinum LEED certification for leadership sales and an increase in average transactions, in energy and environmental design.
And, as well as an increase in volume sales of in April 2016, it achieved Irelands Green super-deluxe scotch.
To make sure the Houses Each Johnnie Walker House is designed to inspire Award in the sustainable water category.
keep delivering a return on investment, we consumers as they learn about the finest of whiskies.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016 18 DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 How we will deliver our Performance Ambition East Africa West Latin America and Caribbean West LAC imported one.
And in May 2016, we EMBRACING PRODUCTIVITY successfully worked together with the same IN EVERYTHING WE DO co-packer to introduce the first JB bottle to be made in Argentina.
This JB local bottle will enable the team to deliver a more Being as productive as we can be with the competitive retail price and increase resources we control is essential to deliver investment in the brand, with the ambition our Performance Ambition.
of making JB a bigger brand and Our largest market in Latin America, West accelerate growth.
Productivity delivers LAC which comprises 44 countries in value in other ways too, for example Western and Southern Latin America, sourcing glass, closures and labels Central America, and the Caribbean locally in Argentina has led to a more provides a great example of productivity East Africa Breweries Limited EABL sources over 80% of raw materials locally.
efficient use of natural resources.
In West LAC this year, we made Our responsible drinking a 5% saving in our controllable spend SETTING A GOLD STANDARD programmes, such as La Bomba in through transformations in sales, Lima, Peru, are making a difference our distribution network and FOR ROUTE TO CONSUMER in the region.
Since May 2016, manufacturing, and through net AND HUMAN RIGHTS La Bomba in collaboration with the efficiencies and best practice at shared ASSESSMENT IN KENYA Ministry of Education, has educated service centres.
450 students in five schools about In September 2015, faced with the the risks of underage drinking, ongoing challenge of import Our route to consumer focus has seen while reinforcing our long-standing restrictions in Argentina, we worked the introduction of a Gold performance reputation as a responsible with our co-packer to develop a local programme for distributors in Kenya.
bottle for Smirnoff hich replaced the The Gold programme works directly with our distributors of mainstream, premium core and reserve brands, helping them build Global capability and manage performance, while incentivising sales.
A dedicated home team provides training and advice to help them meet these goals.
Our Gold programme has helped distributors in Kenya deliver 93% overall performance versus the stretching plans set, compared to 89% for those not enrolled on the Gold programme.
So we know that the Gold programme is worth the investment.
On average, volumes increase 3% faster than those not on the Gold journey, and these distributors now reach 81% of outlets in their areas, compared with 66% before the Gold programme.
It has also seen turnaround times One example of shareable online content used during this engagement campaign.
In the second half of this financial year, another six everywhere in the month of March ENGAGING OUR PEOPLE distributors joined the Gold programme.
allowing Diageo people to celebrate their TO TELL THE WORLD At the same time, we launched our current achievements together, and create human rights impact assessment in Kenya, a focus for fundraising and volunteering WHAT MAKES THEM which examined every element of our value to continue our legacy of support.
The #PROUDOFWHATWEDO chain: from suppliers, including the barley campaign, in its second year, built on the and sorghum farmers who grow our success of 2015 by giving employees even ingredients, to employees and contractors, Being proud of what we do is a core value more opportunities to be ambassadors to distributors, retailers and outlets.
While at Diageo, where creating value for the inside and outside the business, through Diageo has always been committed to communities we are part of has inspired shareable online content to help tell human rights, this assessment is the most and motivated generations of employees.
comprehensive the business has ever Our #proudofwhatwedo campaign builds This year, through our employee Values undertaken, and is helping us strengthen our on that heritage by giving employees more Survey we achieved a score of 85% against approach to managing processes to identify ways to take action on the sustainability and our proud of what we do index, with 88% human rights risks.
Read more on these responsibility issues closest to their hearts.
of employees agreeing with the statement policies and HR approach on page 42.
It inspires them and others by sharing and I am proud to work for Diageo.
That pride plays a vital role in our ambition to recruit, celebrating the stories they are most proud of.
Employees across our global business retain and engage the very best people to take part in the campaign, which culminates deliver our Performance Ambition.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016
