34 DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 Business reviews: Latin America and Caribbean Net sales by markets Net sales by categories Net sales by price points LATIN % % % AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN PUB Mexico Spirits RTDs Value Super premium Venezuela West LAC Beer Other Standard Ultra premium Colombia Other Wine Premium Key financials In Latin America and Caribbean Acquisitions and Organic Reported the strategic priority is continued 2015 Exchange disposals movement 2016 movement million million million million million % leadership in scotch, while Net sales 1,033 134 41 5 863 16 broadening our category range Marketing 194 26 1 167 14 through vodka, rum, liqueurs and Operating profit before exceptional items 263 57 5 2 199 24 local spirits.
We continue to invest Exceptional in routes to market and in the i operating items 5 118 breadth and depth of our portfolio Operating profit 258 81 69 of leading brands.
We are also i The impairment of Ypica in 2016. enhancing our supply structure Our markets In Mexico, Diageo sells directly to large to enable the business to provide Our Latin America and Caribbean LAC retailers and wholesalers.
both the emerging middle class business comprises five markets: PUB In selected markets in West LAC, we sell and an increasing number of Paraguay, Uruguay and Brazil, Venezuela, to wholesalers or distributors, while in key wealthy consumers with the Colombia, Mexico and WestLAC Central markets, such as Costa Rica, Dominican America and Caribbean, Argentina, Chile, Republic, Jamaica and Argentina we use premium brands they aspire to.
exclusive distributors In this regions changing regulatory landscape, our presence is Supply operations Sustainability and responsibility supported by our reputation as a The majority of brands sold in the region are Diageo is known throughout Latin America trusted and respected business, manufactured by our International Supply for our commitment to developing an Centre in Europe.
In recent years, we have industry that can bring economic and social based on our stance on responsible acquired a number of supply operations and value to society.
Our work includes drinking, and community expanded our co-packer network across the programmes to combat key issues such as development programmes like region.
In 2015 we acquired the remaining underage drinking and drink driving two Learning for Life.
50% equity interest in Tequila Don Julio in of the five Global Producers Commitments Mexico, which resulted in full ownership of and illicit alcohol.
Programmes such as the brand and its production facilities.
In Actuando Mejor in Mexico, and Today I dont 2012 we acquired Ypica in Brazil, including drive in Brazil are making a tangible its cachaa production site, and in 2011 we difference in reducing alcohol-related harm.
acquired a controlling interest in Anejos fide In the Dominican Republic, we are also Altura Guatemala which produces Zacapa.
working closely with the industry and We also have partnerships with over 12 government to tackle drink driving.
This brewers and over 20 co-packing partners.
social commitment is echoed in our focus throughout the region on employability, Route to consumer skills and empowerment.
Our flagship We sell our products through a combination community re-investment programme, of subsidiary companies and third party Learning for Life, is providing skills and distributors.
In Brazil, our in-market company training including responsible service to sells directly to key accounts and distributors.
more than 100,000 people across the region.
All products in Venezuela are sold through dedicated distributors.
In Colombia we sell directly to key accounts, and serve all other retailers and channels through distributors.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders Business reviews: Latin America and Caribbean DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 35 Net sales grew 1% in LAC.
Growth in Mexico, vodka and cachaa, driven primarily by volume growth across core variants such Colombia and the domestic markets of West the slowing economy, a tax increase in as Johnnie Walker Red Label, Johnnie LAC was partially offset by the decline in December 2015, currency volatility and Walker Black Label and Johnnie Walker Brazil, travel retail and the export channels.
a slowdown in the duty free channel.
reserve brands including the newly In Brazil, performance was impacted by Despite the challenging operating launched Johnnie Walker Green Label.
subdued consumer confidence, a tax environment, the business gained share In mainstream scotch, Black and White increase and significant slowdown in the in scotch, delivered through Johnnie net sales grew supported by expanded travel retail channel, which resulted in a 7% Walker and Black and White marketing distribution and activation across the on decline in net sales.
The business continued and off-trade.
Following the execution of and Colombia was strong with net sales up to invest behind the Smirnoff trademark the new Smirnoff strategy to build the 10% and 28% respectively, led by scotch and in music festivals and trade activations, brands credentials through participation vodka.
Currency weakness and lower as well as the rejuvenation of Ypica.
in music festivals and increasing underlying demand continued to impact Net sales in Paraguay and Uruguay activation across the on-trade, Smirnoff the West LAC export channels.
Diageos declined due to reduced demand in the net sales doubled and share increased in strategy in LAC is to expand our leadership export and travel retail channels given the last six months.
Don Julio also gained position in scotch and broaden our currency volatility.
share in the year reflecting the successful portfolio.
Scotch net sales grew 2%, led by marketing campaign, activation and Colombia delivered 9% volume growth Buchanans and Black and White, with share higher brand awareness.
and 28% net sales increase, on the back gains in most markets.
Net sales of Johnnie of favourable mix and successive price West LAC net sales declined 3% primarily Walker declined with weakness in PUB and increases following the currency due to weakness in the export channels.
West LAC partially offset by strong growth in devaluation.
Scotch was the key growth Domestic markets net sales were stable Mexico and Colombia.
Vodka net sales grew driver, with double digit growth and with growth in Peru, Chile and Jamaica 8% driven primarily by growth in Mexico, share gains.
The portfolio in Colombia offset by a decline in Central America and Colombia and the domestic markets in West continues to broaden with gin, vodka and Caribbean.
In Peru, net sales grew 16%, LAC.
Don Julio gained share supported by tequila net sales growing double digit.
led by increases in Johnnie Walker Red increased activity to build brand awareness Label, Johnnie Walker Black Label and Mexico net sales increased 10%.
Scotch and drive recruitment in Mexico.
Gross Old Parr, underpinned by the marketing was a key growth driver with net sales up margin improved, benefitting from mix as campaigns and activations around gifting 17%, reflecting strong volume growth well as procurement savings across logistics for Christmas and Fathers Day.
Buchanans was up and production.
This was offset by higher was also a key engine behind Chiles net 20% following the relaunch of the brand overheads resulting in operating margin sales growth of 9%.
Johnnie Walker Red with the Good versus Great campaign, decline of 39bps.
Label and mainstream scotch such as the introduction of new packaging and VAT 69, Old Parr and White Horse grew strong activations around Fathers Day KEY HIGHLIGHTS following distribution expansion as well with A Great Father A Great Day In Paraguay, Uruguay and Brazil as improved trade visibility.
Similarly, Johnnie Walker net PUB, net sales declined 9%.
In Brazil, net America and Caribbean net sales sales grew double digit on the back of 8% sales were down with declines in scotch, contracted 4% given currency volatility across the market.
Reported Organic Reported Organic volume volume net sales net sales In Venezuela, volume increased 4% movement movement movement movement driven primarily by strong growth in rum Markets and categories: % % % % as the business resumed production of Latin America and Caribbean 2 5 1 16 local spirits following the stabilisation PUB 5 5 9 27 of glass supply.
This was offset by the Colombia 9 9 28 decline in scotch as access to foreign Mexico 10 19 10 7 currency remains constrained.
Net sales West LAC 2 17 3 20 grew significantly faster as the business Venezuela 4 3 173 69 increased prices in a high inflation environment and transacted some i Spirits 2 2 1 12 scotch sales in sterling.
Beer 23 41 14 60 Marketing increased broadly in line with Ready to drink 11 12 20 net sales.
Spend in Brazil was reduced in Reported Organic Reported view of the weaker economic outlook.
volume net sales net sales Mexico increased spend by 9%, investing ii movement movement movement i Global giants and local stars : % % % behind Smirnoff and scotch to build Johnnie Walker 8 4 15 brand equity and enhance activations.
Buchanans 5 9 7 In Colombia, incremental spend was invested behind Johnnie Walker, Smirnoff 6 19 Buchanans and Smirnoff ready to drink Old Parr 15 1 17 to support the Smirnoff Ice Green Apple Baileys 3 1 14 flavour launch.
Ypica 6 6 28 Black and White 48 63 34 i Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
ii Reported equals organic volume movement except for Smirnoff 4%.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016
