Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders Our business model DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 07 We have structured our organisation into a OUR BUSINESS MODEL 21 market business model, applying countryspecific strategies to meet local consumer From our position as a global leader, we deliver and customer needs.
This business model enables us to identify and execute against returns for shareholders, while creating value the most valuable growth opportunities, and also to supply our brands efficiently for our customers and employees.
In everything and effectively using our global expertise, we do, we set out to make a positive contribution while sourcing and producing locally where optimal to do so.
This market-driven business to society.
model helps us to capture consumer trends early to deliver sustainable performance.
Global leader Agile business model Focused on: Broad portfolio 21 markets Performance drivers Read more: page 16.
Global reach Consumer insights Sustainability and Financial strength Participation strategy responsibility priorities Efficient supply and procurement Supply resources Read more: page 16 Leading capabilities Global functions Values Global functions Our role in society Broad portfolio: we have world-leading Consumer insights: in-market consumer Performance drivers: we have identified six brands across categories and price points.
insight teams are able to identify trends more performance drivers which are key to improving accurately and quickly, delivering more locally execution and achieving our aims: premium Global reach: we have global reach through relevant solutions.
core brands: reserve: innovation: route to the breadth and depth of our global and consumer: cost and productivity: and talent.
Participation strategy: flexibility to select Each market focuses on the priorities that will the best portfolio of brands that capture the Financial strength: our competitive drive performance in that market.
unique consumer opportunity that exists advantage is reflected by our strong financial in each specific market and then to invest Sustainability and responsibility priorities: returns and consistent financial performance.
directly against the largest identified growth every business decision, every operation, Efficient supply and procurement: across opportunities.
Each market is able to deploy and every programme and initiative must the world we have efficiency in supply and a customised combination of global and work towards our three sustainability and procurement, with high-quality manufacturing local brands to provide brand price tier responsibility priorities: creating a positive operations and environmental standards.
coverage that is best suited to its specific role for alcohol in society: building consumer needs.
thriving communities: and reducing Leading capabilities: our focus is on brilliant our environmental impacts.
execution including cutting-edge consumer Supply resources: our 21 markets are insights and marketing, scalable innovation, designated as import markets, import and Our performance drivers and sustainability and winning relationships with our customers third party production markets, or import and responsibility priorities are underpinned through distribution and sales.
Where we by our commitment to the highest standards have dedicated in-market supply resource of governance and ethics.
Values: at the heart of everything we do it increases the speed with which we can are our company values: passionate about respond to local consumer demand and customers and consumers: be the best: helps to protect our supply chain from freedom to succeed: proud of what we do: political and economic volatility.
Global functions: our 21 markets are Our role in society: we are passionate about supported by a global structure and shared ensuring alcohol continues to play a positive services designed to leverage scale, drive role in society, and are committed to playing efficiency, share best practice, impart our part in tackling alcohol misuse.
knowledge and help build capability at a local level, as well as apply governance of controls, compliance and ethics.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016
