14 DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 Market dynamics The global beverage alcohol market is large and MARKET i diverse, with an estimated six billion equivalent DYNAMICS units of alcohol sold each year, generating i 260billion of net sales.
Like other consumer goods companies, beverage alcohol companies operate in a context of increasing stakeholder expectation with the added element of high, and highly diverse, levels of regulation.
This environment presents opportunities for Diageo, with our global reach, our range of iconic brands across price tiers, and our approach to responsibility, sustainability, governance and ethics.
A market that is profitable and expanding local consumers and the categories, brands Our broad participation across geographies, and price points they are seeking is vital categories and price tiers acts as a natural The beverage alcohol market is profitable, growing and attractive.
Over the medium to accessing this growth.
hedge against individual market volatility, term, the industry is expected to grow overall The emerging middle-class plays an while we retain the flexibility in each market in both volume and value.
This is driven by important role.
These relatively affluent to respond quickly to local dynamics consumers already drink beer or local spirits, through our 21 market business model.
consumer fundamentals including a rise in global incomes and a growing legal purchase and the opportunity is to further access this Continued focus on local sourcing of age population.
At the same time, margins existing consumption pool with our brands ingredients, scenario planning and risk remain significantly higher than for the overall and to offer an opportunity to trade up to management, and management of foreign our international spirits brands for certain exchange exposure all work to protect the consumer goods market.
The market for beverage alcohol is also occasions.
Outside this group, an estimated business against the challenges of volatility.
highly diverse, with significant variations 25% of global alcohol consumption is from in culture and conditions between, and non-commercial or illicit products.
Capturing Earning the trust and respect which market share in this consumer segment by support performance within, individual countries and regions.
It is broadly split between developed and offering legitimate, safe, attractive brands Our ambition is to be one of the best emerging markets, but each individual that deliver quality at an affordable price is performing, most trusted and respected consumer products companies in the world market presents different consumer an important opportunity.
There is also a significant and growing ensuring we play a positive role in society is dynamics and a different outlook.
This diversity presents opportunities to agile number of globally affluent consumers in at the heart of this.
Operating in a responsible businesses that can act on consumer insight the emerging markets, who represent an and sustainable way every day, everywhere, not only helps us be a trusted and respected and deliver trusted, competitive products.
opportunity for our reserve portfolio.
business, it also helps drive our performance.
Developed market opportunities Geo-political volatility The launch of the UN Global Goals in Typically, developed market populations While there are positive medium-term September 2015 and the Paris Agreement on climate change in December 2015 represent are ageing and growing more slowly prospects for the beverage alcohol industry, than those in emerging markets.
Overall, all consumer goods businesses, including important milestones in what was arguably an levels of disposable income are higher, beverage alcohol businesses, continue to unprecedented period of concerted action to and consumers are often prepared to navigate a volatile global economy.
Our Chief address global issues.
These initiatives both reflect and drive a wider trend in which pay a premium for high quality brands Executive discusses the United Kingdoms with heritage and provenance.
We see referendum vote to leave the European Union stakeholders of all kinds, including consumers consumption occasions as opportunities on 23 June 2016 on page 13. and in particular millennials, have increasing to promote our international spirits The slowdown in the Chinese economy, expectations that businesses must create value beyond their economic contribution.
brands, and, within those brands, to oil price shocks, persistent conflicts in many encourage consumers to trade up parts of the world, and terrorist attacks Delivering measurable social benefits, to our reserve portfolio.
in Europe are just some of the events tackling alcohol misuse, demonstrating and trends that have contributed to an good corporate governance and reducing environmental impacts in line with a clear Emerging market opportunities unpredictable environment.
The resulting Opportunities in emerging markets are driven uncertainty, changes to economic variables sustainable development strategy are, more by growth in both populations and wealth.
such as exchange rates and commodity than ever, business imperatives which drive Each country is different, and growth occurs prices, and fluctuations in political security performance.
at different price points depending on wealth can all reduce consumer confidence and and local conditions.
An understanding of spending power.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders Market dynamics DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 15 We have built on our long history of consumer information and responsible as a result of their impact on the wider product innovation, reducing drink value chain and associated communities.
sustainability and responsibility programmes by developing a strategy that is aligned with driving, and enlisting the support of retailers Water scarcity is particularly important to the UN Global Goals and Paris Agreement to reduce harmful drinking.
Diageo goes us because water is our main ingredient.
and focuses on the three areas that are most beyond industry collaboration and Our Water Blueprint, launched in April 2015, works in partnership with governments, defines our strategic approach to water material to us and our stakeholders: creating a positive role for alcohol in society: building law enforcement, educators and civil stewardship, and focuses specifically on thriving communities: and reducing our society to support campaigns to reduce stewardship in the water-stressed areas environmental impact.
We have set ourselves harmful drinking.
targets to achieve in each of these areas by 2020.
Building thriving communities Trust and transparency We can add significantly to the contribution As part of the process of creating value, we Creating a positive role for alcohol in society we make to communities through direct and are increasingly expected to be transparent indirect employment, taxes, and community about our most material social and Alcohol has been enjoyed for centuries and is part of celebrations around the world.
investment efforts by working to leverage environmental issues.
This is delivered Whether people drink beer, wine or spirits, the economic and social impact of our entire through reporting frameworks such as the International Integrated Reporting alcohol is alcohol, and the vast majority value chain.
Helping communities thrive within the supply chain also builds resilience Framework, the Global Reporting Initiative of people who choose to enjoy it, do so moderately and responsibly.
We respect within our business.
We build trust with Guidelines, and the United Nations Global that some people choose not to drink, and government and other stakeholders by Compact principles.
We report against all three of these, and believe that this regulation recognise that the misuse of alcohol can be focusing on human rights throughout our value chain, and through local sourcing and scrutiny can be an advantage to harmful to individuals and society.
Putting our resources and skills into programmes initiatives, particularly in Africa where we companies with good corporate governance that prevent and reduce alcohol misuse and aim to source 80% of agricultural materials and the right approach to sustainability and responsibility.
working with others to raise awareness and for use in local markets by 2020.
This helps secure supply, and delivers wider benefits change attitudes and behaviour is good for society and good for the long-term future to the local community.
Climate change and water scarcity All businesses, particularly those that rely on Support for effective alcohol policies The beverage alcohol industry is one of the agricultural raw materials, are exposed to a most highly regulated in the world, with variety of environmental issues associated regulation varying widely between countries with climate change, such as droughts, floods and biodiversity loss.
These issues can affect and jurisdictions.
Diageo complies with all laws and regulations, wherever we operate, a business operations directly, or indirectly as a minimum requirement.
We advocate effective alcohol policies that are evidenceDiageo sites located in water-stressed areas 32 based, account for drinking patterns, 21 29 target at-risk groups, treat all forms of alcohol 35 18 equally, and involve all stakeholders.
Such 19 36 39 policies include mandating a minimum 23 24 20 legal purchasing age of not less than 18: a 25 33 maximum blood alcohol concentration BAC 22 38 level for drivers of no more than 0.08mg: and 30 28 37 lower BACs for novice and commercial drivers.
34 26 However, we advocate against measures 27 31 that are not based on evidence or are likely to have unintended consequences in what are 13 15 1 11 12 17 16 2 14 often complex markets.
A particular concern 8 is policies that inadvertently push consumers 3 10 towards unregulated or illicit alcohol, which 5 9 can be a risk to public health.
4 7 6 Industry collaboration Sites We are one of 12 global producers of beer, 1 Kenya Brewing, Nairobi 10 Mwanza, Tanzania 20 Aurangabad, Maharashtra 32 Pathankot, Punjab wine and spirits which, in 2013, launched 2 East Africa Maltings, 11 UBL, Kampala, Uganda 21 Baddi, Himachal Pradesh 33 Pioneer, Maharashtra Nairobi 12 IDU, Kampala, Uganda 22 Baramati, Maharashtra 34 Puducherry a set of commitments designed to support 3 Seybrew, Seychelles 13 Accra, Achimota, Ghana 23 Bhadrakali, West Bengal 35 Rosa, Uttar Pradesh 4 SA Cider, South Africa 14 Kumasi, Kaasi, Ghana 24 Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh 36 Serampore, West Bengal Member States implementation of the World 5 Phelindaba Brewery, 15 Ogba, Lagos, Nigeria 25 Four Seasons Winery, 37 Sovereign, Karnataka Health Organizations WHO global strategy South Africa 16 Paraipaba, Cear, Brazil Maharashtra 38 Tern, Andhra Pradesh 6 Butterworth Brewery, 17 Agricultural lands, 26 Hospet, Karnataka 39 Udaipur, Rajasthan to Reduce the Harmful Use of Alcohol.
These South Africa Cear, Brazil 27 Kumbalgodu, Karnataka commitments focus on reducing underage 7 Khangela Brewery, 28 Malkajgiri, Telangana South Africa India 29 Meerut, Uttar Pradesh drinking, strengthening and expanding 8 Moshi, Tanzania 18 Alwar, Rajasthan 30 Nacharam, Telangana marketing codes of practice, providing 9 Dar es Salaam, Tanzania 19 Asansol, West Bengal 31 Palakkad, Kerala PDF Page: 14 15. p2.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016
