H S I T H R I S E R I T B T D A I E Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 OUR BUSINESS A Great British business DFS is the leading upholstery retailer in the UK passionate about making and selling high quality, great looking sofas since 1969.
At DFS, we have almost 50 years of experience in designing, manufacturing, selling, delivering and installing an extensive range of sofas and other upholstered and general furniture products.
Our products are complemented by our market-leading interest DESIGN & INSPIRE free credit offer, British Standards accreditation, long-term guarantees and comprehensive after-sales service.
Through our We inspire our customers through our broad core DFS product range, together with our premium branded dominant and distinctive advertising that partnerships and our subsidiaries Sofa Workshop and Dwell, encourages customers to consider an we really do offer a sofa for everyone.
upholstery purchase, through our in-house design and buying expertise, which ensures Our heritage and focus make us the clear UK sofa experts, with a that we are always at the forefront of home share in the segment greater than our next four specialist competitors combined.
Through our scale, specialism and in-house manufacturing furnishing trends, and using our marketexpertise we are able to offer our customers an unbeatable leading, interactive website where our live combination of great products, great service and great value.
chat video service allows us to engage with our customers face-to-face.
UPHOLSTERY RANGES INTRODUCED IN FY16 163 SERVICE MANAGERS 1 IN THE FIELD RETAIL Our nationwide showroom network is 200 staffed by a knowledgeable, well-trained and highly motivated retail sales team: they UPHOLSTERY ORDERS are complemented by our transactional MADE IN-HOUSE IN FY16 website, apps and telephone call centres to deliver a market-leading omnichannel experience that is available to our 25% customers 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
indb 4 12 10 2016 18:05 I T R L S A B I E G T R A G N E R G H M S A H I N T S I U I R S T F I B E A R R Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions Strategic report Governance Financial statements DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 MANUFACTURE Our five UK factories produce more than a quarter of the furniture we sell: this vertical integration enhances our competitive edge by improving efficiency, enhancing flexibility, strengthening quality control and substantially reducing delivery lead times for our always made-to-order products.
SERVICE We employ our own delivery crews to provide a full installation service to our customers, and also offer a facility for the collection and recycling of their old sofas.
Top quality aftercare is also guaranteed, with a nationwide team of 200 specialist upholsterers on hand to visit customers in See our business model on page 10 their homes and promptly address any service issues.
