30 DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 Business reviews: Europe, Russia and Turkey Net sales by markets Net sales by categories Net sales by price points EUROPE, % % % RUSSIA AND TURKEY i Europe Turkey Spirits RTDs Value Super premium Russia Other Beer Other Standard Ultra premium Wine Premium i excluding RTDs Key financials Diageo is the largest premium Acquisitions and Organic Reported drinks business in Europe.
Within 2015 Exchange disposals movement 2016 movement million million million million million % the geography of Europe there Net sales 2,617 87 88 102 2,544 3 are three markets: Europe, Russia Marketing 388 1 5 20 404 4 and Turkey.
In Europe consumer Operating profit before exceptional items 804 24 24 45 801 marketing programmes are Exceptional developed at a market level to drive operating items 20 consistency, efficiency and scale Operating profit 784 801 2 across all countries.
In Russia we are driving our premium core, teams focusing on sales and customer where products are sold through a joint venture arrangement with Mot Hennessy standard and value brands and marketing execution.
and Europe Partner markets where we use reserve portfolio, whilst in Turkey, Supply operations third party distributors.
we use our local businesses strong The International Supply Centre ISC Europe Partner Markets distributes our route to consumer to drive beer brands in mainland Europe, focusing comprises the supply operations in the United accelerated growth in international Kingdom, Ireland and Italy.
The group owns on Germany, Russia and France, our largest 29 whisky distilleries in Scotland, a Dublin mainland European beer markets.
In Europe our based brewery, maturation and packaging In Russia we operate through wholly reputation as a trusted and owned subsidiaries.
facilities in Scotland, England, Ireland and Italy.
respected company and for The ISC ships whisky, vodka, gin, rum, beer, In Turkey, we sell our products via the groundbreaking innovation, is key wine, cream liqueurs, and other spirit-based distribution network of Mey ki, our wholly to our ability to attract and retain drinks to over 180 countries.
Mey ki distributes both local brands raki, other spirits and wine and 1 billion investment in Scotch whisky the people we need to deliver our production and inventory, announced in 2012, Diageos global spirits brands.
distilling capacity has increased by over 25%.
Raki, vodka and wine are produced at a Sustainability and responsibility Our markets Promoting responsible drinking is both a key number of sites in Turkey and Smirnov vodka Europe comprises Great Britain, Ireland and and other local brands are produced in Russia.
issue and a key strength for us, in a region Continental Europe including Iberia, France, where concern over harmful drinking is high Germany and the Europe Partner markets Route to consumer on the public agenda.
The work we are distribution businesses, while Russia and doing in support of the Global Producers In Great Britain we sell and market our Turkey are standalone markets.
Europe is products through Diageo GB spirits, beer and Commitments includes partnering with managed as a single market with country ready to drink and Justerini & Brooks Retail industry colleagues on a responsible wines private clients.
Products are distributed marketing pact, as well as our own responsible drinking programmes.
This work makes an through independent wholesalers and directly to retailers.
In the on-trade, products are sold important contribution to the promotion of through major brewers, multiple retail groups alcohol as part of a balanced lifestyle, while and smaller regional independent brewers also enhancing our reputation.
This reputational aspect is essential in a and wholesalers.
On 1 January 2016 we sold our Percy Fox wines distribution business.
region where people increasingly want to In the Republic of Ireland and Northern work for companies that they believe make a Ireland, Diageo sells and distributes directly positive social and environmental, as well as to the on-trade and the off-trade as well economic, contribution.
operations, notably our distilleries in Scotland In Continental Europe, we distribute our and our Guinness brewery in Ireland, aim spirits brands primarily through our own for leadership in safety standards and distribution companies, apart from France environmental sustainability.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders Business reviews: Europe, Russia and Turkey DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 31 The regions performance reflects KEY HIGHLIGHTS In Continental Europe net sales were momentum in Europe, strong net sales up 4%: In Europe net sales were up 3%: growth in Russia driven by price increases Net sales in Iberia were up 2%.
Johnnie In Great Britain net sales were up 4%.
in a tough economic and exchange Walker net sales grew 6% in the year and Baileys performance accelerated with net environment and good growth in Turkey.
Baileys performed strongly supported by sales up 11% driven by increased off-trade In Europe, net sales were up 3% with Great increased investment.
Gordons net sales visibility and on-trade activation.
Smirnoff Britain and Continental Europe the main were also up in the growing gin category.
net sales were up 1% supported by a contributors and with share gains across These positive net sales performances full year of the Were Open platform.
Baileys performed strongly more than offset net sales decline in JB.
Guinness net sales were up 1% driven by execution against core growth Net sales in Germany, Austria and benefitting from the Rugby World Cup drivers, especially sampling.
Guinness net Switzerland grew 12% driven by double activation, improved distribution and sales were up 2% supported by digit growth in Johnnie Walker, Smirnoff, innovation successes from The Brewers innovations from The Brewers Project Tanqueray and Baileys.
Tanqueray net sales grew double and Tanqueray grew net sales double digit sales were up 11% driven by scotch malts, digit and the brand gained 2pps of share in most countries across Europe.
Reserve Johnnie Walker and Tanqueray No.
in the gin category, driven by expanding brands continued to perform well also Benelux net sales were down 1% overall distribution with improved visibility and growing double digit.
In Russia, price in this group of countries.
Reserve increases led to net sales increase of 27% was impacted by a significant tax increase brands continued to drive profitable while volume was down 9%, with share implemented towards the end of the first growth with net sales up 26% driven by gains in rum but share losses in scotch half in Belgium.
As a result, the spirits Croc and scotch malts.
in the face of increased competition.
market in Belgium has seen a significant In Ireland net sales were broadly flat.
In Turkey net sales were up 6% driven by decline through the second half which Guinness net sales were up 4%, driven Johnnie Walker underpinned by steady led to a 26% net sales decline over the by the continued successful innovations growth in raki at 3%.
Gross margins were same period.
launched through The Brewers Project.
up in both Europe and Russia.
Overall In Italy net sales were up 8% driven Of these, Hop House 13 Lager has proven region operating margins improved by by double digit growth in scotch and to be a stand out success gaining almost 51bps.
In Europe procurement savings gin.
Johnnie Walker and scotch malts 3% share of lager beer in the Republic of offset increased marketing and overheads performed well with both Tanqueray and Ireland.
Other beer brands net sales leaving margin improvement in Russia to Gordons delivering strong growth albeit declined 4% and net sales in spirits drive the regions increase.
not as fast as the gin category.
In Greece, net sales were up 5% driven In France net sales increased 3% driven by route to consumer investment and by Captain Morgan which almost focus on consistent activation.
doubled sales and reserve brands up Net Sales in Poland and the Europe 8%, driven mainly by scotch malts, Partner Markets were broadly flat.
partially offset by weakness in Smirnoff Performance in Russia continued to be ready to drink.
impacted by the challenged economic dynamics.
Price increases were implemented to offset currency devaluation, which impacted volume, Reported Organic Reported down 9% but with net sales up 27%.
Organic volume volume net sales net sales Diageo scotch share has declined as a movement movement movement movement Markets and categories: % % % % result of the level of these price increases Europe, Russia and Turkey 2 4 3 on scotch relative to the competition.
Captain Morgan however continued to Europe 4 3 2 achieve strong share gains and net sales Russia 9 12 27 12 growth, supported by consistent Turkey 2 2 6 7 execution of growth drivers and the i Spirits 2 1 6 launch of Captain Morgan white.
Beer 2 2 In Turkey net sales grew 6% and in raki, Ready to drink 2 2 3 2 with net sales up 3%, the premiumisation trend continued with Yen Raki and the Reported Organic Reported super premium variant Tekirda Raki volume net sales net sales ii driving growth.
Johnnie Walker net sales movement movement movement i Global giants and local stars : % % % continued to be up double digit.
Guinness 4 2 1 Marketing increased by 5% and Johnnie Walker 3 7 3 benefitted from procurement savings Smirnoff 1 resulting in an underlying investment Baileys 5 9 6 increase of 10%.
The region continues Yen Raki 1 4 9 to be focused on the key growth Captain Morgan 8 9 5 opportunities, reserve brands, gin, JB 3 4 6 beer and innovation.
i Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
ii Reported equals organic volume movement.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016
