Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 MARKET OVERVIEW The sofa experts We have been consistently capturing market share, achieving success through offering great service, great choice and great value.
Large potential customer base This trend can be seen in the combined Steady growth trends over DFS has a specialist focus on the retail market share of these two categories now long-term periods upholstered furniture segment which accounting for two-thirds of retail sales Between 1995 and 2015, the UK accounts for approximately 25% of the and having steadily grown from 2010 upholstered furniture segment has grown furniture and floorcoverings market.
to 2015. by 2.9% per annum on a compound The UK retail upholstered furniture annual growth basis, driven by a c. 7 year segment was estimated by Verdict to be Customers are however increasingly replacement cycle and underpinned by valued at c. 3.2 billion in 2015.
We also choosing to purchase from Specialist demographic trends.
offer a selected range of beds, dining Chains, with the sector share held by and other furniture giving access to specialists rising from 45.3% in 2010 to The segment is principally driven by three other segments in the market.
Specialist Chains benefit key factors: consumer confidence, from advertising more widely than housing market activity and consumer Clear leader in the segment Independents and using their purchasing credit availability.
After peaking at DFS is the clear leader in the upholstery scale to offer customers better value and 3.9 billion in 2007, the subsequent segment with 26.4% share by value.
more attractive purchase financing terms, financial crisis, compounded by the exit of Our share is greater than that of our next as well as giving the reassurance of more several significant retailers, caused the four competitors combined.
We see three visible financial strength and brand segment to decline to 2.9 billion in 2011 broad categories of companies competing reputation to underpin long-term from where it has since stabilised to in the upholstery retail market: Specialist product warranties.
Chains such as DFS, ScS, Harveys, Sofology and Furniture Village: We believe that this trend is likely to Although the outlook for 2017 is Independents that are typically single continue as customers continue to see the somewhat uncertain following the result of store operations: and General benefits that Specialist Chains can offer the UKs EU Referendum, current levels of Merchandisers and Others with stores and Independents continue to face the consumer confidence still remain such as Ikea, John Lewis, Next, Argos, challenge of declining sales with static significantly above those seen during the Debenhams and all other retailers fixed costs.
financial crisis and the number of housing including DIY chains and supermarkets.
transactions and rate of consumer credit Our website also maintains a leading growth has not as yet changed markedly.
A new sofa will be located at the heart of a presence, attracting more than 40% of the customers home for a number of years.
As a result, most customers will perform significant research in order to find the right product for them.
This depth of research generally leads customers to Between 1995 and 2015, the UK upholstered prefer to choose to purchase from Specialist Chains and Independents that furniture sector has grown by 2.9% per annum on have the specialist sales staff and breadth a compound annual growth basis.
of product range to appeal to the broadest range of customers.
indb 6 12 10 2016 18:06 Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions Strategic report Governance Financial statements DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 KEY MARKET DRIVERS Consumer confidence Housing market Consumer credit Levels of consumer spending, particularly Independent research conducted on our Upholstered furniture typically has for big ticket items, are influenced by behalf suggests that c. 20% of upholstery relatively high unit prices and thus the general consumer confidence.
While purchases are triggered by a house move.
availability of consumer credit can levels of consumer confidence have been Housing market transaction volumes are facilitate purchases and upselling.
impacted recently by the outcome of the well above levels seen between 2009- Consumer credit availability has steadily EU Referendum, as of October 2016, they 2012 albeit still at levels significantly improved since 2010 lows.
remain well above the lows seen in 2008. beneath the 2006 peak.
GfK Consumer Confidence average of individual 2.
HMRC - number of residential property 3.
Bank of England - 12 month average growth rate scores for each year transactions completions with a value over of total excluding the Student Loans Company 40,000 for England and Wales sterling net unsecured lending to individuals in % seasonally adjusted Mathematical average of reported values 07 25579 DFS RA BOOK.
