60 DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 Corporate governance report Activities of the Nomination Committee To support the market visits made by the presidents in the ordinary The principal activities of the Nomination Committee during the year course of their business, a small group led by the Chief Executive were: the consideration of potential new Non-Executive Directors, in makes regular market visits focused on the execution of strategy and light of the review of the structure and composition of the Board and, designed to assist in continuing the development of strategy and in in particular, the focus on finding a successor to the Chairman: the the delivery of performance against the Performance Ambition.
review of individual Director performance: a review of the Executive Committees appointed by the Chief Executive and intended to have an Committee membership and succession planning for it and for ongoing remit, including the Audit & Risk Committee, Finance Committee senior leadership positions, in addition to a review of diversity within and Filings Assurance Committee are shown with their remits at the group.
com en-row ourbusiness aboutus corporategovernance.
In respect of the appointment of Emma Walmsley the recruitment process included the development of a candidate profile and the Additional information engagement of MWM Consulting, a professional search agency Internal control and risk management which has no other connection with the Company specialising in An ongoing process has been established for identifying, evaluating the recruitment of high calibre Non-Executive Directors.
Reports on and managing risks faced by the group.
This process, which complies potential appointees were provided to the committee, which, after with the requirements of the Code, has been in place for the full careful consideration, made a recommendation to the Board.
financial year and up to the date the financial statements were A similar but more focused search was undertaken for a successor approved and accords with the guidance issued by the Financial to the Chairman, with an alternative professional search agency Reporting Council in September 2014, Guidance on Risk JCA Group used again with no other connection with the management, Internal Control and related Financial and Business Company.
This search resulted in the Nomination Committee Reporting.
The Board confirms that, through the activities of the meeting on a number of separate occasions before making a Audit Committee described below, a robust assessment of the recommendation to the Board that Javier Ferrn be appointed principal risks facing the company, including those that would as the designated successor to the Chairman.
threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity has been carried out.
These risks and mitigations are set out above Diversity in the section of this Annual Report dealing with principal risks.
Diageo supports diversity within its Board of Directors, including The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the companys gender diversity.
Further information is given in the section of this systems of internal control and risk management and for reviewing Annual Report on sustainability and responsibility, our people.
The Board confirms that, through the activities of the Audit Committee described below, it has reviewed the Remuneration Committee effectiveness of the companys systems of internal control and Role of the Remuneration Committee risk management.
The role of the Remuneration Committee and details of how the During the year, in line with the Code, the Board considered the company applies the principles of the Code in respect of Directors nature and extent of the risks it was willing to take to achieve its remuneration are set out in the Directors remuneration report.
strategic goals and reviewed the existing internal statement of risk The Chairman and the Chief Executive may, by invitation, attend appetite which was considered and recommended to the Board Remuneration Committee meetings, except when their own by both the Audit & Risk Committee and the Audit Committee.
No Director is involved in determining In accordance with the Code, the Board has also considered the his or her own remuneration.
companys longer term viability, based on a robust assessment of its principal risks.
This was done through the work of the Audit EXECUTIVE DIRECTION Committee which recommended the Viability Statement as set out above to the Board.
AND CONTROL The company has in place internal control and risk management systems in relation to the companys financial reporting process and Executive Committee the groups process for preparation of consolidated accounts.
Further, The Executive Committee, appointed and chaired by the Chief a review of the consolidated financial statements is completed by Executive, supports him in discharging his responsibility for management to ensure that the financial position and results of the implementing the strategy agreed by the Board and for managing group are appropriately reflected therein.
the company and the group.
It consists of the individuals responsible for the key components Compliance and ethics programme of the business: North America, Europe, Africa, Latin America and Diageo is committed to conducting its business responsibly and in Caribbean, Asia Pacific, International Supply Centre and Corporate accordance with all laws and regulations to which its business and other.
We hold ourselves to the principles in our Code The Executive Committee focuses its time and agenda to align of Business Conduct, which is embedded through a comprehensive with the Performance Ambition and how to achieve Diageos training and education programme for all employees.
financial and non-financial performance objectives.
Performance metrics have been developed to measure progress and a further Our Code of Business Conduct, an updated version of which was launched designated focus is on the companys reputation.
In support, monthly during the fi ancial year, and other Diageo global policies are available at www.
performance delivery calls, involving the senior leadership group, focus on progress against the six performance drivers.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders Corporate governance report DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 61 Going concern In accordance with the requirements of SOX and related SEC rules, Diageo has adopted a code of ethics covering its Chief Executive, The Directors confirm that, after making appropriate enquiries, they Chief Financial Officer, presidents and other identifiable persons in have reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources the group, including those performing senior accounting and to continue in operational existence.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
No amendments to, or waivers in respect of, the code of ethics were made during the year.
Further information on going concern is given in this Annual Report under note 1 Accounting information and policies going concern.
The full text of the code of ethics is available at www.
com en-row Although not assessed over the same period as the going concern, ourbusiness aboutus corporategovernance.
the viability of the group has been assessed above.
Both the Audit & Risk Committee and the Audit Committee regularly Managements report on internal control over financial reporting review the strategy and operation of the compliance and ethics Management, under the supervision of the Chief Executive and Chief programme through the year.
Financial Officer, is responsible for establishing and maintaining Further information is given in the section of this Annual Report adequate control over the groups financial reporting.
on sustainability and responsibility, governance and ethics.
Management has assessed the effectiveness of Diageos internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13 a -13 f and Relations with shareholders 15 d -15 f under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 based on The Boards primary contact with institutional shareholders is through the framework in Internal Control Integrated Framework, issued the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
The Chief Executive by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway and Chief Financial Officer are supported by the investor relations Commission COSO in 2013.
Based on this assessment, management department, who are in regular contact with institutional concluded that, as at 30 June 2016, internal control over financial shareholders and sell-side analysts.
A monthly investor relations reporting was effective.
report, including coverage of the company by sell-side analysts, is During the period covered by this report, there were no changes circulated to the Board.
in internal control over financial reporting that have materially The Board also ensures that all Directors develop an affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect the effectiveness understanding of the views of major institutional shareholders of internal control over financial reporting.
through an independent survey of shareholder opinion.
In addition,  LLP PwC, an independent registered major shareholders are invited to raise any company matters of public accounting firm, who also audit the groups consolidated interest to them at meetings with the chairman of the Board and the financial statements, has audited the effectiveness of the groups chairman of the remuneration committee.
Reports on any meetings internal control over financial reporting, and has issued an unqualified are made to the Board.
report thereon, which is included in PwCs integrated audit report Private shareholders are invited to write to the chairman or any below and which will be included in the companys Form 20-F to be other Director and express their views on any issues of concern at any filed with the SEC.
time and the AGM provides an opportunity for private shareholders to put their questions in person.
Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and financial statements Political donations The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the During the year, Diageo Great Britain Limited a wholly owned information filed with the SEC on Form 20-F and the group and subsidiary of the Company helped, with others, defray the costs of parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable an economists dialogue and associated report hosted by the law and regulations.
independent Centre for European Reform think-tank, in the EU referendum context.
During the Responsibility statement year also, Diageo Germany GmbH a wholly owned subsidiary of the Each of the Directors, whose names are set out in the Board of Company helped, with others, to support a dialogue between key Directors and Executive Committee section of this Annual Report, German media and influencers called CDU Media Night hosted by confirms that to the best of his or her knowledge: the political party CDU.
These costs totalled approximately 1,000 the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016, 2015: nil.
Otherwise, the group has not given any money for political taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and purposes in the United Kingdom and made no donations to EU provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the political organisations and incurred no EU political expenditure groups position and performance, business model and strategy: during the year.
the consolidated financial statements contained in the Annual The group made contributions to non-EU political parties totalling Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016, which have 0.4 million during the year 2015: 0.5 million.
These contributions been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB and were made exclusively to federal and state candidates and as adopted for use in the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, committees in North America consistent with applicable laws, liabilities, financial position and profit of the group: and where it is common practice to make political contributions.
No the management report represented by the Directors Report particular political persuasion was supported and contributions were contained in the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended made with the aim of promoting a better understanding of the 30 June 2016 includes a fair review of the development and group and its views on commercial matters, as well as a generally performance of the business and the position of the group, improved business environment.
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that the group faces.
The responsibility statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 27 July 2016.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016 62 DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 Corporate governance report Directors attendance record at the AGM, scheduled Board meetings and Board committee meetings, for the year ended 30 June 2016 was as set out in the table below.
For Board and Board committee meetings, attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the number that each Director was eligible to attend.
Annual Audit Nomination Remuneration General Meeting Board Committee Committee Committee iii iv 2015 maximum 6 maximum 4 maximum 7 maximum 4 i i Dr Franz B Humer 6 6 4 4 3 3 4 4 ii i ii Ivan Menezes 6 6 2 2 3 3 4 4 i Deirdre Mahlan 3 3 1 1 n a n a i Kathryn Mikells n a 3 3 3 3 n a n a Lord Davies 6 6 4 4 7 7 4 4 Peggy Bruzelius 6 6 4 4 6 7 4 4 Laurence Danon 1 2 1 1 1 2 1 1 Betsy Holden 6 6 4 4 7 7 4 4 Ho KwonPing 6 6 3 4 5 7 4 4 Nicola Mendelsohn 5 6 4 4 5 7 4 4 Philip Scott 6 6 4 4 7 7 4 4 Alan Stewart 6 6 4 4 7 7 4 4 Emma Walmsley n a 2 2 2 2 3 3 2 2 i Attended by invitation.
ii Attended by invitation, for part only.
iii Where Non-Executive Directors were unable to attend a meeting they gave their views to the Chairmen of the respective meetings ahead of the meetings being held.
Nicola Mendelsohn and Laurence Danon were unable to attend the 2015 AGM as a result of, respectively, a religious holiday and a prior engagement.
A Sub-Committee meeting of the Audit Committee was also held involving P G Scott and P B Bruzelius.
iv Four meetings of the Nomination Committee were held on Chairman succession.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016
