Dignity plc 02 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Overview Our history and purpose Dignity is one of the leading providers of funeral related services in the UK with strong business foundations.
We are here to help people at one of the most difficult times in their lives.
We do this with compassion, respect, openness and care.
Our aim is to be the company everyone knows they can trust in their time of need.
Although the local communities we serve have evolved As an industry leader working at the heart of local communities, throughout our history, our core purpose has remained we are well positioned to meet the needs of our clients for the same.
OUR HISTORY DIGNITY TODAY We have a rich and proud We maintain the heritage AT heritage and many of our of each of these funeral THE businesses have been serving businesses, employing local HEART their local communities for people who understand the OF LOCAL generations.
Our oldest funeral traditions of their community COMMUNITIES location was established in and are committed to providing 1812 and our oldest the highest standards crematorium in 1903. of service.
George S Munn T H Sanders & Sons, Birmingham Coyne Bros, Liverpool Dignity Pre-arranged Northern Ireland & Co, Glasgow Surrey Crematorium After serving in World War Funeral Plans Dignity acquired six George S Munn & Co Apprentice undertaker, The oldest crematorium Two, the four Coyne Dignity launched the funeral locations in is Dignitys oldest Thomas Sanders, operated by Dignity and brothers opened a taxi first funeral plan in Northern Ireland.
funeral directors opened his own when it opened in 1903 business prior to becoming the UK.
and was established business in Richmond was one of only nine such one of Liverpools busiest in 1812. in 1869.
There are now facilities in the UK.
The eight branches with business was developed the Sanders name by the Coyne family and across West London Jerome, the son of Jerry and Surrey.
one of the founders, is Dignitys Regional Manager for the North West.
1812 1848 1869 1880 1903 1928 1946 1947 1985 1994 2008 2016 Jennings, Wolverhampton George Jennings arranged his first funeral Funeral Services Limited to help a close friend During the period, Dignity before establishing an J H Kenyon, London Moodys Funeral TJ Davies & Sons, Dignity Caring invested 44 million undertakers with his Established by James Directors, Dorset Newport Funeral Services including external wife.
The business H Kenyon, the business The Moody family were Thomas Davies, Dignity was created transaction costs in was developed by has conducted funerals originally boat builders who grandfather of Operations in 1994 through the acquiring five Crematoria five generations of his for the Royal Family, began producing coffins.
Director, Andrew Davies, merger of Plantsbrook from Funeral Services family and acquired by politicians and other They started conducting established his business Group and Great Limited trading as Co-op Dignity in 2015. prominent figures.
