Dignity Remco Section 2016 Q9 tp RF66100 Q8 P02 30 03 2017 13:35 Page 15 Dignity plc 64 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Directors report for the 53 week period ended 30 December 2016 The Directors present their report and the audited consolidated The Strategic Report on pages 4 to 36 of the Annual Report financial statements for Dignity plc and its subsidiaries for the includes a fair review of the development and performance 53 week period ended 30 December 2016. of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that The company registration number of Dignity plc is 4569346. it faces.
Statement of Directors responsibilities Principal risks and uncertainties The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Operational risks are considered on pages 29 and 30. the Report on Directors Remuneration and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
An assessment of the Groups exposure to financial risks and a description of how these risks are managed are included in Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance Share capital with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as During the period, 213,851 Ordinary Shares of 12 48 143 adopted by the European Union and the parent company pence each were issued to satisfy Long-Term Incentive Plan financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom share awards vesting in the period and 104,008 Ordinary Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Shares of 12 48 143 pence each were issued to satisfy options Reporting Standard 101, Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS exercised under the 2013 Save As You Earn Scheme which 101 United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable matured on 1 December 2016.
Of that total 1,541 were issued law.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the to retirees prior to the maturity of the scheme.
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the The issued share capital of Dignity plc at 30 December 2016 Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
consisted of 49,738,150 Ordinary Shares of 12 48 143 pence In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are each.
All the Ordinary Shares carry the same rights and required to: obligations.
There are no other class or type of share in issue.
Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them A special resolution passed at the last AGM on 9 June 2016 consistently: gives Dignity plc the authority to purchase up to 4,963,440 Ordinary Shares of 12 48 143 pence each at not less than Make judgements and accounting estimates that are nominal value and not more than five per cent above the reasonable and prudent: and average middle market quotation for the preceding five State whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and business days.
At the same meeting the Company was also applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, given authority to allot Ordinary Shares up to an aggregate subject to any material departures disclosed and explained nominal value of 4,081,822 of which up to 612,273 may in the Group and parent Company financial statements be for cash.
These authorities will expire at the conclusion respectively.
It is the intention of the Directors to seek renewal of these authorities at that AGM.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting There are no restrictions at the period end on the transfer records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys of securities.
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and Results enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the The results for the period are set out in the Consolidated Report on Directors Remuneration comply with the Companies Income Statement on page 70.
The Groups profit before Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, tax amounted to 71.2 million 2016: 69.0 million.
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and Dividends hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and An interim dividend of 7.85 pence per Ordinary Share was paid detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Board has proposed a final dividend of 15.74 pence 2015: 14.31 pence per share, The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity which, subject to approval at the AGM, will be paid on 30 June of the Groups websites and legislation in the United Kingdom 2017 to shareholders on the register at close of business on governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 19 May 2017. statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Employment policies Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed During the period, the Group has maintained its obligations on pages 40 and 41of the Annual Report, confirm that, to the to effectively communicate and involve employees in its affairs.
best of their knowledge and belief: Methods of communication used include an in-house magazine, team talks, regular bulletins, both national and regional and The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in management briefings.
This is discussed in more detail in the accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on pages 32 to 36. fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and PDF Page: 50-69 Dignity.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: BlackPANTONE 221 C Job Name: 66300z Dignity plc Annual Report 2016 Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 36 Governance 37 65 Financial Statements 66 117 Other Information 118 120 Dignity Remco Section 2016 Q9 tp RF66100 Q8 P02 30 03 2017 13:35 Page 16 Dignity plc 65 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Employment policies are designed to provide equal Post balance sheet events opportunities irrespective of age, sexuality, colour, ethnic Please refer to note 32 of the Notes to the Consolidated or national origin, religion, nationality, sex or marital status.
Financial Statements for further details.
Full consideration is given to the employment, training and career development of disabled persons, subject only to their Independent Auditors and disclosure of information aptitudes and abilities.
The Group endeavours, as far as is to Auditors practicable, to treat disabled persons equally with others and A resolution for the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP will also endeavour to help and accommodate persons who as auditors will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
become disabled whilst working for Dignity.
In the case of each of the persons who are Directors at the The Directors will be publishing gender pay data on the time when the report is approved, the following applies: corporate website www.
co. uk during 2017 in accordance with the Equality Act 2010 Gender Pay Gap So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Regulations 2017 that came into force on 1 October 2016. information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Directors and their interests The Directors have taken appropriate steps to make Details of the Directors of the Company who were in office themselves aware of any relevant audit information and during the period and up to the date of signing the financial to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that statements are shown in the Report on Directors Remuneration information.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, at the AGM, all Directors will retire as The Takeover Directive Directors of the Company and, being eligible, offer themselves The Group has one class of voting share capital, Ordinary for re-election at the AGM on 8 June 2017.
All of the shares rank pari passu.
There are no special agreed, as in previous years, that they should all stand for control rights in relation to the Groups shares.
The rules re-election rather than relying on the Articles of Association governing the appointment and replacement of Board of the Company that prescribe that one third of the Directors members and changes to the Articles of Association accord offer themselves for re-election each year.
with usual English company law provisions.
The Board has authority to purchase its own shares and is seeking renewal of During the period, the Company maintained liability insurance that power at the forthcoming AGM within the limits set out in for its Directors and Officers to a value of 100 million.
The the notice of that meeting.
There are no significant agreements Directors of each of the Companys subsidiaries have the to which the Group is party which take effect, alter or terminate benefit of an indemnity provision in the Companys Articles in the event of change of control of the Group.
The indemnity provision, which is a qualifying third party indemnity provision as defined by Section 234 of Corporate Governance Statement the Companies Act 2006, was in force throughout the period The information that fulfils the requirements of a corporate and is currently in force.
governance statement in accordance with rule 7.2 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules can be found in this Health and safety policy Directors Report and in the Directors Statement on Corporate The Groups operations are designed at all times in such a way Governance on pages 42 to 45, which is incorporated as to ensure, so far as reasonably practicable, the health, safety by reference.
and welfare of all of our employees and all other persons who may be attending our premises.
This is discussed in the Strategic Report Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on page 34.
The Strategic Report on pages 4 to 36 has been approved by the Board.
Corporate Social Responsibility Maintaining the quality of the environment in which we all live By order of the Board is an important concern for the Group.
This is discussed in the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on page 35 alongside other social and ethical considerations.
Richard Portman Company Secretary Going concern The Directors have conducted a rigorous and proportionate 8 March 2017 assessment of the Groups ability to continue in existence for the foreseeable future.
They receive and review regularly management accounts, cash balances, forecasts and the annual budget together with covenant reporting.
After careful consideration, and mindful of the current market conditions, the Directors confirm they are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue operating for that foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements.
The Directors formally considered this matter at the Board meeting held on 3 March 2017.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: BlackPANTONE 221 C Job Name: 66300z Dignity plc Annual Report 2016
