h h h Dignity AR FrontEnd Master 2016 Q9 tp Layout 1 30 03 2017 13:12 Page 11 Dignity plc 08 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Strategy and business model Delivering excellent service lies at the heart of what we do.
It shapes our strategy and is how we focus our efforts on continuing to create value.
A consistent strategy and focus EXCELLENT CLIENT SERVICE A STRONG CORE PORTFOLIO We plan to grow the profitability of our business by: Ensuring the highest levels of client service: Funeral services We are a major provider of funeral services High levels of client service demonstrably Operating in a traditional market in the UK and we strive to set the highest affect clients willingness to recommend where people use our services standards of care.
Recommendations and our based on our reputation and through reputation have generated approximately Crematoria 70 per cent of our funeral business on We are the largest single operator of recommendations, where we believe average over the last five years.
crematoria in Britain with a growing our continued commitment to portfolio of well-established and state of excellent service for our clients will Continued focus: the art crematoria that meet the needs generate a high level ofreferral of the local communities we serve.
Quality and consistency of service delivery remains our focus.
Building strong and organic growth: Pre-arranged funeral plans relationships with our clients and aligning We are one of the UKs leading providers strategically with their needs is critical to of pre-arranged funeral plans and we Continuing to control our broadening and deepening the level of continue to strengthen our business operating costs: value we provide and supporting our in this growing market.
Developing or acquiring additional Continued focus: We invest significantly in our existing funeral locations: business, striving to ensure it is one of the highest standard, both in client facing PEOPLE AND EXPERTISE Developing, managing oracquiring areas and behind the scenes.
We also additional crematoria: seek to invest in new business that will Recruiting, developing and retaining the best people: help Dignity grow and create value.
National marketing of pre-arranged Our employees are central to the success We remain a significant provider of preof the business.
We seek to recruit and funeral plans, principally through arranged funeral plans and continue to retain the best people through appropriate work with our established partners and affinity partners: and remuneration and ongoing training.
develop new partnerships to sell plans efficiently.
Efficient use of our balance sheet Continued focus: to enhance shareholder returns.
The high number of long service employees is testament to the strength STRONG CAPITAL MANAGEMENT of our unique Dignity culture.
Our objective is to lead the funeral sector in professional standards and service: Delivering long-term shareholder returns: Our business is driven by relatively acting responsibly in all our relationships predictable factors over long periods of and playing a positive role in the local time.
This allows us to operate and fund communities we serve.
our business in a way that generates value over the long-term.
Corporate responsibility is integral to our Continued focus: business as it supports the delivery of We remain cash generative which, together our strategy and aligns with our values.
with our continued focus on costs, places us in a strong position to invest for further growth and enhance shareholder value.
- A STRONG PLATFORM DRIVING GROWTH AND DELIVERING LONG TERM VALUE STRENGTH STABILITY GROWTH Staying focused on leveraging our Maintaining our strong positionin a Managing the business to deliver competitive strengths and consistently stable industry with opportunities strong EPS growth, cash flow and delivering excellent client service.
Drives enduring demand Supports our long-term Delivers long-term for our products and services.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan:  221 C Job Name: 66300z Dignity plc Annual Report 2016 Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 36 Governance 37 65 Financial Statements 66 117 Other Information 118 120 h h h h h Dignity AR FrontEnd Master 2016 Q9 tp Layout 1 30 03 2017 13:12 Page 12 Dignity plc 09 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Links The consistent returns we generate Find out more about our KPIs and how we measure performance: p. 10 to p. 12 for our shareholders creates value Find out more about how we manage and mitigate risk: and benefits all our stakeholders.
p. 27 to p. 31 Find out more about our CSR commitments: p. 32 to p. 36 Find out about our governance framework within which we conduct our business and deliver our strategic objectives: p. 38 and p. 39 A robust and sustainable business model Creating and delivering value GENERATING PROFITABLE GROWTH: OUR CLIENTS Our consistent track record in strong cash generation and financial discipline enables us to reinvest and grow the business both Our objective is to be the organically and through strategic acquisition.
We generate revenues company that everyone knows from new and returning clients and by carefully acquiring businesses they can trust in their time of that complement our network of locations, extend our geographic need.
We achieve this through reach and represent a reasonable return on our capital.
continuous improvement and delivering products and services to our clients.
CONTROLLING AND MEASURING GROWTH: We do this by making well informed decisions, supported by careful OUR PEOPLE risk management and good governance.
We believe that the quality of our people is a strong enabler OPERATING RESPONSIBLY: of business growth.
We value our people and they are a great asset.
We do this through embedded policies and robust initiatives, We support them by recognising appropriate to the distinct needs of our stakeholders, alongside and rewarding performance and reducing our impact on the environment and making a positive long service plays a key part social impact.
OUR SHAREHOLDERS MAINTAINING PERFORMANCE ACROSS OUR OPERATIONS: We aim to deliver the best possible operational performance We strive to provide our clients with the highest standards of facilities, from the business to deliver service and care.
We achieve this by our commitment to continuous maximum returns to our improvement and investment in our portfolio and consistently shareholders over the long-term.
The financial performance that results is based on growth that is consistent and profitable.
BUILDING STRONG RELATIONSHIPS: Our clients are the foundation of our business and their trust is COMMUNITIES earned through our actions both individually and as a group.
Contributing to the communities Our people are our most important asset and we value and invest in in which we operate benefits them as they are integral to the delivery of our strategic objectives.
both local people and our For shareholders, our priority is to manage, maintain and deliver business.
It enhances our profile strong EPS growth and return on capital.
and reputation, promotes employee engagement and We play an important part in and are valued by the local communities helps to attract new employees.
we serve and we are committed to making a difference.
Governance Risk KPIs Remuneration Our approach to good Dignity has a well established The Group uses both nonOur strategy is focused on governance continues to be risk management process which financial and financial KPIs to delivering short and long-term robust and effective.
Clear is embedded within its business both manage the business and financial performance.
EPS and Board roles and governance to support the identification and ensure the Groups strategy and TSR are quantifiable measures processes offer balance and effective management of risks objectives are being delivered.
of performance and are used to experience to our strong across the business.
incentivise Executive Directors executive team, helping drive to deliver the Groups strategy.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan:  221 C Job Name: 66300z Dignity plc Annual Report 2016
