Dignity AR FrontEnd Master 2016 Q9 tp Layout 1 30 03 2017 13:12 Page 9 Dignity plc 06 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report The funeral sector Market overview The funeral director market is very fragmented.
The UK funeral market and our Approximately 70 per cent of crematoria are owned by local authorities.
Annual variations in the number of deaths are normally relatively small.
Overview Health Officers in England and Wales and Although annual deaths have declined Scottish Environment Protection Agency significantly since the early 1990s from The funeral market as a whole does not normally change rapidly year on year but in Scotland.
The abatement of mercury 640,000 to a low of 539,000 in 2011, the effect over a number of years is emissions has improved the environmental the last five years have seen deaths above noticeable, whether it is the number of position with Dignity exceeding the current that level.
deaths per year, or the number of funeral legislation of 50 per cent abatement.
Competitive environment or crematoria locations within the industry.
Pre-arranged funeral plans are exempt Whilst a precise list of all funeral directors The Group monitors and responds to the from the provisions of the Finance Services is not available, data from various sources environment it operates in, seeking to and Markets Act, provided certain suggest that the number of funeral understand the implications for the short, conditions prescribed in that Act are met.
directors in the UK has increased from medium and long-term.
approximately 4,300 in 1998 to around Dignity would welcome further regulation Scale and structure of the market and 5,500 today.
of the funeral industry setting out key trends shaping the sector minimum standards for core activities, Whilst we believe competition is increasing, The funeral director market is very such as the care of the deceased, the nature of a service business is that fragmented, with approximately two thirds minimum standards of facilities and also the quality of service being provided is of funeral directors being small owner operating procedures in crematoria.
reputation and recommendation remain Dignity also welcomes proposed changes a key driver in someones choice of There are approximately 280 crematoria to the Funeral Planning Authority FPA, in the UK, with circa 70 per cent owned by funeral director.
Over the last five years, who act as a self regulatory body for the local authorities.
It is estimated that three approximately 70 per cent of our clients sale of pre-arranged funeral plans.
As we say they have chosen us for these reasons.
quarters of all funerals result in a cremation understand them the changes will remove with the remainder being burials.
provider representation from the Board of With crematoria, amongst other things, Regulation and licencing the FPA and make them independent of planning laws require there to be a need The provision of funeral services is not those selling plans.
Assuming the changes for a new crematorium in a particular regulated.
Trade organisations such as the are implemented, registration with the FPA area.
This can be difficult to prove and can National Association of Funeral Directors and compliance with its requirements will be an emotive subject for local residents.
NAFD provide training and qualifications, help to provide further comfort to customers This, combined with availability of although they are not mandatory.
as to the quality of the plan they are buying.
appropriate land and the high capital cost of construction, has limited the growth in Legislative changes by the Scottish Office for National Statistics data the number of crematoria in the UK.
This Some of the Groups key performance provides them with the powers to regulate indicators rely on the total number of Pre-arranged funeral plans allow the the funeral industry and they are currently estimated deaths for each period.
This Group the opportunity to gain incremental recruiting an Inspector of Funerals.
Dignity information is obtained from the Office funerals.
Our national network allows us for National Statistics ONS.
The initial to work with national partners offering welcomes this progress and has been party to initial discussions about the pending publication of recorded total estimated a funeral plan anywhere in the UK.
Dignity anticipates making deaths in Britain for the 53 weeks in 2016 Outlook was 590,000 compared to 588,000 for further contributions to the discussion on The ONS expects long-term increases the service standards required within the the 52 week period in 2015.
Historically, in the number of deaths, reaching regulations to be introduced.
the ONS has updated these estimates approximately 700,000 by 2040.
As in previous years, Crematoria are subject to environmental have been elevated in the last few years.
the Group does not restate any of its key Whether this marks the start of this regulations in accordance with The performance indicators when these Secretary of States Guidance Notes for longer-term trend or a temporary anomaly figures are restated in the following year.
CrematoriaPG5 2 12, with emission is too early to conclude.
levels being monitored by Environmental Our strategic response to factors influencing the funeral sector Funeral affordability Government and regulatory policy change Our position and why our clients choose us We understand the needs and challenges our Dignity would welcome further regulation of the clients face such as price, affordability and funeral industry setting out minimum standards Our professional advice to the communities choice balanced with quality of standards for core activities, such as the care of the we serve remains to choose a funeral of service and care.
We address this by being deceased, facilities and also operating director on standards, service and facilities professional, open and transparent in how we procedures in crematoria.
Every day we provide our act and by providing options and services that clients with industry leading services they The Group already operates at a very high meet them effectively.
We constantly focus on building standard using facilities appropriate for the and enhancing our reputation through dignified care of the deceased.
continuous improvement to deliver services that our clients value.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan:  221 C Job Name: 66300z Dignity plc Annual Report 2016 Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 36 Governance 37 65 Financial Statements 66 117 Other Information 118 120 Dignity AR FrontEnd Master 2016 Q9 tp Layout 1 30 03 2017 13:12 Page 10 Dignity plc 07 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Market overview As an industry leader: We set the highest standards: Delivering on We listen, understand and respond: and our promises We strive for continuous improvement to meet and exceed expectations.
Links We invest in our people: Developing See Strategy and business model: p. 08 and p. 09 We embrace diversity and inclusion: and full potential We manage the business for the long-term.
See Our KPIs: p. 10 to p. 12 We put safety first: Doing the See The Client Survey performance: p. 13 We act ethically and with integrity: and right thing We care about our communities.
See Operating review: p. 16 to p. 22 Focused on services that make a difference to our clients and maintain our strong market position OUR STRENGTHS MEETING OUR CLIENTS NEEDS Dignitys funeral market share % % 11.8 2015:12.3 Funeral services: How are we doing this: Dignity has approximately 11.8 per cent In todays digitally enabled and data rich of the funeral market.
This gives the Group world it is essential that we equip our sufficient size to operate its locations people with the latest technology and efficiently in a way that shares expensive tools to support their activities and the resources, such as mortuaries and specialist services we provide to our clients.
vehicles, whilst providing very high levels Enabled by technology, we are evolving of service to each family it looks after.
our presence online, providing clients This size still gives the Group good scope to with on demand information when and acquire owner managed businesses in areas how they need it.
where it is not well represented.
Market trends and client insights One of our key strengths is that we focus solely on the funeral sector.
This enables us to continually Dignitys crematoria market share monitor evolving market trends to ensure we continue to improve and meet our clients needs % % 10.1 2015:9.8 and preferences and helps us to anticipate and respond to developments and opportunities.
Crematoria: How are we doing this: With 44 crematoria, Dignity is the largest Our facilities continue to offer respectful single operator in Britain.
The cremations ways to memorialise loved ones in % 84 performed represent approximately 10.1 peaceful settings.
per cent of deaths in Britain.
There is Reputation, recommendation and previous We use technology to enhance music still significant scope to expand through choices available at services, given experience, together with pre-arranged funerals acquisition or new builds where possible.
increasingly varied choices by families.
represent 84 per cent of the Groups business.
This has been broadly constant for the last 10 years.
Number of active pre-arranged The vast majority of our funeral business relies funeral plans on reputation, recommendation and previous experience.
This reliance will decline as the 404,000 2015:374,000 percentage of our business resulting from our pre-arranged funeral plan business increases.
Pre-arranged funeral plans: How are we doing this: Dignitys national network of funeral We continue to review the plans offered locations and strong relationships with many to customers to ensure they are Source of business different affinity partners has allowed it to appropriate to their needs.
sell significant volumes of pre-arranged 20% Source: Dignity surveys 84% 18% funerals that should represent incremental 82% 16% activity for the funeral division in the future.
80% 14% 78% 12% 76% 10% 74% 8% 72% The ways we connect with 6% 70% 4% our clients 68% 2% We are in an era that is increasingly 0% 66% defined by digital technology, but one in 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 which personal face-to-face service will Pre-arranged Closest location Other Reputation, recommendation continue to be of critical importance.
funeral plans left hand axis left hand axis & previous experience left hand axis right hand axis The impact of digital technology has now become a mainstream factor in every day life and clients interact with us in multiple ways, using various channels and it is a key part of our development to recognise and respond to these trends.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan:  221 C Job Name: 66300z Dignity plc Annual Report 2016
