36 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Board of Directors 1,3 1,2, 3 1,2, 3 1,2, 3 John Nicholas Bruce Thompson Charles Packshaw Nigel Lingwood Anne Thorburn Andy Smith Chairman Chief Executive Officer Senior Independent NonExecutive Group Finance Director NonExecutive Director NonExecutive Director Director Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Joined the Board on 1 June 2013 and Joined the Board in 1994 as a Group Joined the Board on 1 June 2013 and Joined the Company in June 2001 and Joined the Board on 7 September 2015 Joined the Board and appointed appointed Chairman on 21 January 2015.
Director and appointed Chief Executive appointed Senior Independent Director appointed Group Finance Director in and appointed Chairman of the Audit Chairman of the Remuneration Officer in 1996. on 27 February 2015.
Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Bruce started his career in the Charles is Head of UK Advisory and Anne was Chief Financial Officer of Exova Andy is Managing Director, Severn Trent A Chartered Certified Accountant Prior to joining the Company, Nigel with a Masters degree in Business automotive industry, first as a Managing Director in HSBCs global was the Group Financial Controller at Group plc until 30 November 2015 and Business Services with responsibility for Administration from Kingston design engineer and then in product banking business.
He has over 30 Unigate PLC where he gained experience has many years of experience at Board the companys non-regulated businesses.
John has a wealth of marketing.
He then spent three years of City experience, including of working in a large multinational level in listed international groups.
Anne He has many years of plc Board level business and commercial experience years in international marketing with 18 years at Lazard in London, where environment and on a number of was previously Group Finance Director experience having previously served on and spent much of his early career a construction materials company, he was Head of Corporate Finance, large corporate transactions.
Nigel at British Polythene Industries PLC.
the Boards of The Boots Company PLC in technology-focused international developing new markets in Europe, the prior to joining HSBC in 2002.
Charles qualified as a Chartered Accountant Anne is a member of the Institute of as Group HR Director and Severn Trent manufacturing and service companies Middle East and North Africa.
Prior to has been a non-Executive Director with Price Waterhouse, London.
PLC as Water Services Director.
Andy involved in analytical instruments, fire joining Diploma, he was a Director with of two listed companies and he is a Mechanical Engineering graduate protection and food processing.
Arthur D Little Inc. the technology and is also a Chartered Engineer.
and has significant operational and HR management consulting firm, initially experience.
He has worked in the UK He has been Group Finance Director of in the UK and then as Director of the and overseas previously with global Kidde plc on its demerger from Williams firms Technology Management Practice businesses including BP, Mars and Pepsi.
Holdings and of Tate & Lyle PLC.
External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: John is currently non-Executive Director None.
Charles is a non-Executive Director Nigel is Senior Independent Director and None.
and Chairman of the Audit Committees of of BMT Group Limited.
Chairman of the Audit Committee of Mondi plc and Hunting PLC.
John is Senior Creston plc.
Independent Director of Rotork plc.
Member of: 1 Remuneration Committee 2 Audit Committee 3 Nomination Committee Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 37 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 1,3 1,2, 3 1,2, 3 1,2, 3 John Nicholas Bruce Thompson Charles Packshaw Nigel Lingwood Anne Thorburn Andy Smith Chairman Chief Executive Officer Senior Independent NonExecutive Group Finance Director NonExecutive Director NonExecutive Director Director Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Joined the Board on 1 June 2013 and Joined the Board in 1994 as a Group Joined the Board on 1 June 2013 and Joined the Company in June 2001 and Joined the Board on 7 September 2015 Joined the Board and appointed appointed Chairman on 21 January 2015.
Member of: 1 Remuneration Committee 2 Audit Committee 3 Nomination Committee For more information, please visit: www.
