Market overview Our changing environment We operate in a dynamic environment, and the way we interact with customers is evolving.
Changes inside and outside the industry, including technology and regulation, are shaping customers expectations.
It is vital that we continue to serve customers and manage claims to the highest standards.
Digitalisation & technology Innovative companies offer partnership possibilities New technology has the power to create feature-rich insurance apps and systems that can analyse vast amounts of data.
These developments support the possibility of more tailored insurance products, as underwriting techniques evolve.
Such innovations are being partly driven by InsureTech and FinTech companies, who are creating opportunities for partnerships with established insurers.
However, given the amount of private and confidential information being generated, cyber security remains an increasing focus for the insurance industry.
invested globally in FinTech 1 9.5bn companies during 2015 Claims and premium inflation Rising costs for insurers and customers Customers motor premiums have been rising over the past two years.
Increasing claims costs have continued to push premiums higher, with increases in Insurance Premium Tax IPT also contributing.
Despite sustained declines in the number of claims in recent years, average motor claim payouts rose again in 2016, with an increase of over 2,3 2.5% as personal injury claims have escalated.
KPMG The Pulse of Fintech [Converted to GBP at 2015 12 month average 1 $1.52860] 2.
Association of British Insurers ABI Key facts 2015 3.
ABI Key Facts 2016 6 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Sharing economy and car automation Changing habits offer opportunities and challenges The new sharing economy is changing the way we live.
Insurance products must change to reflect this.
For example, we will need more innovative products than traditional buildings and contents insurance, as communal living and short-term rentals grow in popularity.
Change will also affect motor insurance, where increasingly autonomous cars may lead to significant reductions in severe crashes and injuries and change the profile of claims.
In the long term, the industry will need to consider how best to provide cover as risk shifts from the driver to the vehicle.
connected cars 1 1.8 million in the UK in 2016 Brand strength Brand investment pays off for insurers 2 Insurance brands that are well known and valued by customers are 3 consistently amongst the most successful in the industry.
Brand strength and visibility is an important factor in consumers insurance acquisition process.
Therefore, to generate new business, insurers must invest in their brands to stay at the front of the publics minds.
Providing quality customer service and offering something above and beyond the average insurer reaps its benefits, with the market cost of acquiring new customers up to 4 five times the cost of retention.
Regulation and legislation of consumers would use one insurer for all of their insurance needs if quality customer The pace of change 84% 5 service and low prices were available remains rapid Insurance regulation has continued to evolve over the past year with a reduction in the personal injury discount rate, Flood Re, the Enterprise Bill, Solvency II, an Insurance Premium Tax increase and new FCA renewal legislation being implemented.
The UKs vote to leave the European Union adds The average bodily injury significant regulatory uncertainty.
The Bank of claim cost following an Englands decision to cut the base rate to 0.25% 6 accident is has reduced insurers investment returns with impacts on industry profitability.
10,955 one-off impact to 5.8bn the industry due to the personal injury 7 discount rate reduction Notes: 4.
Digital Market Magazine How can the insurance industry retain existing customers?
Statista Number of connected cars in the United Kingdom UK from 2014 to 2020 5.
Consumer Intelligence Digital Insurance World 2016 2.
Deloitte Household and Motor Insurance Seminars 2016 7.
