62 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Directors Report This section contains information which the Directors are Restrictions on transfer of shares required by law and regulation to include within the Annual The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated Report & Accounts.
share that is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the Company from taking place on Shareholders an open and proper basis, or where the Company has lien over Incorporation and principal activity that share.
The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer Diploma PLC is domiciled in England and registered in England of a certificated share, unless the instrument of transfer is: and Wales under Company Number 3899848.
At the date of i lodged, duly stamped if necessary, at the registered office this Report there were 113,239,555 ordinary shares of 5p each of the Company or any other place as the Board may decide in issue, all of which are fully paid up and quoted on the London accompanied by the certificate for the share s to be transferred Stock Exchange.
and or such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: The principal activity of the Group is the supply of specialised ii in respect of only one class of shares: iii in favour of a person technical products and services.
A description and review of the who is not a minor, infant, bankrupt or a person of unsound activities of the Group during the financial year and an indication mind: or iv in favour of not more than four persons jointly.
of future developments is set out on pages 4 to 35: the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 35 incorporates the requirements of the Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using Companies Act 2006 the Act.
CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a transfer of an uncertified share in accordance with the regulations governing Annual General Meeting the operation of CREST.
The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at midday on Wednesday, 18 January 2017 in the Brewers Hall, Aldermanbury Participants in the Companys SMP pledge investment shares to Square, London EC2V 7HR.
A circular setting out the proposed a nominee for a period of three years, during which period these resolutions, including a resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as shares cannot be transferred.
There are no other restrictions on the auditor, will be set out in the Notice of the AGM which is a the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company except certain separate document which will be sent to all shareholders and restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws published on the Groups website.
and regulations for example insider trading laws : or where a shareholder with at least a 0.25% interest in the Companys Substantial shareholdings certified shares has been served with a disclosure notice and At 18 November 2016, the Company had been notified of the has failed to provide the Company with information concerning following interests amounting to 3% or more of the voting rights interests in those shares.
in its ordinary share capital: Percentage of Shares held by the Diploma PLC Employee Benefit Trust ordinary share capital While ordinary shares are held within the Diploma PLC Employee Fidelity Management & Research Co. 8.91 Benefit Trust, the voting rights in respect of those shares are Mondrian Investment Partners Limited 7.21 exercisable by the Trustees in accordance with their fiduciary Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. 6.15 duties.
The Trustees of the Diploma PLC Employee Benefit Trust also waive dividends on all shares held for the purposes of the Mawer Investment Management Limited 5.75 Companys long term incentive arrangements.
Royal London Asset Management Limited 5.14 BlackRock, Inc. 4.24 Share allotment Standard Life Investments Limited 3.97 A general allotment power and a limited power to allot shares in specific circumstances for cash, otherwise than pro rata to As far as the Directors are aware there were no other interests existing shareholders, were given to the Directors by resolutions above 3% of the issued ordinary share capital.
approved at the AGM of the Company held on 20 January 2016.
In the year ended 30 September 2016, the Company has not Share capital allotted any shares.
These powers will expire at the conclusion The rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, as well of the 2017 AGM and resolutions to renew the Directors powers as the powers of the Companys Directors, are set out in the are therefore included within the Notice of the AGM in 2017.
Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from the Group Company Secretary and are available Authority to make market purchases of own shares on the Companys website.
An authority to make market purchases of shares was given to the Directors by a special resolution at the AGM of the Company The Company is not aware of any agreements between held on 20 January 2016.
In the year to 30 September 2016 the shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfers of Company has not acquired any of its own shares.
This authority securities and or voting rights, other than those relating to the will expire at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM and a resolution to Companys Share Matching Plan SMP, described further renew the authority is therefore included within the Notice of below.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying the AGM in 2017. special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by special Financial resolution of the Companys shareholders.
Results and dividends The profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders was 38.3m 2015: 36.7m.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 13.8p per ordinary share 2015: 12.4p, to be paid, if approved, on 25 January 2017.
This, together with the interim dividend of 6.2p 2015: 5.8p per ordinary share paid on 15 June 2016 amounts to 20.0p for the year 2015: 18.2p.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 63 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 The results are shown more fully in the consolidated financial In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial statements on pages 64 to 93 and summarised in the Finance statements, the Directors are required to: Review on pages 26 to 29.
Select suitable accounting policies and then apply Directors assessment of going concern them consistently.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable to affect its future development, performance and position are and prudent.
set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 35.
The financial For the Group financial statements, state whether they have position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and been prepared in accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the EU.
borrowing facilities are described in the Finance Review on For the Parent Company financial statements, state whether pages 26 to 29.
In addition, pages 77 to 79 of the Annual Report applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, & Accounts include the Groups objectives, policies and subject to any material departures disclosed and explained processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management in the Parent Company financial statements.
objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business.
The Group has considerable financial resources, together with a broad spread of customers and suppliers across different The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent geographic areas and sectors, often secured with longer term agreements.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable as described further on pages 30 to 33. them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Act.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the The Group also has a committed multi-currency revolving bank Parent Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the facility of 50.0m which expires on 23 June 2017.
At 30 September prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
2016, the Group had cash funds of 20.6m and had borrowings of The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 10.0m.
The Directors remain confident that these facilities will be extended or renewed before they expire on 23 June 2017. of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the Directors Responsibility Statement going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report & Accounts.
The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: Statement of disclosure the Groups consolidated financial statements, prepared in Each of the Directors has reviewed this Annual Report & accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, and the Parent Accounts and confirmed that so far as he is aware, there is no Company financial statements, prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, give a true and fair view of the relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware and that he has taken all the steps that he ought to assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any and Parent Company and the undertakings included in the relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys consolidation taken as a whole: the Annual Report & Accounts includes a fair review of the auditor is aware of that information.
development and performance of the business and the Statement of Directors responsibilities for preparing the position of the Group and the undertakings included in the financial statements consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group: and The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report & Accounts, including the Group and Parent Company financial the Annual Report & Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, statements, in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare Group This responsibility statement was approved by the Board of financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the Directors on 21 November 2016 and is signed on its behalf by: European Union EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulations and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial BM Thompson statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Chief Executive Officer Accepted Accounting Standards UK Accounting Standards NP Lingwood including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosures Framework.
Group Finance Director The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as adopted by the EU, to present fairly the financial position and Registered office: 12 Charterhouse Square the performance of the Group: the Act provides in relation to such financial statements, that references in the relevant part London of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view, EC1M 6AX are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
For more information, please visit: www.
