s n o i t u l o d S l l i a u i B t n e s s E E s s e n t i G a r 10 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Growth Strategy Delivering strong, doubledigit growth What we put in What we get out KPIs Business Model Acquire Clear business criteria have been established to The Group applies a consistent level of effort and guide the Groups acquisition programme: resources to identifying and developing acquisition Fit with the Groups business model opportunities.
However, the output in terms of Marketing led with strong customer relationships acquisitions completed, ebbs and flows depending Secure supply of high quality, differentiated on the acquisition environment.
products Capable management To achieve the Groups objective of strong double digit growth, acquisition spend of ca.
The principal financial criteria are: is targeted.
SEE PAGES 89 Track record of stable, profitable growth and cash generation Over the last three years, this target has been met, Exceed post-tax IRR threshold of 13% to ensure with a total of ca.
20% pre-tax return on investment These acquisitions have contributed 20% of 2016 Group revenues.
Build Acquisitions are intended to give entry into new Except in the case of smaller bolt-on acquisitions, but related markets and thereby extend the the acquired companies maintain their distinct sales reach of the existing businesses and bring new and marketing identity and strong independent growth opportunities.
The acquisitions we make are of businesses which Where there are opportunities for synergies with are already successful and with a good track record.
other Group businesses, these are managed in However, these businesses have typically reached larger business clusters.
the point where additional resources are needed to take them to the next level of growth.
Typically synergies within the business clusters come in the following areas: Working with the management, we provide the investment required to build a solid foundation to Cross-selling between the businesses allow the business to move to a new level of growth.
The investment we make in new acquisitions Joint purchasing between the businesses will normally be in new facilities and IT systems, increased but better managed working capital Shared operational infrastructure and shared and additional management resource.
back-office functions Grow Once the acquisition is integrated into the Group, By the third year post-acquisition, organic revenue with a solid platform established, the focus is on growth for the acquired businesses is typically delivering stable, profitable growth.
higher than the Group average and operating margins have improved by 200-300bps on average.
The results of the Acquire, Build, Grow strategy can be seen in the improving revenue growth These improvements in financial performance and operating margins post acquisition.
ensure that the Group creates value through its acquisition programme and maintains ROATCE above the 20% threshold.
Growth Strategy l o V w a l u e s s t c u d e o r r i u P q l a c i A t n e s s E s Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements n o i t u l o d S l l i a u i B t n e s s E E s s e n t i G a r 11 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 What we put in What we get out KPIs Business Model Acquire Clear business criteria have been established to The Group applies a consistent level of effort and Acquisition spend m guide the Groups acquisition programme: resources to identifying and developing acquisition 32.7 16 Fit with the Groups business model opportunities.
However, the output in terms of 15 37.8 m p. a.
Marketing led with strong customer relationships acquisitions completed, ebbs and flows depending 14 16.5 22 Secure supply of high quality, differentiated on the acquisition environment.
products 13 2.2 Five-year average Capable management To achieve the Groups objective of strong double 12 22.3 digit growth, acquisition spend of ca.
Track record of stable, profitable growth and cash generation Over the last three years, this target has been met, Revenue from acquisitions % Exceed post-tax IRR threshold of 13% to ensure with a total of ca.
20% pre-tax return on investment These acquisitions have contributed 20% of 2016 16 20 Group revenues.
15 14 % 14 11 16 Build 13 15 Five-year average Acquisitions are intended to give entry into new Except in the case of smaller bolt-on acquisitions, 21 12 but related markets and thereby extend the the acquired companies maintain their distinct sales Percentage of revenue from reach of the existing businesses and bring new and marketing identity and strong independent acquisitions completed over growth opportunities.
the last rolling three years The acquisitions we make are of businesses which Where there are opportunities for synergies with are already successful and with a good track record.
the point where additional resources are needed to Adjusted operating margin bps take them to the next level of growth.
Typically synergies within the business clusters Improvement in adjusted come in the following areas: 200 operating margin of Working with the management, we provide the acquired businesses three investment required to build a solid foundation to Cross-selling between the businesses years after acquisition allow the business to move to a new level of growth.
bps The investment we make in new acquisitions Joint purchasing between the businesses 300 will normally be in new facilities and IT systems, increased but better managed working capital Shared operational infrastructure and shared and additional management resource.
back-office functions ROATCE % Grow 16 21.1 Once the acquisition is integrated into the Group, By the third year post-acquisition, organic revenue % 15 23.9 with a solid platform established, the focus is on growth for the acquired businesses is typically 14 25.8 25 delivering stable, profitable growth.
higher than the Group average and operating 13 25.8 Five-year average margins have improved by 200-300bps on average.
The results of the Acquire, Build, Grow strategy 12 26.6 can be seen in the improving revenue growth These improvements in financial performance and operating margins post acquisition.
Growth Strategy For more information, please visit: www.
