12 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Our Year in Review In Controls, reported revenues increased by 16%, with the acquisitions of Cablecraft and Ascome contributing Strong performance in 11% to revenue growth and currency movements contributing a further 1%.
After adjusting for acquisitions and currency effects, underlying revenues challenging markets increased by 4%, following strong underlying growth in the second half of the year, against less demanding comparatives.
The Interconnect businesses delivered modest underlying growth with strong performances in Sector performance Aerospace, Defence and Motorsport In Life Sciences, reported revenues The Group has delivered markets offsetting weaker Industrial increased by 7%, with underlying markets.
The Clarendon specialty revenues increasing by 4% on a strong performance fasteners business is now managed on constant currency basis.
The Canadian a stand-alone basis and delivered strong Healthcare businesses faced significant boosted by acquisitions double-digit growth in sales to aircraft budget pressures driven by the softer seating and cabin interior manufacturers and a currency tailwind.
The good growth achieved and to Motorsport teams.
Fluid Controls in the first half of the year against weak delivered solid growth in revenues with comparatives, reversed in the second an upturn in refrigeration equipment half as comparatives became more In 2016, the Group has delivered a strong sales in the second half of the year.
The Healthcare businesses performance with hard won underlying organic growth across generally in Australia and Ireland also experienced Acquisitions and disposals challenging markets, boosted by a good similar economic and budgetary The total acquisition expenditure over contribution from acquisitions and a pressures but managed to deliver good the last three years has been ca.
90m levels of growth through their positioning currency tailwind in the final quarter.
and these acquisitions contributed in growing segments of the market.
The 20% of the Groups revenues in 2016.
The Groups revenues increased by Environmental businesses delivered solid 15%, with acquisitions completed GDP plus revenue growth and ended During the year, the Group invested the year with an improved order book.
during this year and the incremental ca.
33m in acquiring new businesses, impact from those completed last year, principally the acquisitions of Cablecraft contributing 8% to revenue growth.
In Seals, reported revenues increased in the Controls Sector and WCIS Currency movements, on translation of by 19%, with recent acquisitions in the Seals Sector.
Cablecraft is a contributing 12% to revenue growth the results from overseas businesses leading UK based supplier of cable and currency movements contributing to UK sterling, contributed a further 4% accessory products which broadens to revenue growth, driven principally by a further 6% to revenue growth.
the Interconnect portfolio and extends the weakening of UK sterling in the last After adjusting for acquisitions and the range of markets served.
WCIS is a currency effects, underlying revenues quarter of the year following the UKs supplier of gaskets, seals and associated increased by 1%.
In North America, core Brexit vote on Europe.
After adjusting services which extends the Seals for acquisitions and currency effects, Aftermarket seal and gasket revenues business into the Australasia region.
Strengthening of senior management and new growth initiatives At the end of the year, the Vantage are gaining traction and will position Adjusted operating margins remained Healthcare business in Canada broadly in line with the first half of the the businesses to take advantage of completed the sale of its Medivators year at 17.2%, continuing to be impacted any increased activity and in particular, endoscope reprocessor product line potential Infrastructure investment by transactional currency effects in the for a gross consideration of 2.8m net following the US election.
Industrial OEM Healthcare businesses and initial dilution consideration of 2.2m after expenses from acquired businesses.
The low revenues in North America reduced by of sale and integration costs.
Vantage growth environment limited the potential 1% against the background of generally has retained its other principal product slow industrial markets.
The International for operational leverage, but tight lines ca.
60% of Vantage revenues and Seals businesses outside of North management of working capital and is now managed as a division of the AMT capital expenditure contributed to a very America benefited from the acquisition business.
AMT and Vantage together strong free cash flow performance.
of WCIS and a full year contribution from now form a strong Surgical Products Kubo and delivered a 5% underlying business in Canada, with integrated back increase in revenues, with a particularly office and operational functions.
Free strong performance from Kentek.
cash flow in the year also benefited from the sale of three small legacy properties for aggregate proceeds of 2.3m.
The Groups strong balance sheet and free cash flow provide the resources to pursue further acquisition opportunities which will enhance the Groups earnings growth in future years.
The Groups pipeline for further acquisitions remains encouraging.
