Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 13 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Sector Review Life Sciences Seals Controls % of Group revenue % of Group revenue % of Group revenue % % % 29 44 27 1 1 1 Geography Geography Geography 57% Canada 56% North America 60% UK 30% Europe 34% Europe 31% Continental Europe 13% Rest of World 10% Rest of World 9% Rest of World Customers Customers Customers 84% Clinical 39% Industrial OEMs 32% Industrial 10% Utilities 24% Heavy Construction 29% Aerospace & Defence 3% Chemical & Petrochemical 19% Other Industrial 15% Food & Beverage 15% Motorsport 2% Life Sciences Research 13% Industrial Aftermarket 1% Other Life Sciences 3% Dump & Refuse Trucks 5% Energy & Utilities 2% Logging & Agriculture 4% Medical & Scientific Products Products Products 72% Consumables 38% Seals & Seal Kits 42% Wire & Cable 18% Instrumentation 18% Cylinders & Other 19% Fasteners 10% Service 16% O-rings 13% Equipment & Components 11% Filters 12% Connectors 11% Gaskets 10% Control Devices 6% Attachment Kits 4% Other Controls 362 803 415 Employees Employees Employees Principal businesses Principal businesses Principal businesses Diploma Healthcare Group DHG Hercules Fluid Power Group HFPG IS-Group, Filcon, Cablecraft, Clarendon a1-group FPE Seals, Kentek, M Seals, Kubo, WCIS Hawco Group 1 By destination.
For more information, please visit: www.
aspx 14 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Sector Review continued Healthcare DSL and BGS focus on similar market The Diploma Healthcare Group DHG segments respectively to the Somagen in Canada comprises two principal and AMT businesses in Canada, as well operating businesses which supply to as having similar product portfolios the ca.
600 public hospitals across the with a number of common suppliers.
country as well as to private clinics and laboratories.
Somagen Diagnostics DHG extended its operations in October Somagen supplies a range of 2014 into Europe with the acquisition consumables and instruments used in of Technopath Distribution TPD, an the diagnostic testing of blood, tissue established supplier of products to the and other samples in hospital pathology Biotechnology, Clinical Laboratory and Life Sciences laboratories.
It is also a leading supplier Medical Device markets in Ireland and the to the growing assisted reproductive UK.
Similar to the other DHG businesses, technology ART market.
AMT TPD focuses on specialised laboratory Surgical AMT supplies specialised diagnostics and specialty medical electrosurgery equipment and device segments, again leveraging consumables for use in hospital operating a number of common suppliers.
AMT is also building a portfolio The Life Sciences Sector of specialised surgical instruments and Environmental businesses supply a devices used in minimally invasive MI The a1-group is a supplier to Surgery.
Vantage Endoscopy Vantage, Environmental testing laboratories range of consumables, now managed as part of AMT, supplies and to Health & Safety engineers.
The endoscopes and related consumables a1-envirosciences business, based in instrumentation and and service, as well as therapeutic Germany, supplies a range of specialised devices utilised in GI Endoscopy suites environmental analysers and a range related services to in hospitals and private clinics.
of containment enclosures for potent the healthcare and powder handling.
The a1-CBISS business, DHG operates in Australia and New based in the UK, supplies equipment and environmental industries.
Zealand through Diagnostic Solutions services for the monitoring and control DSL and Big Green Surgical BGS of environmental emissions, as well which are both located in Melbourne.
as a range of gas detection devices.
Principal operations Healthcare Somagen Diagnostics Edmonton, AB, Canada AMT Surgical Kitchener, ON, Canada Vantage Endoscopy Kitchener, ON, Canada Big Green Surgical Melbourne, VIC, Australia Diagnostic Solutions Melbourne, VIC, Australia Technopath Distribution Ballina, Co. Tipperary, Ireland Environmental a1-CBISS Tranmere, UK a1-envirosciences Dsseldorf, Germany Revenue m Principal segments Geography compound growth over five years % p. a.
8 16 109.9 15 103.1 14 91.4 13 93.2 12 78.4 74.4 11 83% Healthcare 57% Canada 30% Europe 17% Environmental 13% Australasia Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 15 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Market drivers periods when the economy is slower, Even with such pressures, however, The DHG businesses in Canada supply Healthcare funding has still shown Healthcare funding has shown positive into areas of Healthcare which are positive growth, albeit at reduced levels.
growth, with growth in total Healthcare predominantly public sector funded.
5% Private sector funding in Canada, The Healthcare market in Australia respectively in Canada and Australia.
30% of healthcare shares with Canada many of the expenditure in Canada in 2015, is largely same attractive characteristics The principal market driver for the TPD focused on areas where DHG do not for specialised distribution.
While business is Healthcare funding in the participate, specifically dental, cosmetic privately funded Healthcare is more UK and Ireland.
The total Healthcare and eye surgery and pharmaceuticals.
prevalent in areas such as surgery expenditure in the UK and Ireland is The principal demand driver for and laboratory testing, public sector ca.
90% DHG is therefore the sustainable Healthcare funding is still large and which represents ca.
10% of combined level of Healthcare spending funded supported by a stable, resource based GDP.
Of the total Healthcare expenditure, by the Canadian Government.
As with Canada, Australia ca.
80% is provided by public funding has a large geography to be covered, and 20% by private funding.
Following The Canadian Healthcare industry is a low population density and purchasing the 2009 recession, annual growth in proven, long term growth environment processes that vary by State.
These UK Healthcare expenditure has slowed for medical device distribution.
A characteristics necessarily demand a to low single-digit levels, compared growing, ageing and well educated significant investment by manufacturers with average growth of 8% p. a. over population demands high standards in technical sales and service resource the previous decade.
In Ireland, of service delivery, helping to ensure which makes the specialised distribution Healthcare expenditure saw reductions ongoing growing demand: per capita model more attractive as an efficient year-on-year between 2009 and 2013, Healthcare spending in Canada is way to serve the local markets.
since when growth has resumed, ca.
C$6,000, placing Canada in the top again at low single digit levels.
The Canadian Since 2014, the Canadian and Health Act the Act ensures universal Australian economies have come The a1-group supplies to customers coverage for all insured persons for all under significant pressure from the in the Environmental industry in medically necessary services provided falling oil price and reduced demand the UK, Germany and France.
The by hospitals, physicians and other for the countries natural resources.
market demand is largely driven by Healthcare providers.
The Provinces This tougher economic environment Environmental and Health & Safety are responsible for the delivery of the has resulted in greater pressure on regulations and growth in recent years Healthcare services, but the Federal budgets throughout the Healthcare has been driven by the need to be Government controls delivery through systems in both countries.
In such compliant with a range of EU regulations.
Federal Provincial transfer payments, periods, Healthcare funding is tightly Since market demand is driven by constrained through targeted controls which represent the largest source regulation, this ensures reasonably of revenues for the Provinces.
imposed on the number of laboratory steady demand for essential consumable tests and operating procedures as well products and services, though customers The relative stability and consistency as more rigorous tendering processes may defer capital expenditure during for expenditure on capital equipment.
in funding by each of the Provinces, significant downturns in the economy.
guaranteed through the Act, ensures that the market remains well funded through the economic cycle.
Over Total Healthcare expenditure as a percentage of GDP many years, Healthcare expenditure 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 has grown steadily with annual variations mostly dependent on the Canada 11.3% 11.3% 11.2% 11.1% 10.9% periodic additional tranches of funding Australia 9.3% 9.5% 9.7% 9.8% 10.0% provided by individual Provinces.
Source: Australian Institute of Health & Welfare.
aspx 16 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Sector Review continued 2016 increased by 3.4m to 19.0m of Somagen has generated good revenue Life Sciences which 2.2m related to the disposal growth from its successful a1c diabetes of the Medivators product line and testing programme and has continued the balance arose from a reduction in to invest in new product introductions working capital and capital expenditure.
designed to broaden Somagens product Sector performance portfolio in new growth segments.
Healthcare Reported revenues of the Life Sciences The DHG group of Healthcarebusinesses, AMT continued to face pricing pressures businesses increased by 7% to which account for 83% of Life Sciences in its core electrosurgery business from 109.9m 2015: 103.1m.
Currency revenues, increased underlying the tender and evaluation processes movements, on translation of the revenues by 3% in constant currency introduced by Provincial shared services results from overseas businesses into terms: on translation to UK sterling, organisations and national group UK sterling, contributed 3% to revenue reported revenues increased by 6%.
AMT has growth: on a constant currency basis, responded by introducing a broader underlying revenues increased by 4%.
In Canada, DHG revenues were product portfolio, providing customers broadly flat for the year as significant with more options in major tender Gross margins in the Healthcare budget pressures continued to be felt awards.
AMT has also achieved strong businesses continued to be impacted on throughout the Provincial Healthcare double-digit growth in the supply of a transactional basis by the depreciation systems, driven by the tough economic specialised surgical instruments and of the Canadian and Australian dollars environment.
Revenue growth achieved devices used in laparoscopic and other relative to the US dollar.
Realised in the first half of the year against weak minimally invasive surgical procedures.
exchange rates have stabilised in the comparatives was reversed in the In particular, strong growth in new second half of 2016, but at a level ca.
10% second half as comparatives became surgical segments has been achieved below the average levels in 2015.
Reduced revenues with products sourced from new management has continued to work in the Somagen clinical diagnostics suppliers which have been added in closely with suppliers and customers business were broadly offset by growth recent years.
These revenues have to obtain pricing support but overall in revenues in the surgical products mitigated the revenue reductions Healthcare gross margins reduced by businesses and in particular, strong from smoke evacuation products 350bps compared to the prior year.
The Vantage results in the GI segment.
opportunity to mitigate the transactional currency effects through operating Somagens consumable and service Vantage delivered good growth across cost management is now limited and revenues were broadly flat, but capital its consumable product lines including though Environmental margins have revenues for the year reduced by argon plasma probes, endoscope improved modestly, Sector adjusted ca.
The core clinical diagnostics reprocessor chemicals and other operating margins have reduced by business continued to be impacted by GI Endoscopy accessories, including 260bps.
Adjusted operating profits the freeze in capital spending in Quebec specialised instruments and devices.
while the Province completes both the Results were also boosted by strong creation of integrated Health Centres growth in revenues across all of The Life Sciences businesses invested under its Bill 10 legislation and the Vantages core capital equipment product 1.9m in new capital during 2016 of Optilab reorganisation programme lines: this strong performance was which 0.9m 2015: 1.9m was spent which is designed to achieve cost against a weak prior year comparative on acquiring field equipment for savings and efficiencies through which was constrained last year by placement in hospitals and diagnostic delayed capital budget approvals.
consolidation of Quebecs public medical laboratories.
Growth was also impacted on completing the refurbishment of the by the introduction of stricter patient In late September 2016, Vantage new stand-alone leasehold facility for testing criteria in Albertas colorectal completed the sale of its Medivators the TPD business in Ireland and 0.4m endoscope reprocessor product line to screening programme, increasing the was spent on upgrading the general IT age threshold for eligibility and thus Cantel Medical Corporation Cantel for infrastructure of the businesses in Life constraining the number of patient a gross consideration of 2.8m.
Free cash flow generated in tests.
To counter these headwinds, through its subsidiary Medivators, had been the supplier of these products to Vantage and consistent with its global strategy, had decided to establish a Revenue direct operation in Canada to market and sell the Medivators products m alongside other Cantel product lines.
In addition to purchasing the assets and 109.9 liabilities of the Medivators product line, Cantel also took on the Vantage 2016 2015 facility lease and a large proportion of Revenue 109.9m 103.1m the Vantage operational employees.
Adjusted operating profit 19.6m 21.0m Adjusted operating margin 17.8% 20.4% Free cash flow 19.0m 15.6m ROATCE 17.7% 21.1% Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 17 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Vantage has retained its other principal The TPD performance was achieved in a product lines ca.
60% of Vantage year when it completed a major facility Highlights from revenues and the related key commercial move, with the accompanying disruption and clinical staff.
From the start of to operations.
In January 2016, TPD theyear the new financial year, Vantage is now consolidated and relocated its operations being managed as a division of AMT, into an adjacent leased building, which Sector revenue growth of 7%: with integrated warehousing, logistics had been refurbished and fitted out to and back office functions.
AMT and meet TPDs requirements at a total cost underlying growth of 4% after Vantage together now form a single, of 0.8m.
This new facility consolidated adjusting for currency strong Surgical and GI specialty medical a number of fragmented, less efficient In Canada, DHG revenues device business in Canada with the operations into a single facility and opportunity to gain good operational provides significant capacity to support broadly flat with growth in leverage from its increased scale.
DHGs growth ambitions in Europe.
Surgical Products offsetting reduced capital spend in In Australia, the Healthcare sector has Environmental Clinical Diagnostics: Vantage experienced similar economic and The a1-group of Environmental sold Medivators product line budget pressures to Canada, but has businesses in Europe, which account for 2.8m in September 2016 the added capacity of private Healthcare for 17% of Life Sciences Sector spending to offset some of the economic revenues, saw revenues increase by In Australia, strong growth constraints.
Against this background, 5% in constant currency terms.
despite similar economic and the BGS and DSL businesses have budget pressures to Canada increased revenues by 15% in local The a1-envirosciences business based in Germany increased revenues by 13% in currency terms.
BGS continued to grow TPD in Ireland and the UK surgical product revenues strongly, Euro terms and ended the year with an delivered a second year of with smoke evacuation programmes in improved order book.
The strong growth good growth since acquisition: existing and new accounts continuing to was driven by demand for containment facility investment provides enclosures for the safe weighing of provide the main driver for growth.
There was also a steady sales performance hazardous materials, particularly from significant capacity to support in electrosurgical grounding pads, Petrochemical and Pharmaceutical DHGs growth in Europe laparoscopic electrodes and the industry customers in Germany.
The Environmental businesses sales of high end elemental and trace enzymatic products acquired from Chemzyme as the product portfolio analysers also continued to grow, showed steady growth and continues to grow.
DSL has also achieved with the range of mercury analysers ended the year with an double-digit revenue growth in its clinical seeing increasing demand.
improved order book diagnostic products business, with the growth driven by capital equipment sales, The a1-CBISS business based in the in particular of capillary electrophoresis UK saw revenues reduce by 1% with instruments used in testing for multiple stable revenues from long term service contracts, but reductions in revenues myelomas and diabetes.
Consumable product sales were broadly flat, reflecting from continuous emissions monitoring softer prior year capital equipment systems CEMS.
This sector remains sales, which is the key demand driver buoyant with new Biomass and Energy from Waste EFW plants an important for consumable product revenues.
part of the UKs energy portfolio, The TPD business is an established but competition is increasing in new supplier to the Healthcare and sites built by major EPC contractors.
Potential for growth a1-CBISS is responding by focusing Biotechnology markets in Ireland and the UK, acquired by DHG in October 2014. on replacement systems and ownerTPD delivered a second year of good operator sites where its specialist Increase share of specialised revenue growth since acquisition, with knowledge and customised software segments of Healthcare solutions give competitive advantage.
growth in Healthcare driven by laboratory markets in Canada and quality controls in the clinical diagnostic The gas detection sector had a weak Australia segment of the hospital laboratory first half, as the slowdown in sales to Oil market.
There has also been significant & Gas customers continued to impact Build presence in the UK and activity levels, but recovered strongly in growth in TPDs sales of specialty medical Ireland from TPD base and devices used in the interventional the second half.
Revenues from service explore opportunities more cardiology and digestive health areas of contracts, across both Environmental broadly in Europe the hospital market.
The Biotechnology businesses, continue to grow with each capital installation and now represent product portfolio delivered good Extend into other specialised revenue growth in both consumables a third of the combined revenues.
medical disciplines with new and capital equipment, all associated products and technologies with rapid microbial identification and used in industrial laboratories across the Continue to develop product Pharmaceutical, Food and Water sectors.
and geographic spread of Environmental businesses For more information, please visit: www.
aspx 18 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Sector Review continued Aftermarket Thebusinesses work closely with The Aftermarket businesses supply customers to select the most appropriate sealing and associated products to seal design, material and manufacturer support a broad range of mobile for the application, provide technical machinery in applications which include support and guidance during the Heavy Construction, Mining, Logging, product development process and Agriculture, Material Handling lift trucks, deliver the logistics capabilities to fork lifts and dump trucks and Refuse supply from inventory to support small Collection.
The products are generally to medium sized production runs.
supplied on a next day delivery basis and are used in the repair and maintenance Market drivers Seals of equipment after it has completed its In North America where ca.
60% of initial warranty period or lease term, or Sector revenues are generated, the has been sold on in the pre-used market.
principal market driver for both the The main customers are machinery Aftermarket and Industrial OEM Seals and cylinder repair shops, engine and businesses is the growth rate in the transmission rebuilders and other general industrial economy.
In 2016, the heavy equipment parts distributors.
US economy is forecast to show annual The Seals Sector The Aftermarket businesses also supply GDP growth of 1.8% 2015: 2.4%, driven businesses supply a products to end users operating process primarily by strong consumer spending.
plants within the Mining, Oil & Gas, US industrial production contracted in range of seals, gaskets, Pharmaceutical, Chemical, Food and 2016 which was largely attributable to Energy sectors, where products are continued headwinds in the Oil & Gas, filters, cylinders, required to support Maintenance, Repair Mining, and Heavy Equipment sectors.
components and kits In Canada, 2016 GDP growth is used in heavy mobile Industrial OEM forecast to increase to 1.7% 2015: The Industrial OEM businesses supply 1.2% as Oil & Gas and Mining sectors machinery and seals, gaskets, O-rings and custom are expected to improve and nonmoulded and machined parts to a commodity, export-driven industries specialised industrial range of Industrial OEM customers.
Principal operations North America HFPG Aftermarket Hercules Bulldog Clearwater & Tampa, FL, US Hercules Canada Barrie, ON & Dorval, QC, Canada HKX Monroe, WA, US Industrial OEM All Seals Lake Forest, CA & Houston, TX, US J Royal Clemmons, NC & Tallassee, AL, US: Shanghai, China RT Dygert Minneapolis, MN, Chicago, IL & Seattle, WA, US International FPE Seals Darlington, UK: Breda, The Netherlands Kentek Helsinki, Finland: St. Petersburg, Russia: Riga, Latvia M Seals Espergaerde, Denmark: Halmstad, Sweden: Beijing, China: Gateshead, UK Kubo Effretikon, Switzerland: Linz, Austria WCIS Perth & Brisbane, Australia: Noumea, New Caledonia Revenue m Principal segments Geography compound growth over five years % p. a.
16 16 166.6 15 139.6 14 119.8 13 106.1 12 99.9 11 80.0 31% North America Aftermarket 56% North America 34% Europe 28% North America Industrial OEM 10% Rest of World 41% International Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 19 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 economic conditions in the South and US construction spend US$bn Central American economies served 600 by the North American Aftermarket businesses have remained challenging.
500 In the Aftermarket businesses, activity and spending levels in the US 400 Construction sector are important, since this market accounts for over 50% of 300 Aftermarket Seals revenues.
Statistics on total US Construction spend include non-residential and infrastructure 200 spend, as well as residential housing activity.
Overall US Construction 100 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 spend has continued to rise through 2016 as contractors completed the Source: Cyclast Intercast.
build-out phases of construction projects.
Additionally, housing starts in the US are forecast to increase to US construction equipment units 000 1.2m from 1.1m in the prior year.
60 Unit sales in the US of Construction 50 Equipment defined as heavy mobile equipment including excavators above 40 14 tonnes, crawler dozers and wheeled loaders is important as a medium term 30 indicator for Hercules replacement hydraulic seals activities, as the new 20 heavy equipment will move out of the dealer warranty period in the following 10 years.
It is also a good short term indicator for the HKX attachment kit 0 business.
During 2015 and the first half 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 of 2016, the demand for new equipment Source: Cyclast Intercast.
has remained flat as the general machine population is relatively new and equipment, previously used in the US industrial production index Oil & Gas and Mining sectors, continues 120 to be released back through auction houses into the Construction sector.
Contractors are also opting more for the 110 rental model for their equipment needs.
For the Industrial OEM Seals businesses, 100 the most appropriate indicator is the Industrial Production Index, which is forecast to contract slightly in 2016 90 after being essentially flat during 2015, as the stronger dollar and a continued slowdown in the natural 80 resources sector offset stronger 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 domestic consumer demand.
Source: US Federal Reserve seasonally adjusted.
The International Seals businesses operate in a range of countries and In Continental Europe, the individual In Australia, the economy has been diverse market sectors and each has economies have remained variable in adversely affected by the downturn in its own specific market drivers.
The 2015 and 2016, driven by a number of the Mining sector, which contracted by most relevant market drivers and contributing economic and geopolitical 7.4% during 2014 and has continued indicators are therefore the general factors.
Overall European GDP growth in to decline in 2015.
Despite this, overall GDP growth and the Industrial sector 2016 is forecast to remain flat at ca.
1.9% Australia GDP grew by 2.5% in 2015 2014: performance for each territory in 2015: 2.0% but has slowed following 2.7%, predominantly due to growth in which the businesses operate.
the UK referendum on EU membership the service sector of the economy.
The European economies have In the UK, economic growth is forecast also been affected by the EU and US to remain flat in 2016 at ca.
1.8% 2015: sanctions against Russia and reductions 1.8%.
The weakened UK sterling is in exports as a result of the continuing giving short term benefits to exporters, fragility in the global economy.
but this is offset by uncertainty over the terms of any future EU trade deal which has led to investment decisions being postponed or deferred.
aspx 20 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Sector Review continued and leased back to the business.
20% of domestic Seals further 0.5m was invested in new US Aftermarket seal revenues.
machinery and tooling, including two new seal cutting machines for the In Canada, Hercules revenues increased International Seals businesses and a new by 3% in Canadian dollar terms despite Sector performance crane in WCIS.
In addition, 0.4m was unfavourable market conditions in the invested in IT infrastructure, including Mining, Quarrying and Oil & Gas sectors.
Reported revenues of the Seals a substantial upgrade to the ERP The resulting economic conditions businesses increased by 19% to 166.6m information systems in Hercules Bulldog.
favour the repair market, which has 2015: 139.6m.
The Seals acquisitions The free cash flow generated in this helped drive revenue growth, along completed during last year Kubo and Sector, which is after these investments, with sales of new products added to Swan Seals, along with the first year increased by over 40% to 24.9m the 2016 catalogues in the first half of contribution from the WCIS acquisition reflecting both a full year contribution the year.
Orders from hydraulic cylinder completed in October 2015, added from the acquired businesses and a manufacturing customers have been 12% to Sector revenues.
Currency large reduction in working capital.
relatively flat, mainly as a result of movements, on translation of the shifting customer demand, rather than results from overseas businesses to North American Seals significant gains or losses of business.
UK sterling, contributed a further 6% to The North American Seals businesses, In markets outside North America, Sector revenues.
After adjusting for these which account for ca.
60% of Seals Hercules Bulldog export revenues acquisitions and for currency effects, Sector revenues, saw revenues decrease recovered in the second half and finished underlying revenues increased by 1%.
by 2% on a constant currency basis the year showing 3% growth.
Strong against strong prior year comparatives.
growth in Mexico and Central America Continued progress was made more than offset declines in resource On translation to UK sterling, reported during the year in building a more revenues increased by 7% due to the dependent South American markets.
substantial presence outside North strengthening of the US dollar.
America through a combination of The HKX attachment kit business organic growth and acquisition.
The experienced a continuing, significant The HFPG Aftermarket businesses International Seals businesses based reported revenues 3% below last reduction in revenues reflecting the in the EMEA and Australasia regions, year in US dollar terms, with the core depressed market for new excavators contributed 68.2m to Seals revenues Hercules Bulldog seal and gasket in the US and Canada and the surplus of in the year 2015: 47.3m and now heavy mobile equipment.
The increased revenues broadly flat against the prior account for ca.
year, but with a substantial reduction proportion of factory installed kits in HKX attachment kit revenues in an continues to impede HKXs standard Across the Seals businesses, gross excavator market which continued to kit sales, but HKX is responding by margins continued to be resilient, marketing lower cost entry level kits be depressed for most of the year.
underpinned by the business model of which are upgradeable to provide a superior product availability and added In the domestic US market, Hercules more complete range of capabilities.
The acquired Bulldog revenues were constrained With equipment rentals and leases businesses joined the Group with strong growing to 50% of new machine sales, by sluggish activity in the Heavy gross margins but with higher operating Construction sector, in particular HKX is also focusing its sales effort cost ratios and therefore lower initial in the resource dependent States.
on kit programmes to support the operating margins.
As a result, adjusted However, positive trends have started dealer rental and lease operations.
operating margins for the Sector reduced to develop in the Repair and Distributor by 90bps to 16.9% 2015: 17.8% and segments and the revenue declines The HFPG Industrial OEM businesses adjusted operating profits increased earlier in the year were reversed by in North America saw revenues reduce by 14% to 28.2m 2015: 24.8m.
Sales and marketing by 1% against a background of generally slow industrial markets.
J Royal delivered resources have been strengthened During the year, 1.4m was invested in and specific growth initiatives continue another year of solid growth, with the Seals businesses, including an initial to gain traction, including the sale of good demand from its water meter and payment of 0.5m for the construction seal kits to large national rental fleets swimming pool equipment customers of a new facility for J Royal, close to their offsetting reduced demand from gas and contractors through dedicated existing location in North Carolina: the buying portals.
Additional business boiler, fuel management and filtration total cost is expected to be ca.
development focus has also been given customers.
RT Dygert and All Seals, On completion of this project scheduled to government customers, national which now share sales management for April2017, the facility will be sold and product development resources, accounts and speciality distributors.
Additional new product lines have been saw revenues reduce by 3% against introduced, including lifting slings and the prior year.
RT Dygert generated Revenue aftermarket cylinders for skid-steer good GDP plus levels of growth with its core industrial OEM accounts and equipment.
Online revenues through m Webstore continue to increase and distribution customers.
However, these gains were more than offset by reduced 166.6 sales to cylinder manufacturers as their businesses lost share to lower priced 2016 2015 offshore suppliers and with reduced Revenue 166.6m 139.6m sales to catalogue distributors reflecting the weaker industrial markets.
All Seals Adjusted operating profit 28.2m 24.8m generated growth from customers in Adjusted operating margin 16.9% 17.8% the Water and Medical sectors, but this growth was offset by reduced revenues Free cash flow 24.9m 17.8m in Aerospace, Oil & Gas and general ROATCE 20.1% 23.7% Industrial OEMs and distributors.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 21 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 The Industrial OEM businesses continue M Seals increased revenues by 1% in to respond to the overall low growth local currency terms with strong revenue Highlights from environment by maintaining strong growth in the core markets of Denmark relationships with core industrial and Sweden, where M Seals has built theyear equipment customers, ensuring on its strong customer relationships to high levels of customer service in develop a number of major new projects.
Sector revenue growth of 19% support of existing projects, as well as This growth was offset by reduced offering more specialised material and revenues from the M Seals operations with acquisitions contributing product specifications to secure new in the UK which have been impacted 12%: underlying growth of 1% projects.
In particular, the businesses by cut-backs in the Oil & Gas sector, after adjusting for currency continue to look for opportunities particularly in the first half of the year.
and acquisitions to deploy higher specification, In the second half, there has been some regulatory-compliant compounds for recovery in demand and M Seals has In North America, core industries including Pharmaceutical, seen some initial benefit from increasing Aftermarket seal and gasket sales efforts to specialised Industrial Water and Food equipment and revenues broadly flat for fuel dispensing applications.
OEMs in other sectors of the UK market.
Strengthening of senior sales International Seals Kubo revenues decreased by 2% on a and marketing management like-for-like basis Swiss franc terms, The International Seals businesses in and new growth initiatives the EMEA and Australasia regions, now including pre-acquisition revenues as it gaining traction account for ca.
40% of Sector revenues faced challenging market conditions in and increased revenues by 5% on an its core industrial market in Switzerland.
Industrial OEM revenues The strong Swiss franc following its underlying basis, after adjusting for in North America reduced currency effects and acquisitions.
decoupling from the Euro in 2015 by 1% against background has made Swiss manufacturers less of generally slow The FPE Seals business increased competitive in export markets and industrial markets some have relocated production outside revenues by 3% in UK sterling terms and continued to develop a more Switzerland.
Against this background, International Seals businesses substantial, broader-based Aftermarket Kubo has made progress in taking in EMEA and Australasia now Seals business.
At the beginning of the market share from competitors through ca.
sales initiatives, technical support and year, FPE Seals became fully operational from its new facility in Darlington in the responsiveness.
Kubo management has Underlying revenues increased UK, which is now the core operational also focused on improving operational by 5%, with a strong hub for further expansion across the efficiency and expanding value adding performance by Kentek activities.
During the year, Kubo invested EMEA region.
FPE Seals also has a small operation in the Netherlands which it in a new seal machining centre to has used as an initial pilot for the launch enable the business to respond quickly of the Webstore e-commerce solution.
to urgent customer requirements for specialised seals, as well as replacing Following the relocation of the Bulldog operation to Tampa in September 2015, externally sourced products.
FPE experienced some product shipment delays in the first half of the year: the In October 2015, the Group completed the acquisition of WCIS, a supplier of back orders were recovered in the second half to improve full year revenues.
Swan gaskets, seals and associated products Seals in Aberdeen has been impacted and services located in Australia and New by the low oil price environment, Caledonia.
WCIS has core capabilities in Potential for growth gaskets and mechanical seals, used in but again showed some second half improvement in activity levels.
Since its acquisition, WCIS core customers in Continue to gain share in Kentek increased revenues by 16% in Euro the Mining sector, as expected, have Aftermarket Seals in North faced difficult market conditions and terms and continued to respond well to America through superior the challenging economic conditions this has held back revenues.
However, marketing and product in Russia and Finland, under pressure progress has been made in Australia development from lower global demand in the Oil & in strengthening the team to broaden sales coverage across a wider range Gas and Mining sectors and from the Build and expand group of negative impact of economic sanctions of market sectors.
In New Caledonia, Industrial OEM Seals on Russia.
Despite these challenges WCIS signed new three-year contracts businesses in North America and further weakness of the Russian with its major customer for the provision of products and services.
rouble, Kentek delivered strong revenue Build larger, broader-based growth in Russia, with good revenue Seals business in the EMEA increases from its newer sales offices.
and Asia Pacific regions Kentek also benefited from increased investment by the Russian government Explore opportunities more in the Agricultural and Manufacturing broadly in industrial sectors and has won a number of distribution in North America tenders with key Mining customers.
In Finland, new management has given additional structure and impetus to the sales efforts which have re-established revenue growth.
During the period, Kentek introduced a new own-branded filter range which is now gaining traction.
aspx 22 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Sector Review continued Interconnect and transportation, catering equipment, The IS-Group, Filcon, Cablecraft and vending machines, coffee brewing, Clarendon businesses supply high pure water and water cooling systems.
performance interconnect products used Products include fluid controllers, in technically demanding applications in a compressors, valves, temperature and range of industries including Aerospace, pressure measurement devices and Defence, Motorsport, Energy, Medical, specialised vending and liquid dispensing Rail and Industrial.
The customer offering electrical wiring, protective sleeving, is enhanced by value adding services connectors and harnessing products, including kitting for production line aerospace-quality fasteners, seals, flow and the repair and refurbishment Controls customised assemblies and kits.
A range of soft drinks dispensing equipment.
of value adding activities enhances the customer offering, including marking of Market drivers protective sleeves, customised labelling Industrial economic background solutions, cut-to-length tubing, kitting, The Controls businesses focus on connector assembly and prototype specialised, technical applications in a quantities of customised multi-core range of industries, with over 90% of The Controls Sector cables.
There is also a range of internally Sector revenues generated in the UK and businesses supply manufactured products, including Continental Europe principally Germany.
flexible braided products for screening, The background market drivers are specialised wiring, earthing and lightning protection, therefore the growth of the industrial power shunt connectors, multi-core economies in the UK and Germany.
connectors, fasteners cables, cable markers, sleeving and trunking and specialty fasteners.
A good indicator of the health of the UK and control devices used industrial economy is the UK Index of in a range of technically Fluid Controls Production.
Following the 2009 recession, The Hawco Group businesses supply gains in 2010 were reversed in 2011 and demanding applications.
a range of fluid control products used 2012 and since then there has been slow, broadly in the Food & Beverage sectors, steady growth.
However, the index is still in applications including food retailing some 10% below pre-recession levels Principal operations Interconnect IS-Group IS-Rayfast Swindon, UK IS-Cabletec Weston-super-Mare, UK IS-Sommer Stuttgart, Germany IS-Connect Indianapolis, IN, US Filcon Munich, Germany Cablecraft Houghton Regis, Tewkesbury & Plymouth, UK Clarendon Leicester, Swindon & Totnes, UK Fluid Controls Hawco Group Guildford, Bolton & Faringdon, UK Revenue m Principal segments Geography compound growth over five years % p. a.
7 16 106.1 15 91.1 14 94.6 13 86.2 12 81.9 76.2 11 76% Interconnect 24% Fluid Controls 60% UK 31% Continental Europe 9% Rest of World Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 23 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 and economic growth is more driven UK index of production value by the Services and Retail sectors.
120 In Germany, the Production Sector Output index tracks a strong period of recovery through 2010 and 2011, 110 since when it has slowly increased and is now back to pre-recession levels.
100 Specific industry drivers Interconnect Although influenced by the general industrial economic cycles, there 90 are also more specific drivers within the main market segments served by the Interconnect businesses.
80 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 The Civil Aerospace market continued Source: UK Ofce for National Statistics.
Calendar and seasonally adjusted, reference year 2013 100. to grow steadily with growth in World Passenger Traffic averaging over 6% p. a. over the last five years and with continuing strong order books at German production sector output including construction Boeing, Airbus and the manufacturers 120 of smaller, regional aircraft.
There is a trend towards replacing ageing fleets with more fuel efficient wider bodied 110 aircraft and there is increased activity in the cabin interiors market where the wide range of complex seating and 100 entertainment systems is driving growth.
The Defence market in the UK has shown 90 some early signs of recovery, prompted by the military operations in Syria and Iraq, the emergence of new perceived 80 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 threats and the UK commitment to maintain the NATO spend target of 2% Source: Deutsche Bundesbank.
Calendar and seasonally adjusted, reference year 2010 100. of GDP through to 2020.
In Germany, the government has also committed to increased defence spending in Revenue response to the same drivers.
passenger km World passenger trafc annual growth rate growth rate In Motorsport, demand is impacted by the number of Formula 1 races and 15 6.9% teams both of which increased in the 14 6.0% 2016 season and development work 5.5% 13 related to technology and rule changes, which were limited in 2016 but with 12 5.3% additional changes expected in 2017.
6.6% 11 The Formula E series continues to gain 10 8.0% momentum but the relative spend in this 1.0% 09 series is low compared to Formula 1.
Source: International Civil Aviation Organisation.
In the UK, investment in Rail infrastructure continues with more than 25bn committed in the five years Retailing, there continue to be significant to 2019 for major projects including Crossrail and the Thameslink and Great structural changes which are impacting Western upgrades.
More generally UK segment growth rates including the trend infrastructure investment is expected away from major out-of-town stores to convenience stores and the increase in to increase with particular focus on utilities, transportation and IT home delivery.
These trends are driving communications.
In Germany, electricity demand for smaller, more energy efficient generation and distribution remains a components as supplied by Hawco.
positive sector as the responsibility for the local supply of electricity continues The Coffee market sector continues to be returned to cities and towns.
to grow and the UK retail coffee market has reached over 1bn p. a. Abbeychart supplies both the coffee Specific industry drivers Fluid Controls The Fluid Controls businesses generate machine manufacturers and the over 60% of their revenues from the Food Aftermarket sector, predominately & Beverage sector in the UK.
In Food in the UK but also in Europe.
aspx 24 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Sector Review continued Interconnect Industrial markets in the UK continued Controls The Interconnect businesses account to be challenging with Energy revenues for 76% of Sector revenues and in particular showing a significant reported a revenue increase of 21% reduction, driven by the cut-backs in UK sterling terms.
After adjusting in the Oil & Gas industry which have Sector performance for the Cablecraft and Ascome impacted sales of harness components acquisitions and for currency effects, to sub-sea cable manufacturers and Reported revenues of the Controls underlying revenues increased by 4%.
In Continental businesses increased by 16% to 106.1m Europe, a competitive market saw 2015: 91.1m.
The acquisitions of The IS-Group businesses in the UK and sales to other sub-distributors reduce Cablecraft and Ascome, acquired in the US saw revenues increase by 2%, with a significantly in the first half of the first half of the year, added 11% to Sector strong performance in the second half year, but stabilise at this lower level revenues and currency movements of the year more than compensating for in the second half of the year.
contributed a further 1% to Sector the revenue decline in the first half.
In revenues on translation to UK sterling.
response to the generally low growth In Germany, IS-Sommer and Filcon On an underlying basis, after adjusting for environment in its industrial markets, reported a 3% increase in revenues these acquisitions and currency effects, sales resources were realigned to focus in local Euro terms.
Strong revenue underlying revenues increased by 4%, on sectors and customer accounts with growth in the Energy and Motorsport following strong underlying growth in the highest growth potential.
Further markets compensated for a weaker the second half of the year 9% increase business development programmes were performance in Aerospace & Defence, against less demanding comparatives.
also introduced and contributed to the while Industrial markets showed improving trend in the second half of the modest growth in line with the general Adjusted operating margins increased year.
Investments have also been made industrial economy in Germany.
Gross in developing digital media capabilities margins strengthened in the IS-Group and in positioning the IS-Group as the In the Energy sector, IS-Sommer has and Clarendon businesses, offsetting supplier of choice for the full range of a strong and growing position in the margin pressure in the Hawco Group, specialist cable harnessing components.
supply of products used in the repair and while operating costs as a percentage of maintenance of the low and mediumrevenue remained broadly stable across In Defence, general activity levels voltage electricity network.
Demand for the Controls businesses.
The stronger in electrical harnessing customers these products has been strong as 2016 operating margins of the newly acquired increased and the IS-Group benefited has been an assessment year for the Cablecraft business also contributed to from specific programmes, including German power network which typically the improvement in the Sector average.
wiring and harness components triggers a cyclical round of investments: Adjusted operating profits increased supplied to the Scout AJAX armoured weather conditions have also been by 23% to 17.9m 2015: 14.5m.
fighting vehicle programmes and favourable.
IS-Sommer has increased its from communication cables used on share of this growing market by offering Capital expenditure in this Sector submarines.
In Aerospace, the ISgood stock availability, experienced remained modest at 0.4m 2015: 0.3m.
Group again benefited from a generally technical sales support and competitive The focus on developing Clarendon buoyant market, boosted by specific pricing based on its purchasing power.
as a stand-alone Specialty Fasteners projects, including braided assemblies business led to 0.2m being invested installed on Airbus A350 fuel pipes.
In Motorsport, Filcon achieved strong in establishing a separate warehouse growth in the supply of specialist and offices for this business within the In Motorsport, activity benefited from connectors to leading teams in a range of existing IS-Group facility in Swindon.
additional races in the Formula 1 race racing series: Filcon has the distinction of A further 0.1m was invested in new schedule and increased investment being the preferred supplier to the World tooling in Sommer and Cablecraft from Toro Rosso and Renault, as well Champions in the Formula 1, Le Mans and 0.1m was spent on the general as from the new entrant Haas and the 24 hour and World Rally Championship IT infrastructure across the Controls rebranded Manor Racing team.
Increased activity is being seen businesses.
Free cash flow increased IS-Group has also been closely involved in the Defence and Military Aerospace strongly to 16.4m reflecting stronger with the 2017 Americas Cup series, with sector in Germany, where there is trading, including the additional products widely specified in the Test growing pressure on Germany to upgrade contribution from Cablecraft and a Boats and now also confirmed in the its military capabilities.
The increased modest reduction in working capital.
build programmes for the Race Boats.
activity did not translate into firm orders In the US, strong growth was achieved until later in the year, but both Filcon in its core Motorsport business, as and IS-Sommer will carry strong order well as related Industrial markets.
books into the new financial year.
Revenue m 106.1 2016 2015 Revenue 106.1m 91.1m Adjusted operating profit 17.9m 14.5m Adjusted operating margin 16.9% 15.9% Free cash flow 16.4m 11.4m ROATCE 28.9% 30.5% Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 25 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 In February 2016, Filcon completed Clarendon also delivered strong revenue the acquisition of Ascome, a small growth in its sales to the Motorsport Highlights from distributor of specialist connectors into sector.
As with the IS-Group, Clarendon the Defence and Industrial markets benefited from the increased number theyear in France.
This acquisition provides of races in Formula 1 as well as the greater presence for Filcons operations increased investment from new entrants.
Sector revenue increased by in France, provides credible access to In addition, revenues were boosted the French Defence sector and gives in the fourth quarter by increased 16%: underlying increase of access to new products and suppliers.
development expenditure by teams 4% after adjusting for currency preparing for design and rule changes and acquisitions In March 2016, the Group completed planned for the 2017 season.
In the the acquisition of Cablecraft, a leading Industrial and Defence markets, the The Interconnect businesses supplier of cable accessory products business continues to differentiate itself delivered modest underlying which are used to identify, connect, from competitors through its range of growth with strong secure and protect electrical cables: own-designed and engineered fastening performances in Aerospace, own-branded and manufactured solutions and added value services.
Defence and Motorsport products account for ca.
In addition to broadening Fluid Controls Industrial markets the Interconnect product portfolio, the The Hawco Group of Fluid Controls acquisition has also extended the range businesses, which account for 24% of Strong double-digit of markets served.
Cablecraft supplies Controls sector revenues, reported a 4% growth in Clarendon sales to wholesalers and distributors serving growth in revenues against the prior year.
of specialty fasteners to electrical contractors in the Construction market and end users in the Rail Hawco has seen an upturn in sales aircraft seating and cabin industry, including signalling equipment in the second half of the year across interior manufacturers and specialists.
The company also supplies all its markets and, in particular, from to Motorsport teams to end users in the Industrial sector, Refrigeration Equipment customers in including electric panel builders and Continental Europe and Turkey.
Hawco Acquisition of Cablecraft contractors providing installation services has also benefited from establishing broadened the Interconnect to the Energy and Utilities sectors.
relationships with major air conditioning product line and extended and refrigeration contracting groups range of markets served The Clarendon specialty fastener and who value Hawcos stock holding, next component business increased revenues day delivery and exclusive supplier Fluid Controls delivered solid by 16% over the prior year.
Last year, relationships: the partnering with growth in revenues with independent trade counters has also Clarendons deliveries to its key aircraft upturn in refrigeration seating customer were held back by proved successful.
In the Industrial OEM equipment sales in second half changes to aircraft seat designs and market, Hawco has seen good success delays to build schedules.
In addition, with its range of fire detection products, cartridge heaters and silicon heater lines.
Clarendons deliveries to its largest customer were reduced during the implementation of a large new lineside Abbeychart has seen revenue growth supply project, using the Clarendon pause in its core coffee segment, as overstocking at certain customers is Air solution.
This year, revenues have increased strongly as deliveries being worked through.
However, this of inventory were resumed and the is seen as temporary and Abbeychart customer increased production as its has continued to enhance its offering Potential for growth of essential parts to service the broad new business class seating programmes ramped up.
Clarendon also had range of espresso type machines significant success increasing sales to being installed in an increasing number Extend Interconnect product other aircraft seating and cabin interiors of outlets.
In the soft drinks market, line and further penetrate Abbeychart has continued to increase manufacturers and sub-contractors specialised markets in Europe across Europe and introducing Clarendon revenues and take market share, but in Air to a number of new customers.
the water segment, revenues reduced In Specialty Fasteners, build on as plumbed water dispensers continue strong positions in Civil to lose share against individual bottled Aerospace and Motorsport water.
To offset this decline, Abbeychart and expand in niche industrial has focused growth initiatives in the markets craft brewing and export markets.
Continue to reposition Fluid Controls business towards growth segments of the Food & Beverage sectors Expand geographic reach outside UK and Northern Continental Europe For more information, please visit: www.
