Business model Creating value for our customers Our multi-brand, multi-product and multi-distribution channel business offers different propositions to distinct customers.
We believe this approach should enable us to generate value for customers and sustainable returns for our shareholders.
Read more about our brands on page 4 Read more about our key performance indicators on page 24 Read more about our risk management on page 26 Premiums Our customers Net claims Managing Servicing nances Costs Our people Investment and other income Reinvest in the business profit Capital Dividends Our shareholders Managing risk 8 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Making insurance much easier and better value for our customers Customers are at the centre of our business model.
So our Everyone, from our front-line staff to employees in support mission is clear: we want to make insurance much easier and and central functions, helps ensure we meet customers needs.
We aspire to give them products that Without our people, we could not generate value for customers best suit their needs and exceptional service throughout their and sustainable returns for our shareholders.
We also strive to adapt to their changing Our shareholders are a big part of our business model.
From the moment customers choose our products, to the They invest in the business wanting to achieve a good level of time they claim or need to resolve an event we treat every step return.
So we aim to give our shareholders value by generating of the customer journey as an opportunity to provide excellent sustainable business profits.
We reinvest part of this profit in the service and outcomes.
business, or add to capital and, where appropriate, distribute the rest to shareholders as dividends.
Our focused processes We aim to make it easy for our customers to access Our business has been in operation for over 30 years, giving our products, and to give them what they are looking for.
us a deep insight into the risks we underwrite.
This insight We want to make sure they have appropriate cover to enables us to make our pricing more reflective of the risks we protect against the unexpected.
It also allows us to invest substantially in data and increase efficiencies.
Again, this means we are better able to Customers can buy products online including through set accurate prices for the risks we underwrite.
PCWs by phone, and indirectly through our partners.
Customers experience the value of their cover when they come In our Commercial business, they can also buy our products to claim.
So we aim to settle claims as quickly and easily as through brokers.
possible by engaging closely with our customers.
This helps us Each brand provides products for one or more insurance demonstrate why our products and services are valuable, and segments: motor, home, rescue, pet, travel and commercial.
to manage our claims costs.
By tailoring the mix of distribution channels for each product, we seek to offer customers a blend of brands, products and services that best suit their needs.
Our disciplined approach We seek to make sure our business is well governed and We ensure our products meet regulatory standards and that controlled.
We manage our finances carefully and balance customers understand what they are buying from us.
We also this with targeting a suitable and sustainable return for aim to price our policies accurately and invest our assets our shareholders.
appropriately to minimise potential losses.
We hold assets that exceed our expected liabilities as capital We transfer insurance risk through reinsurance in our normal to allow us to absorb any unexpected losses that might occur.
External experts review our insurance claims We maintain a buffer that significantly exceeds our regulatory reserves regularly.
We mitigate risks by implementing our capital requirements.
Group policies and minimum standards.
These are reviewed regularly to ensure we are in line with the risk appetite that the We prefer to adopt a conservative approach to claims Board sets.
reserving in order to hold sufficient funds to pay customer claims.
This may result in subsequent releases from these reserves, which contribute to our annual profit.
