s n o i t u l o d S l l i a u i B t n e s s E E s s e n t i G a r 08 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Our Business Model Making us essential to our customers What we put in What we get out KPIs Business Model Essential Products Our businesses focus on supplying essential Recurring income and stable revenue growth products and services funded by customers Our focus on essential products and services operating rather than capital budgets and supplied contributes to the Groups record of stable revenue across a range of specialised industry segments.
growth over the business cycle.
The majority of the Groups revenues are generated Our businesses target GDP plus levels of organic from consumable products.
In many cases, the revenue growth, over the economic cycle, with higher products will be used in repair and maintenance growth rates achieved at the Group level through applications and refurbishment and upgrade carefully selected value enhancing acquisitions.
programmes, rather than supplied to original equipment manufacturers.
Essential Solutions Our businesses design their individual business Sustainable and attractive margins models to provide solutions which closely meet By supplying solutions, not just products, we the requirements of their customers.
build strong long term relationships with our customers and suppliers, supporting sustainable The solutions can be in the form of: and attractive margins.
Highly responsive customer service, such as the next day delivery from stock of essential, but low Our businesses achieve sustainable and attractive value items.
gross margins by offering strongly differentiated Deep technical support, where we work closely products and customer focused solutions within with our customers in designing our products specialised market segments.
By running efficient into their specific applications.
operations, these gross margins are converted into Added value services which, if we did not provide healthy operating margins.
these services, customers would have to pay others to provide them or would require them to invest in additional resources of their own.
Essential Values We encourage an entrepreneurial culture across our Agility and responsiveness businesses, through a decentralised management Our decentralised organisational model ensures that structure.
decisions are made close to the customer and that the businesses are agile and responsive to changes SEE PAGES 1011 We want the managers to feel that they have the in the market and the competitive environment.
freedom to run their own businesses, while being able to draw upon the support and resources of a Agility and responsiveness in the businesses ensure larger group where this is beneficial.
close management of operating costs and working capital and deliver strong free cash flow.
Within our businesses we have strong, self-standing management teams who are committed to and rewarded according to the success of their businesses.
Growth Strategy l o V w a l u e s s t c u d e o r r i u P q l a c i A t n e s s E s Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements n o i t u l o d S l l i a u i B t n e s s E E s s e n t i G a r 09 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 What we put in What we get out KPIs Business Model Essential Products Our businesses focus on supplying essential Recurring income and stable revenue growth Total revenue growth m products and services funded by customers Our focus on essential products and services 16 382.6 operating rather than capital budgets and supplied contributes to the Groups record of stable revenue 15 333.8 % p. a. across a range of specialised industry segments.
14 305.8 11 The majority of the Groups revenues are generated Our businesses target GDP plus levels of organic 13 285.5 Five-year compound from consumable products.
In many cases, the revenue growth, over the economic cycle, with higher 12 260.2 products will be used in repair and maintenance growth rates achieved at the Group level through applications and refurbishment and upgrade carefully selected value enhancing acquisitions.
programmes, rather than supplied to original Underlying revenue growth % equipment manufacturers.
1 Essential Solutions 14 8 4 Our businesses design their individual business Sustainable and attractive margins 13 4 Five-year average models to provide solutions which closely meet By supplying solutions, not just products, we 12 6 the requirements of their customers.
Adjusted operating margins % Highly responsive customer service, such as the 16 17.2 next day delivery from stock of essential, but low Our businesses achieve sustainable and attractive % value items.
gross margins by offering strongly differentiated 15 18.1 Deep technical support, where we work closely products and customer focused solutions within 14 18.5 1819 with our customers in designing our products specialised market segments.
By running efficient 13 19.0 Five-year average into their specific applications.
operations, these gross margins are converted into 12 20.3 Added value services which, if we did not provide healthy operating margins.
these services, customers would have to pay others to provide them or would require them Cash ow m to invest in additional resources of their own.
Essential Values 14 37.8 40 We encourage an entrepreneurial culture across our Agility and responsiveness 13 31.6 Five-year average businesses, through a decentralised management Our decentralised organisational model ensures that 12 32.7 structure.
decisions are made close to the customer and that the businesses are agile and responsive to changes We want the managers to feel that they have the in the market and the competitive environment.
Working capital % freedom to run their own businesses, while being able to draw upon the support and resources of a Agility and responsiveness in the businesses ensure 16 16.6 larger group where this is beneficial.
close management of operating costs and working 15 17.0 % capital and deliver strong free cash flow.
14 17.2 1617 Within our businesses we have strong, self-standing 13 16.7 of revenue management teams who are committed to and 12 16.5 rewarded according to the success of their businesses.
Growth Strategy For more information, please visit: www.
