STRATEGIC REPORT Our strategy ACCELERATE SALES ACCELERATE LEADERSHIP 1 GROWTH INTHE UK 2 INDIGITALANDMOBILE STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES o Grow system sales through: o Increased conversion of system sales from online and mobile.
o like-for-like system sales driven predominantly byanincrease in like-for-like order count: o Improve commercial performance of online andmobile platforms.
o opening new stores in existing and virgin territories: and o Innovate in digital to ensure the brand remains top o keeping the brand up to date through store re-images.
of mind, it is easy to order and places the customer o Innovate through the introduction of new products.
PERFORMANCE IN 2016 PERFORMANCE IN 2016 o We successfully grew like-for-like system sales by 7.5% fuelled o We accelerated UK online sales from 556.1m to 673.9m, by like-for-like order count growth of 4.5%.
On a two-year basis, anincrease of 21%, continuing our leadership in e-commerce our like-for-like system sales performance stands at 20.1% and our retailing.
We have seen UK mobile sales increase by 31%.
two-year like-for-like order count growth at 13.9%.
Our three-year o We have increased frequency, conversion and average basket like-for-like system sales performance stands at 33.7% and our spend on the website.
three-year like-for-like order count growth at 23.6%.
This gives o Our commitment to innovate in this space continues with us confidence that the business has momentum.
theEasy Order one-touch order button being made available o We opened 81 new stores across a balance of existing and virgin onFacebook Messenger in August 2016.
System sales from immature stores rose by 7% in 2016, PizzaTracker, Legends create your own pizza option, launch giving us further confidence about future sales performance onSnapchat in January 2016 andFacebook Live event from new store openings.
inNovember 2016 wecontinue to leadin this space.
o We launched our Italiano range of pizzas and sides in October 2016: fresh dough thin crust pizzas with high quality toppings.
o Independent econometric analysis has demonstrated we have increased return on investment from national marketing spend, as a larger store footprint benefits better from national advertising activity, and the digitalisation of the business enables us to attribute more sales directly from digital marketing spend.
FOCUS FOR 2017 FOCUS FOR 2017 o Continue to grow sales at the midweek and weekend dinner o Continue to improve performance of our key performance occasions by providing the best quality and the most convenient metrics of conversion rate, basket abandonment rate, bounce complete meal solutions.
o Continue to optimise marketing spend effectiveness through the o Continue to invest in improving the performance of our optimal combination of broadcast and digital marketing channels.
o Convert a healthy pipeline of new store targets and franchisee o Also, start to use technology to improve in-store productivity.
interest into new store openings and continue our store re-imageprogramme.
Investment in digital drives Number of orders increased online order growth up 10.8% up 18.9% 14 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOCUS ON GROW INTERNATIONAL 3  4 MARKETSPROFITABLY STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES o Improve franchisee profitability year on year.
o Leverage leadership position and open storesinROI.
o Continue to source high quality and fresh food atmost competitive cost.
o Drive profitability in Switzerland and exploit marketopportunities.
o Work with DPE to create the largest pizza chain o Identify productivity opportunities in store.
o Develop Nordics region to its full potential through our investments.
PERFORMANCE IN 2016 PERFORMANCE IN 2016 o We successfully improved franchisee profitability per store o We have seen strong like-for-like sales growth in ROI withstore EBITDA performance up 4.4%.
o Initiated trials of GPS to enhance delivery times andefficenciesfor our franchisees.
o Strong sales in Switzerland and growth of our e-commerce participation.
Our mature stores are cash positive.
o Began time and motion study to identify labour opportunitiesinstore.
o We completed our investment with DPE totransform our activities in Germany, this includes the acquisition of Joeys Pizza and the o We passed on 5m in food savings to franchisees during2016.
subsequent conversion of 215 stores, which was completed by December 2016. o We acquired a significant interest in the Dominos business in the Nordics.
This strategic investment means that the Group holds a 49% interest in Iceland and a 45% interest in both Norway and Sweden through direct and indirect holdings.
FOCUS FOR 2017 FOCUS FOR 2017 o Increase marketing investment to grow sales per store to leverage o Drive like-for-like sales growth in Ireland and begin a new store store-level profitability grow the top line to grow the bottom line.
o Investing in capacity and productivity in our supply chain to o Drive like-for-like sales in Switzerland through improved improve costs to serve.
e-commerce platforms and open new corporate stores.
o Focus on managing food price inflation whilst ensuring o Support the delivery of sales growth in Germany through consistently high food quality and competitive food cost supply ourinvestment.
with better rewards for volume growth.
o Through our investment leverage market leadership in Iceland, o Using technology to help franchisees find opportunities to with modest new storegrowth: open ten stores per annum in improve productivity both in store and in delivery labour costs.
Norway: and begin operations in Sweden, with three stores open by end of Q1 2017.
Increased focus on store Increased confidence in our productivity to improve international businesses with franchisee profitability strong sales growth Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 15
