CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board of Directors N STEPHEN HEMSLEY COLIN HALPERN DAVID WILD A R A R RACHEL OSBORNE STEVE BARBER KEVIN HIGGINS Audit Committee member A Nomination Committee member N Remuneration Committee member R Committee Chairman A N R N EBBE JACOBSEN HELEN KEAYS 30 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Stephen Hemsley Colin Halpern David Wild Non-executive Chairman Non-executive Vice-Chairman Chief Executive Officer Stephen joined the Board as Finance Director Colin acquired the Dominos Pizza David was appointed to the Board as a in1998, was appointed as Chief Executive MasterFranchise Agreement for the UK non-executive Director in November 2013, in2001 and as Executive Chairman in 2008 andROI in 1993 through International became Interim Chief Executive Officer in and finally became non-executive Chairman Franchise Systems Inc.
In 1999, with Colin January 2014 and was appointed as Chief inMarch 2010.
He also chairs the Nomination asChairman, the Company was taken public Executive Officer on 30 April 2014.
Stephen is also chairman of and listed on AIM and subsequently moved to non-executive director of Bankers Investment AIM-listed Franchise Brands plc and its the Main Market in 2008.
Colin is the managing Trust.
Previously, David was chief executive subsidiary companies.
He is a chartered director of HSReal Company LLC and Dayenn officer of Halfords Group plc and held senior accountant byprofession.
Limited andnon-executive director of several roles within Walmart Stores Inc. Tesco Stores other companies.
plc and RHM Foods Limited andwas a non-executive director of the multi-channel consultancy Practicology Limited.
Rachel Osborne Steve Barber Kevin Higgins Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Rachel was appointed Chief Financial Officer Steve was appointed to the Board as a Kevin was appointed to the Board in in October 2016.
She joined the Group from non-executive Director in July 2015.
He is Chairman of the Vodafone, where she was CFO for Group Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member Remuneration Committee and a member of Enterprise.
Prior to this she was finance and of the Remuneration Committee.
He is currently the Audit Committee.
His career spans more strategy director for John Lewis and also a non-executive director of Next plc, where he than 20years in branded consumer foods in heldsenior roles at Sodexo, Kingfisher and also chairs the audit committee.
He has almost bothEurope and the United States.
Rachel is a chartered accountant 30 years experience in accountancy, principally non-executive chairman of Lunch Garden, a and also currently non-executive director of with , where he was Belgian restaurant chain, and has previously HM Courts and Tribunals Service, anagency asenior partner, and also with Ernst & Young.
served as president of Burger King Europe, of the Ministry of Justice.
He has also worked in industry, and was formerly Middle East and Africa.
Prior to his role with the chief operating officer of Whitehead Mann Burger King, Kevin served as general manager and the finance director of Mirror Group plc.
Brands Pizza Hut, KFC and Taco Bell He is a founder of The Objectivity Partnership, Europe and Russia Franchise Business Unit a member of the steering group of the Audit based in Switzerland.
Earlier in his career he Quality Forum and a director of Fenwick Limited.
held executive roles with PepsiCo and Mars.
Ebbe Jacobsen Helen Keays Non-executive Director Non-executive Director and Senior Independent Director Ebbe was appointed to the Board in January 2014 and is a member of the Nomination Committee.
Helen was appointed to the Board in He has wide experience of operating in Germany September 2011 and is a member of the and other European countries, most recently with Companys Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Delsey.
He has been in retail all his working life Committees and was appointed as the Senior and has pan-EU retail knowledge with significant Independent Director on 20 April 2016.
Helen experience in franchising, multi-site and single has over 20years experience in travel, retail, brand retail.
He pioneered the introduction of consumer markets and telecoms.
She is currently US fast food chain Burger King into the Nordic a non-executive director of Communisis plc countries in the 1970s and held the position and a trustee of the Shakespeare Birthplace ofdirector and operating partner when the Trust and has held a number of other franchise was sold in 1985.
Other significant non-executive directorships, including most retail experience includes having been CEO recently at Majestic Wine.
The majority of her ofIKEA inGermany, CEO of Delsey and CEO executive career was spent at GE Capital and ofHabitat.
Vodafone, where she held various senior marketing roles.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 31
