CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors report The Directors have pleasure in presenting the statutory financial Group results statements for the Group for the 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016.
The Group profit for the period from continuing operations after The Company has chosen in accordance with section 414C 11 taxationwas 65.2m 2015: 59.3m.
This is after a taxation charge oftheCompanies Act 2006 to include the disclosure of likely future of17.4m 2015: 13.9m representing an underlying effective tax rate developments in the strategic report on pages 2 to 29, which of 20.3% 2015: 19%.
The financial statements setting out the results includesthe following: of the Group for the period ended 25 December 2016 are shown on pages 73 to 124. o the Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5: Dividends o the Chief Executive Officers statement on pages 6 to 9: The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 4.5p per o a description of the business structure, model, markets and strategy Ordinary share, to be paid on 25 April 2017 to members on the register at on pages 10 to 15: the close of business on 17 March 2017 ex-dividend date 16 March 2017, subject to shareholder approval.
Together with the interim dividend of o the key performance indicators on pages 16 and 17: 3.5p per Ordinary share paid on 2 September 2016, the total dividend o the discussion of risk management, the table of principal risks and in respect of the period will be 8.0p compared with 6.9p for the uncertainties and the longer-term viability statement on pages 18 to 23: previous year, an increase of 15.6%.
o the financial review on pages 24 to 25: and Dividends are recognised in the accounts in the year in which they are paid or, in the case of the final dividend, when approved by shareholders.
o the corporate social responsibility report on pages 26 to 29.
Therefore, the amount recognised in the 2016 accounts, as described Together, this information is intended to provide a fair, balanced and in note 14 on page 94, comprises the 2015 final dividend and the 2016 understandable analysis of the development and performance of the interim dividend.
Groups business during the year, and its position at the end of the year, its strategy, likely developments and any principal risks and uncertainties Share capital associated with the Groups business.
As at 25 December 2016, the Companys authorised share capital was 4,000,000 divided into a single class of 768,000,000 Ordinary shares Details of the Groups policy on addressing financial risks and details of 25 48p each following the three for one sub-division of the Companys about financial instruments are shown in note 29 to the Group financial 1 shares which was effective on 27 June 2016 and there were 520,742,012 statements on pages 108 and 109.
Ordinary shares in issue including 4,072,590 Ordinary shares held in The sections of the Annual Report dealing with corporate governance, treasury.
All issued Ordinary shares are fully paid up.
The Ordinary the reports of the Nomination Committee and Audit Committee and the shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and can be held in Directors remuneration report set out on pages 32 to 61 inclusive are certificated or uncertificated form.
hereby incorporated by reference into this Directors report.
Holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak at general For the purposes of compliance with DGTR 4.1.
8R, meetings of the Company, to appoint one or more proxies and, if they the required content of the Management Report can be found in the are corporations, corporate representatives who are entitled to attend strategic report and Directors report including the sections of the general meetings and to exercise voting rights.
Annual Report and Accounts incorporated by reference.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company every holder For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4C R, the information required to be of Ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall disclosed by LR 9.8.
4 R can be found in the following locations: have one vote, unless the proxy is appointed by more than one shareholder Section topic Location and has been instructed by one or more shareholders to vote for the resolution and by one or more shareholders to vote against the resolution, 1 Interest capitalised Note 16 to in which case the proxy has one vote for and one vote against.
This reflects the accounts the position in the Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 which amended 2 Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable the Companies Act 2006.
On a poll, every member present in person or 4 Details of long-term incentive schemes Remuneration report by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every Ordinary share 5 Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable held.
None of the Ordinary shares carry any special voting rights with regard 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a Director Not applicable to control of the Company.
The Articles specify deadlines for exercising 7 Non-pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the AGM.
The relevant proxy votes are 8 I tem 7 in relation to major Not applicable counted and the number for, against or withheld in relation toeach  resolution are announced at the AGM and published on the Companys 9 P arent participation in a placing Not applicable website after the meeting.
byalistedsubsidiary 10 Contracts of significance Directors report There are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary shares in the Company other than certain restrictions that may be imposed from time to time by the 11 P rovision of services by Not applicable Articles, law or regulation and pursuant to the Listing Rules whereby certain  Directors, officers and employees require approval to deal in Ordinary shares 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends Directors report of the Company.
The Group is not aware of any agreements between holders 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends Directors report of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary shares.
14 Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable Shares held by employee share trusts All the information cross-referenced above is hereby incorporated by The Group has had an employee benefit trust EBT for a number of years, reference into this Directors report.
the trustee of which is Intertrust Fiduciary Services Jersey Limited.
Asat 25 December 2016, the EBT held 168,756 shares, which are used to satisfy awards under employee share schemes.
The voting rights in relation to these shares are exercisable by the trustee: however, in accordance with best practice guidance, the trustee abstains from voting.
62 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The appointment and replacement of Directors is governed by the Dividend waivers Articles of the Company, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the A dividend waiver is in force in relation to shares in the Company held by the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
Subject to the Articles EBT see previous paragraph, which relates to a total of 168,756 shares.
ofAssociation, the Companies Act 2006 and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Purchase of own shares Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
At the 2016 AGM, a special resolution was passed to authorise the Company to make purchases on the London Stock Exchange of up to 10% of its The interests of Directors and their immediate families in the shares Ordinary shares for the year under review.
The Company engages in share ofthe Company, along with details of options and awards held by buybacks to create value for shareholders when cash flows permit and Executive Directors, are contained in the Directors remuneration there is no immediate alternative investment use for the funds.
reportset out on pages 41 to 61.
Should any Ordinary shares be required to satisfy awards over shares, these may be provided by During the year the Company made purchases of 9,077,304 Ordinary theEBT.
shares with a nominal value of 47,277 adjusted for the three for one sub-division of the Companys shares effective on 27 June 2016.
Since There have not been any changes in the interests of the Directors, the year end the Company has made purchases over 2,679,364 Ordinary including share options and awards, in the share capital of the Company shares with a nominal value of 13,955, under the terms of the Share between the year end and 8 March 2017.
None of Directors have Purchase Programme announced on 22 December 2016.
Shareholders abeneficial interest in the shares of any subsidiary.
will be requested to renew this authority at the forthcoming AGM, to be In line with the Companies Act 2006, the Board has clear procedures held on20 April 2017. for Directors to formally disclose any actual or potential conflicts to the 1 During the course of the financial period for the 52 weeks ended whole Board for authorisation as necessary.
All new conflicts are required 25December2016, the Directors became aware that certain Relevant to be disclosed as and when they arise.
There is an annual review of Distributions had been made during the period from 2000 to 2016 otherwise conflicts disclosed and authorisations given.
The register of Directors than in accordance with the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006 the Acts.
conflicts is maintained by the Company Secretary.
TheRelevant Distributions included various share buybacks, as described anddefined in the Circular dated 1 December 2016 the Circular sent to Directors indemnities shareholders.
As such, the cancellation of those Ordinary shares resulting from The Directors have the benefit of an indemnity provision contained in the the purported buybacks was void.
22,068,513 of the Ordinary shares which were Articles of Association.
The provision, which is a qualifying third-party the subject of the share buybacks were purportedly cancelled.
Therefore, as at25 December 2016, the Company had 520,742,012 Ordinary shares in indemnity provision as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, issue.
Following the passing of the resolution as defined in the Circular on was in force during the year ended 25 December 2016 and remains in 10January 2017, the 22,068,513 Ordinary shares were bought back and force and relates to certain losses and liabilities which the Directors may cancelled, following which the total issued share capital of the Company was incur to third parties in the course of acting as Directors or employees 498,683,862 including 4,072,590 Ordinary shares held in treasury.
10January 2017, and following the resolution being passed and the share buybacks being effective, the total voting rights were 494,611,272.
The overall The Group maintained a directors and officers liability insurance policy effect of the passing of the resolution was to put all potentially affected parties throughout the financial year, although no cover exists in the event that so far as possible in the position in which they were always intended to be had Directors or officers are found to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
the Relevant Distributions been made in accordance with the Acts.
The resolution No indemnity is provided for the Groups auditor.
constituted a related party transaction as defined in the Listing Rules and under the terms of IAS 24.
For further details refer to note 35 of the Company Employees accounts on page 90.
The Group employed 999 people as at 25 December 2016 Substantial shareholdings 2015: 1,157 including discontinued operations.
As at 8 March 2017, the Company had been notified, in accordance For further details please refer to note 8 on page 89. withthe FCAs Disclosure, Guidance and Transparency Rules, of the following holdings of voting rights attaching to the Companys shares: Employment policies % of total % of total The Group is committed to the principle of equal opportunity in voting rights voting rights employment.
The Group recruits and selects applicants for employment as at as at Number of 25 December 10 January based solely on a persons qualifications and suitability for the position, 1 shares 2016 2017 whilst bearing in mind equality and diversity.
It is the Groups policy to Oppenheimer Funds Inc 55,053,340 10.66 11.13 recruit the most capable person available for each position.
The Group recognises the need to treat all employees honestly and fairly.
The Group MFS Investment Management 25,011,405 4.84 5.05 is committed to ensuring that its employees feel respected and valued On 12 January 2017 the Company was notified by Oppenheimer Funds and are able to fulfil their potential and recognises that the success Inc that it had an interest in 55,042,305 Ordinary shares.
No other ofthe business relies on their skill and dedication.
1R 1 have been received since The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment 25December 2016. from disabled persons, with regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
Efforts are made to continue the employment of those who become Directors and their interests disabled during their employment.
The Directors in service at 25 December 2016 were Stephen Hemsley, Colin Halpern, David Wild, Rachel Osborne, Helen Keays, Ebbe Jacobsen, For more information on the Companys employment practices please Kevin Higgins and Steve Barber.
On 13 October 2016, Rachel Osborne was appointed as a Director andChief Financial Officer of the Company.
The biographical details ofthe present Directors are set out on page 31 of this Annual Report.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 63 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors report continued General information Directors statement of disclosure  Annual General Meeting Having made the requisite enquiries, the Directors in office at the date The notice convening the AGM to be held at 12.00p.
m. on 20 April 2017 of this Annual Report and Accounts have each confirmed that, so far as atthe Companys Supply Chain Centre, 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, is contained in a separate shareholder circular.
auditor is unaware and each Director has taken all the steps he she ought Full details of all resolutions to be proposed are provided in that document.
to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant The Directors consider that all of the resolutions set out in the Notice of audit information and to establish that the Groups auditor is aware of AGM are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a that information.
The Directors will be voting in favour of them and unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each of them.
Going concern Significant agreements and change of control provisions The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely toaffect its future development, performance and position are set out The Group judges that the only significant agreements in relation inthe strategic report on pages 2 to 29.
The financial position of the toitsbusiness are the UK and ROI Master Franchise Agreement, the Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are KnowHow Licence Agreement and the Switzerland, Luxembourg and described in the financial review on pages 24 to 25.
In addition, notes Liechtenstein Master Franchise Agreement pursuant to which certain 28 and 29 to the Group financial statements include the Companys ofthe Groups companies are granted the right to franchise stores objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial andoperate commissaries in the territories by Dominos Pizza risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and International Franchising Inc. hedging activities and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups significant agreements listed above do not terminate The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company onachange of control.
The Group does not have agreements with any hasadequate resources to continue in operational existence for the Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office foreseeable future and have therefore continued to adopt the going or employment resulting from a takeover except that provisions of the concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Groups employee share schemes may cause options and awards granted to employees, including Directors, to vest on a change of control.
The Groups Cautionary statement banking arrangements do contain change of control provisions which, if This Annual Report and Accounts contains forward-looking statements.
triggered, could limit future utilisations, require the repayment of existing These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance: utilisations or lead to a renegotiation of terms.
rather, they are based on current views and assumptions as at the date Articles of Association of this Annual Report and Accounts and are made by the Directors in good faith based on the information available to them at the time of their The Articles of Association remained unchanged during the 2016 financial approval of this report.
These statements should be treated with caution year and can only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting due to the inherent risks and uncertainties underlying any such of the shareholders.
The Group undertakes no obligation Branches toupdate these forward-looking statements.
Dominos Pizza Germany Limited a subsidiary company of the Company By order of the Board operated via a branch in Germany, Dominos Pizza Deutschland, for the period to 1 February 2016.
Adrian Bushnell Environmental and social responsibility Company Secretary andGHGemissions 8 March 2017 The Group acknowledges that it is part of a wider community and recognises that it has a responsibility to act in ways that respect the environment and the social wellbeing of others.
Details of the Groups approach to these issues and emissions attributable to all activities are set out in the corporate social responsibility report on pages 26 to 29.
Political donations The Company made no political donations in the year 2015: nil.
Key performance indicators KPIs Details of the Groups KPIs can be found on pages 16 and 17.
Auditor EY has signified its willingness to continue in office as auditor to the Company and the Group is satisfied that EY is independent and there are adequate safeguards in place to safeguard its objectivity.
A resolution to re-appoint EY as the Companys auditor will be proposed at the 2017AGM.
64 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016
