STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Longer-term viability statement We have also explored the impact of severe but plausible The Companys current position combinationsof these risks, in circumstances that we believe The Groups business model, which is explained on page 10, has been theGroupcould experience, including: shown to be robust since the business wasformed.
We operate under what is effectively a perpetual Master Franchise Agreement in each key o only managing to open half of the planned number of new pizza territory, so our business model is long-term and effectively open-ended.
stores, while simultaneously suffering an assumed 20% increase The Groups strategy, which is explained on pages 14 and 15, is well inthe costs of sourcing food ingredients: and established and we have a market-leading position in the UK and ROI o the complete failure of our e-commerce ordering systems in the business and have successfully exploited the emergence of e-commerce twobusiest weeks of our trading year, while simultaneously suffering as a sales channel.
We continue to open new pizza stores and drive a breach of data security leading to additional costs and a 5% reduction increases in like-for-like sales, and can demonstrate strong growth in in sales due to lost customer confidence.
system sales, and Group turnover and profitability, over many years.
Ourbusiness is profitable and we successfully convert almost all of this The key assumption in this modelling of our strategy and the impact into cash generation.
At 25 December 2016, the Group has net debt of ofthe principal risks includes: 34.6m and a committed 175m five-year multi-currency bank facility, o while a number of industry commentators believe that there is a natural which expires in July 2021. ceiling on the number of pizza stores we can open, the Group has The Board has considered its appetite for risk and there is a clearly consistently delivered growth ahead of these predictions.
We continue articulated statement of this which forms the basis for the Groups risk to assume that the UK market, in particular, is capable of sustaining management activities.
the growth in store numbers we anticipate.
This key assumption is one of the Groups principal risks and explained Our strategic planning process further in the risk management section.
The CEO, supported by the leadership team, is responsible for the Groups strategic planning process.
This is an annual review of the current strategy, The results of this modelling showed that, due to the inherent strength informed by monitoring of market trends and developments and in-house and stability of our business, the Group should be able to withstand the analysis, supported where necessary by external market research.
This impact should any of these scenarios materialise over the three-year period.
results in a draft strategic plan, supported by detailed financial modelling, We also investigated whether reverse stress-testing would offer an which is debated by the Board at its annual strategy away-day.
Although we have net debt and a committed bank role includes considering whether the plan appropriately factors in the facility, we could find no plausible scenario which had such an impact changing external environment and whether the Group has access to on the Groups future performance, solvency or liquidity that it would the financial, technical and human resources necessary to implement lead to the Groups financial failure.
The most obvious risk which could itsuccessfully.
have such an effect would be a breach of the Master Franchise Agreement, The resulting agreed strategic plan is generally prepared on a five-year which is highly improbable.
basis, but both management and the Board are aware that we operate Longer-term viability statement in a fast-moving environment.
For example, a significant proportion ofthe Groups system sales are placed using mobile devices, some Based on their assessment of prospects and viability above, the Directors ofwhich were only brought to market in the last five years.
As a result, confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be while theearly years of that strategy form the business plan against able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over which management will be held to account, the later years are an the three-year period to the end of December 2019. extrapolation of those early years and one therefore subject to revisioninlight of changing circumstances.
The process of assessing our viability andkeyassumptions The strategic plan reflects the Directors best estimate of the future prospects of the business, but we have also assessed the potential impact on the Group of a number of scenarios based on each of the principal risks and uncertainties described in this section of the Annual Report.
Those risks are key because they could prevent the Group from delivering on its strategy.
Although our strategic plans have a five-year horizon, we chose to model the impact of these risks over a period ofthree years in view of the dynamic nature of our business and the environment in which we operate, and also the inherent unreliability ofsome data when forecast five years in advance.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 23
