STRATEGIC REPORT Our markets UK 950 STORES SUPPLY CHAIN CENTRES We have increased confidence in the 69 SCOTLAND headroom for growth within the UK.
2 MOBILE UNITS Whilst we may live in uncertain times, we are certain that the historic tailwinds that have driven the market are set to continue.
25 Penetration of the delivery market is expected to continue, driven in part NORTH EAST 26 by the maturity of younger pizza-eating groups, alongside an increased NORTHERN propensity for delivered food fuelled by the growth of delivery service IRELAND companies providing more variety of delivered food and propelled by the 58 increase in media spend promoting the benefits of home-delivered food.
YORKSHIRE AND THE Frequency of order continues to be driven by the trend towards 103 HUMBER digitalordering: customers need for increased convenience, speed NORTH WEST andcontrol: and a trend from independents to chains.
71 EAST MIDLANDS Additionally, customers have an increased propensity to spend more ondelivery and takeaway food.
74 102 The recent trading environment has seen more turbulence, consumer WEST MIDLANDS EAST OF ENGLAND confidence is fragile, the weakening pound will drive imported food cost 39 inflation and the impact on the labour market remains unclear.
The UK WALES eating out market has not been immune, seeing a slow-down in traffic 128 following a period of consistent growth in people eating out.
LONDON 163 90 SOUTH EAST SOUTH WEST Whilst the impact of Brexit on the labour market remains unclear, thereis no doubt that the growth in delivery in general has made the labour environment for drivers more competitive.
Consistent increases in the minimum and living wage have applied some cost pressure, but also contribute towards an increase in disposable income amongst ourcustomers.
It is imperative in this current climate to be an employer The UK remains one of the ofchoice.
most dynamic food markets Dominos has positioned itself at the forefront of technology for consumers.
We are excited about the technology trends that continue to shape our in the world, as it continues to customers lives.
Be that the arrival of the internet of things, the truly on-demand customer who is mobile enabled or the use of bots, artificial intelligence, machine learning and immersive technology, become a nation of foodies.
all provide opportunities to engage with our customers through technology.
We are increasingly optimistic about how technology can be used toimprove labour productivity.
319.0m Following the publication of the governments Childhood Obesity Strategy in 2016, we have reiterated our philosophy to provide feel good food OF GROUP REVENUE people can feel good about.
This is centred around a commitment to FROMUK providing customers with honest and transparent information about the nutritional content of our food, to providing the customer with choice and variety, and to making progressive changes to our food ahead ofgovernment regulations and in line with customer expectations.
12 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We believe the continued economic recovery in ROI will support improved ROI business performance.
47 STORES Economic predictors remain strong, with Ireland now one of the fast-growing economies in the EU.
Dublin remains at the centre of this recovery, benefiting from increased foreign investment and low unemployment rates.
However, the recovery is now being felt more strongly in provincial towns outside of Dublin.
Rural areas continue to recover at a lower rate where unemployment rates have been higher and the pains of negative equity have compromised customer spending habits.
There is also a more This recovery is being felt in the delivery takeaway market, with consumers now claiming to spend more on delivery takeaway food than they were pronounced trend for local ayear ago.
Consumers continue to demand freshness, health and value for money, with a continued desire for local provenance.
companies have now entered the market via Dublin and started to deploy media spend promoting the benefits of home delivery.
As in the UK, the impact of Brexit on the labour market remains unclear, with much speculation around cross-border movement providing an even 26.0m more competitive labour environment.
As in the UK, it is imperative in this tightening labour market to be an employer of choice.
OF GROUP REVENUE FROMIRELAND Historically, online capabilities has lagged behind the UK and other European countries.
However, we are now seeing significant growth, fuelled in particular by smartphone penetration.
Health remains firmly on the government agenda with the launch of the Healthy Weight for Ireland plan: we operate the same philosophy as we do in the UK to provide feel good food that people can feel good about.
We believe the stable economy and consistent GDP growth provide a robust SWITZERLAND platform for us to grow.
16 STORES Economic indicators continue to indicate stability in the market.
Grossdomestic product has been flat, unemployment rates have increased marginally albeit from a very low base, and inflation rates have remained very low.
Consumer prices are tumbling, with the notable exception of rents.
However, it is expected that with improvements inthe international economy there should be a gradual improvement intheSwiss economy.
Consumer trends affecting Consumer trends affecting consumption of delivery takeaway food continue to look positive.
Longer working hours, an increase in single person consumption of delivery households and demands for more convenient meal solutions ordered via digital platforms continue to bode well for the growth of the category.
takeaway food continue The delivery takeaway market continues to be dominated by independents.
Historically, US brands have enjoyed mixed success tolook positive.
inSwitzerland, in part due to the high cost structure of the market andselective food import controls.
Themarket has been invigorated bythe growth ofbranded pizza delivery chains such as Dominos.
There is a tremendous opportunity to demonstrate the quality and 15.6m freshness of our food, which are key drivers of choice and differentiating OF GROUP REVENUE factors, and to drive customers in store to experience our dough show, FROMSWITZERLAND alongside a continuous drive to increase online participation rates.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 13
