STRATEGIC REPORT Integrated business model Our business is built on relationships, with our suppliers, our franchisees, our customers and Dominos Pizza International Franchising Inc. DPIF.
We work with our franchisees to manage and invest in each part of the end-to-end customer journey with our integrated business model.
Business structure DOMINOS PIZZA INC.
The master franchisor of Dominos Pizza across the globe FRANCHISEES CUSTOMERS DOMINOS A committed and We are passionate about PIZZA GROUP entrepreneurial group keeping our promises to PLC offranchisees our customers SHAREHOLDERS Investing in thefuture of thebusiness How we make money BRAND INVESTMENT FRANCHISEE RELATIONSHIPS o We hold the rights to use the Dominos o In our franchisee-operated stores we have o we sell them dough and other food and brand, which is highly respected globally.
an integrated operating model: non-food products at a margin from which In each territory, we hold an exclusive they then make the end products that they o we choose our franchisees carefully for ten-year Master Franchise Agreement, then sell to customers the System Sales : their commitment and entrepreneurial with the option to extend for a further approach, which drives the growth of the o we charge them a royalty fee of 5.5% of tenyears, for which we pay royalties to business.
Each franchisee signs up to a their system sales and we pass on 2.7% of DPIF.
Provided we are in good standing, Standard Franchise Agreement SFA for the system sales to DPIF as a royalty cost: we have the legal right to renew each each store: ofthese MFAs.
o we invest in our digital customer ordering o we work with the franchisees to choose platforms, which makes ordering easier for o We invest in our Supply Chain Centres the right store sites.
We enter into the head our customers, which drives higher loyalty, that manufacture fresh dough that forms leases and sub-let to the franchisee.
This frequency of order and increased order the bases of our pizzas.
means we can grow our network of pizza values.
We pass this cost on to our o Our corporate stores in Switzerland are stores without committing significant franchisees: and operated directly by DPG.
amounts of capital and if the franchisee o all our franchisees contribute to a national chooses to leave the system, we still advertising fund which we co-ordinate and controlthe site: recommend a range of advertising and promotional activity to drive store sales.
10 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 E E, C T N I C G v U A R D G E O E R S D P D W N N O O A R S K E U P G C L A A O C F M E I STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our system monitors and controls the product quality, online ordering, service standards and delivery times to ensure a superior customer experience.
EFFICIENT STORES BRAND AND SYSTEM STRENGTH o Our goals are to drive like-for-like sales from our existing o The Dominos brand enjoys leading brand awareness, stores, and to seek and exploit every opportunity to grow ascalemarketing advantage and preferred marketing and ourstoreportfolio.
Customers know that it is thesignof consistently great pizzas and other products.
o Our strong brand drives customer demand, which leads tohigher volumes through our stores.
o Quality ingredients our customers tell us they would rather spend a little bit more on a hot, fresh meal made with superior o The stores are efficient to operate: online and takeout sales ingredients.
We source fresh, authentic ingredients.
reduce labour costs, the use of technology innovation in store means we can increase throughputs and effective scheduling o Our scale means we can source better quality ingredients of labour keeps costs lower.
o The stores have moderate costs to open, small square footage o We have access through the MFA to significant know-how and standardised makeline, oven and point-of-sale systems.
andother intellectual property, which we can build on with ourknowledge of the territories in which we operate.
o This leads to strong store economics and profitable franchisees, willing to reinvest in further store growth.
o Our franchisees are some of the best in the world and many have been with us for over 20 years.
DOMINOS DIFFERENCE PEOPLE PRODUCTION AND DELIVERY EFFICIENCY o We recognise the importance of a happy workplace and believe o Our growth means we can invest in more productive our employees are one of the main champions of the brand, so dough-making capacity and effective logistics.
we place significant emphasis on how we recruit and develop them.
o We have our own dedicated fleet, our drivers unload every o We put safeguards in place to require that our franchisees treat delivery into store, we control the supply chain and our drivers their staff with respect and in accordance with brand standards.
We continually strive to update and train our staff on a regular o Speed of delivery customers trust us to deliver a high quality basis, and encourage franchisees to invest in their people on product on time.
o Ease of ordering over 80% of our delivered orders are o We are passionate about keeping our promises to our customers.
Customers value the ease ofordering we offer, especially through our phone and tablet apps, which now make up about half of our digital orders.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 11 H T L W O O W R E G R E C R O O S T T S T D O E S T E E G R v R E A T
