OUR MARKETPLACE The last 12 months have seen an acceleration of the changes that have affected the UK electricity market over the last few years.
The overall picture was one of rising low-carbon generation, falling coal use, falling emissions and increasing grid volatility.
All of these trends have provided challenges to Draxs business and required skill and expertise to manage.
Solar power Wind power Over the course of the year, 3.2 GW of new It will be some years until significant electricinsights.
co. uk wind and solar farms came online, and in the new capacity is added to the system.
third quarter the share of low-carbon power from nuclear, biomass, hydro, solar and French A number of small-scale gas and diesel imports passed 50% for the first timeever.
plants are expected to come online but 50% the only large-scale plant due to begin Coal capacity was lost due to a combination generating in 2018 Trafford has now More than 50% of total offactors, particularly tougher clean air defaulted on its capacity agreement.
electricity generated in the legislation and diminishing economic returns.
Thismeans that in reality, the earliest date third quarter of 2016 was It fell to its lowest level ever, producing just at which new large-scale flexible plant lowcarbon 9% of the countrys electricity.
Fouryears ago, will actually come online is now 2021. coal was still producing 42%ofthe UKs power.
The planned expansion of intermittent INCREASED VOLATILITY generating capacity continues, with 8.5 The rise in intermittent renewables is GW planned to come online between 2017 changing the way the entire electricity system and 2020, which means that volatility will works, with a move away from dispatchable remain high for the foreseeable future.
fossil-fuelled electricity to a greater proportion of weather-dependent renewables.
This is challenging for the UK electricity system.
It is also an opportunity for Drax.
24 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT BIOMASS CONVERSION However the outlook for the sector became With the receipt of our Contract for Difference more positive as the year drew to a close.
42% CfD and the completion of the upgrade The Government announced its final of our third generating unit to be powered reforms to the RHI, proposing an uplift to of electricity in the UK by sustainable compressed wood pellets support rates for domestic biomass systems produced from coal in 2012 rather than coal, the first stage of our and bringing all biomass systems under biomass conversion strategy is complete.
a single tariff under the non-domestic regime.
This will provide installers and Upgrading generating units to be powered customers with greater certainty over by sustainable compressed wood pellets the future of the support scheme and 9% as developed at Drax Power Station should stimulate renewed activity in the remains the only flexible and reliable marketplace over the coming months.
of electricity in the UK source of large-scale low carbon power.
produced from coal in 2016 Meanwhile, the price of oil has gradually Another advantage of biomass upgrades increased, making the proposition of of this kind is the fact that they are capable switching to a sustainable, renewable ANCILLARY SERVICES of providing many of the ancillary services alternative more attractive to existing Thanks to increased renewable generation, discussed above while also producing oil heating as well as off-grid gas users.
carbon dioxide emissions associated low-carbon energy at the same time.
with electricity are being reduced, as gas and coal-fired plants are producing This means that flexible biomass-fuelled less of the UKs power needs.
generation like that at Drax can replace flexible fossil plants that would otherwise However, in order for the entire system still be needed to provide ancillary services to run reliably, there are a number of to the Grid if the majority of electricity requirements that can only be met is coming from intermittent sources.
One example of this is footroom the ability This results in National Grid requiring to turn down the electricity supply on certain plants to provide services including: demand which requires constant running frequency response, reactive power, the from OCGTs or other fossil fuel plant, making capacity for headroom or footroom, black it more challenging to meet targets for the start and other ancillary services.
reduction of carbon dioxide emissions.
Demand for these services has gone Lower system integration costs compared up and the cost of providing them from to other renewables make biomass conventional plants has become more conversion the lowest-cost way to achieve expensive this is because the plants have decarbonisation in electricity generation.
to be kept running in order to be able to A2016 report from Imperial College London provide the ancillary services required.
and economic consultancy NERA found that Consequently, prices for these services are on a whole system costs basis, biomass is rising and we expect this to continue.
the most affordable large scale renewable.
If this was applied to the Governments We see an opportunity to provide more planned CfD auctions biomass conversions ancillary services from Drax Power Station are shown to be 84 per MWh compared in the coming year.
with offshore wind at 127 per MWh.
Draxs plan to add generating capacity HEAT SECTOR powered by rapid response Open Cycle Gas While biomass systems have achieved Turbines OCGTs will fit the increasing need significant volumes of deployment in the for headroom.
In fact OCGTs are ideally suited domestic and non-domestic sectors in recent to this, as they can reach full running capacity years under the Renewable Heat Incentive within 10 minutes of being turned on this RHI, there were comparatively modest levels compares with 90 minutes for a Combined of activity in the market in 2016.
This was Cycle Gas Turbine CCGT power station.
due to a combination of uncertainty over the future of the RHI following proposals published by Government to reform the scheme, and historically low oil prices.
25 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc
