CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK THE BOARD EXECUTIVE AUDIT NOMINATIONS REMUNERATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Business unit PG.
82107 management Boards More detail in More detail in More detail in Drax Power the Audit Committee the Nominations the Remuneration Haven Power report Committee report Committee report Drax Biomass Billington Bioenergy Role of the Board Directors may, in the furtherance of their duties, seek independent The Board determines: the Groups strategy: the Groups appetite professional advice at the Companys expense.
During 2016, no for risk: the risk management policies: the annual plan and key director sought independent professional advice.
performance indicators: acquisitions and disposals and other transactions outside delegated limits: material changes to accounting The Company Secretary advises the Board on all governance matters, policies or practices: significant financial decisions: capital structure ensuring good information flows within the Board, its committees, the and dividend policy: shareholder communications: prosecution, Executive Committee and senior management.
He ensures that Board defence or settlement of material litigation: Group remuneration processes are complied with and is also responsible for compliance policy: the terms of reference of Board committees: and the Board with the Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure and Transparency Rules and structure, composition and succession.
Terms of reference The Companys Articles of Association the Articles give the directors The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its decisions and power to authorise conflicts of interest.
The Board has an effective formal terms of reference for its committees.
These are reviewed procedure to identify potential conflicts of interest, consider them annually and are available to view on the Groups website at forauthorisation and record them.
The Articles also allow the Board www.
toexercise voting rights in Group companies without restriction forexample to appoint a director to a Group company without this Matters which are not specifically reserved to the Board and its counting as a conflict requiring authorisation.
committees under their terms of reference, or to shareholders in General Meeting, are delegated to the Executive Committee or The Company has appropriate insurance cover in place in respect of otherwise delegated in accordance with a schedule of delegated legal action against directors of the Company and its subsidiaries.
authorities approved by the Board.
The Nominations Committee report contains details of the selection, How the Board functions appointment, review and re-election of directors, as well as the Board The Board receives regular reports on performance against the performance review and directors development.
Business Plan and periodic business reports from senior management.
It also receives industry, regulatory and topical updates from external Board composition experts and advisers, from time to time.
Papers are distributed in All of the directors listed on page 65 served throughout the year.
advance of Board and committee meetings, to brief directors.
Melanie Gee served as a director until her retirement on 20 April 2016.
Each of those listed, except for Melanie Gee, remained directors as at the date of the approval of this report.
Biographical details of the directors appear on pages 6870.
64 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 GOVERNANCE THE BOARD IN 2016 Directors Board diversity Philip Cox CBE Chairman As at 31 December 2016, there were six male directors and one female Tim Cobbold Independent non-executive director director on the Board.
Will Gardiner Chief Financial Officer Andy Koss Chief Executive, Drax Power Number of meetings held Melanie Gee retired as a director on 20 April 2016 The Board has eight scheduled meetings each year.
David Lindsell Senior independent non-executive director In 2016, an additional six meetings were held by telephone to Dorothy Thompson CBE Group Chief Executive address matters requiring formal decisions.
Tony Thorne Independent non-executive director In addition, the Board meets at least annually to consider strategy.
The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Board.
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 DIVERSITY COMPOSITION AGE PROFILE YEARS TENURE YEARS MALE NON-EXECUTIVE 4550 03 86% 43% 14% 43% DIRECTORS 5055 29% 5560 36 EXECUTIVE 14% 29% DIRECTORS 43% 6065 14% 6570 69 29% 14% FEMALE 912 CHAIRMAN 14% 14% 14% Board attendance 2016 The table below shows the number of meetings and the directors attendance during 2016.
Maximum Number of % of Date appointed as a director possible meetings meetings 1 and member of the Board meetings attended attended Tim Cobbold 27 September 2010 8 8 100% Philip Cox 1 January 2015 8 8 100% Will Gardiner 16 November 2015 8 8 100% Andy Koss 1 January 2016 8 8 100% Melanie Gee retired as a director on 20 April 2016 1 January 2013 3 3 100% David Lindsell 1 December 2008 8 8 100% Dorothy Thompson 20 October 2005 8 7 88% Tony Thorne 29 June 2010 8 8 100% Note: 1 The maximum number of meetings that each individual was entitled to and had the opportunity to attend.
65 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES CONTINUED Committees of the Board in 2016 The table below details the standing committees established by the Board and their membership: Audit Nominations Remuneration Executive 1 Committee Committee Committee Committee Tim Cobbold Member Member Member Philip Cox Invited to attend Chairman Member Will Gardiner Invited to attend Member Andy Koss Member Melanie Gee retired as a director on 20 April 2016 Member Member Member 2 David McCallum Secretary Secretary Secretary Secretary David Lindsell Chairman Member Member Dorothy Thompson Invited to attend Invited to attend Invited to attend Chairman Tony Thorne Member Member Chairman Notes: 1 The Executive Committee is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Group.
In addition to those named above, Pete Madden President and Chief Executive, Drax Biomass, MatthewRivers Director of Corporate Affairs, Peter Bennell Chief Executive, Haven Power until 1 September and Jonathan Kini Chief Executive, Drax Retail from 1 September, werealsomembers in 2016.
2 David McCallum is the Group Company Secretary appointed 1 July 2016.
Details of the work of the Nominations, Audit and Remuneration Committees are given in their respective reports on pages 74 to 107.
Thecommittees terms of reference are reviewed annually by each committee and then by the Board and are available on the Groups website atwww.
Time commitment Corporate governance Under the terms of his letter of appointment, the Chairman is expected The Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance, to commit between 50 and 70 full days a year to this role.
details of which are given in this report.
Under the non-executive directors letters of appointment, each is The various sections of this report summarise certain provisions of expected to commit 12 to 15 full days a year.
That includes attendance the Companys Articles and the Companies Act 2006.
The relevant at Board meetings, the AGM, one annual Board strategy day and at provisions of the Articles or the Companies Act should be consulted least one site visit per year.
In addition, they are expected to devote if further information is required.
appropriate preparation time ahead of each meeting.
The time commitment expected in respect of their membership of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration committees, is an additional three to four full days a year in each case.
Non-executive directors also spend time with management, to maintain their knowledge of the developing business and to understand the operational challenges being faced.
66 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 GOVERNANCE Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The Chairman is keen to ensure that he maintains an open relationship It is the Boards view that throughout the period commencing on with the Companys major shareholders, communicates directly with 1 January 2016, the Company has complied in full with the principles them and offers them the opportunity to meet any other directors.
ofthe Code issued in September 2014.
In respect of the requirement to Thisenables the Board to understand their views on the Group and put the external audit out to tender, a tender process for the external itsgovernance.
audit took place during 2016 and as a result of this process, DeloitteLLP was reappointed as external auditor for the 2017 financial statements.
The Board also reviews and discusses the investor feedback from post-results investor meetings conducted by the Group Chief Directors interests, indemnity arrangements and other Executive and the Chief Financial Officer.
These took place following significant agreements both the preliminary and half year results announcements in 2016.
Other than a service contract between the executive directors TheGroup engages Makinson Cowell, part of the KPMG Group, anda Group company, or as noted in the Remuneration Committee toadvise and assist with communications with shareholders.
report, no director had a material interest at any time during the yearinany significant contract with the Company or any of its The Companys private registered shareholders hold, in aggregate, subsidiary undertakings.
approximately 0.67% of the issued share capital.
The Board is as interested in their views as it is in the views of institutional and There are no agreements between the Group and its directors corporate shareholders.
All shareholders are free to put questions providing for compensation for loss of office or employment because tothe Board at the AGM.
Questions asked in person at the AGM will of a takeover bid.
receive a verbal response whenever possible.
Otherwise, a written response will be provided as soon as practicable after the AGM.
The Board has reviewed the independence of each non-executive Questions asked at other times will normally receive a written director.
None of the non-executive directors who served during the response.
Shareholders attending the AGM will have an opportunity year had any material business or other relationship with the Group, to meet informally with the directors immediately after the meeting.
and there were no other matters that were likely to affect their independence of character and judgement.
The Board therefore All information reported to the market via a regulatory information considers all of the non-executive directors to be independent, service also appears as soon as practicable on the Groups website inaccordance with Code provision B.
Relations with key stakeholder groups The directors consider that this Annual report and accounts, Communication with all our stakeholders is an essential part of our takenas a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides business.
Details of communications with our stakeholders are theinformation necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups contained in the Stakeholder engagement section of this report performance, business model and strategy.
Pages 1 to 61 provide beginning on page 46, with further details of our communications anassessment of the Groups affairs.
The Annual report and accounts is available to shareholders at least 20 working days before the AGM.
Registered shareholders receive a Form of Proxy which allows them to vote for or against, or to abstain on each resolution.
Particulars of aggregate proxies lodged are announced to the London Stock Exchange and appear on the Groups website as soon as practicable after the conclusion of the AGM.
67 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc
