CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED BOARD OF DIRECTORS CHAIRMAN NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS PHILIP COX CBE TIM COBBOLD DAVID LINDSELL TONY THORNE Chairman Independent non-executive director Senior Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Responsibilities and skills: Responsibilities and skills: Responsibilities and skills: Responsibilities and skills: Philip has significant board experience in both Tims blend of financial and engineering Davids recent and relevant experience in the Tonys experience of operating in different executive and non-executive capacities, and experience means that he is well placed to areas of finance and audit are a significant geographical territories is of great value to the extensive experience in the power sector.
contribute significantly to the Board and asset to the Board in his role as Chairman of the Board as the Groups operations develop.
His role as a serving Chief Audit Committee.
Executive in a different sector provides an added dimension to his contribution.
Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: January 2015.
Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Nominations Chair and Remuneration Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Audit Chair, Nominations and Remuneration Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Chair Committees.
Current external appointments: Current external appointments: Current external appointments: Current external appointments: GPG, a joint venture between the Kuwait UBM plc Chief Executive.
Premier Oil plc Non-executive director and South East Coast Ambulance Service Investment Authority and Gas Natural Fenosa Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
a power generation company focused on Cancer Research UK Trustee and Chairman of emerging markets Non-executive Chairman.
University of the Arts, London Deputy Chair of Governors.
Previous roles: Previous roles: Previous roles: Previous roles: Executive Executive Executive Executive International Power plc Chief Executive fide La Rue plc Chief Executive.
DS Smith plc Chief Executive and an executive Officer.
Chloride Group plc Chief Executive and director.
Ivensys plc Senior Vice President, Operational following Emerson Electrics takeover of Non-executive SCA Packaging Limited President.
Chloride, Tim held a senior position in Emerson, Financial Reporting Review Panel Shell International Worked throughout the Siebe PLC Finance Director.
responsible for the Chloride Group of DeputyChairman.
world in senior management roles, including companies.
HellermannTyton Group PLC Non-executive strategic planning and President of the Shell Non-executive Smiths Group plc, a number of senior financial director.
and operational management positions over an PPL Corporation, a US-listed energy utility 18 year period.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC NonNon-executive executive director, Senior Independent Director None.
and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Wincanton plc Non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Talen, a US-listed power generation company Non-executive director and Chair of the Audit Committee.
Qualifications: Qualifications: Qualifications: Qualifications: MA in Geography.
BSc Hons in Mechanical Engineering.
MA in History BSc Hons in Agricultural Economics.
Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales FCA.
Accountants in England and Wales FCA.
68 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 GOVERNANCE PHILIP COX CBE TIM COBBOLD DAVID LINDSELL TONY THORNE Chairman Independent non-executive director Senior Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Responsibilities and skills: Responsibilities and skills: Responsibilities and skills: Responsibilities and skills: Philip has significant board experience in both Tims blend of financial and engineering Davids recent and relevant experience in the Tonys experience of operating in different executive and non-executive capacities, and experience means that he is well placed to areas of finance and audit are a significant geographical territories is of great value to the extensive experience in the power sector.
69 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS DOROTHY THOMPSON CBE WILL GARDINER ANDY KOSS MATTHEW RIVERS PETE MADDEN JONATHAN KINI Chief Executive, Drax Group Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive, Drax Power Director of Corporate Affairs Chief Executive, Drax Biomass Chief Executive, Drax Retail Responsibilities and skills: Responsibilities and skills: Responsibilities and skills: Responsibilities and skills: Responsibilities and skills: Responsibilities and skills: Dorothy is responsible for all aspects of running Will is responsible for the financial Andy is responsible for the operation of the Matthew is responsible for the Groups Pete guides the business strategy and Jonathan oversees business operations and the Groups business, including developing an management of the Group, and for power plant and equipment.
This includes all sustainability policy, strategy and delivery of oversees day-to-day operations at two pellet champions Draxs retail strategy across Haven appropriate business strategy for Board relationships with the Groups bankers and aspects of safety management, plant integrity, our essential assurance in this area, as well as plants and a port facility in the South Eastern and Opus.
He is responsible for pursuing approval and securing its timely and effective financial advisers.
He has responsibility for the plant operations, engineering support, for the Communications, Public Affairs and United States, ensuring that they are increased business growth through small to implementation.
She leads the executive team Financial Control and Planning, Corporate maintenance and plant design.
He leads the Regulation and Markets teams.
environmentally sound, safe and medium-sized enterprise SME sectors, and for and takes responsibility for important external Finance and Investor Relations, Strategy and power generation business unit which .
sustaining and growing Drax Retails industrial relationships with customers, suppliers, New Business, Group IT and Group Risk and maximises shareholder value by driving and commercial I&C customer base.
regulatory agencies and Government bodies.
Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Executive Committee: Appointment to the Executive Committee: Appointment to the Executive Committee: October 2005, having joined the Group in November 2015.
January 2016, having joined the Group in June October 2013, having joined the Group in January 2016, having joined the Group in September 2016, having joined the Group in September 2005.
Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Executive Committee Chair.
Executive Committee and Drax Power Executive Committee and Billington Bioenergy Executive Committee and Drax Biomass Inc. Executive Committee, Haven and Opus Management Board Chair.
management boards Chair Current external appointments: Current external appointments: Current external appointments: Current external appointments: Current external appointments: Current external appointments: Court of the Bank of England Non-executive Qardio plc Non-executive director.
University of Georgia Center for Forest None.
Eaton Corporation plc Non-executive US Industrial Pellet Association USIPA director.
Forest History Society Member of the Board Previous roles: Previous roles: Previous roles: Previous roles: Previous roles: Previous roles: Executive Executive Executive Executive Executive Executive InterGen NV Head of the European business CSR plc Chief Financial Officer Drax Group Director of Strategy, Head of UPM Finland Director Overseas Wood and Plum Creek USA A number of roles including: Vodafone Director of SME and responsible for the management and BSkyB Divisional Finance Director Investor Relations, Group Treasurer and Head Biomass Sourcing, Director Energy Biomass.
Vice President, Renewable Energy and Supply Virgin Media Various commercial roles operation of four gas-fired power plants, Easynet Group plc Chief Financial Officer of Risk UPM Tilhill UK Managing Director for the Chain: Vice President, Operations Support: totalling some 3,160MW of capacity across the JP Morgan Senior roles in the investment Provident Financial plc Deputy Group UKs largest private sector forest management andDirector, Regional Marketing, Operations, Non-executive UK and the Netherlands.
banking division, specialising in the telecoms Treasurer and timber harvesting business.
Powergen plc Assistant Group Treasurer.
UBS, Dresdner Kleinwort Benson, Lehman Forestal Oriental Uruguay Managing Director Management and Corporation Planning.
Brothers Various investment banking roles responsible for plantation management and Non-executive Non-executive Coopers & Lybrand Chartered Accountant.
Non-executive Johnson Matthey Plc None.
Qualifications: Qualifications: Qualifications: Qualifications: Qualifications: Qualifications: BSc Hons and MSc in Economics.
BA Harvard College in Russian and Soviet BSc Hons in Maths, Operational Research, BSc For Hons, Forestry Aberdeen.
Bsc Hons in Mathematics, University of Studies.
MS Forestry University of New Hampshire.
MA John Hopkins School of Advanced Associate of the Institute of Chartered Fellow Institute of Chartered Foresters.
MBA University of New Hampshire.
International Studies in International Relations.
Accountants in England and Wales ACA.
ACMA CIMA qualified Member of the Association of Corporate Treasurers MCT.
70 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 GOVERNANCE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEMBERS DOROTHY THOMPSON CBE WILL GARDINER ANDY KOSS MATTHEW RIVERS PETE MADDEN JONATHAN KINI Chief Executive, Drax Group Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive, Drax Power Director of Corporate Affairs Chief Executive, Drax Biomass Chief Executive, Drax Retail Responsibilities and skills: Responsibilities and skills: Responsibilities and skills: Responsibilities and skills: Responsibilities and skills: Responsibilities and skills: Dorothy is responsible for all aspects of running Will is responsible for the financial Andy is responsible for the operation of the Matthew is responsible for the Groups Pete guides the business strategy and Jonathan oversees business operations and the Groups business, including developing an management of the Group, and for power plant and equipment.
71 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc
