SMART SOURCING Reliable, renewable and affordable electricity begins with sustainable sourcing.
Draxs biomass supply chain reaches deep into the expansive working forests of the Southern United States.
These forests provide an abundant supply of low-grade wood, including thinnings and harvesting residues that have previously been underutilised by the forest products industry.
We transform this material into high-quality, sustainable compressed wood pellets that are helping the UK to decarbonise.
12 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Since the early 1950s, forest stocks in the US South have increased by 107% 5 billion cubic metres within a stable total forested area 99 million ha in 2012.
This increase is driven by improved forest management and a robust forest products industry, encouraging landowners to reinvest in their working forests.
These landowners provide Drax with a ready supply of sustainably grown and harvested wood that we transform into high-quality compressed pellets.
We bolster the market for low-grade and underutilised wood in areas that have suffered from a decline in the pulp and paper industry.
OUR ACHIEVEMENTS: LOCATIONS Our pellet manufacturing facilities in Mississippi and Louisiana achieved Drax Biomass is headquartered in Atlanta, significant operational gains this year, increasing total production by Georgia, and operates two facilities in 118% to 607,000 tonnes in 2016, and achieving record daily and monthly Louisiana and Mississippi.
BioEnergy near Bastrop, Louisiana and Our storage and loading facility dispatched 11 ships to the UK, including Amite BioEnergy in Gloster, Mississippi, our first-ever Panamax vessel carrying over 61,000 tonnes.
Bulk shipping produce a steady supply of high-quality cost-effectively reduces  carbon emissions.
wood pellets, shipped to the UK through Both pellet facilities achieved certification under the Sustainable Biomass our Baton Rouge transit storage and Program SBP the foremost industry standard demonstrating that loading facility in Port Allen, Louisiana.
biomass is legally and sustainability sourced.
OUR AIMS AND OBJECTIVES: We aim to increase pellet manufacturing capacity to at least 1,050,000 tonnes per year through engineering improvements at our existing facilities 4 and investment in new facilities.
We aim to supply Drax Power Station with 2030% of annual demand for key sites in the US wood pellets.
We aim to provide new customers in other regions with a dependable supply of high-quality, sustainable wood pellets.
13 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc SMART SOURCING DRAX BIOMASS AN INNOVATIVE, TECHNOLOGY-LED APPROACH Drax Biomass sources raw materials from working forests that supply a diverse range of wood-based manufacturing.
The largest, most valuable stems sawlogs are typically sold to sawmills for use in the construction industry.
We take the least valuable wood, including small-diameter thinnings removed early in a working forests life cycle, to improve productivity ofthe remaining trees.
We also use tops, low-grade wood and other by-products from harvesting operations, along with wood chips, shavingsand sawdust from other wood-based manufacturing facilities.
GROWING VALUE AND FORESTS Pellets are unloaded and transferred to We help revitalise communities which have the domes through a system of conveyors 81M lost jobs in traditional industries, including and transport towers, then moved to a pulp and paper.
We support local landowners ship loader to finish the process.
This dry tonnes of surplus wood through steady and dependable demand can handle more than 15,000 tonnes of in the US South.
The forests for their low-grade wood.
Without such a pellets per day, so we can load a cargo we work with in the US have market, much of this low-grade timber might vessel in as little as three days.
206 million dry tonnes of go unused.
Other material, such as thinnings, annual growth set alongside may not be harvested at all, and reduce a By locating our storage and loading facility 126 million dry tonnes stands health, productivity and capacity at a deepwater port, Drax Biomass can harvested, resulting in a to produce valuable sawtimber.
This would use larger cargo vessels to minimise our significant surplus availability lead to less income for landowners and  carbon dioxide less incentive to reinvest in, or retain, their emissions.
In December 2016, we shipped working forests.
Strong markets are critical to our first-ever Panamax vessel loaded long-term forest growth, a relationship that is with over 61,000 tonnes of pellets.
clear to see in the US South where harvests increased by over 46% during the same period US South Forest Area US South, growth vs removals in which total inventory grew by 107%.
Area Ha million Million tonnes 105 250 LESS MOISTURE LEADS TO LESS EMISSIONS IN TRANSPORT 200 100 Water makes up roughly 50% of a trees weight, so reducing the moisture level makes 150 95 our transportation process more efficient.
100 The pellets we produce are very dense, so we can squeeze more mass and energy 90 50 into a rail car, lorry or cargo vessel, avoiding unnecessary carbon dioxide emissions.
85 1920 1940 1953 1963 1977 1987 1997 2007 2012 0 1952 1962 1976 1986 1996 2006 2011 2014 A STRATEGIC HUB Source: USDA Forest Service Growth Our storage and loading facility at the Removals Port of Greater Baton Rouge is a strategic Note: hub for Drax Biomass and our customers.
Original data converted to dry tonnes using an Our two 40,000 tonne storage domes assumed moisture content of 50%.
can handle pellets from our own mills, from approved third-party suppliers as Source: USDA Forest Service well as from new capacity that comes online through our growth strategy.
14 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT FOR MORE SUSTAINABILITY STORIES VISIT DRAX.
COM SUSTAINABILITY PROTECTING NATURAL TREASURES Drax Biomass is committed to continually reviewing and improving our sourcing practices.
This includes working with local stakeholders to identify areas of unique ecological value, and to implement additional protections to ensure our operations dont adversely impact those areas.
In 2016, for example, we unveiled a collaboration with theAtchafalaya Basinkeeper, a local environmental organisation dedicated to protecting the Atchafalaya Basin a vast system of bayous and forested wetlands inSouth-Central Louisiana that is home to a diverse array of animals, birds and other wildlife.
This collaboration centred on a set of sourcing commitments designed to protect the Basin and other similarly important ecosystems while allowing the wood pellet industry to operate.
WE WORK WITH LOCALSTAKEHOLDERS TO ENSURE OUR OPERATIONS DONT ADVERSELY IMPACT IMPORTANT AREAS.
15 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc SMART GENERATION Drax Power Station generates 7% of the UKs electricity.
We are the largest power station in the UK, and also the UKs largest single site renewable generator, producing 16% of the countrys renewable electricity.
We have successfully completed our strategy to upgrade three of our generating units to be powered by compressed wood pellets rather than coal and received our Contract for Difference CfD.
Our new strategy has set out how we intend to complement our current generation capacity with new rapid response gas projects.
We will continue toproduce reliable, flexible and lower-carbon electricity and help secure stability of supply for the whole country.
16 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Drax Power plays a key role in ensuring the security of the UKs energy supply, now and in the future.
We currently generate 7% of the UKs total electricity at Drax Power Station.
In 2016, 65% of this came from biomass.
We plan to generate electricity using Open Cycle Gas Turbines OCGTs at four new sites in England and Wales.
OUR ACHIEVEMENTS We have developed a whole new technology to upgrade three of our generating units to be powered by compressed Power station OCGT wood pellets and received clearance for our CfD.
development sites 65% of our production was generated from biomass in 2016.
Port access We have renewed contracts to supply ancillary services systemssupport.
We have reduced NOx emissions by 53% compared with Drax Power Station is located in Selby, North 2015 and complied with the Industrial Emissions Directive.
Yorkshire and is connected directly to the national distribution grid, and to the rail network.
OUR AIMS AND OBJECTIVES We will diversify our energy generation, adding the The power station consists of six generating units.
potential for more than 1GW of rapid-response OCGT Three of these run on compressed wood pellets generation at four sites in England and Wales.
Our four planned rapid response We will seek further efficiencies at the power station and gas generating sites in England and Wales will each throughout the supply chain in order to improve margins.
havethe capacity to produce 299MW of electricity.
We will reduce maintenance costs by 10 million this year during our planned outage programme on one of our coal units.
We will use our unique flexibility and reliability to provide more system support services to National Grid.
7% We stand ready to upgrade more of our generating units to be powered by compressed wood pellets.
of the UKs electricity is generated by our six generating units 17 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc SMART GENERATION DRAX POWER WORLD-LEADING BIOMASS TECHNOLOGY Drax Power Station is home to some of the UKs most advanced generating technology.
Much was developed by our in-house engineering team in order to upgrade three of the generating units, enabling them to be powered with compressed wood pellets.
We continue to lead the way in reliable, renewable generation at significant scale.
GENERATION UPGRADE STRATEGY CLEANER ELECTRICITY DELIVERED 65% of our output in 2016 was generated 2016 saw the full conversion of the third using sustainable biomass pellets, making generating unit to be powered by sustainable our electricity this year the cleanest it has 19.6TWH biomass pellets rather than coal.
As well as reducing carbon means half the power station has now been emissions by at least 80% when compared Generated during 2016 upgraded to produce renewable electricity.
with coal, this electricity was also generated It also saw the European Commission with 53% less NOx emissions than in the clear our CfD under rules for state aid, previous year thanks to a major investment meaning the original upgrade strategy is in new technology at the plant.
Our team of engineers and 6.6M those of the many partners who helped us SEEKING FURTHER EFFICIENCIES deliver this strategy can rightly be proud Now that we have proved the viability Tonnes of biomass used of what is an enormous achievement.
of large-scale upgrades to biomass, our challenge is to improve the efficiency of the We are now the UKs largest single site entire biomass supply chain, particularly renewable generator.
We remain convinced following the recent movements in the that upgrading existing coal-fired plant to exchange rate between the US dollar 2.7M be powered by compressed wood pellets is and the pound sterling.
We are strongly the most effective, efficient way to remove hedged against further depreciation Tonnes of coal used coal from the system altogether, and that it in sterling until 2021, but greater is the approach that will come at the lowest efficiency will help us even more.
cost to the consumer and the taxpayer.
In 2016 we commissioned new research from SUCCEEDING IN CHALLENGING CONDITIONS Imperial College London and economic These successes have been achieved consultancy NERA to look at the comparative against a background of very challenging affordability of biomass.
The research conditions at the power station.
Five out assessed renewable technologies on a whole of six generating units have required WE HAVE NEARLY system costs basis and found biomass to be significant work, and employees and the most cost-effective large scale option.
contractors have carried out over four HALVED OUR and a half million hours of work on site.
CARBONEMISSIONS, At Drax we stand ready to upgrade more of our capacity.
Some of this work has been enormously MAKING US EUROPES demanding.
Drax may well be the only power station to have replaced the entire SINGLE LARGEST main steam pipework system on one of its DECARBONISATION boilers within the lifetime of the plant itself.
There have also been some unplanned events, but we have successfully managed our biomass supply chain and adjusted to meet these challenges.
18 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT FOR MORE TECHNOLOGY TECHNOLOGY STORIES VISIT DRAX.
COM RAPID RESPONSE THE FUTURE OF COAL GENERATION SYSTEM SUPPORT ATDRAX We will continue to invest in coal generation at In December 2016, Drax Group acquired four the power station, but on a case-by-case basis depending on the return on investment and sites where we plan to build new state-of-the-art clearly we do this against the background of flexible power stations.
The sites are near the Governments aim to remove coal from the Merthyr Tydfil and Swansea in South Wales, system by 2025.
We have deferred a planned andin Suffolk and Bedfordshire in England.
We see limited running on this unit over the summer months because Two of the OCGT plants could be generating electricity by we have two other coal units to provide 2020 21 and a further two in 2023 24.
The Open Cycle Gas system support and therefore deferring the Turbine technology will mean these power stations reach outage should not impact its operation.
full capacity justten minutes after being started up.
This provides vital flexibility to help provide system support.
SYSTEM SUPPORT SERVICES Flexible, rapid-response power like this will help fill the gaps Drax Power has identified a growing need for caused by system stress.
It will help support the increasing system support services and is very pleased amount of intermittent renewables such as solar and wind.
to have signed ancillary services contracts, It will also help to accelerate the rate coal comes off at the power station.
and responsiveness of our coal-fired units was used in the energy market, by running summer overnights to provide system support.
Our coal units have also provided much-needed services in the winter market when capacity is tighter.
Our policy of not selling forward on the power from our coal units and leaving it free to be sold in real time has proven to be a very successful strategy.
10MINUTES The four OCGTs can reach full capacity in 10minutes 19 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc SMART SUPPLY Haven Power gives businesses the option to choose electricity that is both renewable and reliable, unlike that from intermittent energy sources such as wind orsolar.
The addition of Opus Energy to the Drax Group strengthens our retail offer, enabling more businesses to access the type of energy they want.
Outstanding customer service through personal account management is at the heart of our business.
We offer to help every customer reduce their energy use and keep costs down.
Wehelp them understand that energy use and sustainability are linked.
20 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT 72% of SMEs want their energy supplier to be more committed 1 to renewable energy DISRUPTIVE ENERGY Haven Power gives Drax Group a credit-efficient route to market Jonathan Kini joined Haven Power in January for the reliable, renewable power it generates, while also enabling 2016.
In April 2016 he was named CEO, and in businesses across the UK to reduce their carbon emissions and September 2016 he joined the Drax Executive keep their energy costs down.
Jonathans experience at Virgin Mobile has given him great insight into the OUR ACHIEVEMENTS ways that challenger brands can disrupt the We have grown to a size where we are well set to develop our profitability and marketplace.
AsJonathan says: Im keen to improve gross margin further.
We need to improve We are focusing on helping more customers than evertoreduce their energy the trust equation radically.
Were committed consumption, including encouraging industrial and commercial customers to to making it easier for every business in the use less when demand andcosts are high.
UK to find the reliable, renewable electricity The high number of renewals means our UK-based contact centres are they want, to go green, and to save money.
delivering the excellent customer service that we promise.
We have integrated many of the back-office operations of Billington Bioenergy into HavenPower.
OUR AIMS AND OBJECTIVES We aim to improve our profitability.
We aim to build relationships with customers who have told us they are WERE COMMITTED looking for reliable, renewable electricity, and give advice to help them to TOMAKING IT EASIER reduce energy use and costs.
We aim to help more businesses understand and reduce their energy.
We will FOR EVERY BUSINESS rollout smart meters and use the data they produce to empower us to IN THE UK TO FIND THE domore.
We aim to diversify and give more customers an energy supplier that can RELIABLE, RENEWABLE satisfy their needs and preferences, simply, efficiently and reliably.
ELECTRICITY THEY WANT, TO GO GREEN, With the introduction of Opus Energy to the Drax Group, we are even better AND TO SAVE MONEY.
placed to achieve all our aims.
It enables us to build a profitable challenger retail offering, providing businesses with everything they need.
Jonathan Kini Opus Energy has 265,000 customer meters, making it the sixth biggest Chief Executive Officer, supplier to UK businesses and, because of this, we will soon be in a position Drax Retail to give many more small and medium-sized enterprises SMEs access to the type of energy they want, along with higher levels of choice, service and value.
Opus will allow us to accelerate our retail strategy and give us a platform for profitablegrowth.
1 Haven Power research report into SMEs.
21 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc SMART SUPPLY HAVEN POWER HELPING CUSTOMERS The majority of Haven Power sales volumes are with larger industrial and commercial customers.
While we continue to develop this market, Opus Energy now allows Drax to have an increased focus on the UKs 5.4million SMEs.
1 Our recent research shows that a significant number of SMEs are keen to switch to renewable energy.
However, in many cases their staff are so busy that time is at a premium they need a partner who can make it easy to switch.
Our excellent customer service means it is easy to switch, and because our renewable electricity does not rely on the sun or the wind, we are able to offera truly reliable supply.
6% year-on-year retail power sales volume growth 14.6TWH electricity sales MANCHESTER THAMES WATER AIRPORT GROUP Thames Water is one of our larger MAG customers at Haven Power.
MAG has been a Haven Power The option to be supplied with renewable customer since 2011. power is very important to Thames Water and we were impressed by Haven Powers offering in this area.
Since joining Haven we have Haven Power have consistently provided received excellent levels of customer service excellent customer service and a reliable, from our dedicated Account and Service renewable product.
When we originally made Managers who ensured an easy transition and the switch in suppliers five years agoour consistently provide an efficient and dedicated team at Haven ensured the process professional service.
was extremely smooth andefficient, which set the mark for theservice that has followed.
Tim Hooper Angus Berry Head of Group Procurement and Contracts, Head of Energy and Carbon, Manchester Airport Group Thames Water 1 You can download a copy of our research report into SMEs at http: havenpower.
com sme-report 22 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CARBON-SAVING TECHNOLOGY Haven is committed to helping customers understand the link between energy use and 32,000 TONNES sustainability.
We welcome the Governments decision to roll out smart meters to all small 2016 wood pellet business customers by the end of 2020. sales volumes The real-time information that smart meters provide will give Haven valuable information about how customers are using energy.
This will help us develop new BILLINGTON BIOENERGY products that can help them optimise their Established seven years ago, Billington use and reduce their carbon footprint.
Bioenergy helps homes and businesses across the UK to heat their properties and reduce their carbon emissions through biomass heating.
1 We provide certified ENplusA1 wood pellets for biomass heating systems.
With thousands of regular business and domestic customers, we are now one of STRONGER TOGETHER: the UKs leading biomass pellet suppliers.
HAVEN POWER ANDOPUSENERGY The majority of Haven Powers contracts SUSTAINABILITY BILLINGTON BIOENERGYS ACHIEVEMENTS are in the large industrial and commercial Robust supply chain providing a strategic market, although we still supply 2TWH to THE NATIONAL TRUST mix of UK and European ENplus A1 SME customers.
Opus Energy has significant woodpellets, certified to the highest expertise and is a strong presence in this Billington Bioenergy has a national European standard.
It is the sixth largest business power procurement contract with the National Trust, Many back-office operations now supplier by meters in the UK, delivering nearly one of the UKs largest conservation charities.
integrated with Haven Power for 5TWH of electricity a year to its customers, For the past two years, Billington have greater efficiency.
supported by a team of 800 employees and provided sustainable biomass pellets to the Extended national depot infrastructure working from three locations across the UK.
National Trusts property at NostellPriory.
integrated with existing Drax access to port facilities.
Opus Energy brings with it some additional New e-commerce website with online services.
It is a substantial gas supplier bagged sales facility.
and has the capability to provide a routeto-market for any renewable electricity AIMS AND OBJECTIVES produced by SME customers that they Drive further sales growth to consolidate do not need or cannot use themselves.
THE BIG FACTOR WAS leadership position in domestic and business pellet supply.
The two businesses complement each other THE ENVIRONMENTAL Develop software to enhance our and together are best placed to deliver smart BENEFIT THATSTHE market-leading customer service.
solutions to businesses in the UK calling for Implement industry-leading best practice more renewable and lower carbon energy.
health and safety policy and procedures.
The acquisition at Opus Energy was Tracy Sykes 1 EnplusA1 is a European-wide quality standard completed on 10 February 2017. incorporating specification ISO17225-2.
Facilities Manager at Nostell Priory 23 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc
