VIABILITY STATEMENT STATEMENT OF VIABILITY REVIEW OF PRINCIPAL RISKS The Board considers the most significant In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the The Groups principal risks and uncertainties, of these scenarios in the assessment 2014 version of the UK Corporate Governance set out in detail on pages 55 to 61, have period to be a significant deterioration Code, the directors have assessed the been considered over the period.
of commodity market prices, leading to prospects of the Group over a period a fall in the available price for power and significantly longer than the 12 months The principal risks with the potential to thus a fall in the margins available to the required by the going concern provision.
exert significant influence on viability are: Group from its power generation activities.
commodity price changes, political and This has been considered in the Plan In preparing this assessment of viability regulatory changes, biomass acceptability and the Board is satisfied that in such a the Board has considered the principal changes and plant operating failures.
A scenario sufficient actions could be taken risks faced by the Group, relevant financial significant adverse change to the status to preserve the viability of the Group.
forecasts and sensitivities, the availability of each risk has the potential to place of adequate funding and the strength material financial stress on the Group.
AVAILABILITY OF ADEQUATE FUNDING of the Groups control environment.
The sources of funding available to The risks have been evaluated, where possible, the Group are set out in note 4.3 to the ASSESSMENT PERIOD to assess the potential impact of each on the consolidated financial statements see The Board conducted this assessment viability of the Group, should that risk arise page 142.
The Board expects these over a period of three years, which was in its unmitigated form.
The potential inputs sources, along with cash flows generated selected for the following reasons: have been included, where appropriate, as by the Group from its normal operations, sensitivities to the Plan and considered by the to provide adequate levels of funding to The Groups Business Plan, which is Board as part of the approval process required support the execution of the Groups Plan.
reviewed and assessed on a quarterly basis before the Plan is adopted by the Group.
and is used for strategic decision making, The 375 million loan facility entered during includes a range of financial forecasts and REVIEW OF FINANCIAL FORECASTS February 2017 to finance the Opus acquisition associated sensitivity analysis.
This Plan The Plan considers the Groups financial matures during July 2018 and the debt covers a three-year period in detail.
position, performance, cash flows, covenant drawn will therefore need to be refinanced Within the three-year period liquid compliance and other key financial ratios or renewed during the three-year period.
commodity market curves and established over the period and was most recently As reported on page 142 a full review of the contract positions are used in the updated to reflect current market and Groups sources of funding is now underway forecasts.
Liquid curves typically cover a environment conditions in December 2016. and the Board remains confident that one to two-year window and contracts this will result in adequate funding being cover periods between one and ten years.
In addition, the Plan considers the financial available beyond the viability horizon.
In particular, we benefit from the stable impact of the Opus acquisition and the and material earnings stream available implications for the earnings, cash flows EXPECTATIONS from the CfD until 2027.
Selecting a and working capital position of the Group.
The directors have considered all the three-year period balances short-term factors in their assessment of viability over market liquidity against our longer term The Plan includes certain assumptions, the next three years, including the latest contractual positions.
the most material of which relate to Plan, scenario analysis, levels of funding, Within a three-year horizon there is limited commodity market price curves and control environment and the principal risks certainty around markets and regulatory levels of subsidy support available to and uncertainties facing the Group.
However, in selecting this period the Group through the generation of directors have also considered the availability the Board has assumed no material biomass-backed renewable power.
of actions within their control in the event changes to the Groups mid-term of plausible negative scenarios occurring.
regulatory environment and associated The Plan is subject to stress testing, which They have a reasonable expectation that the support regimes.
involves the construction of reasonably Group will be able to continue in operation foreseeable scenarios, including those and meet its liabilities as they fall due over aligned to the principal risks, which test the the three-year period of their assessment.
robustness of the Plan when key variables are flexed both individually and in unison.
Where such a scenario suggests a risk to viability, the availability and quantum of mitigating actions is considered.
54 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016
