OUR BUSINESS MODEL Our business modelisbased onanintegrated valuechain.
SMART SOURCING SMART GENERATION SMART SUPPLY RAW MATERIALS FUEL STORAGE SALES Biomass fibre is sourced from working At the power station biomass wood Sales teams in each business focus on forests with a surplus of available material pellets are stored in climate-controlled market segments, negotiating annual domes, each with a 75,000t capacity and multi-year contracts PG.
34 Coal is purchased from global suppliers and often blended with reclaimed materials PG.
41 POWER GENERATION DISTRIBUTION Six generating units each have an output Multiple virtual and physical routes PROCESSING capacity of 645 MWh.
Three units use exist for customers across all business Wood pellet manufacturing facilities produce biomass fuel and three use coal sectors to access a range of power biomass fuel, including our own sites in the and heat market products Southern US PG.
28 Generation of renewable power delivers earnings from ROCs and a CfD PG.
30 CUSTOMER SERVICE LOGISTICS Excellent customer service is standard for Biomass and coal fuels are transported TRADING each business efficiently in large volumes, using sea and Trading of power and ROCs takes place in railroutes wholesale markets Dedicated teams ensure high-quality advice and support is available, minimising Facilities at UK ports Liverpool, Hull, Tyne Power sales are hedged where liquid complaints and quickly resolving issues PG.
12 and Immingham manage imported fuels markets exist, minimising price risks 900,000 16% 14.6TWH Our two pellet processing plants in the In 2016, Drax Power produced 16% of the Haven Power increased 2016 power sales US can produce 900,000 metric tonnes UKs total renewable electricity.
We have the from 13.8TWH in 2015 to 14.6TWH in 2016 of compressed wood pellets every year flexibility to help meet electricity demand when intermittent renewables such as solar or wind power cannot generate 26 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GENERATING VALUE FROM OUR RESOURCES Careful use of our resources, also known ascapitals, allows us to create value for ourstakeholders.
USING RESOURCES VALUE CREATED MORE INFO MANUFACTURING We deploy targeted investment to deliver high-quality PG.
31 12.7TWH manufacturing capabilities biomass-fired electricity Output and efficiency are key targets, built on high health and safety standards PG.
29 607,000 wood pellets produced INTELLECTUAL We are experts and world leaders in deployment of biomass Biomass generation PG.
33 technology represents 65% We offer intelligent sustainability to our retail customers of total generation Innovation is key to business development HUMAN Excellent health and safety underpins everything we do PG.
21 Only 4 Our people provide a wide range of knowledge and skills reportable accidents Our values Honest, Energised, Achieving, Together guide PG.
44 the way we work 1,488 jobs worldwide FINANCIAL We have good access to efficient debt, foreign exchange Stable credit rating PG.
53 and trading facilities Bank facilities provide cash for working capital and BB RANGE investment Profit is generated to allow dividends to be paid to shareholders NATURAL We only source biomass fibre from working forests, where Biomass power PG.
40 surplus stock is available generates at least 80% Our biomass transformation programme has allowed us to less carbon than coal shift away from coal to lower-carbon electricity generation Reducing our carbon output is central to our strategy 100% renewable power available to retail customers SOCIAL Each business has strong links to its local communities PG.
49 16,428 and we focus our charitable support on the areas where Drax Visitor Centre visits weoperate We welcome visitors and our people volunteer in 125,233 localcommunities donated to local charities in 2016 27 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc
