Nominations External landscape Policy implementation e Leadership needs e t t i m m o C Succession planning t i d u A Benchmarking Board composition Design incentive plans Internal Audit N o m i n a t i 68 Governance Introduction to the committees We aim to provide balanced, clear and transparent communications which allow our shareholders to understand how we see our prospects and the market environments in which we operate.
BOARD COMMITTEES BOARD COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES For the Board to operate effectively and to give full consideration to key matters, Board Committees have been established by the Board.
A summary of the role of each Board Committee is set out in the table opposite.
The full terms of reference of each Committee are available at www.
com and reports on the membership of, and work undertaken by, the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees during 2015 16 are given on pages 70 to 96.
GENERAL PURPOSES COMMITTEE The Board has delegated certain powers, THE BOARD mainly of a routine nature, to the General Purposes Committee, which comprises the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director under the chairmanship of the Group Chief Executive.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 o Monitor Speak Up!
n Setting incentive targets C o m m i t t e e Risk management Remuneration policy e e Evaluate applicants t t i m m o Internal controls C n o i t a r e n External Audit u m e R Integrity of statements Governance Governance 69 KEY ACTIVITIES IN 2015 16 KEY PRIORITIES IN 2016 17 INTRODUCTION Reviewed and recommended Review of provision of non-audit It is important that we AUDIT for approval the halfyear and services in light of revisions to the continue to rise to the COMMITTEE fullyear results and advised on UK Corporate Governance Code challenge during the whether the Annual Report was audit process.
Review Groups Key Risks and fair, balanced and understandable the reporting thereon Jonathan Nicholls Focused on classification of Review and, if appropriate, exceptional items, acquisition recommend for approval the accounting and taxation halfyear and fullyear results Assessed risk management Oversee the external and internal and risk review updated in light audit process of new FRC guidance Executive succession planning, Maintain ongoing succession plans We need to continue to push NOMINATION taking into account the Groups on talent management.
COMMITTEE Further reinforce the diversity strategy of culture and expertise in the Gareth Davis Talent management Boards composition Considered diversity issues, Consider ways to improve including gender diversity in the pipeline for senior management roles Employee feedback survey results Reviewed the implementation Review the design of the long Intelligent remuneration REMUNERATION of the remuneration policy term incentives to ensure they is a key focus.
COMMITTEE are still fit for purpose Consulted with shareholders Kathleen ODonovan and other key stakeholders Draft the remuneration policy on the implementation of for consideration by shareholders the remuneration policy at the 2017 AGM Set targets for the incentive Consult with shareholders and plans for the year ahead other key stakeholders on the draft remuneration policy prior to the AGM dssmith.
