4 Strategic Report Creating sustainable value, driving returns Expanding geographically DS Smith has significantly grown its corrugated business and market share across Europe through the successful acquisition and integration of high quality operations.
DEVELOPMENTS IN THE LAST YEAR Over the financial year 2015 16 DS Smith has made five acquisitions, in south eastern Europe, Iberia, Greece, Turkey and the UK.
All acquisitions are assessed according to stringent financial criteria, with the most important being that ROACE should move into the Group target range of 1215 per cent in the medium-term.
Expanded expertise in north west 433 million of England expenditure on acquisitions in 2015 16 Our footprint April 2015 Our footprint April 2016 New enhanced DS Smith packaging operations Existing DS Smith packaging operations Associate company operations No current presence IBERIA 5% The acquisition of Lantero with seven market corrugated manufacturing sites in July 2015 1 growth built on our operations in the region following the acquisition of Andopack in 2014.
Spain is the fourth largest market for corrugated packaging in Europe and is growing well.
The two businesses are now integrated and were a natural fit, with Andopack traditionally focused on agriculture and Lantero being focused on FMCG customers.
7 c. 600 additional corrugated new employees manufacturing sites 1 Growth in corrugated market Spain, 2013-14 FEFCO.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Strategic Report 5 UK We acquired a specialist corrugated retailready packaging producer, TRM Packaging, in the north west of England, in order to enhance our breadth of offering in this region.
1 c. 270 additional new employees manufacturing site SOUTH EASTERN EUROPE We have made three acquisitions in this region.
Duropack, acquired in May 2015, was 11 a market leader in south eastern Europe and countries with a new was a good fit with our existing operations in Market leader or expanded Austria, Czech Republic and Slovakia.
We are across presence south eastern now the market leader in this high-growth Europe region.
These operations contained paper and recycling as well as packaging, consistent with our business model.
2.9% Cartonpack, the market leader in Greece, forecast GDP was bought in October 2015, comprising growth across 2 three packaging sites.
the region Milas Ambalaj in Turkey has a site located in the large Istanbul market, focused on high quality corrugated display packaging for major FMCG customers.
18 c. 3,300 additional new employees manufacturing sites 2 Source: IMF, 2015-20. dssmith.
