48 Governance Introduction to Corporate Governance Good governance is fundamental to the way we do business.
This report explains the Boards approach to Corporate Governance and how our governance structure supported our activities during the year.
Gareth Davis Chairman Q Q HOW IMPORTANT IS GOOD GOVERNANCE WHAT WERE THE KEY LEARNINGS FROM TO DS SMITH?
You dont have to look very far to see how important good A This years Board evaluation outcomes included a request for A an annual strategic discussion in the Nomination Committee governance is.
This has been highlighted frequently in the last year as board effectiveness and reputational risk continue and emphasis on the need for a wider and deeper appreciation of the business by the non-Executive Directors.
The process to make the headlines.
At DS Smith, we seek to operate to the highest governance standards as this is essential if we allowed the Board to consider how effectively it sets the tone from the top.
You can read more about this in the case study are to have a strong, successful and enduring business.
Throughout this report we have sought to provide a genuine on page 60. understanding of how governance supports and protects DS Smiths business and stakeholders in a practical way.
I am Q HOW HAS THE BOARD ENSURED THAT pleased to confirm that we have complied in full throughout THE BUSINESSES ACQUIRED UNDERSTAND the year with the principles and provisions of the 2014 UK YOUR APPROACH TO GOOD GOVERNANCE?
Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Various acquisitions have taken place throughout the year, A and we continue to roll out training on all good governance Q HOW DOES GOOD GOVERNANCE HELP and compliance matters as part of our integration process.
MANAGE RISK AND SUPPORT DS SMITHS A refreshed communication about our Speak Up!
policy ABILITY TO MEET ITS STRATEGIC GOALS?
will be rolled out in the first half of 2016 17 to encourage As a Board we have looked again at our management of further use of our Speak Up!
hotline to report any problems.
The Board, supported by the Audit Committee, spent time discussing risk appetite across the business.
Whilst defining our approach to risk appetite remains CULTURE AND VALUES a work in progress, our risk management process continues to The 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code emphasises the key role of the Board in establishing the culture, values and be one of the cornerstones of our corporate planning process.
ethics of the Company, leading by example to ensure good standards of behaviour within the organisation.
DS Smiths Q A LOT HAS BEEN SAID ABOUT REMUNERATION Board recognises the importance of culture which is instilled IN THE LAST FEW YEARS.
WHAT PRINCIPLES through our values and setting the correct tone from DO YOU SEEK TO APPLY?
programme designed to help us develop as a Group and to build a new, common Group culture, is currently As DS Smith strives to apply the highest standards of A undergoing a refresh to encourage all employees to governance, it is important to demonstrate transparency OWN our corporate values and improve communications around policies and processes.
This is now the second year throughout the organisation.
of our remuneration policy which was approved by our shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in September 2014.
We are not making any changes to the policy this year, nor to the way that we will be operating the policy.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Go Gov vernanc ernance e Governance 49 Q HOW HAS THE BOARD RISEN TO INCREASED KEY RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD DISCLOSURE CHALLENGES?
We are responsible and accountable to our shareholders for the longterm sustainable success of the Group.
We seek A DS Smith is a long-standing supporter of the principles set out to achieve this through setting out our strategy, monitoring in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
our strategic objectives and providing oversight of strategy The transparency in supply chain reporting requirement in implementation by the management team.
the Modern Slavery Act addresses the role of businesses in preventing modern slavery within their organisation and down We seek to ensure that the Group remains at the forefront into their supply chain.
Our first statement is being prepared of developing and embedding best practice for risk and will be published shortly on our Group website.
statement will show the steps DSSmith has taken to ensure We maintain and enhance DS Smiths culture, ensuring slavery and human trafficking is not taking place in any part that management operates responsibly within our of our business or supply chains.
We set standards for our governance framework while clearly demonstrating businesses and seek to influence our suppliers by promoting our values and high ethical standards.
ethical business throughout the organisation through our As part of the governance framework, we have adopted a Code of Conduct.
schedule of matters on which, as a Board, we must make the New Gender Pay Gap reporting regulations are due to take final decision.
These include the annual budget, substantial effect in October 2016.
The Board has given due consideration acquisitions and disposals, the approval of the full-year to these and progress is underway in collecting the relevant and half-year results and a review of the overall system information due to be published by April 2018.
The Board of internal control and risk management.
takes diversity, including gender diversity, seriously and more We are mindful of our legal duties to act in the way we information can be found in our Nomination Committee report consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the on pages 74 to 76. success of the Company for its shareholders as a whole and having regard also to the interests of other stakeholders.
Q IS BOARD COMPOSITION KEEPING PACE WITH We continue to monitor senior executive talent THE DEVELOPING SHAPE OF THE BUSINESS?
management and development plans to provide succession for all key positions.
Yes, DS Smith has a small Board with diverse skills and A experience.
This allows us to get things done and there is a good process for investment decisions.
During the external evaluation which took place last year it was identified that COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE more international experience across the senior management DS Smith is committed to maintaining high standards of team would be beneficial.
The Board has paid due regard to corporate governance: we have complied in full with all this feedback.
Board composition remains a key focus of the relevant provisions of the Code throughout the year and Nomination Committee.
You can read more about the work up to the date of this report.
of this Committee on pages 74 to 76.
The work of the Board is supported by three key committees, Leadership p52 Audit, Nomination and Remuneration, which support the Board in its overall control of the Groups affairs, with reference to Effectiveness p60 the formal schedule of matters and terms of reference.
The Board is responsible, among other activities, for the oversight Relations with stakeholders p63 of management of the DS Smith Group, setting the longterm objectives and commercial strategy, maintaining a sound Accountability p70 system of internal controls and risk management and approving the Group and Company financial statements, ensuring that Remuneration p77 the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
com 50 Governance Introduction to Corporate Governance continued Corporate governance at a glance.
Building good governance through effective leadership is an ongoing process.
HIGHLIGHTS FROM 2015 16 PRIORITIES IN 2016 17 Five acquisitions approved and fully integrated into Approve and keep under review the Corporate Plan.
Consider acquisitions and divestments as identified Review of financial KPIs.
and determine appropriate course of action.
Discussion on risk management process and review of Keep financial KPIs under review.
Keep the Groups dividend policy under review.
Review of renewal of appointment for the Chairman Continue to review key risks.
Continue to monitor compliance with key policies.
Further invitation under the Sharesave Plan to employees Continue to strengthen internal controls and reporting.
Continue to monitor talent management and development Monitored health and safety performance across the Group.
plans to provide succession for all key positions.
Dividend for 2015 16 Adjusted operating profit 12.8p 379m ATTENDANCE Allocation of time There were seven Board meetings, four Audit Committee, five 10% 15% Nomination Committee and five Remuneration Committee meetings held during the year.
Governance 15% All Directors received papers for all meetings, and had Strategy 30% the opportunity to comment in advance of meetings they Financial Management were unable to attend.
A brief overview of the key areas Operations of discussion, the actions and the outcomes is provided 30% Health and Safety on the following pages.
BOARD AND BOARD COMMITTEES Directors Attendance % 2016 Composition Gareth Davis 100% Miles Roberts 100% 1 1 Adrian Marsh 100% Chris Britton 100% Non-Executive Chairman Ian Griffiths 100% 2 Executive Directors Jonathan Nicholls 100% Independent non-Executive Directors Kathleen ODonovan 100% 4 Senior Independent Director Louise Smalley 86% See p 57 for attendance breakdown by Board and committees Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Governance 51 2015 16 Board calendar June 2015 Full-year results process including: Review of internal controls Consideration of going concern statement Annual Report and final results announcement Notice of Annual General Meeting Final dividend recommendation Consideration of Corporate Social Responsibility Report Board evaluation feedback from external evaluator Health and safety fullyear health and safety review and trends Approval of Lantero acquisition SEPTEMBER OCTOBER DECEMBER 2015 2015 2015 AGM Statement for approval Site visit to Margarethen am Moos: Approval of the interim results Reviewed health and safety statement, including the Health and safety update interim dividend Met senior management team Corporate Plan signed off Approval of Milas Ambalaj acquisition Reviewed commercial position Follow-on actions from external Health and safety six month Board evaluation carried out in Celebrated awards and period report April 2015 achievements of the Austrian team Tax update Investor Relations report Other Board matters discussed included: Investor Relations report Approval of Cartonpack acquisition Strategy & Corporate Plan follow-up JANUARY MARCH APRIL 2016 2016 2016 Annual Human Resources review Approval of TRM Packaging Formal review of Budget and acquisition Corporate Plan presentation Preview to the Board of the budget process Group Key Risks Trading Update discussed Health and safety update Health and safety update Early review of the Annual Report Internal Board evaluation Investor Relations report Internal Board evaluation review process discussion Budget process agreed by the Board dssmith.
