60 Governance Effectiveness The composition, experience and balance of skills on the Board are regularly reviewed to ensure that there is the right mix on the Board and its committees to enable them to work effectively.
BOARD EVALUATION STEP 1: QUESTIONNAIRES The Board carried out an internal evaluation which consisted of three main stages: COMPLETED AND ONE-TO-ONE INTERVIEWS WITH CHAIRMAN Step 1: A comprehensive questionnaire was sent to the individual OF THE BOARD Board Directors with the aim of facilitating a discussion, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, on whether all aspects of Board effectiveness are being addressed.
The process was used constructively as a mechanism to improve Board effectiveness, maximise strengths and tackle weaknesses.
Step 2: One-to-one interviews were conducted with the Chairman STEP 2: INDIVIDUAL FEEDBACK to give Directors a chance to discuss any issues raised and individual AND PRESENTATION OF feedback was provided to each Director on their own performance.
FINDINGS TO THE BOARD The Senior Independent Director held separate one-to-one interviews with all Directors to discuss the performance of the Chairman.
A presentation of the overall findings, with anonymous voting results, was presented to the Board.
Committee feedback was given to the Chairs to discuss at the relevant committee meetings.
STEP 3: BOARD DISCUSSION Step 3: The Board discussed the outcome of the evaluation and AND ACTION PLAN AGREED a formal action plan was agreed which would be implemented over the coming year.
AND IMPLEMENTED The Board also considered over the year a number of key outcomes from the external Board evaluation that took place in 2014 15 and the progress of these is also demonstrated in the table below.
BOARD EVALUATION ACTION AND OUTCOMES AREA ACTIONS IN 2015 16 AREAS FOR CONSIDERATION IN 2016 17 Board role and The Board held a session on the strategic talent The Nomination Committee should hold an annual strategic composition requirements of the business to provide the basis discussion on talent, focused on the skills and capabilities for shaping the talent strategy.
needed to deliver the Plan over the medium long term.
Over time the Board should consider seeking to re-balance towards industrial, manufacturing and international experience.
Effectiveness The prior year strategy implementation was included The non-Executive Directors to continue to use their as part of the Corporate Plan Board presentation.
talents and experience to provide a sounding board for the Executive Directors.
Risk is discussed more broadly at least once a year as part of the schedule Training sessions for Directors, particularly for members of of topics discussed at Board dinners.
the Audit and Remuneration Committees and on governance.
Relations with A programme of shareholder consultation meetings Non-Executive Directors should visit at least one site stakeholders was held.
per annum outside of Board arranged visits.
Employee survey findings were reported to the Board.
The Company Secretary to arrange for an annual external 360 perspective on how the Group is regarded.
Board behaviours and The programme of more structured discussion at The Board to explore the possibility of further interaction Committees Board dinners was continued.
The Board was encouraged to attend events and The Board to explore holding short non-Executive visit locations in order to meet members of the GOC Directors only sessions at the end of each Board meeting.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Governance 61 BOARD EVALUATION LIFE CYCLE Jan-March Planning and scoping Action plan agreed meetings held: and implemented minimum every 3rd year selection Future process for external evaluator 2016 2015 2014 April June External evaluator Individual feedback attends Board and and presentation Committee meetings to the Board on triannually the findings April-May Questionnaires completed and one-to-one interviews The independence of the Chairman and the non-Executive In addition to formal Board meetings, the Chairman and Executive Directors was considered as part of the annual Board effectiveness Directors maintain regular contact with all Directors and hold review.
The Chairmans performance was discussed.
The informal meetings with non-Executive Directors to discuss issues recommendation from Institutional Shareholder Services Inc ISS affecting the Company.
Individual Directors are encouraged to on other directorships for a chairman was considered as part of make site visits during the year.
The Board unanimously agreed that Gareth Davis has demonstrated total commitment to his role as Chairman SUCCESSION PLANNING throughout his term in office.
Succession planning and the succession pipeline remain a key agenda item for the Board.
Further information can be found in In view of the fact that Jonathan Nicholls has been on the Board the Nomination Committee report on page 74. for six years, there was a rigorous review of his performance.
The Board concluded that he remains independent in judgement and Iain Simm was appointed as Group General Counsel and Company character, his commitment to the Company is undiminished and Secretary on 6 June 2016.
Michael Hampson served as interim his performance continues to be effective.
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary after Matt Jowett left the Group for another role in January 2016, until Iains All the non-Executive Directors bring a strong independent appointment.
oversight to the Board and following this years review the Board considers that all of the non-Executive Directors continue to I believe we have an active and energised demonstrate their independence.
Biographical details of each Director can be found on pages 52 to 54.
Board which has a strong set of ethics.
Following this evaluation, the Board recommends the re-election Kathleen ODonovan of all the Directors at the 2016 AGM.
com 62 Governance Effectiveness continued DIRECTOR INDUCTION CONFLICTS On appointment, any new Director is given appropriate induction As part of our annual review process, during the Board meeting training designed to orientate and familiarise them with DS Smiths in April 2016 we reviewed and reconsidered all situations business, organisation, governance, strategy and key risks.
The entered in the conflicts register.
Each of the Directors in office programme is tailored to their specific needs, taking into account reviews their individual position regularly and new Directors their individual qualifications and experience.
review their individual positions prior to joining the Board.
As DS Smith aims to provide a well-structured induction programme, a routine item, Directors are asked, at the start of each Board designed by the Chairman in consultation with the Company meeting, to declare any interests that might conflict with the Secretary, to all Directors.
The programme includes individual time agenda items under discussion.
The Company has also put with the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, procedures in place via the Company Secretary whereby the Company Secretary and key advisers, and an opportunity to meet Directors can notify any future conflicts or potential conflicts major shareholders.
of interest that may arise so that the Board can consider whether authorisation is appropriate.
Any such notifications Directors are invited to visit various sites as well as major business are reviewed at the next Board meeting and, if considered units to provide an introduction to all parts of the business, appropriate, authorised.
Directors do not participate in the helping to deepen their understanding of the DS Smith Group.
discussion, or vote regarding their own conflicts.
If authorised, any conflicts are entered in the conflicts register.
On joining in June, Iain Simm received a similar comprehensive induction programme.
BOARD TRAINING The Chairman, supported by the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, takes responsibility for ensuring that Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information across a wide range of matters relevant for the Board to operate effectively.
There are half-yearly updates on governance matters and explanations of how these impact on DS Smith.
Presentations are made by internal management and the Board, from time to time, also requests external advisers to provide briefings to support better awareness of issues and to facilitate decisionmaking.
Directors are also encouraged to attend external seminars on areas of relevance to their role to further enhance their knowledge.
OUR BOARD IN ACTION In October 2015 the Board visited the Packaging site at Margarethen am Moos in Austria.
The Board met the local management team headed by Dieter Glawischnig, Managing Director Austria.
They received reports on the growth and development in Austria and also the activities in the Margarethen am Moos and Kalsdorf plants.
A plant tour was led by the production manager, Erwin Proell, who gave the Board a more comprehensive picture of the technical equipment and the production facilities.
Miles Roberts praised the extremely encouraging business development in Margarethen after the partial replacement of the new corrugator and the implementation of the new business system, CBS.
The Board also received an update from the Managing Director of the south eastern Europe Packaging division on the Duropack acquisition integration process.
I was impressed by the strong lean thinking demonstrated by the local team and the exemplary cleanliness in the Margarethen am Moos plant.
Jonathan Nicholls Senior Independent Director Annual Report & Accounts 2016
