Directors Report The Directors present their report together with the audited e. not carry on other than through their holding of securities financial statements for the period ended 2 July 2016. of the Company or have any financial interest other than a financial interest in securities which are held for Where reference is made to other sections of the Annual investment purposes only in any person who carries on a Report and Financial Statements, these sections are business as a homewares retailer, to the extent that it would incorporated into this report by reference.
be inconsistent with or undermine any provisions of the Relationship Agreement: and Strategic Report f. only enter into, amend or terminate any transaction, The Groups Strategic Report is set out on pages 3 to 34.
This agreement or relationship between themselves or any of contains an indication of likely future developments in the their associates and any member of the Group with the business of the Company and the Group.
approval of a majority of the independent Non-Executive Results and Dividends Directors.
The consolidated profit for the year after taxation was 102.3m WA Capital Limited and Nadine Adderley, to whom Will 2015: 96.1m.
The results are discussed in greater detail in Adderley transferred shares by way of a gift, have subsequently the Chief Financial Officers review on pages 14 to 16. become party to this agreement.
A final dividend of 19.1p per share 2015: 16.0p is proposed In July 2014, the Relationship Agreement was amended so as in respect of the period ended 2 July 2016 to add to an interim to comply with Listing Rule LR 9.2.
2A 2 a, which came into dividend of 6.0p per share paid on 24 March 2016 2015: effect on 16 May 2014.
The final dividend will be paid on 25 November 2016 to were given by the parties: shareholders on the register at 4 November 2016. z no action will be taken that would have the effect Special Distribution of preventing the Company from complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules: and On 24 March 2016, 31.5p per Ordinary Share was paid to shareholders by way of a special dividend.
z no resolution will be proposed, or procured to be proposed, which is intended to, or appears to be intended to Shareholder and Voting Rights circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
All members who hold Ordinary Shares are entitled to attend In addition, the Articles of Association of the Company provide and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
On a show of hands that the election and re-election of independent Directors must at a general meeting every member present in person shall have one vote and on a poll, every member present in person be conducted in accordance with the election provisions set or by proxy shall have one vote for every Ordinary Share held.
This means that the election or re-election of each independent Director at the Annual On 2 October 2006, Jean Adderley, Bill Adderley and Will General Meeting will be subject to an additional separate Adderley all shareholders entered into a Relationship resolution upon which parties controlling 30% or more of the Agreement with the Company, pursuant to which each of Jean voting shares of the Company are not eligible to vote.
Adderley, Bill Adderley and Will Adderley undertook to the Company that, for so long as, individually or together, they are The Company confirms that it has complied with its obligations under the Relationship Agreement during the financial period entitled to exercise, or to control the exercise of, 30% or more under review, and that so far as it is aware, all other parties to of the rights to vote at general meetings of the Company or that agreement have complied with it.
they are able to control the appointment of Directors who are able to exercise a majority of votes at Board meetings of the The Company confirms that there are no contracts of Company, they will: significance between any member of the Group and any of the parties to the Relationship Agreement, with the exception a. conduct all transactions and relationships with any member of Will Adderleys service agreement as a Director of the of the Group on arms length terms and on a normal Company, the terms of which are outlined in the Remuneration commercial basis: Report.
b. not take any action which precludes or inhibits any member of the Group from carrying on its business independently There are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary Shares of Jean and Bill Adderley and their associates as defined in in the Company other than certain restrictions imposed by the Listing Rules : laws and regulations such as insider trading and marketing requirements relating to close periods and requirements of c. not exercise any of their voting rights or other powers to procure any amendment to the Articles of Association of the the Listing Rules whereby Directors and certain employees of Company which would be inconsistent with or undermine the Company require Board approval to deal in the Companys securities.
any of the provisions of the Relationship Agreement: d. abstain from voting on any resolution to which LR11.7.
R 4 of the Listing Rules applies involving Jean Adderley, Bill Adderley or Will Adderley or any of their associates as the related party: dunelm.
com Stock code: DNLM 82 24722.04 12 October 2016 7:29 AM PROOF 5 Dunelm AR2016-middle.
indd 82 12 10 2016 09:56:54 UK Listing Authority Listing Rules LR Directors compliance with LR 9.8.
4C The Directors of the Company and their biographies are set out on pages 36 to 38.
Details of changes to the Board during The majority of the disclosures required under LR 9.8.
4 are not the period are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on applicable to Dunelm.
The table below sets out the location of page 40. those requirements that are applicable: Applicable sub-paragraph Powers of Directors within LR 9.8.
4 Disclosure provided Specific powers of the Directors in relation to shares and 14 A statement made by the See above section headed the Companys Articles of Association are referred to in the Board that the Company has Shareholder and Voting Corporate Governance report on page 46. entered into an agreement Rights.
2A, that the Company has, and as far as it is Information relating to employees of the Group is set out in the aware, the other parties to the Corporate Social Responsibility report on page 29. agreement have, complied with Share incentive schemes in which employees participate are the agreement.
described in the Remuneration Report on pages 53 to 77.
Change of Control Donations The Company is not party to any significant agreements which The Group does not make any political donations.
take effect, alter or terminate solely on a change of control of Greenhouse Gas Emissions the Company following a takeover bid.
The Corporate Social Responsibility report on page 34 sets There are no agreements between the Company and its out the greenhouse gas emissions disclosures required by the Directors or employees providing for additional compensation Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, Regulations 2013. redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Treasury and Risk Management Share Capital and Treasury Shares The Groups approach to treasury and financial risk The Company has only one class of shares, Ordinary Shares of management is explained in the Principal Risks and 1p each.
Uncertainties section on page 24 and note 16 to the annual financial statements.
The issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company has not changed during the period.
Independent Auditors At 2 July 2016, the Company held 846,455 Ordinary Shares in In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006 treasury 2015: 357,158. and the recommendation of the Audit and Risk Committee, a resolution is to be proposed at the AGM for the reappointment During the period the Company purchased 841,359 Ordinary of  LLP as auditors of the Group.
352,062 shares were transferred to employees who exercised options under a share incentive Disclaimer scheme or Directors under the LTIP scheme.
Details of option This Directors Report and Business Review and the Financial exercises by Directors are set out in the Remuneration Report.
Statements contain certain forward-looking statements with Since the financial year end, the Company has purchased respect to the financial condition, results, operations and 500,000 shares and 8,010 Ordinary Shares have been moved business of Dunelm Group plc.
These statements and forecasts out of treasury since the period end to employees who involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events exercised options under a share incentive scheme.
and depend upon circumstances that will occur in the future.
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results Substantial Shareholders or developments to differ materially from those expressed or At 2 July 2016 the following had notified the Company of a implied by these forward-looking statements and forecasts.
disclosable interest in 3% or more of the nominal value of the Nothing in this Directors Report and Business Review or in these Companys Ordinary Shares: Financial Statements should be construed as a profit forecast.
Ordinary Percentage of Annual General Meeting Shares share capital The Annual General Meeting will be held at 9.00 am on Tuesday 22 November 2016 at the Dunelm Store Support Will Adderley 54,161,779 26.8 Centre, Watermead Business Park, Syston, Leicester, LE7 1AD.
Bill Adderley 48,070,000 23.8 A formal notice of meeting, explanatory circular and a form of proxy will accompany this report and accounts.
Will Adderley is also deemed to hold a legal interest in 967,250 Ordinary Shares held by The Stoneygate Trust This report was reviewed and signed by order of the Board of formerly known as The Leicester Foundation and 172,750 Directors on 14 September 2016.
Ordinary Shares held by the Paddocks Discretionary Trust, by virtue of the fact that he is a trustee of those trusts.
Dawn Durrant There have been no changes in the holdings of substantial Company Secretary shareholders since the period end date and 14 September 2016.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the period ended 2 July 2016 83 24722.04 12 October 2016 7:29 AM PROOF 5 Dunelm AR2016-middle.
