Directors and Officers A NN R Chair of the Nominations Committee Key strengths: A former CEO with considerable experience of leading Key strengths: Experienced Chief Executive.
Exceptional combination large consumer facing organisations with a strong service offer.
Longof business leadership and outstanding retail skills across a breadth of standing plc experience and shareholder understanding.
sectors, from grocery to electricals and fashion.
Proven experience of applying technology in multi-channel operations.
Dunelm role: Chairs the Board, which is responsible for Group strategy, performance, risk oversight and good governance.
Chairs the Dunelm role: Leads the Group and the Executive Board and liaises Nominations Committee.
Regularly visits stores to meet colleagues with the Remuneration Committee in respect of below Board and members of the senior management team.
Attends Audit and Risk Committee meetings by presentations and some shareholder meetings.
Previous experience: Chief Executive of Whitbread plc from 2010 Previous experience: Various leadership positions at Tesco PLC to 2016.
Chief Executive of easyJet plc from 2005 to 2010.
Chief between 1999 and 2007, including appointments as Strategy Director, Executive of RAC plc between 1996 and 2005.
Non-Executive Director CEO of Tesco.
com, and Group Operations Development Director.
and Chair of Audit Committee at EMAP plc from 2000 to 2008.
CEO of Dixons Retail plc between 2007 and 2012.
Senior Vice President Apple Retail.
Other commitments: Non-Executive Director of Octopus Capital Limited and Octopus Investments Limited.
N R AA N A NN R A Chair of the Remuneration Chair of Audit and Committee Risk Committee Key strengths: A current CEO with extensive general management Key strengths: A former Finance Director with extensive operational experience in a retail model, customer service and hospitality experience in international consumer and retail businesses, specifically expertise.
Long-standing plc experience and shareholder with brands, marketing and online.
Long-standing plc experience and understanding.
Dunelm role: As a Non-Executive Director, provides strategic advice, Dunelm role: As a Non-Executive Director, provides strategic advice, monitors management performance and oversees risk management.
monitors management performance and oversees risk management.
Regularly visits stores to meet store colleagues and members of Regularly visits stores to meet store colleagues and members of the senior management team.
Attends investor presentations and the senior management team.
Attends investor presentations and shareholder meetings.
Senior Independent Director and Chair of the shareholder meetings.
Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Previous experience: Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Previous experience: Sales and marketing, customer service and Management Accountants FCMA.
Finance Director of Reckitt general management in the brewing and hospitality sector.
Benckiser plc 2011 to 2013, Brambles Limited Australia 2007 to 2009 and Group International Finance Director of Tesco PLC from Other commitments: Chief Executive of Fuller Smith and Turner plc.
Other commitments: Non-Executive Director of Corbion NV and Novartis International AG.
indd 36 12 10 2016 09:58:38 SIMON EMENY ANDY HARRISON Senior Independent Chairman Director LIZ DOHERTY JOHN BROWETT Non-Executive Director Chief Executive A N Key strengths: Has worked in, and is familiar with, all parts of the Key strengths: Finance background and extensive plc experience in Group.
Specific strengths in buying and trading with strong and longretail and consumer businesses.
Has been instrumental in growing the Strategic and financial perspective across a number of Group Group to its current size having developed the out-of-town format in functions.
Dunelm role: Leads the finance department, as well as taking Dunelm role: Executive Director and major shareholder, who spends responsibility for a number of strategic and cross-functional initiatives.
his time on strategic activities which protect and enhance shareholder Participates in Audit and Risk Committee meetings by invitation and value and preserve the Groups culture and values.
Member of the sits on the Executive Board.
Joined Dunelm Board: 1992, and has worked for Dunelm for his Previous experience: Chartered Accountant who, after qualifying at whole career.
He took over the day-to-day running of the Group from KPMG, held a number of senior finance roles in convenience retailing his father in 1996.
Remained as Chief Executive through the Groups and at Tesco PLC.
Finance Director of JD Wetherspoon Plc between IPO in 2006.
Became Deputy Chairman in February 2011 and was 2008 and 2011 and Chief Financial Officer at The Go-Ahead Group Plc reappointed Chief Executive in September 2014.
Resumed his role of between 2011 and 2015.
Deputy Chairman when John Browett became Chief Executive on 1 January 2016.
Other commitments: Non-Executive Director of Topps Tiles plc.
Previous experience: All parts of Dunelms business.
Other commitments: WA Capital Limited.
N R A NN R AA N A Key strengths: A serial entrepreneur and investor with deep digital Key strengths: A current CEO with deep experience in retail and experience, who can operate at Board level.
brands, working for both large and more entrepreneurial organisations, with a particular expertise in marketing.
Dunelm role: As a Non-Executive Director, provides strategic advice, monitors management performance and oversees risk management.
Dunelm role: As a Non-Executive Director, provides strategic advice, Regularly visits stores to meet store colleagues and members of monitors management performance and oversees risk management.
Attends investor presentations and Regularly visits stores to meet store colleagues and members of shareholder meetings.
Previous experience: Co-founder of three internet-related businesses: Fletcher Research, LOVEFiLM.
Non-Executive Previous experience: Senior positions at John Lewis Partnership 2005 Director of numerous others including Graze.
com, Paddy Power plc to 2013, Levi Strauss 2001 to 2004 and Ted Baker 1997 to 2001. and Zoopla.
Other commitments: Chief Executive of Jigsaw.
Other commitments: Co-CEO of Hubbub.
Committee memberships A Audit and Risk Committee member A N Nominations Committee member N R Remuneration Committee member Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the period ended 2 July 2016 37 24722.04 12 October 2016 7:29 AM PROOF 5 Dunelm AR2016-front.
indd 37 12 10 2016 09:58:51 WILL ADDERLEY WILLIAM REEVE Deputy Chairman Non-Executive Director PETER RUIS KEITH DOWN Non-Executive Director Chief Financial Officer governance Directors and Officers CONTINUED A N Key strengths: Extensive City, investor and banking experience Key strengths: Extensive plc company secretarial and legal including mergers and acquisitions.
experience including corporate governance, legal and regulatory Long-standing plc experience and shareholder understanding.
compliance, mergers and acquisitions, company and commercial, retail and consumer law.
Dunelm role: Responsible for governance, legal and regulatory Regularly visits stores to meet store colleagues and members of the matters.
Member of the Executive Board.
Now non-independent, as defined by Joined Dunelm: November 2011. tenure, but asked to remain on the Board by the Board members and Adderley family.
Attends investor presentations and shareholder Previous experience: Qualified as a solicitor at Allen & Overy 1988 meetings.
Company Secretary of Geest plc between 1994 and 2005.
Marion was Senior Independent Other commitments: None.
Director and Chair of Remuneration Committee 2006-2015 and Chair of Nominations Committee until 2016.
Previous experience: Robert Fleming, JP Morgan Investment Banking.
Other commitments: Non-Executive Director of Persimmon plc, Fidelity European Values plc, Aberdeen New Dawn Investment Trust plc and WA Capital Limited.
Bill, together with his wife Jean, founded the business in 1979.
Although no longer on the Board or actively involved in management, Bill and Jean remain major shareholders.
Notes: Committee memberships David Stead was Chief Financial Officer until he was succeeded by Keith Down A Audit and Risk Committee member on 7 December 2015.
David retired from the Board on 31 December 2015.
A N Nominations Committee member Geoff Cooper, former Chairman, retired from the Board on 7 July 2015 and was N R Remuneration Committee member succeeded as Chairman by Andy Harrison on 8 July 2015. dunelm.
indd 38 12 10 2016 09:59:00 BILL ADDERLEY MARION SEARS Non-Executive Director Founder and Life President DAWN DURRANT Company Secretary
