Business Model WHAT WE DO Dunelm is the market leader in the 11.6bn United Kingdom Homewares market.
We currently operate 157 stores, of which 152 are out-of town superstores and five are located on high streets, and an online store to be found at www.
Read more online at dunelm.
com PRODUCT CUSTOMER FOCUS We source over 26,000 homewares products We provide customers with an unrivalled range of across all key homewares categories, the products, offering excellent value for money, which majority under our own brands.
they can purchase at their convenience in one of our 152 nationwide superstores, from our website or our We have a number of long-established suppliers catalogue for home delivery or collection in store.
who are well placed to support the growth and Our depth of range is supported by development of our ranges.
friendly and knowledgeable customer service.
Delivering value for our: X Customers X Colleagues X Shareholders X Communities PEOPLE BUSINESS STRENGTH We employ almost As market leader, and with a focus purely on 9,000 people, the majority in homewares, we are able to leverage economies our stores, but also in our store support centre, of scale whilst continuing to build on our expertise in our in our warehouse and in our contact centre.
Our Board, Executive Board and Senior Our portfolio of superstores comprises good quality Management Team comprise a range of high trading locations at low average rents, and our online offer calibre individuals with a depth of retail experience, combines value, choice and convenience.
supported by our enthusiastic, hardworking, knowledgeable colleagues across the business.
With a highly cash generative business model and conservative capital structure, we are able to take a longWe offer competitive remuneration and great term view of both trading and investment decisions.
prospects for training, development and promotion.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the period ended 2 July 2016 5 24722.04 12 October 2016 7:29 AM PROOF 5 Dunelm AR2016-front.
