Our business model An efficient lowcost model to drive abovemarket returns Our sustainable business model makes travel easy and affordable and drives growth and returns for shareholders.
KEY RESOURCES The success of our business depends on a number of key resources: Capital Market 1 easyJet has a strong capital base, with market capitalisation of 4 billion and a net cash cap of position of 213 million at 30 September 2016. easyJets credit ratings are amongst the strongest in the world for an airline.
4b Aircraft easyJet operates a modern Airbus fleet, using the A320 family of aircraft, and is up-gauging its fleet to 186 seat cabins and the new fuel efficient A320neo aircraft.
Thisprovides customer, 257 aircraft operating and maintenance benefits to the Group.
Over People easyJet has a dedicated workforce of over 10,000 people, including 2,865 pilots and 6,516 cabin 10,000 crew members as at 30 September 2016. people Technology and insight easyJetleverages its customer relationship management capabilities, driving revenueby increasing customer loyalty and implementing its wider digital strategy.
Our increasingly 18.3m app sophisticated use of data will enable us to continue to make travel easy and affordable in the downloads longer term.
Stakeholders over easyJet interacts with a number of stakeholders in its operations, such as customers, suppliers,  owners and operators e. g. airports, air traffic control, regulators and 73.1m national governments.
passengers OUR VALUES Safety Simplicity One team We never compromise We cut out the things that Together well always on safety dont matter to keep us lean finda way and make it easy SAFETY UNDERPINS EVERYTHING WE DO 1 Based on a share price of 10.07 at 30 September 2016.
4 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts HOW WE DO IT OUTCOMES We build on our business through our strategic pillars: Build strong number one and two network positions We fly from the main airports in attractive catchment areas.
We are increasing our Generating high presence in the right markets, with frequencies and slots at primary airports that returns for our deliver choice and flexibility.
shareholders 50% dividend payout A lean cost advantage ratio easyJet is committed to maintaining its structural cost advantage against the legacyand charter operators.
We have low overhead costs, use our aircraft efficiently and have a lean approach to all areas of the business.
Customer and operational excellence Customer People are attracted to the well-known easyJet brand and high-quality service satisfaction offering.
We make it easy to buy our low fares through our website and digital platforms, which have on average overone million visits every day.
72% Data and digital  digital platform continues to be a major enabler of revenue and customer satisfaction.
easyJets app has been downloaded 18.3 million times at 30 September 2016 and as it becomes more established it is driving increasing Operational contribution to revenue.
excellence 77 % Grow revenue Ontime We have a clear focus on building strong relationships with customers to create more performance sustainable, long-term revenues leveraging quality, innovation and digital.
easyJet is looking to develop new revenue streams, leveraging its network, cost focus and track record of innovation.
The best people Employee It is our people who continue to deliver the strategy for the business and will drive engagement future success.
Internally, we continue to focus on recruiting the right people, helping them to understand our values and their role, and then giving them the tools to 76% develop a high-performance culture.
Turn to page: 9 Turn to page: 16 for more details on Strategy for more details on KPIs http: corporate.
com to read more about our values Integrity Passion Pioneering We stand by our word and do We have a passion for our We challenge to find new what we say customers, our people and ways to make travel easy thework we do and affordable SAFETY UNDERPINS EVERYTHING WE DO www.
