Strategic report Governance Accounts SAFETY SAFETY 1.
Build strong number one and two network positions easyJets strategy is focused on key airports, serving valuable Our strategy catchment areas that represent Europes top markets by GDP, easyJet is confident that through its strategy driving both leisure and business travel.
easyJet has developed it will deliver sustainable growth and returns a more economically resilient network than its competitors, for shareholders helping to support consumer demand throughout the cycle.
These are strong, existing markets, built up over a period of time by legacy carriers.
1 easyJet's portfolio of peak time slots at airports, where either 2 BUILD STRONG total slot availability or availability at customer-friendly times is NUMBER ONE AND A LEAN COST TWO NETWORK SAFETY ADVANTAGE constrained, further reinforces itscompetitive advantage.
POSITIONS easyJet currently holds 16 number one market positions and has identified a number of potential targets for the next five years where GDP is high, there are high passenger volumes and where there is no clear winner today.
We have the opportunity to both capture further market share and to grow the Driving growth 3 6 overall market.
CUSTOMER AND and returns for our THE BEST OPERATIONAL PEOPLE shareholders EXCELLENCE Driven by strong underlying demand, an attractive customer proposition and a structural advantage, wewill continue to invest up to 9%annual capacity increases in growing its network to drive the highest returns in the long-term.
In 2016 we have refined our network strategy to ensure a greater focus on: SAFETY 5 4 GROW DATA AND Achieving number one positions both at primary airports REVENUE DIGITAL and on our routes: On average, a number one airport and route position delivers over 50% greater contribution than a number two position on both.
OUR STRATEGY 83% of easyJet's capacity touches an airport where it easyJet focuses on developing strong positions in Europes has the number one position by share.
leading airports flying between airports people want to Investing in scale: travelto with optimised frequency.
Its principal competitors Leading positions, route frequencies and multiple atthese leading airports are the legacy airlines and charter destinations create flexibility for customers, as well as carriers.
easyJets structural cost advantage relative to these reinforcing the easyJet brand to ensure that it is top airlines allows it to offer customers more affordable fares.
Thiscost advantage is created through a combination of Investing with purpose: factors including: easyJet has a track record of generating returns from aircraft configuration enabling a higher number of seats purposeful investments.
54% of the top 25% of routes per aircraft: bycontribution were not in the top 25% in 2012. higher load factor and aircraft utilisation driven by its point-to-point model: and To build on this, easyJet has a clear network strategy to: younger fleet and advantaged fleet deal reducing protect its number one positions in the UK and Switzerland: ownership and maintenance costs.
secure a significantly stronger position in France: easyJet is confident that its strategy of building on its invest in lean bases todrive more efficient capacity growth competitive advantages - an unparalleled network and market across the network: and positions, efficient low-cost model, well-known brand and targetspecific market opportunities, such as city-based strong balance sheet - will position it to deliver sustainable strategies in Germany, Italy and the Netherlands.
anddisciplined growth and returns for shareholders.
easyJet regularly reviews its route network in order to maximise easyJet is delivering its strategy through its six strategic pillars: returns and exploit demand opportunities in the market.
Build strong number one and two networkpositions the year easyJet added 106routes to the network, slightly more than last year.
These were focused on bases which supported 2.
A lean cost advantage the consolidation of its leading positions, including the UK, 3.
Customer and operational excellence Switzerland and Italy: growing its share of the overall market in 4.
Data and digital France Paris Charles fide Gaulle, Lyon, Toulouse : or allocated to new bases such as Amsterdam, Venice and Oporto.
Grow revenue weopened a new base in Barcelona and in April announced a 6.
The best people plan to open a seasonal base in Palma fide Mallorca for summer 2017.
Along with Oporto and Lisbon these latter two form a www.
com 9 SAFETY SAFETY Chief Executives review continued core part of easyJet's lean basing strategy.
Reflecting andis the number one airline at both.
During the year ourdiscipline, it also discontinued 38 routes which either did not wesuccessfully closed Rome Fiumicino, which still remains meet expected return criteria, or became secondary to a more animportant part of the network with an expected two million attractive route elsewhere.
easyJet increased net capacity in Italy by 1%, after taking into account the closure of the Rome base, against Over time, increased route maturity and frequencies have competitor growth on its markets of 8%.
contributed to increasing profitability and returns.
easyJet has continued to establish stronger leadership positions in all of its France main markets, to achieve the aim of holding the number one easyJet sees opportunities to grow its market share in France, position in each market or a number two position to a weak leveraging its competitive market position against the flag flag carrier.
carrier, adding capacity at Charles fide Gaulle airport through up-gauging and strengthening its domestic network.
easyJet is Progress in easyJet's main markets is as follows: the number one carrier in Nice and number two after Air France inmost of the remaining airports where it operates.
We United Kingdom easyJet continues to reinforce its strong position in the UK increased capacity in France by 8% in the year, against competitor growth on our markets of 5%.
market, both London-based and regional.
We remain the number one carrier by market share at almost all of ourUK Switzerland bases, including its major bases of London Gatwick, London easyJet is the number one operator at both Geneva and Basel Luton, Bristol, Belfast and Edinburgh.
Our positioning, market airports, with the latter also part of the Zurich catchment area.
share and airport bases are driving both leisure and business We increased capacity by 7% in the year ending 30 September passengers.
easyJet increased capacity by 8% in the year 2016, building and reinforcing our leading positions at both ICELAND ending 30September 2016, maintaining market share on the airports.
As the leading airline brand in Geneva and Basel, key London to Scotland routes while investing in growth in easyJets strategy is to continue to build customer preference Luton, Bristol and Manchester.
easyJet's competitors in the market.
Competitor capacitydeclined by 1% in easyJet's increasedtheir capacity on our markets by 9%.
markets, impacted by easyJet's strong action over the past two years.
Italy easyJet's main focus in Italy is on the higher-value catchment Germany areas, reflecting ourregional and city-based strategy.
easyJet Germany is a large and attractive market, although with isthe biggest operator at Milan Malpensa with 21 based aircraft, amoreregional, federal structure than other European has recently opened a new base at Venice with 4 based countries.
easyJets strategy is therefore city-based, not aircraft and added a fourth aircraft to the base in Naples 20% 140 4% 8% 13 5% UK 10% 7 24% 7% 3 14% GERMANY 6% 28 8% 13% FRANCE 7 SWITZERLAND 17% 12% ITALY 29 5 1% SPAIN 24% 22 7% Market share Based aircraft Capacity increase 5 Net capacity after taking into account the closure of the Rome base.
10 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 NETHERLANDS PORTUGAL Strategic report Governance Accounts country-wide.
easyJet is focused on its two bases at Berlin Continue to leverage our scale in maintenance.
Our new Schnefeld, where it is the number one airline, and Hamburg, component support arrangement, which started in October which was opened in 2014.
We aretargeting continued growth 2015, combined with other parts and heavy maintenance in Germany, taking share from the incumbent operators.
We contracts, delivered savings of around 40 million during haveincreased capacity by 5% during the year.
This was supported by better distribution of parts growth on easyJet's markets was 11%, with high growth at Berlin across the network to enable faster repairs to aircraft.
have also begun using predictive analysis with the target toreduce parts failures and improve aircraft reliability Netherlands and utilisation.
The Netherlands is a significant opportunity for easyJet, Tackling disruption.
To control costs of strikes, airport asAmsterdam is a major business and leisure market.
congestion and aircraft unavailability to the business, we are Havingopened a new base at Schiphol Airport, Amsterdam investing some of our cost savings to increase resilience in inMarch2015 we arenow the second-biggest operator and our operations, including more flexibility in the network.
We arecontinuing to invest in growth of our market share.
easyJet are also implementing improvements to rosters and increased capacity by 24% during the year against competitor scheduling to improve fatigue management, better lifestyles growth on our markets of 8%.
for crew as well as increase our ability to recruit and retain Portugal and Spain future talent.
This will deliver passenger benefits and Portugal and Spain are easyJet's primary focus for lean basing, longer-term cost improvements.
as well as inbound markets with strong demand on key flows to Organisational review.
Although easyJet is not encumbered the region from the rest of Europe.
We increased capacity by with the significant historic costs of a legacy carrier e. g. 17% and 6% in Portugal and Spain respectively.
easyJet opened expensive pension arrangements we are reviewing our its new base at Barcelona in February 2016.
Competitor market structure and ways of working to enable easyJet to better growth on easyJet's markets was 14% in Portugal and 16% deliver on our core strengths of our network, delivering for in Spain.
our customers, data and digital and maintaining our relative cost advantage.
We expect this to result in a simpler, more 2.
A lean cost advantage efficient organisation and will deliver meaningful annualised easyJet has a strong cost-focused culture, with structural savings once implemented.
Further information on this will advantages in key areas that enable it to combine a leading be provided throughout the 2017 financial year.
airport network with affordable fares.
easyJets lean culture Efficient fleet management.
We operate an exclusively consistently delivers substantial cost savings against underlying Airbus A320 family fleet.
This delivers operational flexibility cost inflation and we are committed to delivering our target of as well as efficiencies in engineering and maintenance, flat cost per seat excluding fuelat constant currency in the crew, ownership and fuel.
As the second largest operator of 2019 financial year versus the 2015 financial year at normal Airbus A320 family aircraft in the world we also benefit from levels of disruption.
significant economies of scale on acquisition.
Between 2016 In 2016, cost per seat improved by 2.0% primarily reflecting and 2021 we will derive a major benefit from up-gauging our benefits from fuel, partially offset by the 112 million impact of fleet, from a majority 156-seat A319 composition to a fleet foreign exchange.
At constant currency, cost per seat excluding that is over 70% 186-seat A320s.
aircraft are expected to have a 13% to 14% cost per seat 6 benefit compared to the 156-seat A319s.
Existing easyJet lean initiatives delivered savings of 95 million, an increase of 106% year-on-year.
These savings were primarily As indicated in the 6 October 2016 trading update, easyJet the result of improvements in airports, maintenance and ground expects to incur a number of non-headline costs during the handling costs.
These costs will be separately disclosed as non-headline profit before tax items: easyJet has a number of initiatives in place that will help to deliver its future cost per seat target: As a result of the UKs referendum vote to leave the European Union, easyJet plans to establish an Air Operator Leveraging increasingly large positions in our airports.
Certificate AOC in another EU member state.
This will Through our size, we are able to drive economies of scale secure the flying rights of the 30% of our network that from long-term deals with airport owners and operators, as remains wholly within and between EU states, excluding the well as with ground handling agents at those airports.
This one-off cost is expected to total around 10 million are now in our third year of a seven-year contract with over two years with up to 5 million incurred in the 2017 Gatwick airport, as the largest operator at the airport, and financial year.
The primary driver of the cost is the will be consolidating our position into one terminal in 2017 re-registering of aircraft in an EU AOC jurisdiction.
Similarly, we are the We are planning to enter into asale and leaseback largest airline at Luton airport, where we are in year three of arrangement for10 aircraft which is expected to take place a ten-year contract.
As we grow our positions in new bases in early December 2016.
Due to the age of the selected such as Amsterdam and Venice we will benefit from aircraft at the time of this transaction and maintenance volume-related pricing agreements.
In ground handling provision accounting, easyJet expects to incur a one-off, weannualised the benefit of our contract in Italy and non-cash charge of approximately 20 million.
sawsavings from our growth in airports in the UK, Netherlandsand Germany.
We expect to agree a numberof new airport and ground handling contractsin2017 and 2018.
6 Based on fuel price quoted in original plan.
com 11 Chief Executives review continued The expense associated with implementing the 4.
Data and digital Organisational Review in the 2017 financial year.
Further A core part of easyJets strategy is the implementation of details will be provided throughout 2017, however any costs itswider digital strategy.
This includes leveraging data and associated with that will be targeting a six to nine easyJets digital platforms to support its network, customer month payback.
focus and operational excellence by enhancing its customer relationship management capabilities.
These tools help build easyJet will continue to relentlessly focus on lean cost control.
customer loyalty and drive revenue growth.
easyJets Our cost saving programme will build on the strong momentum increasingly sophisticated use of data will enable it to from 2016, leveraging our increasing scale and reviewing our maketravel easy and affordable in the long-term.
cost management down to the most granular level.
Customer and operational excellence In the last year 74% of our seats were booked by returning easyJets strong operational and cost performance is built customers.
We have seen a strong increase in customer loyalty around ensuring aircraft depart and arrive on time.
This in our core markets, with returning customers in the UK minimises disruption costs and improves customer satisfaction increasing by 9%, France by 11%, Switzerland by 11% and and repeat purchases, which in turn increases revenue.
easyJets marketable customers have nowreached over 26 million, up 5%, providing further potential Disruption due to air traffic and other strikes in Europe, as well for growth.
as severe weather and runway closures at Gatwick airport, has severely impacted easyJets performance during the year.
Following its launch earlier this year, Flight Club has now been During the year, easyJet cancelled 3,268 flights 2015: 2,637 successfully rolled out to our most valuable flyers, as identified and on-time performance was 77% across the network, a through our customer database.
We have seen a 14% uplift in decrease of three percentage points from 2015.
Given the level retention and 32% uplift in CSAT amongst our Flight Club of disruption this is a resilient performance and excluding the members.
At the same time, easyJet Plus membership has UK, which was disproportionately affected, on-time grown by 40% following successful campaigns across our performance was 80%.
digital channels and Customer Relationship Management CRM programme.
Flight Club aims to recognise and retain our To secure better on-time performance easyJet has set up high-value and loyal customers with a scheme that makes travel ataskforce to focus on the following main areas: with easyJet even easier.
Very different to legacy frequent flyer Reduce the number of events due to technical issues, using programs, which are highly expensive and complex, Flight Club predictive maintenance and enhanced parts management makes the simple things even easier for our customers.
programme offers a range of benefits such as free name changes, free booking changes and a low price promise, Improve disruption management through better processes allreinforced by a dedicated customer support team.
and communication with our customers as well as using technology to reduce cost and improve effectiveness.
Our CRM enables our customers to benefit from increasing Influence structural improvements through discussions with levels of personalisation across multiple channels, with examples airports, national Governments and the EU.
such as saved passport details, targeted marketing campaigns via email and text message, and bespoke offers from our OTP % arrivals within 7 15 minutes Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Full year affiliate partners.
The user experience has been further developed over the year, with greater ease of interaction on 2015 Network 86% 86% 79% 74% 80% thewebsite and mobile and optimised layouts and design.
2015 Network excluding UK 86% 87% 81% 77% 82% Innovation and digital leadership 2016 Network 82% 82% 74% 71% 77% Our digital platform is a key point of differentiation from our 2016 Network competitors.
We believe that we have significant advantages excluding UK 83% 84% 78% 76% 80% inthe capability of our web platform and our mobile offering.
Our award winning App has now been downloaded 18.3 million Our Gatwick North Terminal programme is already driving times, an increase of 30% on last year.
20% of bookings are operational and customer benefits.
The consolidation process now on mobile, with ApplePay a significant step forward this will complete in January 2017 and total operational cost savings year.
Passengers are also increasingly using mobile boarding are anticipated of around 5 million.
The auto-bag drop area, passes, which has increased 63% year-on-year.
Enhancements the biggest in the world, has now processed three million bags like these add to the customer experience and drive customer since it opened last October and we have added greater loyalty, as well as driving our cost advantage.
functionality to collect payment for additional or excess Since the year end easyJet has also signed a five-year contract chargesfor luggage.
97% of our customers now wait less than with Founders Factory, the corporate backed accelerator and five minutes to go through the bag drop experience which has incubator.
The partnership will create value for easyJet and our improved customer satisfaction.
We are now rolling out our passengers by putting disruptive thinking at the centre of customer-host assist that is expected to drive lower cost and ourdigital strategy, helping us to explore opportunities for greater customer satisfaction primarily through mobile-based advanced TravelTech services that will help us to keep functionality to self-serve.
7 On-time performance measured by internal easyJet system.
12 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts We will continue investing substantially in our digital capability, easyJet has a programme to develop new revenue streams building on our success in enhancing the digital customer aswell as enhancing existing revenue streams, leveraging its interface.
The rollout of our new commercial platform is under attributes of a primary airport-focused network, cost focus and way with live new homepages featuring an innovative flight track record of innovation.
We are exploring new distribution search and low-fare finder tool.
Full rollout is expected during channels, partner agreements and structures such as Q2 2017.
The primary objective is to give us significantly better connectivity with other suitable airlines.
Recent examples flexibility and capability, specifically improving our ability to offer have been: customers bespoke, attractive options.
Earlier Flight a mobile app-only proposition, targeting The combination of increasingly insightful customer knowledge customers who may wish to switch flights at short notice and our digital programme offers increasing amounts of on the day of travel.
This flexibility is offered to customers personalisation, tailoring booking journeys based on previous for just 15 and capitalises on the scale of our mobile app behaviour.
This is expected to drive higher footfall and use when customers are on the move.
conversion rates, as well as higher attachment rates for a In-flight our investment continues to pay off with revenue widerrange of ancillary partners.
It will also enable greater growth of over 30% in the last 12 months.
This year saw the self-management capability through the entire journey chain, introduction of pre-purchased in-flight vouchers, scaled from booking to check-in, through the airport and in the event through our targeted CRM programme.
Grow revenue easyJet is passionate about its people and we believe they set easyJet has driven its leading customer and digital proposition us apart.
We believe that our customer-facing employees are through constant innovation and by listening to its passengers, the very best in the industry and contribute significantly to focusing on market demand and offering value.
thepositive experience that our passengers enjoy, leading toincreased loyalty and repeat business.
Business passengers Performance for the year has been encouraging with continued It is our people who continue to deliver the business strategy growth in business passenger numbers, and further investment and will drive our future success.
We continue to focus on in how we reach and interact with our corporate customers.
recruiting the right people, helping them to understand easyJets values and their role in the business and then giving We have continued to target business passengers, growing the them the tools to develop a high-performance culture.
number of passengers by 6% to 12.5 million, with September 2016 a record month for easyJet.
We also signed 137 corporate easyJets new Academy at Gatwick demonstrates our agreements over the year, representing a 25% increase against commitment to the development of our staff, providing a last year, serving to demonstrate the significant growth world-class training facility comprising of classrooms, cabin potential for business passengers.
There has also been a growth simulator, evacuation slide and fire training rig.
The centre is an in business-specific fares throughout the year with a 14% investment in our people, fulfilling easyJet's expected training increase in Flexi fares, which carry a greater yield premium.
Our combination of using primary airports in large economic We recruited during the year to help support our growth, markets, alongside high frequencies and attractive flight adding over 360 pilots and 1,400 cabin crew, as well as 280 timings, makes easyJet a logical choice for business people within the management, administration, engineering passengers.
We are focused on providing a bespoke business andmaintenance departments.
In line with our target, 35% of offering through distribution platforms, Travel Management positions were filled by internal candidates.
Retention rates Companies and direct to small and medium-sized enterprises.
remain good with employee turnover at 9.0%, while Growth in Global Distribution Systems GDS volume continued engagement scores remain high at 76%.
to drive revenue and channel movement from web bookings toGDS within the travel management company partners.
Increasing diversity easyJets launch of the Amy Johnson Flying Initiative, in Therecent negotiations across our GDS partnersextended ouragreements with Amadeus, Sabre and Travelport for an partnership with the British Women Pilots Association, is part ofour long-term strategy to increase the number of our female additional term.
Developments across our Self-Booking Tool partners have seen a 16% increase in bookings due to the pilots.
easyJet set an initial target to double the proportion of its new entrant pilots who are female, from under 6% in 2015 to lowerfees applicable and customised set-up for our corporate accounts.
easyJet was able to meet its target within one year.
Other activities to increase the number of easyJet has recently won Business Traveller Magazine's Best female pilots include working with easyJets pilot training th Low-Cost Carrier for the 14 successive year.
easyJet continues providers to attract more women to apply for its cadet to see opportunities to sell its business product across Europe programme and working in partnership with organisations and we continue to strengthen our corporate sales capability which promote female take-up of STEM Science, Technology, through a new market, customer and industry structure.
Engineering and Maths subjects and women in business.
New revenue streams Non-seat revenue has performed strongly, increasing by 17%, offsetting pressure on ticket yields from the external environment.
com 13 Chief Executives review continued Fleet Delivering shareholder return easyJet has a young fleet of Airbus A320-family aircraft, easyJets robust operational model and competitive position secured on very competitive terms which were most recently enable the Company to remain resilient in turbulent markets.
updated in our framework agreement with Airbus in 2013.
With a strong balance sheet and cash flow generated from operations of over 700 million, easyJet comfortably has met easyJet continues to maintain flexibility in its fleet planning its investment goals while maintaining its positive net cash arrangements to ensure that it can increase or decrease position.
easyJet ended the year with net cash of 213 million.
capacity deployed, subject to the opportunities available and prevailing economic conditions.
easyJet uses the flexibility it Return on capital employed declined to 14.6% from 22.2% last hasto move aircraft between routes and markets to improve year, as the combined impact of severe disruption, external returns.
This flexibility is achieved through a number of ways events and increased capacity impacted yields.
that impact both the timing and scale of capacity deployment: As we look forward, we expect that our ability to grow revenue new aircraft orders can be deferred, leases may be extended or and the renewed focus on cost will deliver strong earnings not renewed, aircraft may be sold or utilisation can be reduced momentum and significant returns to shareholders.
easyJet continues to work with its suppliers to enhance its fleet flexibility.
easyJets proposed ordinary dividend per share of 53.8 pence isexpected to be paid on 17 March 2017, with a record date of easyJets total fleet as at 30 September 2016 comprised 257 24February 2017, subject to shareholder approval at the aircraft 2015: 241 aircraft, split between 156-seat Airbus A319s, AnnualGeneral Meeting.
Over the next five years we will reduce cost by changing the fleet mix Hedging positions and ownership structure.
We took delivery of 20 A320 aircraft easyJet operates under a clear set of treasury policies agreed in the year ending 30 September 2016, which provide a per by the Board.
The aim of easyJets hedging policy is to reduce seatcost saving of 7% to 8% compared to the A319 through short-term earnings volatility.
Therefore, easyJet hedges economies of scale, efficiencies in crew, ownership, fuel and forward, on a rolling basis, between 65% and 85% of the next maintenance.
Four A319 aircraft were returned to lessors and 12months' anticipated fuel and currency exposures and the average age of the fleet increased to 6.7 years 2015: 6.2 between 45% and 65% of the following 12 months' anticipated years.
The larger A320 aircraft has been introduced over the requirements.
Specific decisions may require consideration of last few years with increasing cost per seat benefits.
Treasury strategies and actions will increase in the proportion of A320s and the increase in overall bedriven by the need to meet treasury, financial and seat density delivered a 40 pence per seat cost saving in 2016. corporate objectives.
Based on our current plan, our capital expenditure for the next three years is as follows: Year 2017 2018 2019 Gross capital expenditure m 650 1,100 1,050 Our objective is always to optimise our return on capital employed through the allocation of aircraft and capacity across the network, regularly moving them to airports and routes with better opportunities.
In February we closed our base at Rome Fiumicino and redistributed the eight base aircraft to other bases in Italy, including the opening of a new base in Venice.
Every year we also churn routes that have not reached their targeted objectives.
These actions reiterate our focus on returnsand will increase the return on capital employed of the Company as a whole, as we have done regularly in the past andwill do so in the future.
We continue to add frequencies and commit to basing aircraft around the network in scale.
In 2016 we broadly maintained our asset utilisation across the network, at an average of just under 11 block hours per day 2015: 11 hours.
Fleet as at 30 September 2016: Operating Changes in Future committed Unexercised Owned leases Finance leases Total % of fleet year deliveries purchase rights A319 99 45 144 56% 4 A320 90 18 5 113 44% 20 36 A320neo 130 100 189 63 5 257 16 166 100 14 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016
