Directors report subject to shareholder approval at the Companys Annual General Meeting to be held on 9 February 2017.
The Directors present the Directors report, together with the audited accounts for the year ended 30 September Appointment and retirement of Directors 2016.
The Directors report comprises pages 76 to 79, and Subject to applicable law, a Director may be appointed by the sections of the annual report incorporated by anordinary resolution of shareholders in a general meeting reference are set out below: following nomination by the Board or a member or members Membership of Board during entitled to vote at such meeting, or following retirement by 2016 financial year See pages 44 to 45 rotation if the Director chooses to seek re-election at a general Financial instruments and meeting.
In addition, the Directors may appoint a Director to financial risk management See pages 106 to 111 filla vacancy or as an additional Director, provided that the individual retires at the next Annual General Meeting.
A Director Greenhouse gas emissions See pages 41 to 42 may be removed by the Company as provided for by applicable Corporate governance report See pages 43 to 59 law, in certain circumstances set out in the Companys Articles Future developments of the of Association for example bankruptcy or resignation, or by business of the Group See page 15 anordinary resolution of the Company in a general meeting.
Employee equality and diversity See pages 38 to 39 AllDirectors stand for election at the Annual General Meeting Employee involvement See pages 37 to 38 following their appointment, and stand for re-election on an annual basis.
In accordance with the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules LR 9.8.
4C, the information to be included in Powers conferred on the Directors in relation to the Annual report and accounts, where applicable, under issuing or buying back shares LR 9.8.
4, is set out in this Directors report, with the Subject to applicable law and the Companys Articles of exception of details of transactions with controlling Association the Directors may exercise all powers of the shareholders which is set out on page 113 note 26to Company, including the power to authorise the issue and or theaccounts.
market purchase of the Companys shares subject to an appropriate authority being given to the Directors by shareholders in a general meeting and any conditions attaching The Annual report and accounts have been drawn up and to such authority.
The shareholders delegated the following presented in accordance with UK company law and the powers in relation to the issuing or market purchase by the liabilities of the Directors in connection with the report shall be Company of its shares at the Companys 2016 Annual subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
General Meeting: easyJet plc is incorporated as a public limited company and authority to allot equity securities with a nominal value of isregistered in England with the registered number 3959649. upto approximately 10% of its issued share capital: easyJet plcs registered office is Hangar 89, London Luton authority to allot equity securities, without first offering Airport, Luton, Bedfordshire, LU2 9PF.
The Companys registrars them to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings, are Equiniti Limited who are situated at Aspect House, Spencer with a nominal value of up to approximately 5% of its issued Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA.
share capital: and Political donations and expenditure authority to make market purchases of its own shares, up easyJet works constructively with all levels of government to a maximum of approximately 10% of the Companys across its network, regardless of political affiliation.
believes in the rights of individuals to engage in the democraticprocess, however it is easyJets policy not These standard authorities will expire on 11 May 2017, or at the tomakepolitical donations.
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2017, whichever is the earlier.
The Directors will seek to renew the authorities at In May 2016, David Cameron visited easyJets headquarters in the Annual General Meeting in 2017.
As at 14 November 2016, Luton to share his views on the forthcoming EU referendum none of these authorities had been exercised.
and take questions from easyJet staff and themedia.
The cost for hosting David Cameron to the Company, which included During the 2016 financial year, no ordinary shares in the additional security provision and staging the event, constitutes Company were issued.
political expenditure under the Companies Act 2006, as the Directors indemnities former prime ministers visit involved campaigning for the EU Directors and officers insurance cover has been established for referendum.
easyJets political expenditure during the 2016 all Directors to provide cover against their reasonable actions on financial year therefore amounted to 2,056 2015: nil, all behalf of the Company.
A deed was executed in 2007 ofwhich was forthe hosting of this event.
This political indemnifying each of the Directors of the Company and or its expenditure does not exceed the authority granted by the subsidiaries as a supplement to the directors and officers Companys shareholders at the 2016 Annual General Meeting, insurance cover.
The indemnities, which constitute a qualifying for the Group to make political donations and or incur political third party indemnity provision as defined by section 234 of the expenditure not exceeding 5,000 in aggregate.
Companies Act 2006, were in force during the 2016 financial Dividend year and remain in force for all current and past Directors of The Directors are recommending an ordinary dividend, with a the Company.
payout ratio of 50% of profit after tax, resulting in a dividend of 214 million or53.8 pence per share.
The ordinary dividend is 76 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the Directors conflicts of interest transfer of securities or voting rights.
Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which they have, or may have, interests that conflict with those of easyJet, Employee share schemes rights of control unless that conflict is first authorised by the Board.
The The trustee of the easyJet UK Share Incentive Plan the Plan Company has in place procedures for managing conflicts of will, on receipt of any offer, compromise, arrangement or interest.
The Companys Articles of Association also contain scheme which affects ordinary shares held in the Plan, or in provisions to allow the Directors to authorise potential conflicts relation to any resolutions proposed at a general meeting of interest so that a Director is not in breach of his her duty including the Annual General Meeting, invite participants to under company law.
Should a Director become aware that he direct the trustee on the exercise of any voting rights attaching she has an interest, directly or indirectly, in an existing or to the ordinary shares held by the trustee on their behalf and or proposed transaction with easyJet, he she should notify the direct how the trustee shall act in relation to those ordinary Board in line with the Companys Articles of Association.
The trustee shall take no action in respect of ordinary Directors have a continuing duty to update any changes to shares for which it has received no direction to vote, or ordinary their conflicts of interest.
On a poll, the trustee shall vote inaccordance with directions given by participants.
In the Share capital and rights attaching to shares absence of directions, or on a show of hands, the trustee Details of the authorised and issued share capital during the shallnot vote.
year are provided in note 17to the accounts on page 104.
The trustee of the easyJet plc Employee Benefit Trust the On 30 September 2016 there was a single class of 397,208,133 Trust, which is used to acquire and hold shares in the Company ordinary shares of 27 2 7 pence in issue, each with one vote.
for the benefit of employees, including in connection with the There were no shares held in treasury at that date.
easyJet Long Term Incentive Plan, the International Share The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary Incentive Plan and Sharesave plans, has the power to vote or shares are set out in its Articles of Association.
Holders of not vote, at its absolute discretion, in respect of any shares in ordinary shares are entitled, subject to any applicable law and the Company held unallocated in the Trust.
However, in the Companys Articles of Association, to: accordance with good practice, the trustee adopts a policy of not voting in respect of such shares.
have shareholder documents made available to them, including notice of any general meeting: Both the trustees of the easyJet UK Share Incentive Plan and attend, speak and exercise voting rights at general the easyJet plc Employee Benefit Trust have a dividend waiver meetings, either in person or by proxy: and in place in respect of shares which are the beneficial property of each of the trusts.
participate in any distribution of income or capital.
Amendment of the Articles of Association Voting rights and restrictions on transfer of shares The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard by a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
to control of the Company.
There are no restrictions on transfers of shares other than: Change of control provisions The following significant agreements which were in force at 14 certain restrictions which may from time to time be November 2016 take effect, alter or terminate on a change of imposed by laws or regulations such as those relating to control of the Company.
insider dealing: pursuant to the Companys Share Dealing Code, whereby The Company does not have agreements with any Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or the Directors and designated employees require approval todeal in the Companys shares: employment resulting from a change of control on takeover, except that provisions of the Companys share schemes and where a person with an interest in the Companys shares plans may cause options and awards granted to employees has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to under such schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares: Revolving Credit Facility The Company is party to a Revolving Credit Facility RCF which where a proposed transferee of the Companys shares has failed to furnish to the Directors a declaration of nationality contains change of control provisions.
The effect of a change of control would be that unless otherwise agreed by the together with such evidence as the Directors may require as required by the Companys Articles of Association: and Company and the agent of the lenders: the powers given to the Directors by the Companys Articles a lender would not be obliged to fund a utilisation of of Association to limit the ownership of the Companys the facility: shares by non-UK nationals and powers to enforce this the commitment of the lenders would be cancelled: and limitation including the right to force a sale of any all amounts accrued would become immediately due affected shares.
There are no restrictions on exercising voting rights save in As at 14 November 2016 no amounts had been drawn down situations where the Company is legally entitled to impose such under the RCF.
a restriction for example under the Articles of Association where amounts remain unpaid in the shares after request, or the holder is otherwise in default of an obligation to the Company.
The Company is not aware of any arrangements www.
com 77 Directors report continued EMTN Programme and Eurobond issue Independent auditors On 7 January 2016, the Group established a Euro Medium Term A resolution to reappoint  LLP as Note Programme the EMTN Programme which provides the auditors of the Company will be put to shareholders at the Group with a standardised documentation platform to allow for forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
senior unsecured debt issuance in the Eurobond markets.
The Relationship agreement with controlling shareholders maximum potential issuance under the EMTN Programme is Any person who exercises or controls on their own or together 3billion.
Under the EMTN Programme, in February 2016, the with any person with whom they are acting in concert, 30% or Company issued Eurobonds consisting of 500 million more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all guaranteed notes paying 1.75% interest and maturing in matters at general meetings of a company are known as 2023, and in October 2016 Eurobonds consisting of 500 controlling shareholders.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys million guaranteed notes paying 1.125% interest and maturing Listing Rules require companies with controlling shareholders to inOctober 2023 were also issued the Notes.
Pursuant to enter into a written and legally binding agreement which is thefinal terms attaching to the Notes, the Company will be intended to ensure that the controlling shareholder complies required to make an offer to redeem or purchase its Notes at with certain independence provisions.
The agreement must its principal amount plus interest up to the date of redemption contain undertakings that: or repurchase if there is a change of control of the Company which results in a downgrade of the credit rating of the notes a transactions and arrangements with the controlling to a non-investment grade rating or withdrawal of the rating by shareholder and or any of its associates will be conducted both Moodys and Standard & Poors.
at arms length and on normal commercial terms: b neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates Substantial interests will take any action that would have the effect of preventing In accordance with the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency the listed company from complying with its obligations Rules DTR 5, the Company, as at 30 September 2016, has been under the Listing Rules: and notified of the following disclosable interests in its issued ordinary shares: c neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates % of will propose or procure the proposal of a shareholder Number of issued share resolution which is intended or appears to be intended to shares as capital as at notified to the 30 September circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
Company 2016 The Board confirms that, in accordance with the Listing Rules, The Haji-Ioannou family concert party 133,977,772 33.73% on 14 November 2014, the Company entered into such an shareholding, consisting of easyGroup agreement with Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou easyJets founder and Holdings Limited holding vehicle for easyGroup Holdings Limited, an entity in which Sir Stelios holds Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou and Clelia a beneficial interest and which holds shares in the Company on Haji-Ioannou and Polys Haji-Ioannou behalf of Sir Stelios the Relationship Agreement.
Under the through his holding vehicle Polys terms of the Relationship Agreement, Sir Stelios and easyGroup Holdings Limited Holdings Limited have agreed to procure the compliance of Invesco Ltd 20,468,678 5.15% Polys and Clelia Haji-Ioannou with the independence obligations BlackRock, Inc. 20,157,137 5.07% contained in the Relationship Agreement.
Sir Stelios, easyGroup, Note: On 8 November 2016, Invesco Ltd disclosed an increase in Polys and Clelia Haji-Ioannou together comprise controlling shareholding to 10.02% 39,814,678 ordinary shares.
No other changes shareholders of the Company who have a combined total to the above have been disclosed to the Company in accordance with the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR 5, between 30 holding of approximately 33.73% of the Companys September 2016 and 11 November 2016.
All interests disclosed to the voting rights.
Company in accordance with DTR 5 that have occurred since 30 September 2016 can be found at easyJets corporate website: http: The Board confirms that, since the entry into the Relationship corporate.
Agreement on 14 November 2014 until 11 November 2016, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Annual report and accounts: i. the Company has complied with the independence provisions included in the Relationship Agreement: ii.
so far as the Company is aware, the independence provisions included in the Relationship Agreement have been complied with by Sir Stelios, easyGroup, and Clelia andPolys Haji-Ioannou and their associates: and iii.
so far as the Company is aware, the procurement obligation included in the Relationship Agreement has been complied with by Sir Stelios and easyGroup Holdings Limited.
Important events affecting the Group since 30 September 2016 On 11 October 2016, the Company issued Eurobonds with a notional of 500 million for a seven year term with a fixed annual coupon rate of 1.125%.
Further details of the Companys Euro Medium Term Note Programme are set out above.
78 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report, Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on the Directors remuneration report and the accounts in pages 44and 45 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the Group and Company accounts, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and Company: and the Group and Company accounts in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted the Strategic report, included in the Annual report, includes by the European Union EU.
Under company law the Directors a fair review of the development and performance of the must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that business and the position of the Group, together with a they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the description of the principal risks and uncertainties that Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group it faces.
and the Company for that period.
In preparing these accounts, In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors are required to: each Director in office at the date the Directors report is select suitable accounting policies and then apply approved, confirms that: them consistently: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit make judgements and accounting estimates that are information of which the Companys auditors are reasonable and prudent: unaware: and state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU have he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware and explained in the accounts: and of any relevant audit information and to establish that the prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is Companys auditors are aware of that information.
inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Annual report on pages 1 to 79 was approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 14 November 2016 and The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting signed on its behalf by: records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the Company and enable them to ensure that the accounts and the Directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group accounts, CAROLYN MCCALL DBE ANDREW FINDLAY Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of, amongst other things, the financial and corporate governance information provided on the easyJet website http: corporate.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the Annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups and the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
com 79 Independent auditors report to the members of easyJet plc REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS What we have audited Our opinion The financial statements, included within the Annual In our opinion: Report, comprise: easyJet plcs Group financial statements and Company the Group consolidated and Company statements of financial statements the financial statements give a true financial position as at 30 September 2016: and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the the Group consolidated income statement and Companys affairs as at 30 September 2016 and of the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys cash theyear then ended: flows for the year then ended: the Group consolidated and Company statements the Group financial statements have been properly ofcashflows for the year then ended: prepared in accordance with International Financial the Group consolidated and Company statements Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the ofchanges in equity for the year then ended: and European Union: the notes to the financial statements, which include the Company financial statements have been properly asummary of significant accounting policies and other prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the explanatory information.
European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the the financial statements have been prepared in accordance preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the company financial with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of theCompanies Act 2006, and applicable law.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall group materiality: 24.7 million which represents 5% of profit before tax.
Audit scope Materiality The Group operates through the Company and its trading subsidiaries: and the Group accounts are a consolidation of these entities.
The accounting for these entities, along with the Group consolidation, is largely centralised in the UK.
Our audit scope comprises an audit of the complete financial information of the trading subsidiaries and the Company.
Audit scope Areas of focus Aircraft maintenance provisions.
Areas of Goodwill and landing rights impairment assessment.
focus The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect The scope of our audit and our areas of focus on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and We conducted our audit in accordance with International effort, are identified as areas of focus in the following table.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
Wehave also set out how we tailored our audit to address We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make Inparticular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
estimates that involved making assumptions, and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
80 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Aircraft maintenance provisions Refer to page 52 Audit Committee report, page 91 As with any significant audit risk, we understood and evaluated Accounting policies and pages 103 to 104 notes.
thecontrols that the Group has in place in respect of the aircraftmaintenance provision.
The Group operates aircraft which are owned or held under finance or operating lease arrangements.
Liabilities We evaluated the maintenance provision model and tested the for maintenance costs are incurred during the term of the mechanics of the underlying calculations therein.
Specifically, we: lease in respect of aircraft leased under operating leases.
assessed the process by which the variable factors within the These arise from legal and contractual obligations relating provision were estimated: to the condition of the aircraft when it is returned to understood and challenged the key assumptions that were based the lessor.
on the Groups internal data, such as business plans and Maintenance provisions of 259 million for aircraft maintenance contract terms: maintenance costs in respect of aircraft leased under validated the input data: operating leases were recorded in the accounts at 30 performed sensitivity analysis on the key drivers of the September 2016. model: and At each balance sheet date, the maintenance provision is reviewed the calculations within the model.
calculated using a model that incorporates a number of variable factors and assumptions including: We found no material exceptions from these assessments and comparisons.
likely utilisation of the aircraft: the expected cost of the heavy maintenance check at Having ascertained the magnitude of movements in those key assumptions, that either individually or collectively would be required the time it is expected to occur: for the provision to be misstated, we considered the likelihood of the condition of the aircraft: and such movements arising and any impact on the overall level of the lifespan of life-limited parts.
aircraft maintenance provisions recorded in the accounts.
Our assessment as to likelihood and magnitude did not identify any We focus on this area because of an inherent level of material exceptions.
management judgement required in calculating the amount of provision needed as a result of the complex and subjective elements around these variable factors and assumptions together with the materiality of the balance.
Treasury operations Refer to page 52 Audit Committee report, page 94 We understood and evaluated the processes, procedures and Accounting policies and pages 106-111 notes.
controls in place in respect of the Groups treasury and other management functions which directly impact the relevant account The Group holds significant net funds, comprising cash balances and transactions.
and money market deposits and borrowings through bank loans and finance lease obligations.
We tested managements year end account reconciliation process, the results of which allowed us to focus on substantiating the Given the nature of the business, the Group also makes year-end positions recorded in the accounts.
use of derivative financial instruments.
We independently obtained third-party confirmations from These derivative financial instruments include foreign counterparties of the year end positions as well as agreeing to currency forward exchange contracts to hedge foreign original agreements.
We assessed the appropriateness of hedge currency risks on transactions denominated in US dollars, accounting for the derivative financial instruments and tested, using euros, Swiss francs and South African rand.
independent data-feeds, the fair values being ascribed to those instruments at the year end.
These transactions primarily affect revenue, fuel and aircraft dry leasing costs, and the carrying value of owned We found no material exceptions from these assessments aircraft.
The Group also uses jet fuel forward contracts to and comparisons.
At 30 September 2016, cash and money market deposits amounted to 969 million, We also assessed the appropriateness of the disclosures in the borrowings were 756 million, derivative financial assets accounts in respect of both non-derivative and derivative financial amounted to 422 million and derivative financial liabilities instruments.
Based on our work, we considered the disclosures to were 324 million.
We focused on these balances because of their materiality to the financial position of the Group, the volume of transactions passing through the respective accounts and the number of counterparties involved.
com 81 Independent auditors report to the members of easyJet plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Judgemental accruals and provisions Refer to page 52 Audit Committee report, page 91 We understood and evaluated the processes, procedures and Accounting policies and page 103 notes.
controls in place in respect of these judgmental provision balances and assessed key account reconciliation processes.
The Group records a number of accrual balances which are specific to the business and its operations.
At 30 We tested and challenged the reasonableness of the key September 2016, the aggregate of all accruals and assumptions underlying the judgmental provisions which included: provisions was 379 million.
Whilst some accruals are passenger claim history: easily and ordinarily calculated, others contain an element levels of passenger claims: of judgement and are more complex in nature, for example, customer claims in respect of flight delays, flight disruptions: cancellations and refunds of air passenger duty or no-show passengers: and similar charges.
time periods over which the assessment is made.
We focused on this area because there is an inherent We tested the input data of the judgmental provisions, reperformed levelof complexity in management estimating certain the underlying calculations and performed sensitivity analysis over provisionsowing to their uncertain nature.
These types the key drivers of the valuation of the provision.
ofprovisions are not individually material but may, under certain circumstances, be material in the aggregate.
Having ascertained the magnitude of movements in those key assumptions, that either individually or collectively would be required for the provision to be materially misstated, we considered the likelihood of such movements arising and any impact on the overall level of judgmental provisions recorded in the accounts.
Our assessment as to likelihood and magnitude did not identify any material exceptions.
We obtained evidence of post year end cash and other account movements which provided evidence as to the validity of the provisions at the year end.
We found no material exceptions from these procedures.
Goodwill and landing rights impairment assessment Refer to page 52 Audit Committee report, page 91 We evaluated the directors future cash flow forecasts, and the Accounting policies and pages 100 to 101 notes.
process by which they were drawn up, including testing the underlying calculations and comparing them to the latest Board The Group holds significant amounts of goodwill and approved strategic plan.
We challenged: costs of landing rights on the balance sheet.
The risk is that these balances are overstated.
the directors key assumptions for long term growth rates in the forecasts by comparing them to historical results, economic and The Group has one cash-generating unit CGU being its industry forecasts: route network, to which all goodwill and landing the discount rate by assessing the cost of capital for the Group rights relate.
and comparable organisations: and We focused on the impairment test and the estimated the assumptions used in the Groups five-year Plan, including fuel values in use of the one CGU, which has a net book value prices and exchange rates, by comparing them to historical of goodwill and landing rights of 459 million as at 30 results, and economic and industry forecasts.
We performed sensitivity analysis around the key assumptions above We focused on this assessment as the impairment test to ascertain the extent of change in those assumptions that either involves a number of subjective judgements and individually or collectively would be required for the goodwill and estimates by management, many of which are forwardlanding rights to be impaired.
We found no material exceptions from looking.
These estimates include key assumptions this analysis.
surrounding the strategic plan through to 2021, fuel prices, exchange rates, long-term economic growth rates and We also assessed the appropriateness of the disclosures in the discount rates.
accounts in respect of goodwill and landing rights.
Based on our work, we considered the disclosures to be appropriate.
82 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report How we tailored the audit scope tothem misstatements identified during our audit above We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed 1.2million 2015: 2 million as well as misstatements below enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic qualitative reasons.
structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors The Group operates through the Company and its four trading statement, set out on page 22, in relation to going concern.
We subsidiary undertakings as set out on page 117 and the Group have nothing to report having performed our review.
accounts are a consolidation of these entities.
The accounting for these entities is largely centralised in the UK and our audit Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we scope comprises an audit of their complete financial have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation information.
These procedures gave us the evidence that we to the directors statement about whether they considered it needed for our opinion on the Groups accounts as a whole.
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to Materiality draw attention to.
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application ofmateriality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the intendthem to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements as a whole.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis Based on our professional judgement, we determined isappropriate.
However, because not all future events or materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a Overall group materiality 24.7 million 2015: 34.3million.
guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
Rationale for We believe that profit before tax is benchmark applied the primary measure used by shareholders in assessing the performance of the Group, and is a generally accepted auditing benchmark.
com 83 Independent auditors report to the members of easyJet plc continued OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion: The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
In our opinion: The information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out set out on page 59 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge oftheGroup and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
The statement given by the Directors on page 79, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no exceptions Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a to report.
wholeto be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the groups and companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in thecourse of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 50 to 53, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters to report.
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 79 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 We have nothing material to of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the add or to draw attention to.
Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being We have nothing material to managed or mitigated.
add or to draw attention to.
the Directors explanation on page 22 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 We have nothing material to ofthe Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they add or to draw attention to.
have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
84 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Adequacy of accounting records and information What an audit of financial statements involves and explanations received An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to anddisclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give you if, in our opinion: reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
We have not received all the information and explanations This includes an assessment of: we require for our audit: or Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the groups and the companys circumstances and have been company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: received from branches not visited by us: or The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates The Company financial statements and the part of the made by the Directors: and Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
The overall presentation of the financial statements.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our Directors remuneration own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the Directors remuneration report Companies Act financial statements.
2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to We test and examine information, using sampling and other be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary Companies Act 2006. toprovide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
Weobtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness Other Companies Act 2006 reporting ofcontrols, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no information in the Annual Report to identify material exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect Corporate governance statement based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has become aware of any apparent material misstatements or not been prepared by the Company.
We have no exceptions inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
toreport arising from this responsibility.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
ANDREW KEMP Senior Statutory Auditor RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for and on behalf of  LLP AND THE AUDIT Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Our responsibilities and those of the directors London As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 14 November 2016 of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
