Financial review continued Net assets increased by 463 million, due to the profit generated in the period and favourable movements on the hedging reserve, which were only partially offset by the payment of the ordinary dividend.
The movement on the hedging reserve was primarily due to the maturity of out of the money contracts.
The net book value of property, plant and equipment increased by 375 million driven principally by the acquisition of 20 A320 family aircraft, and pre-delivery payments relating to aircraft purchases.
ANDREW FINDLAY Chief Financial Officer GOING CONCERN VIABILITY STATEMENT easyJets business activities, together with factors likely The Directors have assessed easyJets viability over a toaffect its future development and performance, are three-year period to September 2019.
This is based on three described in the strategic reporton pages 1 to 42.
Principal years of the strategic plan, which gives greater certainty over risks and uncertainties are described on pages 24 to 31.
Note the forecasting assumptions used.
22 to the accounts sets out the Groups objectives, policies In making their assessment, the Directors took account of and procedures for managing its capital and gives details of easyJets current financial and operational positions and the risks related to financial instruments held by the Group.
They also assessed the At 30 September 2016, the Group held cash and cash potential financial and operational impacts, in severe but equivalents of 714 million and money market deposits of plausible scenarios, of the principal risks and uncertainties 255 million.
Total debt of 756 million is free from financial set out on pages 24 to 31, which includes the impact of a covenants, with 92 million due for repayment in the year sustained significant adverse movement in foreign currency to30 September 2017. exchange rates or jet fuel prices, and the likely degree of effectiveness of current and available mitigating actions.
Net current liabilities at 30 September 2016 were 119 million and included unearned revenue payments made by Based on this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable customers for flights scheduled post year end of expectation that the Company and the Group will be able to 568 million.
continue in operation and meet all their liabilities as they fall due up to September 2019.
The business is exposed to fluctuations in fuel prices and USdollar and Euro exchange rates.
The Groups policy is In making this statement, the Directors have also made the tohedge between 65% and 85% of estimated exposures following key assumptions: 12months in advance, and 45% and 65% of estimated funding for capital expenditure in the form of capital exposures from 13 up to 24 months in advance.
Specific markets debt, bank debt or aircraft leases will be decisions may require consideration of a longer-term available in all plausible market conditions: approach.
Treasury strategies and actions will be driven there will not be a prolonged grounding of a substantial bythe need to meet treasury, financial and corporate portion of the fleet: and objectives.
The Group was compliant with this policy at thedate of this Annual report and accounts.
the terms of the United Kingdom leaving the European Union are such that easyJet will be able to continue to After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable operate over broadly the same network as at present.
expectation that the Company and the Group will be able tooperate within the level of available facilities and cash anddeposits for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing theAnnual report and accounts.
22 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016
