THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 17 DIRECTORS Jim Pettigrew Glen Suarez Jim Pettigrew was appointed Glen Suarez was appointed to the Board on 27 October to the Board on 24 May 2013.
2005 and became the Glen is Chairman of Knight Chairman on 22 July 2011.
is a Chartered Accountant and Prior to joining Knight Vinke, is the immediate past he was a Partner in Soditic President of the Institute of Limited and before that he Chartered Accountants of was Head of European Utilities Scotland.
He is also a member at Morgan Stanley.
He is a of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Following a specialist in the banking and energy sectors, and is a number of finance function positions in Scotland and Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in in London including Group Treasurer of Sedgwick England and Wales, Royal Society of Arts and a Group plc, he was Group Finance Director of ICAP plc, member of the Capital Markets Advisory Committee.
a FTSE 100 company and the worlds largest specialist inter-dealer broker from January 1999 to June 2006.
He was Chief Operating and Financial Officer of Maxwell Ward Ashmore Group plc from 2006 to 2007 and Chief Maxwell Ward was appointed Executive Officer of CMC Markets plc from 2007 to to the Board on 8 August 2009.
He is currently Chairman of CYBG plc, the Senior 2011.
Mr Ward joined Baillie Independent Director of Crest Nicholson Holdings plc Gifford in 1971 becoming a and Deputy Chairman of Royal Bank of Canada Europe partner in the firm in 1975 Limited.
He was a Non-Executive Director of Aberdeen and was head of the UK Asset Management plc from 2010 to 2016.
Equity Department from 1981 until his retirement in April 2000.
He was also a member Gordon McQueen of the firms Management and Investment Policy Gordon McQueen was Committees and Chairman of Baillie Gifford Overseas.
appointed to the Board on From 1989 until 2000 he was manager of Scottish 31 May 2011 and is Chairman Mortgage and Trust plc.
Following his retirement from of the Audit Committee.
He is Baillie Gifford, he floated The Independent Investment a Chartered Accountant and a Trust plc and has been its managing director since.
He Fellow of the Chartered is a former non-executive Director of Aegon UK plc and Institute of Bankers of Foreign and Colonial Investment Trust plc.
He is a former Finance Director of Bank of Scotland and, until 2003, he was an Executive Director Sir Nigel Wicks of HBOS plc, where his main role was Chief Executive, Sir Nigel Wicks, GCB, CVO, Treasury.
He is a non-executive director and Audit CBE was appointed to the Committee Chairman of Scottish Mortgage Investment Board in 2005 and is the Trust Plc and JPMorgan Midcap Investment Trust Plc.
After working for The British Petroleum Company, Sir Nigel Victoria Hastings joined HM Treasury in 1968.
Victoria Hastings was He worked for Prime Ministers appointed to the Board Harold Wilson, James on 23 May 2013.
She has Callaghan and Margaret Thatcher.
He has been the over 25 years experience United Kingdoms Executive Director at the in the investment International Monetary Fund and World Bank and the management industry and is Prime Ministers representative Sherpa for the a non-executive director of Economic Summits of the Group of Seven Industrialised Henderson Global Trust plc Nations.
From 1989 to 2000, he was the Treasurys and Impax Environmental Second Permanent Secretary responsible for Markets plc.
Her roles have included investment international financial matters.
The Prime Minister director at JO Hambro Capital Management: chief appointed him as Chair of the Committee on investment officer, private clients at Merrill Lynch Standards in Public Life for the period March 2001 to Investment Managers London : a fund manager in the April 2004.
He was formerly the Chairman of Euroclear Merrill Lynch European Equity team: and non-executive plc, The British Bankers Association and a director of Charter European Trust.
She is also a trustee Commissioner of the Jersey Financial Services of Moorfields Eye Charity.
All Directors are independent and non-executive, and are members of the Management Engagement and Nomination Committees.
Member of the Audit Committee
