THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 13 PORTFOLIO MANAGERS REPORT Market Review The UK equity market was volatile over the 12 months under review, notably towards the end of the period.
The FTSE All-Share Index reached an all-time high in April 2015, only to hit its lowest level since 2012 some 10 months on.
Intra-day market activity was additionally characterised by some particularly sharp index moves, with a low volume of shares traded.
Mark Barnett The swings in stock market sentiment were largely driven by concerns over a slowing Chinese economy and the global economic outlook, the actions of central banks and movements in commodity prices.
The strong start to the period was driven by the introduction of quantitative easing in the Eurozone and further stimulus from Japan.
However, equity market sentiment swung sharply negative as concerns grew over the impact of the strengthening US dollar on emerging market debt and the deflationary impact of a possible devaluation of the Chinese Yuan.
A strong year-end stock market rally followed the first increase in US interest rates for seven years.
However, the start of 2016 saw the FTSE All-Share Index fall sharply to a multi-year low, as commodity prices hit 10 year lows, and oil and mining companies cut profit guidance and, in some cases, dividends.
Confirmation of the Brexit referendum date had little impact on the market, but did lead to weakness in sterling.
The market turbulence moderated as oil and metal prices showed some recovery and the European Central Bank surprised financial markets by cutting interest rates in the Eurozone to zero and stepping up the pace of quantitative easing.
Nevertheless, worries persisted over the profitability of banks in a zero interest rate world.
Towards the end of the Companys financial year the Chairman of the US Federal Reserve, Janet Yellen, provided a boost to equities by stating that the US central bank should proceed cautiously with interest rate rises, causing a welcome weakening in the US dollar.
Portfolio Strategy and Review The Companys net asset value, including reinvested dividends, rose by 4.2% during the year under review, compared with a total negative return of 3.9% by the FTSE All-Share Index.
Against a highly volatile market backdrop, the key contributors to the Companys outperformance of its benchmark index were the holdings in the tobacco sector.
All four, namely Reynolds American, British American Tobacco, Imperial Brands and Altria, delivered strongly positive returns over the period under review, with Reynolds shares rising by over 55%.
Reynolds concluded the purchase of US tobacco company Lorillard in June 2015 and the company is beginning to see the benefits of this acquisition, with cost and revenue synergies emerging from the process of integration.
Dividend growth and profit margins remain healthy across all the tobacco majors, in spite of the continuing volume decline, driven by product innovation, tobacco quality improvements and cost rationalisation.
Also contributing strongly to performance were certain investments in the financials sector.
In March 2016, the London Stock Exchange announced a merger of equals with Deutsche Boerse and saw its shares rise to a record high as New York Stock Exchange owner ICE said it may make a counter offer for the company.
Earlier in the period Amlin, a Lloyds insurance market investment vehicle, agreed to a takeover from Japanese company Mitsui, resulting in a significant uplift to its share price.
The share prices of Beazley and Hiscox, also in the non-life insurance sector, both rose on the back of positive results and amid growing takeover speculation.
Meanwhile, the portfolios long term holding in Provident Financial gained entry to the FTSE 100 index during the period, as the company delivered a sixth consecutive year of double-digit percentage dividend increases.
The company reassured investors of the positive long term outlook for this specialist lending business.
Within the fixed line telecoms sector, BT announced its strongest revenue growth in over seven years and continued its expansion into mobile telephony, with its acquisition of EE gaining approval from the Competition & Markets Authority.
Shareholders received further good news as it was confirmed that the company would not have to demerge or sell the Openreach fixed line infrastructure, as had been feared.
TalkTalk Telecom, however, announced that it had been the victim of a cyber-attack.
The shares were marked down in the weeks following the news, but stabilised towards the end of the period as it was confirmed that the impact of the attack had been less than originally suspected.
The portfolio continues to avoid any exposure to banks, where dividend prospects are still uncertain, and mining companies, where the medium term outlook for metals prices is still problematic.
The zero weighting in the banking sector impacted positively on performance, while the zero weighting in the 14 STRATEGIC REPORT PORTFOLIO MANAGERS REPORT continued mining sector, where share prices demonstrated exceptional swings, was a positive over the period as a whole, but a negative over the final quarter.
Among the less successful investments during the period were support services businesses Capita and G4S.
Capitas results led to a lowering of forecasts for organic growth and a higher interest charge while G4S has faced headwinds in its emerging market businesses and from provisions for its onerous unprofitable contracts in the UK and from balance sheet concerns.
The negative share price reactions have been unduly harsh, with the companies well positioned to deliver growth from their bid pipelines in a challenging macro-economic environment.
GAME Digital saw its shares fall sharply after an update on pre-Christmas trading, which confirmed that UK sales had fallen off sharply at the most critical time of year for the company.
Sales in old format content have declined much faster than expected and, while sales of new generation content have remained strong, these were not enough to offset the fall.
The companys sales in the Spanish market have remained strong.
Rolls-Royce published a negative trading update in November, forecasting that 2015 profits would be at the lower end of expectations and that demand would weaken in 2016.
With visibility of future earnings growth showing no signs of improvement, the remainder of the holding in the company was sold, having reduced the position earlier in the year.
Also weighing on portfolio performance were the holdings in the travel & leisure sector, where sentiment has been overshadowed by terrorist events.
Thomas Cook confirmed a challenging trading backdrop for 2016, although it has moved much of its summer capacity to the Western Mediterranean.
EasyJet reported a reduction in revenue per seat with the Paris bombing and the French air traffic control strikes having a short term impact.
In terms of portfolio activity, the Companys holding in Amlin was disposed of on acceptance of the bid from Mitsui.
As mentioned above, the holding in Rolls-Royce was sold and holdings in GlaxoSmithKline, Serco and Workspace were also disposed of.
New investments were made in BCA Marketplace, Circassia Pharmaceuticals, easyJet, Honeycomb, VPC Specialty Lending and Zegona Communications.
Outlook The near term outlook for the UK stock market is likely to remain clouded by a muted macro-economic backdrop in the global economy and increased pressure on profitability in the corporate sector.
The multiyear monetary policy of setting interest rates at close to zero has not stimulated capital investment.
Rather, companies have contained costs, particularly wages, and have used low financing costs to buy back their own stock.
Whilst good for profit margins and shareholder returns in the short term, the result has been a level of economic growth in the developed world which is below historic averages.
Another side effect has been to widen income inequality in many developed market economies, prompting incumbent governments, increasingly wary of more populist movements, to redress the balance measures have included increasing minimum wages and tackling corporate tax arbitrage.
Combined with some natural wage pressure from tighter labour markets in the US, this is beginning to threaten corporate profit margins.
The collapse in energy prices and the relentless drive of digital technology have entrenched low inflation expectations such that, combined with the factors outlined above: the global economy faces an ongoing lack of pricing power.
This in turn has restrained the level of turnover growth in many industries, while any rebound in energy prices or pick up in employment costs may not easily be passed on.
The overall implications for the UK stock market, which is highly global in its make-up, are that earnings growth in many sectors may disappoint.
Given that valuations are not obviously cheap, overall returns from equities may be expected to be subdued for the time being.
The volatility witnessed since the start of 2016, partly caused by nervousness over financial stability in China, is also likely to remain a feature of the investment landscape for the remainder of the year.
The Companys portfolio has changed relatively little in recent months, as the current investments continue to demonstrate the ability to grow earnings and dividends in this challenging environment.
Mark Barnett Portfolio Manager The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 25 May 2016.
Invesco Asset Management Limited Company Secretary
