Board of Directors Neil Johnson Chairman Neil Johnson is currently Chairman of Synthomer plc, e2v plc and Motability Operations plc and Senior Independent Director of Business Growth Fund.
He was formerly CEO of the RAC and chaired telematics company Cybit Plc through IPO and ultimate sale to a US private equity house in 2010.
After directing the European automotive interests of British Aerospace, he served a term as director general of the Engineers Employers Federation and later set up a transatlantic trade and business promotion body, British-American Business, Inc.
Following an early career in the Army, he began his business career with a series of roles within Lex Service Group, British Leyland, Jaguar and Land Rover.
He was, until 2012, an Independent Member of the Metropolitan Policy Authority.
Neil Johnson was appointed as non-executive Chairman and Director of the Company on 12 May 2016.
Edward Bramson Edward Bramson is a managing member of Sherborne Investors, which he founded in 1986.
Sherborne Investors currently invests in publicly traded companies principally in the United States and United Kingdom.
Previously, he co-founded New York-based Hillside Capital in 1977, which was one of the first specialist private equity firms in the United States.
Edward Bramson has served as Chairman of F&C Asset Management plc, Spirent Communications plc, Nautilus, Inc. Elementis plc, 4imprint Group plc and Ampex Corporation.
Edward Bramson was appointed a Director on 5 November 2015.
Edward Bramson is Chairman of the Management Engagement Committee.
Ian Brindle Ian Brindle was the Senior Partner of Price Waterhouse from 1991 to 1998 and Chairman of  until 2001.
He was also a member of the Accounting Standards Board between 1992 and 2001 and Deputy Chairman of the Financial Reporting Review Panel between 2001 and 2008.
Ian Brindle has served as a non-executive director on the boards of a number of companies including Spirent Communications plc, Elementis plc, F&C Asset Management Group plc and 4imprint group plc.
Ian Brindle was appointed a Director on 5 November 2015.
Paul Goodson Paul Goodson was Executive Chairman of Great Bear Distribution, a leading independent third party logistics business which provides a range of warehousing, distribution and added value services to blue chip organisations.
He stood down in February 2016 after having successfully sold the business to Culina to create a 400 million group.
Prior to Great Bear, he spent 13 years with Barclay PE, latterly serving as MD of the UK business.
In this role, he had responsibility for the UKs investment team and shared responsibility for BPE Europe with the Heads of France and Germany.
Prior to this, he held a number of senior investment and general management roles both with BPE and 3i after beginning his career with IBM as a Sales Representative.
Paul Goodson was appointed as a Director on 26 May 2016.
Mr Goodson is Chairman of the Valuations Committee.
150 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 David Lis David Lis has recently retired from his role as CIO of Equities and Multi-Assets at Aviva Investors, the global asset management business with 267 billion AUM.
Prior to this, he was Head of Equities at Aviva Investors, with overall responsibility for 33 billion of active and passive funds across all major markets and direct day to day responsibility for the active management of the 5.5 billion Institutional UK Equity Fund, 1.1 billion Global Income Fund, 200 million Aviva Investors UK Growth OEIC and 100 million UK Smaller Companies OEIC.
Before joining Norwich Union now Aviva in 1997, David Lis spent a number of years as Head of Investor Relations at Ludgate Communications, advising a number of major UK and international companies on their financial communications.
Earlier in his career, he co-founded Windsor Investment Management, and also spent a number of years as a fund manager at both Morgan Grenfell and J Rothschild Investment Management.
David Lis was appointed as a Director on 26 May 2016.
David Lis is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Roger Perkin Roger Perkin is a former senior partner at Ernst & Young with extensive global accounting experience and financial services expertise.
He spent 40 years at Ernst & Young and its predecessor firms, including over 30 years as a Partner, working with a wide range of clients before specialising in financial services.
He is a director of Tullett Prebon plc, and previously served as a director of Nationwide Building Society, Friends Life Group plc and Evolution Group plc.
Roger Perkin was appointed a Director in 2009.
Mr Perkin is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Linda Wilding Linda Wilding has extensive experience in the private equity investment and healthcare sectors.
Having qualified as a chartered accountant with Ernst & Young, she worked in the private equity division of Mercury Asset Management from 1989 to 2001, rising to the position of Managing Director.
She has served as a non-executive director including as Chairman on the boards of a number of companies.
She is currently a non-executive director of Imperial Innovations Group plc and UDG Healthcare plc.
She is currently Chairman of the HgCapital Private Equity Valuation Committee, from which she intends to stand down in January 2017.
She was a non-executive director and latterly Chair of Corin plc from 2006 to 2012.
Linda Wilding was appointed a Director on 1 December 2016.
Dr John McAdam Dr John McAdam will be appointed a Director with effect from 1 January 2017.
Dr McAdam will also be appointed as the Senior Independent Director, in place of Roger Perkin.
John McAdam has extensive experience of senior leadership of global businesses in a wide range of industry sectors gained from his career with ICI and Unilever over more than 30 years and his other Board and advisor appointments.
John McAdam joined Unilever PLC as a management trainee in 1974 and went on to hold a number of senior positions in Birds Eye Walls, Quest and Unichema before joining ICI plc, where he was Chief Executive until 2007.
He is Chairman of Rentokil Initial plc and United Utilities plc and also a Non-Executive Director of Rolls-Royce Group plc.
He was Senior Independent Director of J Sainsbury PLC until July 2016 and a Non-Executive Director of Sara Lee Corp 2008-14 and Severn Trent plc 2000-05.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 151 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview
