The Managers Report About Epiris On 5 December 2016 Electra Partners changed its name to Epiris.
Epiris is an independent private equity fund manager with over 25 years experience.
During this time, the Epiris team has invested in excess of 4.7 billion in more than 200 deals.
This track record of investing through numerous economic cycles gives Epiris both broad and deep experience across sectors, geographies and business models.
At 30 September 2016 Epiris had funds under management of 2.2 billion.
Electra accounts for more than 95% of Epiris funds under management: the balance is managed on behalf of US and European pension funds, asset managers and family offices.
Key Stats Funds under management 2.2bn Invested in last 25 years 4.7bn Capital available for new investment 450m Team size in total 38 Investment team 13 Average senior management team experience 22 years 18 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 Superior Performance Over the last ten years Electra, which is managed on an exclusive and fully discretionary basis by Epiris, has seen a NAV per share total return of 255%.
This is more than seven times the NAV per share return of the Morningstar Private Equity Index and is equivalent to a ten-year annualised return of 14%, at the upper end of Electras target range of 10-15% over the long-term.
The Epiris team has delivered investment performance in the top decile since 2009 when compared with other private equity funds investing in Europe using data supplied by Preqin, a leading source of data and intelligence for the alternative assets industry.
2006 2009 2012 fund fund fund Top Top Top 30% decile decile Amount invested: 436m 359m 785m Distributions to Paid-In capital DPI : 1.6x 1.0x 1.0x Total Value to Paid-In capital TVPI : 1.6x 2.0x 1.8x Net IRR: 11.1% 25.3% 31.8% th Preqin 75 percentile net IRR: 11.1% 16.0% 19.4% In the performance analysis above, Electras investments since the current investment strategy was adopted in 2006 are grouped into discrete funds.
Each fund includes the new Buyouts and Co-investments, Secondaries and Debt investments made over a given three-year period and thus is comparable to the private equity funds whose data is provided by Preqin.
This approach also mirrors the treatment of Electras investments for the purposes of the carried interest schemes which are described on pages 96 to 99.
Note: DPI, TVPI and IRR are standardised measures widely used in private equity to calculate and present investment performance.
All three measures are described in greater detail in the Glossary on pages 161 to 164.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 19 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview The Electra Difference Flexible Capital Electras investment strategy and structure is different from that of almost every other private equity fund.
Electra invests across the full range of private equity opportunities: control and minority, equity and debt, direct and indirect.
This means that Epiris can tailor its investment strategy to suit changing market conditions and invest where many others cannot.
More specifically, Epiris strategy is to focus on three areas of private equity investment: 1.
Buyouts and Co-investments: direct investment in high-quality companies where there is an opportunity to buy well and then transform the business through strategic focus, operational improvement and M&A.
As lead investor, Epiris typically targets investments of 40 million to 150 million in UK-centric companies with an enterprise value of up to 300 million.
Epiris also co-invests 30 million to 100 million in minority positions in UK or international companies alongside founders, other private equity firms, corporates or the public markets.
Secondaries: secondary purchases of existing investors positions in either individual or portfolios of private equity funds, as well as acquisitions of portfolios of businesses, known as secondary directs.
Debt: loans to UK or international borrowers acquired in either the primary or the secondary market as either individual or portfolios of assets.
The Debt portfolio comprises: performing credits, held either directly or through a structured finance vehicle such as a collateralised loan obligation CLO, where Epiris has been able to secure attractive risk-adjusted returns and where a cash yield supports Electras distribution policy and liquidity needs: and stretched credits, which refers to debt in good businesses with bad balance sheets where Epiris can take a role in the restructuring of the capital structure.
Epiris applies the disciplines of buyout investing to its appraisal and management of investments in all three of these groups.
20 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 Epiris Investment Approach Buying Well When making a new investment Epiris aims to find value by focusing on: Complexity: business or transaction complexity which can cause attractive businesses to be undervalued: and Buy-and-build: growing platform businesses through bolt-on acquisitions which create value through greater scale, improved market positions and growth opportunities, as well as cost and revenue synergies.
Business Transformation Epiris identifies and takes opportunities to transform the businesses in which it invests.
This means that before making a new investment, Epiris independently develops its own investment thesis and strategy, identifying the key drivers of investment return as part of its due diligence on each opportunity.
It then works closely with a portfolio companys management team in order to implement this strategy, and engages more broadly with the portfolio company itself as well as the industry within which it operates.
In particular Epiris contributes to the development of each portfolio company, and therefore to Electras investment, in a range of areas including: M&A: identifying, originating and executing bolt-on acquisitions and mergers to transform portfolio companies scale, prospects and economics: and managing the exit of each investment to maximise returns: Management: building exceptional management teams: appointing non-executive Chairmen with complementary skills: changing and reinforcing executive management as required: aligning managements interests with Electras through economic incentives: Strategy: increased strategic focus and clarity: business plan development begins prior to acquisition and is refreshed periodically through the life of the investment: Operational Improvements: using its own analysis and specialist external support to identify opportunities to improve the companys cost and balance sheet efficiency and to invest for future growth: and Financing: ensuring that the company has a financing structure appropriate to its objectives, for example where there is a short-term change programme underway which requires flexibility.
Well-structured financing can also contribute to other objectives such as hedging a companys operational FX exposures.
Creating Returns Epiris investment approach enables it to create returns by exploiting three principal value drivers: Profits growth: through organic growth, operational improvement and acquisition: Cash flow: allowing businesses either to invest in future growth or to deleverage: and Multiple expansion: reflecting buying well, strategic repositioning and selling well.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 21 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview Epiris Investment Model Epiris investment team is managed by Managing Partner Alex Fortescue and Chief Investment Partner Bill Priestley and reports to the Investment Committee.
Epiris operates a rigorous and disciplined investment model, as described below: Systematic and repeatable processes using primary research and extensive networks of intermediaries, asset owners, industry experts and others to Origination generate deal flow and unlock opportunities: prioritising deal flow depending on the fit with creating Epiris investment strategy: developing investment deal flow: theses and strategies as well as relationships with target company management teams and vendors.
184 investment opportunities considered during the year to 30 September 2016 86% of completed UK buyout deals in Electras space seen in the year Evaluation and pricing of investment opportunities: in-house and third-party due diligence: raising debt from specialist capital markets: developing 100-day Execution and business plans with management teams: making winning deals: structuring, negotiation and closing.
investments: 2 Buyout and Co-investment, 1 Secondary and 6 Debt investments completed in the year to 30 September 2016 Over 1 billion of new portfolio company debt raised in the year Building exceptional management teams to drive profits growth and cash generation: working closely Portfolio with the team to develop strategy, set targets, measure and manage performance: making use of Management M&A to drive strategic repositioning: and dealing business with problems and opportunities.
transformation: 10 portfolio company M&A transactions completed in the year to 30 September 2016 18% year-on-year profits growth in Buyouts and Co-investments portfolio Identifying strategic financial acquirers: timing the exit: creating buyer appetite and competitive tension: supplementing M&A with refinancings.
Exit 903 million of capital realised in the year to realising the 30 September 2016 Including c. 260 million of cash returned from investment: repayment of loans in the year Growth in Electras share of historical portfolio company earnings in respect of all investments over 5 million with the exception of CALA Group, Retirement Bridge Group and PINE which are valued on a net assets basis.
22 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 Investment Process: pre-investment: monthly origination meetings: weekly and monthly investment team deal flow meetings: weekly and adhocInvestment Committee meetings to consider new investments.
Investment Process: post-investment: weekly Investment Committee review of trading data: for each investment, 100-day review, biannual valuationprocess and annual strategy review.
Risk Management: preand post-investment: for new investments and the investment portfolio, the Investment Committee identifies, evaluates, monitors and manages risks including those relating to macroeconomic conditions, portfolio diversification, currency, liquidity and gearing, environmental, social and governance matters.
Hollywood Bowl Group Ten-pin bowling centre operator Photograph taken at the Hollywood Bowl centre in Basildon.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 23 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview Investment Team Epiris senior management team is one of the most experienced teams in the industry and has on average 22 years experience in private equity.
The investment team has an average of 18 years experience in private equity and is supported by a team of specialists in compliance, finance, investor relations and marketing.
Alex Fortescue Bill Priestley Alex Cooper-Evans Managing Partner Chief Investment Partner Partner Years private equity experience: 23 Years private equity experience: 19 Years private equity experience: 23 Chris Hanna Charles Elkington Steve Ozin Partner Partner Partner Years private equity experience: 23 Years private equity experience: 18 Years private equity experience: 26 24 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 Sarah Williams Owen Wilson Ian Wood Investment Director Investment Director Investment Director Years private equity experience: 15 Years private equity experience: 19 Years private equity experience: 15 Nicola Gray Arvind Tewari Daniel Frazer Investment Manager Investment Manager Investment Associate Years private equity experience: 8 Years private equity experience: 7 Years private equity experience: 3 David Symondson Chairman of the Investment Committee Years private equity experience: 33 For more information about Epiris please visit www.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 25 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview
