Remuneration Policy The Companys current Remuneration Policy was approved by the Companys members at the Annual General Meeting in March 2014.
In accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Group Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 Regulations, the revised Remuneration Policy set out on pages 126 to 132 will be subject to the approval of the members at the forthcoming AGM in March 2017.
If approved, the policy will be effective from that date.
Key objectives of the Electra remuneration policy The remuneration policy aims to deliver two core objectives: Enable Electra to attract, retain, and incentivise the best talent for its business: and Create alignment with shareholders interests.
To deliver these objectives the remuneration policy will: Reward the achievement of Electras strategic objectives Capture emerging corporate governance best practices, wherever feasible: Deliver an appropriate balance between fixed and variable pay and reward both shortand longer-term performance.
Executive director remuneration policy table Salary Purpose and link to strategy To provide competitive fixed remuneration that will attract, retain and motivate high calibre executives and reflect their experience, duties and location Operation Salaries are reviewed annually, and any increases take account of a broad range of factors including: The salary increases awarded across the organisation: Inflation cost of living Individual performance, skills and experience Financial performance of the group Pay levels in comparative companies Salaries in respect of the year under review and for the following year are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration Maximum opportunity There is no maximum salary under this policy, and therefore the Committee retains discretion to increase salaries for the duration of this policy Increases beyond those linked to the workforce in percentage of salary terms may be awarded in certain circumstances at the Boards discretion based on the recommendation of the Committee such as where there is a change in responsibility, experience or a significant increase in the scale of the role and or size, value and or complexity of the Group.
Any increases beyond the increments awarded across the broader workforce will be explained in the relevant years Annual Report on Remuneration 126 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 Benefits Purpose and link to strategy To provide competitive benefits in line with market practice Operation The Benefits provision will be reviewed annually.
The Company typically provides the following benefits: Car allowance Private health insurance Death in service cover Where Executive Directors are recruited from overseas, other ancillary benefits may be provided, including relocation expenses arrangements as required Maximum opportunity The cost of some of these benefits is not pre-determined and may vary from year to year based on the overall cost to the Company in securing these benefits for a population of employees particularly health insurance and death-in-service cover Pension Purpose and link to strategy To provide a competitive, yet cost-effective, appropriate long-term retirement benefit Operation Executive Directors may receive a company contribution to a defined contribution scheme or the provision of a cash supplement equivalent, or a combination thereof Maximum opportunity Company contributions of up to 10% of base salary Annual Bonus Purpose and link to strategy To incentivise annual delivery of performance objectives relating to the short-term goals of the Company, driving strong financial performance for investors balanced with effective long-term decision making and prudence Operation Annual performance measures and threshold, plan and maximum targets will be set by the Committee at the start of the financial year.
Following year-end, performance against targets will be assessed to determine pay-out levels at year-end under the bonus plan.
In normal circumstances, at least 50% of any actual bonus earned will be deferred into shares for a period of three years.
Dividend equivalents in cash or shares may be added to deferred shares.
Maximum opportunity Maximum percentage of salary: 150% of salary Performance measurement and In normal circumstances, the majority of the bonus will be based on financial framework for the recovery of performance, with a portion also typically based on the achievement of sums paid strategic objectives Up to 20% of maximum is earned at the threshold performance levels, 50% of maximum is paid for on-target performance with a graduated scale operating thereafter through to maximum bonuses being earned for out-performance of the Companys targets for the year Details of the performance targets will be disclosed retrospectively in the respective Annual Report on Remuneration Payments under the annual bonus plan both cash and share components may be subject to claw-back in the event of a material misstatement of the Companys financial results, misconduct, or if an error is made in the calculation of the bonus.
The claw-back provisions will operate for a three-year period following the date on which the bonus is paid i. e. for the full deferral period until the share component vests Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 127 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview Long-Term Incentive Plan Awards Purpose and link to strategy To drive superior long-term financial performance and shareholder returns, aid retention, and align the interests of Executive Directors with shareholders Operation The LTIP comprises annual awards of free shares i. e. either conditional shares or nil-cost options based on a percentage of salary which vest after three years subject to the achievement of performance conditions A holding period applies which requires Executive Directors to retain the after-tax value of shares for 24 months from the vesting date Dividend equivalents in cash or shares may be added to shares that vest Maximum opportunity Maximum percentage of salary: 200% of salary In exceptional circumstances e. g. recruitment, awards can be made up to 300% of salary Performance measurement and Granted subject to stretching targets related to the Groups KPIs, tested over framework for the recovery of three years sums paid A maximum of 20% of awards will vest for threshold performance, with full vesting taking place for equalling, or exceeding, the maximum performance targets The Committee may scale back the level of vesting of an award if it considers underlying financial performance over the performance period has been significantly worse than the level of vesting would otherwise indicate Payments may be subject to claw-back in the event of a material misstatement of the Companys financial results, misconduct, or if an error is made in the calculation of the long-term incentive.
The claw-back provisions will operate for a two-year period following the date on which awards vest Share Ownership Guidelines Purpose and link to strategy To encourage a strong culture of ownership across the Executive team, and to create strong alignment between executive directors and those of shareholders, while helping encourage a prudent approach to risk-taking across the business Operation Executive Directors are expected to build up a shareholding equivalent in value to 200% of salary New joiners will be given five years to achieve these levels of ownership through a combination of purchased shares and equity vesting from any other programmes It is expected that executives will retain, as a minimum, at least 50% of any vesting LTI awards each year until a time at which these ownership guidelines are achieved 128 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 3.
Illustration of the remuneration packages for each executive director under different performance scenarios The Company currently has an interim Chief Executive Edward Bramson who will not receive any additional remuneration for undertaking this role.
For that reason, we have set out the potential remuneration only for the Chief Financial Officer in this years report.
The chart below illustrates the 2016 17 remuneration package, and shows potential pay-outs at different levels of performance.
The value of each element, and the percentage of total remuneration that each represents, has been included.
Remuneration packages 000 1500 1,380 1,500 1,200 43% 900 705 600 21% 33% 32% 330 300 47% 100% 24% 0 0 Below target Target Maximum Fixed pay Short-term incentives Long-term incentives Notes: Fixed pay consists of base salary and initial benefits allowance of 30,000.
Short-term incentive includes deferred shares.
Target performance assumes pay-out at 50% of maximum.
Long-term incentives are based on the 2016 17 award 200% of salary.
Target performance assumes pay-out at 25% the payment for median performance.
No payment for dividends or share price growth is assumed.
Other relevant policies relating to Executive Directors remuneration Administrative powers under incentive plans and the application of discretion It is important for the Committee to be able to exercise appropriate discretion to ensure that pay outcomes are fair and represent underlying performance.
The Committee is therefore able to amend performance outcomes either in an upward or downward manner where it believes it is appropriate to do so.
The detailed rationale behind any application of discretion will be explained as transparently as possible in the subsequent annual Directors Remuneration Report.
In addition to the operational features described, the Committee retains standard administrative powers and has absolute discretion to decide but is not limited to the following: To whom awards are allocated: Determination of the result of any disputes relating to the interpretation of the rules: The level of the awards under the incentive plans and the timing, within the parameters set in the rules: and Alteration of the terms of the performance targets if it feels that they are no longer reflective of the Companys performance as long as the revised targets are no less challenging than those being replaced.
The Committee also retains the discretion to forfeit or clawback deferred awards under the annual bonus plan if it determines that prior performance which resulted in the annual bonus being awarded was discovered to be a misstatement of results or a product of inappropriate management behaviour.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 129 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview Approach to recruitment remuneration The Committee is responsible for setting the package for any new Executive Director.
On appointment of a new Executive Director, the Committee would seek to offer a remuneration package which can secure an individual of the calibre and skillset required to fulfil the role successfully to help drive long-term value for our shareholders.
In determining the appropriate remuneration package for a new Executive Director the Committee will consider the calibre of the candidate, the level of their existing remuneration, the jurisdiction from which the candidate is recruited from and their skills and experience.
Additionally, decisions will be informed by consideration of market data for companies of a similar size and complexity and contextual information regarding remuneration paid to employees elsewhere in the organisation.
Any remuneration package would be in line with the parameters set out in the Directors Remuneration Policy.
In the event of recruitment of a new Executive Director, the rationale behind the package offered will be explained in the subsequent Annual Report on Remuneration.
Where an individual forfeits outstanding incentive awards with a previous employer as a result of accepting the appointment within the Company, the Committee may offer compensatory awards to facilitate recruitment in the form of a buy-out award.
These awards would be in such form as the Committee considers appropriate taking into account all relevant factors including the form, expected value, performance conditions, anticipated vesting and timing of the forfeited awards.
The expected value of any compensatory awards would be no higher than the value forfeited, and, where possible, the Committee would aim to reflect the nature, timing, and value of awards forgone in any replacement, compensatory awards.
While cash may be included to reflect the forfeiture of cash-based incentive awards, the Committee does not envisage that golden hello cash payments would be offered.
Any share awards referred to in this section will be granted as far as possible under the Companys existing share and incentive plans.
If necessary, awards may be granted outside of these plans as currently permitted under the Listing Rules, but in accordance with the principles set out in this section.
For internal promotions, any commitments made prior to appointment may continue to be honoured as the executive is transitioned to the new remuneration arrangements.
Executive Director service contracts It is the Companys policy to enter into contracts of employment with executive directors which may be terminated at any time by either the Company or the Executive Director upon six months notice.
A summary of the way in which each element of remuneration is treated on loss of office is included in the table below.
Loss of office policy In the event that the employment of an executive director is terminated, any compensation payable will be determined in accordance with the terms of the employment contract as well as the rules of any relevant incentive plans.
The Committee carefully considers compensation commitments in the event of an executives termination.
The aim is to avoid rewarding poor performance and to reduce compensation to reflect the departing executives obligations and to mitigate losses.
"130 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 The main elements of remuneration would typically be treated in the following ways: Element ""Good leaver"" All other leavers Fixed pay during the Save for summary dismissal, executives will receive base pay and other benefits over their notice period notice period including any period where they are not required to work."
Alternatively, the Committee may elect to make a payment in lieu of notice, typically amounts will be paid in monthly instalments and reduce, or cease, in the event that remuneration from new employment is received.
Bonus for final year of The Committee may award an executive an annual bonus payment No bonus payment will service in respect of their final year of service while they are under notice.
be made if the director This payment will usually be pro-rated to reflect the portion of the is under notice.
financial year for which they were in active employment.
Pay-outs will be calculated with reference to individual and financial performance measures in the usual way.
The Committee may determine that a portion of such a bonus must be deferred.
Outstanding deferred Deferred bonus awards are retained by executives leaving the Awards will lapse.
bonus awards Company and will vest on the original timetable.
Outstanding Executives will retain their outstanding long-term incentive awards.
long-term incentive These awards will ordinarily be pro-rated based on time employed, will awards vest on the original timescale and will remain subject to the original performance conditions assessed over the entire performance period as well as the holding period.
The Committee may determine that a director is a good leaver if they leave the Company as a result of either death, retirement with the agreement of the Committee : ill health, redundancy, or for any other reason as determined by the Committee.
Where an executive dies in service the Committee may elect to bring-forward the vesting of awards.
Other payments may be made to compensate executives for the loss of employment rights on termination.
Payments may include amounts for agreeing to non-solicitation and confidentiality clauses, reimbursement of legal fees and or for settlement of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a directors employment.
In the event of a change of control, deferred bonus awards would continue in accordance with their terms, subject to the Committees discretion to determine otherwise.
The vesting of outstanding long-term incentive awards would normally be accelerated, the percentage of each award which will vest would be determined by the Committee taking into account the performance conditions and the proportion of the Vesting Period which has elapsed at the date Control was obtained.
Pay and employment conditions across the Group When determining the Remuneration policy, structures, and practices for executive directors, the Remuneration Committee takes into consideration the pay and employment conditions applied across the organisation to ensure that pay structures are suitably aligned and that absolute remuneration levels remain appropriate.
The Committee reviews the pay ratios between the Executive Directors and the broader workforce, and also takes into account the general basic salary increases for employees across the organisation when determining executive director salary increases.
Employees are not directly consulted on the design, structure, or levels of executive directors.
Open dialogue with shareholders The views of our shareholders on remuneration are extremely important to the Committee.
As such, it is intended that an ongoing and open dialogue with shareholders is maintained.
It is the Committees policy to consult with major shareholders and investor representative bodies prior to proposing any material changes to either this policy or any related remuneration arrangements at an AGM.
External appointments of executives It is the Companys policy to allow each executive to accept and fulfil one non-executive directorship of another company, although the Board retains the discretion to adjust this policy on a needs-basis.
The individual executive is permitted to retain any fees received in respect of any such external appointment, the details of which will be set out in the Directors Remuneration Report each year.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 131 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview 5.
Remuneration policy for the Chairman of the Board and Non-Executive Directors Electras policy on Non-Executive Board remuneration is to set both the structure and level of fees to reflect the need to attract high-calibre Board members, and the scope of the responsibilities, time commitment, and market practice.
Terms of appointment The appointment of both the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are subject to letters of appointment.
Service contracts are not used for non-executive Board members.
The letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the AGM.
In line with the requirements of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code for FTSE 350 companies, all Non-Executive Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders at the AGM.
Non-Executive Board remuneration policy The table below sets out the Companys policy for Non-Executive Director fees.
Fee element Purpose and link Operation Maximum tostrategy Chairmans and nonTo attract and retain high Fee levels are set to reflect the time The maximum aggregate Executive Directors calibre individuals to commitment, responsibility of the role, fee for non-Executive basic fees serve as non-Executive and taking into account fees paid by Directors, including the Directors.
similarly sized companies in the market.
Chairman, are limited by the Companys articles The Chairmans fee is determined by of association the Committee and the non-Executive directors fees are determined by the Chairman and Executive Directors.
Fees are reviewed from time to time to ensure that they remain in line with market practice.
Fees are paid in equal monthly instalments.
The Chairmans fee includes his Chairmanship of the Nominations Committee.
Additional fees To provide Non-Executive Directors other than the compensation to Chairman are paid an additional fee for non-Executive Directors their Chairmanship of a Board taking on additional committee.
Committee responsibility Benefits To facilitate the The Company reimburses reasonable execution of the role.
travel and subsistence costs and any tax liabilities from these, 132 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 Annual Report on Remuneration We are submitting this report in accordance with the requirements of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 Regulations.
It will be subject to an advisory vote at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in March 2017.
While we have attempted to comply with the disclosure requirements, during the financial year the Company had just two remunerated employees and an interim unpaid Chief Executive Officer part-year.
It has therefore not been possible to comply with all elements for example the comparison of percentage increase in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer with that of all the employees of the Company as a whole.
Where possible we have followed both the spirit and requirements of the Regulations and provided as much information as possible to help shareholders understand the Companys pay arrangements.
The Law requires the Companys Auditors to audit certain of the disclosures provided.
Where disclosures have been audited they are indicated as such.
Remuneration and Nomination Committee During 2015 16 the Remuneration and Nomination Committee comprised all the non-executive Directors of the Company apart from Edward Bramson and Ian Brindle.
As such, the members during the year were: Dame Kate Barker to 20 June 2016 Chairman from 1 October 2015 until 5 November 2015 and from 12 May until 20 June F Barnes until 20 June 2016 G Cullinan until 23 November 2015 J Gold until 2 June 2016 P Goodson from 26 May 2016 D Lis from 26 May 2016 Chairman of the Committee from 20 June 2016 R Perkin R Yates to 5 November 2015 The Committee met four times during the year, including meetings to assist the process of identifying a suitable non-Executive Chairman and other non-Executive Directors during the year.
The Board has agreed that separate Remuneration and Nomination Committees should be established with effect from 2 December 2016.
The Committee members are: Remuneration Committee Chairman David Lis: members John McAdam from 1 January 2017 and Linda Wilding.
Nominations Committee Chairman Neil Johnson: members David Lis, John McAdam from 1 January 2017 and Roger Perkin Remuneration paid in 2015 16 Executive Directors Edward Bramson a non-executive acted as interim Chief Executive from 26 May 2016.
He was not remunerated for performing this role.
There were no other executive directors during the 2015 16 financial year: there are therefore no figures to disclose in relation to the remuneration of Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Director fees Only Non-Executive Directors were on the Board during 2015 16.
Role 2016 Fees Fees 2015 Base fee 35,000 35,000 35,000 35,000 Additional fees: Chairman of the Company 165,000 165,000 65,000 65,000 Chairman of the Audit, Valuations or Management Engagement Committee 6,000 6,000 6,000 6,000 Chairman of the Remuneration and Nominations Committee 3,000 3,000 3,000 3,000 Senior Independent Director fee 6,000 6,000 6,000 6,000 No fees are paid for membership of a committee.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 133 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview Chairman fee During the year Neil Johnson was appointed Chairman of the Company.
The Committee agreed that his annual fee would be 200,000.
This reflects the skills which Mr Johnson brings to the role together with the importance and time commitment required from the role.
The Committee is satisfied that this fee is appropriate when compared to the fees at other companies of similar size.
Benefits The Company reimburses reasonable travel and subsistence costs together with any tax liabilities from these amounts.
Pension The non-Executive Directors were not entitled to any pension benefits in the year ended 30 September 2016.
Variable pay The non-Executive Directors are not entitled to any variable pay.
Edward Bramson waived his fee for his role as Non-Executive Director of the Board.
The Company reimbursed Mr. Bramson for his travel expenses, with no further benefits provided Roger Perkin served as Senior Independent Director during the period 5 November 2015 to 12 May 2016 and from 20 June 2016 to 30 September 2016.
Roger Yates received reimbursement for a cancelled holiday of 30,000.
This payment is gross of tax paid on his behalf.
Dame Kate Barker served as Chairman of the Board between 5 November 2015 and 12 May 2016 and as Senior Independent Director between the periods 1 October 2015 and 5 November 2015 and from 12 May 2016 to 20 June 2016.
She waived the 3,000 per annum payable to her as Chairman of the Nomination Committee during the period 1 October 2015 to 5 November 2015.
Scheme Interests The Company did not operate any schemes under which shares, or rights to acquire shares, were awarded to Directors of the Company during the year ended 30 September 2016, and no Director was otherwise awarded any interest in shares in the Company.
Payments for loss of office and payments to former directors No loss of office payments were made to any person who served as a Director of the Company at any time during the year ended 30 September 2016.
No payments were made to any person who was not a Director of the Company at the time the award was made but had previously been a Director of the Company at any time during the year ended 30 September 2016.
134 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 Relative Importance of Spend on Pay 2016 2015 Change Spend 000 000 % Total return 532,226 532,226 310,805 310,805 7171 Dividends paid and payable 62,207 62,207 45,088 45,088 3838 Remuneration Paid to Employees 56 56 100 100 Overall expenditure on Directors Remuneration 435 435 299 299 4545 Spend 000 600,000 532,226 500,000 400,000 310,805 300,000 200,000 100,000 62,207 45,088 435 56 299 0 2016 2015 Total return Dividends paid and payable Remuneration Paid to Employees Overall expenditure on Directors Remuneration We consider it appropriate to compare the overall expenditure on Directors remuneration, remuneration paid to employees and dividends paid and payable with the Total Return to demonstrate the relative scale of these figures to each other.
It is not meaningful to compare the overall expenditure on Directors remuneration with the amounts distributed by share buybacks as this amount was nil for the current and previous year.
Total Shareholder Return We consider that, since the Company invests in a broad range of commercial sectors, the FTSE All-Share Index is the most appropriate index against which to compare the Companys performance.
This is displayed in graph format below.
Electra Private Equity Total Shareholder Return versus FTSE All-Share Index % 380 340 300 260 220 180 140 100 30 Sept 30 Sept 30 Sept 30 Sept 30 Sept 30 Sept 30 Sept 30 Sept 30 Sept 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Electras Total Shareholder Return FTSE All-Share Index Note: Rebased to 100 at 30 September 2008.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 135 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview Statement of Directors Shareholdings and Share Interests Audited The interests of the Directors including connected persons in the ordinary shares and 5% Subordinated Convertible Bonds of the Company are shown below.
On 29 December 2015 the Subordinated Convertible Bonds were mandatorily converted into new Ordinary Shares of the Company.
There is no requirement for the Directors to own securities of the Company.
No share options or other share scheme interests, with or without performance conditions, are awarded to the Directors.
Save as disclosed, no Director had any notifiable interest in the securities of the Company or of any subsidiary of the Company.
There have been no changes in the interests of any of the Directors in the Ordinary Shares of the Company between 1 October 2016 and 8 December 2016.
30 Sept 2016 30 Sept 2016 30 Sept 2015 30 Sept 2015 Shares Bonds Shares Bonds N Johnson n a n a E Bramson 11,426,086 11,426,086 n a n a I Brindle 697 n a 697 n a D Lis 4,700 n a 4,700 n a P Goodson n a n a RK Perkin 2,074 2,074 n an a 42 42 Upon appointment none of Mr Brindle, Mr Johnson or Mr Goodson had an interest in the Ordinary Shares of the Company.
Mr Lis had an interest in 2,200 Ordinary Shares at the date of his appointment as a Director.
These shares are held by Sherborne Investors Management Guernsey of which Mr Bramson is the managing member.
Mr Bramson had an interest of 10,784,463 Ordinary Shares at the date of his appointment as a Director.
Statement of Shareholder Voting At the Annual General Meeting held on 25 January 2016 an Ordinary Resolution to approve the Annual Report on Remuneration was passed on a poll with the following votes cast: Votes for 29,078,392 99.92%, Votes against 22,103 0.08%, Votes withheld 1,521 The Directors did not consider that there were substantial shareholder votes against the resolution.
Implementation of policy during 2016 17 Chief Financial Officer The Board intends to appoint Gavin Manson to the Board as Chief Financial Officer following the 2017 AGM.
His remuneration for 2016 17 has been determined as: Base salary of 300,000 As the Company has not yet set up any benefits or pension provisions, he will initially receive a total benefits and pension allowance of 30,000.
When relevant benefit arrangements are in place he will participate in line with the remuneration policy A maximum annual bonus opportunity of 125% of salary 50% will be deferred into shares for 3 years : and A long-term incentive award with a face value of 200% of salary.
Performance measures for annual bonus plan 2016 17 is a transitional year, and the Committee has therefore looked to select annual bonus plan measures which capture performance against our key objectives over this period while ensuring alignment with shareholders.
Since it has not been possible to set traditional performance targets such as profit or portfolio-oriented measures the Committee has determined that the 2016 17 bonus will be based on: 50% TSR: 40% strategic objectives: and 10% cost control.
136 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 The Committee believes that this will ensure a focus on shareholder value while incentivising the executives to deliver the changes needed in the year to position the group for future growth.
Targets will be set out in the 2016 17 Annual Report on Remuneration.
These will be reviewed for 2017 18 in light of the emerging strategy.
Performance measures for 2016 17 long-term incentive The long-term incentive plan granted in 2016 17 will be based on TSR relative to the other constituents of the FTSE 250 over the financial years 2016 17, 2017 18 and 2018 19.
Median performance will result in 25% of the shares vesting increasing to full vesting for upper quartile performance.
All shares net of tax will be subject to a two-year holding period after they vest.
Recruitment of a new Chief Executive Edward Bramson is currently the acting Chief Executive of Electra Private Equity.
He does not receive any remuneration for undertaking this role.
Should Electra appoint a new Chief Executive during 2016 17 their remuneration would be in line with the Remuneration Policy and will be set out in the 2017 18 Annual Report on Remuneration.
Non-Executive Director fees From 1 January 2017, the base fee will be increased to 50,000.
Additional fees for Chairing the Remuneration Committee, Audit Committee and Valuations Committee will increase to 10,000 but with no additional fees for Chairing the Nominations Committee.
The Senior Independent Director fee will also increase to 10,000.
These increases will become effective subject to shareholder approval of a resolution to increase the permitted upper limit on non-Executive fees from 450,000 per annum to 750,000 per annum at the AGM.
David Lis, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Paternoster House 65 St Pauls Churchyard, London EC4M 8AB 8 December 2016 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 137 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview
