Strategic Report Performance Improvement Plan Performance Improvement Plan an update and high returns, with those regions which means we need to be easy to do 1 Improve customer countries which have the highest customer business with, have the right range and experience service ratings, such as the UK and the high availability and be able to consistently The roots of our organisation lie in a strong US, also generating the most attractive deliver on time and to promise.
We will customer service ethic.
Therefore, improving the customer then use our knowledge and sector-specific customer feedback shows that we are no experience and putting the voice of the expertise to drive more innovative solutions longer consistently delivering the service customer at the heart of our organisation is to offer a truly differentiated customer customers expect from us.
As a result we a key priority for the Group.
experience, which in turn will drive market see scope for improvement in our global share gains and higher returns for the Executing a value proposition to NPS Net Promoter Score - a measure of Group.
customer satisfaction, one of our seven win the customer KPIs see pages 14 and 15.
Our regional We need to become the first choice for results show that customer satisfaction suppliers and customers and understand scores differ significantly by region.
There their needs: this means executing a value is also a strong correlation between high proposition to win the customer.
Our customer satisfaction scores, market share value proposition is to excel at the basics, Excel at the basics Ease, service, range Superior Stronger sales customer and growth and supplier stable gross experience margins Knowledge and sector-specic expertise solutions www.
com Electrocomponents plc 5 Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2016 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 CEOs Review Performance Improvement Plan Actions in 2016 Ease of doing business Product availability and range Service reliability { Roll-out of Voice of the Customer { Development of global planning tool { Introduction of voice picking in Nuneaton and Bad Hersfeld leading to { Over 60,000 improvements to online { Introduction of new global compliance a significant reduction in picking errors search system to ensure we can move products around the global network { Proactive communications introduced, { Over 30% improvement in site speed compliantly alerting customers when there is an { Online content improvements, more issue with an order { Launch of RS Pro high resolution images Focus for 2017 Ease of doing business Product availability and range Service reliability { Further acceleration of improvements { New KPIs to improve stock availability { Introduce parcel tracking in selective to search, online content and site in top sellers and most searched for markets and keep customers informed speed items of delivery including parcel arrival { Improvements in packaging options { Implement global planning tool globally { Introduce forward and scheduled and visibility of those options online ordering { Clearer labelling of available stock and { Introduce product traceability across transparency of despatch date across relevant product categories all products { Improve quotation capability Moving into 2017 we plan to invest Excel at the basics Improving the digital experience more resource to further accelerate Since the introduction of Voice of the eCommerce represents 60% of our Group improvements to our online offer.
We are Customer VOC, our real-time customer sales and over 65% of RS sales and as building digital centres of excellence in such, improving our online experience feedback system, in April 2015, we have London and Corby, where we will co-locate is central to delivering a best-in-class received over 85,000 responses.
We have teams from IT and eCommerce to drive customer experience.
Since our decision also rolled out Adobe Analytics, marketan improved customer experience.
We will to reallocate spend from developing a leading digital tooling during the year, which further accelerate improvements in search new website to driving improvements on gives us further insight into our customers our existing website, we have had four with algorithm developments and search online behaviour.
As such, we now have web experience teams purely focused on platform upgrades, drive further speed detailed insight into what our customers fixing the key pain points in the online gains and continue to enhance our online believe to be the key pleasure and pain customer journey.
points in their online and offline experiences.
accelerated improvements to our online This research gives us a priority fix list to Differentiate experience.
In the year as a whole we have improve the basic customer experience Our goal is to move from a position where delivered 60,000 customer-benefiting with our organisation.
The table above we distribute parts to a position where features or improvements across areas summarises the key initiatives we have including search, site speed and content.
we provide solutions for our customers, focused on in these areas during 2016 The outcome of this work has been a enabled by our sector-specific expertise, and what we plan to focus on during 2017 significant improvement in our customer data and insight.
The buildout of divisional to bring fast and tangible benefits to our satisfaction rating, with an improvement of capabilities in Industrial and Electronics customers.
over 30% improvement in site speed during will help us to develop more differentiated the period, and the highest level of online solutions for these key customer groups conversion and growth in RS online sales and as such introduce more innovation into for three years.
6 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Strategic Report We already have pockets of innovation numbers get included into more new Looking forward, one of the reasons I have within our organisation: one area which product designs.
It also provides us with appointed a Chief Innovation Officer is I think has significant future potential more insight into electronics and industrial to ensure that we build a more proactive is DesignSpark, our online engineering design trends, which is extremely valuable innovation agenda within our organisation, community that offers engineers access to: to our supplier base.
DesignSpark has been which is essential if we want to move from free CAD design tools: technical data: and developed with minimal investment to date being good to being best in class.
To excel relevant and unique content.
DesignSpark and yet it already has around 440,000 at the basics is just the first step: the next sits in a sweet spot, where it allows us to members and around 600,000 page views step is to build increased innovation and engage with our customers on subjects per month.
We see significant potential for value creation into our offering.
they feel passionate about, such as new this part of the business and will increase technologies and product design, and our investment in it in the future.
thereby helps us ensure more RS part Industrial Electronics KEY BRANDS Allied RS RS REGIONAL PRESENCE North America EMEA APAC Global SUPPORTING BRANDS and suppliers in these two end markets.
marketing and price closer to the end 2 Increase accountability We will serve the Industrial markets via customer.
Finally, the allocation of costs to We are undertaking significant work to the Allied brand in North America and the hubs will provide a healthy check and increase accountability within the Company RS in Europe and the rest of the world.
balance over costs, which will drive a leaner with a simpler organisation structure, new Meanwhile, RS will serve Electronics and more efficient organisation.
management appointments and changes to customers globally.
In this Annual Report, we have reour incentive plans.
Encouragingly, we are In addition to building divisional presented our accounts to reflect the new already beginning to see evidence of these capabilities, we are running the business operating structure.
This change gives full changes leading to improved results in as five regional hubs: Northern Europe, visibility to our stakeholders, both external some key parts of our business such as the Central Europe, Southern Europe, North and internal, as to the returns we make UK see Northern Europe on page 11 and America and Asia Pacific.
The Group will in each regional hub.
Our restatement RS Pro see page 9. operate with regional hub profit and loss not only reveals the attractive returns we New organisation structure accountability, allowing us to determine make in markets such as Northern Europe the appropriate operating model for each and North America, but also the major During the year we reorganised the Group country and region depending on the opportunity to improve performance in to focus on the Industrial and Electronics profit opportunity.
This new structure is regions like Asia Pacific.
This visibility is key markets.
We are building divisional not only more customer focused, with one as we move to become a more resultscapabilities in Industrial and Electronics to interface to the customer, but also devolves orientated organisation.
improve customer service and provide more more accountability to the hubs, bringing differentiated solutions to our customers decision making in areas such as range, www.
com Electrocomponents plc 7 Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2016 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 CEOs Review Performance Improvement Plan Name Biography Title Date Appointed Kurt was President of the Americas Components Group of Arrow June Kurt President RS Pro Electronics.
He also held senior positions at Solectron Corporation.
2015 Colehower Alex spent ten years in senior management positions at eBay, November Alex von culminating in Vice President of eBay EMEA.
He also worked for Chief Innovation Officer 2015 Schirmeister Telefonica, Booz Allen & Hamilton, and Procter & Gamble.
Mikael was Chief Operation Officer and Executive Vice President at November Mikael Efore Oyj, Director of Supply Chain Management at Huawei, and Chief Supply Chain Officer 2015 Malm Head of Sourcing and Supply at Ericsson Saudi Arabia.
David was Group Finance Director of Alent plc, Global CFO at March David ESAB Holdings Ltd, the largest division of Charter International plc, Group Finance Director 2016 Egan and Group Financial Controller at Hanson plc.
Driving cultural change New management appointments Incentivisation In order to transform the performance Cultural change starts with leadership My goal is to drive a culture of of our organisation we need to drive and, as such, a key focus this year has empowerment with accountability behavioural change.
We have to become been strengthening and diversifying our within our organisation.
We need to set a more customer-centric organisation, management team to make sure we have challenging targets but reward delivery.
which is both accountable and results the right leaders to drive behavioural During the year we have begun the process focused.
We need to keep things simple, change across our organisation.
We now of aligning our incentive schemes and talk less and focus more on execution.
have a more diverse leadership team.
our KPIs, which are focused on customer We will be quicker to innovate and to Today, 60% of my Executive Management metrics, efficiency and financial metrics.
respond to the needs of our customer and Team EMT are of international We are also rebalancing our incentive supplier base.
We have taken a number origin versus 14% upon my arrival at framework to increase the proportion of of actions this year to start this process of Electrocomponents.
We are a global variable pay.
You can read more on the cultural transformation, in the form of new business and it is therefore important that changes we are proposing to our executive leadership appointments to drive change our leadership team reflects the global remuneration policies in our Remuneration from the top, the introduction of new nature of our operations.
I am extremely Report on pages 50 to 73. internal metrics and KPIs to encourage pleased by the quality of the leaders correct behaviours, and also changes to our we have attracted: they are all highly incentive scheme.
ambitious and focused on the opportunity to transform the performance of this organisation.
8 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Strategic Report Driving higher returns from our 3 Simplify capital investment operate for less Part of operating for less is making sure When I arrived at Electrocomponents we use our capital effectively and taking I was struck by the complexity of the tough decisions around the allocation organisation.
It was extremely clear that of capital.
We need to ensure that every by keeping things simple we could drive incremental pound we spend will drive significant efficiencies.
Our gross profit to timely and tangible commercial benefits to operating profit conversion ratio one of our our organisation.
As part of this process, seven KPIs at 15.1% in 2015 and 14.6% we have decided to halt a number of in 2016, remains well below the best in capital investment projects during the class in our industry.
This is a ratio that we year and write down the work that has see further potential to improve.
Progress been capitalised on these projects to to date on our Group-wide cost reduction date.
The most significant of these was has been pleasing: our conversion ratio our new website development project, improved in the second half to 16.6% H2 which we decided to halt in November.
We delivered above targeted This accounts for 11.2 million of the total savings of 7 million during 2016 and non-cash write-down of projects of 15 are confident of delivering savings of 15 million.
We reallocated IT resources from million in 2017, giving an annualised saving the new website development to drive faster of at least 25 million by March 2018.
This change on our existing website and I am process is ongoing: we continue to take RS Pro extremely pleased by the acceleration in actions to simplify our processes in order to RS Pro is an attractive gross margin improvements in this area.
drive further efficiencies and savings.
business, but a historic lack of focus and a Looking forward, we need to make sure confused branding strategy have impacted Asia Pacific rescaled to drive a we continue to have an affordability-based performance over the last couple of years.
profitable base for future growth approach to capital investment: we need As a result, the RS Pro share has fallen as Our current performance in Asia Pacific, to keep things simple and remain focused a proportion of Group sales.
In June 2015 both in terms of customer service and on what we need to do to get the job done.
we appointed a new President of RS Pro, financial results, is unacceptable.
As At the half year we reduced our guidance Kurt Colehower, to focus on driving faster a result we took action during the year for capital investment to 1.0x depreciation growth in our own-brand business.
To date to streamline our operations across the for 2016 and we expect it to remain at this progress has been extremely encouraging.
region and fix the basics so we can level in the current financial year.
We launched own-brand products for the improve returns in this region.
During the first time in North America in July 2015.
In year we downsized the scale of our Asia In summary February we collapsed our three own-brand Pacific operations: reduced headcount by I am extremely excited by the progress we labels - RS Essentials, ISO-TECH and RS 20%: closed our office and warehouse in have made so far in our quest to transform Professional - into one simpler and clearer Singapore: consolidated offices in China: the customer experience and financial value brand, RS Pro.
Longer-term plans and moved to a web-based operation in performance at Electrocomponents.
include building out the RS Pro range Japan.
However, we have only really just started on and increasing our product offering in this journey and we have a great deal more We have also made progress during the new markets such as North America and work to do.
My broader leadership team Asia Pacific.
Results to date are extremely year on improving the customer experience and I remain extremely focused on the in Asia Pacific.
Our VOC feedback tells encouraging with RS Pro revenues growing opportunity and committed to delivering the 3.8% in the year and 5.6% in the second us the two key issues for Asia Pacific changes necessary to become a best-incustomers are online experience and half, a strong outperformance versus the class distributor for all our stakeholders.
Group underlying revenue growth of 2.8% service reliability.
During the year we accelerated improvements to our online and 1.9% respectively.
As a result, RS Pro sales increased to 12.5% of total Group user experience.
We took steps to improve service reliability in China by ensuring we sales during 2016 2015: 12.4% : longer term we remain committed to further increasingly fulfil demand locally out of our Shanghai warehouse.
We have also increase the percentage share of RS Pro sales.
launched new sales effectiveness and customer service initiatives across the region.
com Electrocomponents plc 9 Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2016 24604.04-AR16-Proof2
