Capturing Market Value Two large and distinct market opportunities globally Indirect supplies Marketplace to industrial Our Industrial business primarily customers focuses on the indirect needs of Maintenance, Repair and Operations MRO requirements.
As such we serve the demand created at the end of the product life cycle.
This marketplace Industrial remains highly fragmented and currently we have a global market share of 5%.
R&D Production Maintenance The industrial market has historically 250bn grown broadly in line with GDP.
Key customer groups Maintenance engineers Machine and panel builders Buyers Maintenance engineers are responsible for Machine and panel builders design Buyers make purchases, take strategic maintaining machinery and equipment, and construct machines and electrical decisions on the procurement process, most frequently in the production, control panels that are used in industry, conduct supplier reviews, and perform negotiations on behalf of the other manufacturing and transport sectors.
Product categories Automation and Control A&C Tools, consumables and test A&C products, which include programmable logic controllers, Our tools, consumables and test range encompasses everything safety devices, sensors, cables and pneumatic cylinders, are that our customers need to support the product life cycle, from suitable for all vertical markets, including the food and beverage, research and development through to the maintenance and repair packaging, manufacturing, marine, and oil and gas industries.
of production plants, buildings and machinery.
This includes We are focused on being the main supplier for panel builders and electronics workbench equipment, electrostatic discharge products maintenance engineers in small and medium-sized enterprises.
and 3D printers through to electrical, test and measurement and safety equipment, mechanical tools and lighting.
Market needs Easy to do business with Dedicated sales for large corporates Make it easy to find and buy the right products quickly and Managing big data and creating insights to help large customers be intuitively, with accurate stock and delivery information.
Standard next-day delivery Broad range and stock availability Reliable 24-hour delivery on time and to promise.
A wide and relevant range of products in stock, available for immediate despatch.
Sector and technical knowledge and expertise Support of knowledgeable teams who can help customers through Procurement solutions their journey.
Innovative solutions that add value across the supply chain and help customers to manage their assets.
16 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Strategic Order characteristics Report { Average order circa 150 { Average order contains 23 product lines { Wide variety of products per order Electronic Marketplace design to Our Electronics business primarily production serves the research and development requirements of electronic design engineers from design to small batch production, at the beginning of the product life cycle.
Through the cycle this market has grown Electronics at circa 2x GDP.
There are four global high-service distributors operating in this R&D Production Maintenance marketplace, with a combined share of 30bn 10% of the market value.
Key customer groups Electronic design engineers Buyers Electronic design engineers research, design and develop Buyers make purchases, take strategic decisions on the electronic components, systems and circuits for use in a range of procurement process, conduct supplier reviews, and perform commercial and industrial fields.
negotiations on behalf of the other customer groups.
Product categories Semiconductors Interconnect, Passives and Electromechanical IP&E Semiconductors, such as microcontrollers, voltage regulators, Virtually all electronic and electrical systems require IP&E transistors and diodes, are at the heart of any electronic device components, from resistors and switches to heavy-duty connectors and the starting point of any new electronic design.
This is why for industrial applications and board-level power supplies.
Thanks our customers need them and why we focus on providing a broad to the strong relationships we have with our suppliers, we offer our range of the latest high-quality components, evaluation boards and customers quick, easy access to a comprehensive range, including development kits.
the most innovative components on the market.
Market needs Easy to do business with Broad range and new technologies Make it easy to find and buy the right products quickly and A comprehensive portfolio that is continuously updated with the intuitively, with accurate stock and delivery information.
latest and most advanced products.
Planned delivery Applications-led support Reliable service with 13 days standard delivery, plus forward and Relevant selection and after-sales support that is applications scheduled ordering.
Traceability and appropriate packaging Enhanced design tools and support Product traceability and a range of relevant packaging options.
Giving customers  capability to take designs to reality.
com Electrocomponents plc 17 Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2016 24604.04-AR16-Proof2
