Corporate Directors Report Governance The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements of Electrocomponents plc Company together with its subsidiary undertakings Group for the period to 31 March 2016.
A summary of general disclosures incorporated in this Directors Report The following information required to be disclosed in this Directors Report is set out on the page numbers below: Page numbers: 1 Likely future developments 4 1 Policy on disability 28 1 Employee engagement 28 1 Greenhouse gas emissions 31 Names of Directors who served during the year 40 Results 83 Details of employee share schemes 55 and 56 Subsidiary and associated undertakings and branches 106 Financial risk management including hedging 111 1.
Information required by the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and included in the Strategic Report.
Information required to be disclosed in accordance with Listing Rule LR 9.8.
4R can be found in the following sections of this Annual Report: Page numbers: Section 4 LR 9.4.
3 Long Term Incentive Schemes 55 12 and 13 Shareholder waivers of dividends 101 Other than as set out above, there is no further applicable information to disclose in relation to LR 9.8.
5% of its ordinary share capital in the market.
The Company did Results and dividends not make use of this authority during the year.
This authority will Results for the year are set out in the Group income statement on expire at the end of the 2016 AGM and the Company is proposing page 83.
An analysis of revenue and profit by hub is shown in Note a resolution to renew it for another year.
The Directors have declared dividends as follows: Directors indemnities In accordance with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act Ordinary shares and the Companys Articles of Association Articles, the Company Paid interim dividend of 5p per entered into a deed in 2007 to indemnify the Directors and Officers share paid on 13 January 2016 2015: 5p per share from time to time of the Company to the extent permitted by law.
Proposed final dividend of 6.75p per share A copy of this indemnity which remains in force as of the date on to be paid on 26 July 2016 2015: 6.75p per share which this report was approved is available at the registered office Total ordinary dividend of 11.75p per share of the Company.
for year ended 31 March 2016 2015: 11.75p per share The Company purchased and maintained Directors and Officers Share capital liability insurance throughout 2015, which was renewed for 2016.
Full details of share options and awards and shares issued under Neither the indemnity nor insurance provides cover in the event the terms of the Companys share incentive plans can be found in that a Director or Officer is proved to have acted fraudulently.
Note 7 to the accounts on pages 94 to 96.
Financial instruments As at 31 March 2016, the Companys issued share capital For information on the Groups use of financial instruments, comprised a single class of 440,843,661 ordinary shares of 10p including financial risk management objectives and policies of the each, totalling 44,084,366.10.
Group, and exposure of the Group to certain financial risks, see The Company was authorised by shareholders at the Annual Note 21 on pages 110 to 121.
General Meeting AGM held on 23 July 2015 to purchase up to www.
com Electrocomponents plc 35 Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2016 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Directors Report Political contributions Conflicts of interest In the year ended 31 March 2016 the Group made no political The Companys Articles give the Board the power to authorise donations or contributions.
situations that might give rise to Directors conflicts of interest.
The Board has in place a formal conflicts of interest management Annual General Meeting procedure.
The Board is responsible for considering whether The Notice of the AGM is set out in a separate circular.
The authorisation is required, and if it can be given, in relation to new AGM will be held at 12 noon on Wednesday, 20 July 2016 at the situations as they arise.
The Board reviews annually any conflict Companys premises, The International Management Centre, 8050 authorisations it has given and any limitations that have been Oxford Business Park North, Oxford, OX4 2HW.
Disclosure of information to Auditor Important events since 31 March 2016 The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this There have been no important events affecting the Group since 31 Directors Report each confirm that, so far as they are aware, there March 2016. is no relevant audit information of which the Auditor is unaware: Company number and each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors to make themselves aware of any relevant Registered number: 647788. audit information and to establish that the Auditor is aware of that information.
Substantial shareholders As at 19 May 2016, the Company has been notified, in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests in the voting rights of the Company: Nature of interest Number of shares Percentage held Silchester International Investors LLP Direct 83,089,855 19.05% Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its Group Indirect 71,145,930 16.15% Sprucegrove Investment Management Direct 24,492,733 5.56% Majedie Asset Management Ltd Indirect 22,070,869 5.02% Sanderson Asset Management Ltd Direct 18,240,445 4.18% Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of the Companys Voting rights current Articles and applicable English law concerning companies Subject to any special rights or restrictions attaching to any class of the Companies Act 2006 Companies Act.
This is a summary only shares, at a general meeting, every member present in person and and the relevant provisions of the Articles or the Companies Act every duly appointed proxy has, upon a show of hands, one vote, should be consulted if further information is required.
and on a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy Dividends and distributions has one vote for each share.
In the case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Company may, proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other by ordinary resolution from time to time, declare dividends not joint holders.
For this purpose seniority shall be determined by exceeding the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board the order in which the names stand in the Register of Members in may pay interim dividends whenever the financial position of the respect of the shares.
Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies such payment.
The Board may withhold payment of all or part of any dividends or other Restrictions on voting monies payable in respect of the Companys shares from a person No member shall be entitled to vote either in person or by proxy with a 0.25% interest as defined in the Articles if such a person at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any shares has been served with a notice after failure to provide the Company held by him if any call or other sum then payable by him in respect with information concerning their interest in those shares required of that share remains unpaid.
In addition, no member shall be to be provided under the Companies Act.
entitled to vote if he has been served with a notice after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act.
36 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Corporate Governance Deadlines for exercising voting rights Appointment and replacement of Directors Voting rights may be exercised in person, by proxy or, in relation Directors shall be no less than three and no more than twelve to corporate members, by a corporate representative.
A Director is not required to hold any shares of the provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not less than Company by way of qualification.
The Company may by ordinary 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting resolution increase or reduce the maximum or minimum number or adjourned meeting.
Variation of rights Any Director who was elected or last re-elected a Director at or before the AGM held in the third calendar year before the current Subject to the relevant law, the Articles specify that rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the written consent of calendar year shall retire by rotation.
In addition, each Director other than the Chairman and any Director holding an executive the holders of not less than three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, or with the sanction of a special office shall retire at each AGM following the ninth anniversary of the date on which they were elected.
A retiring Director is eligible resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of for re-election.
Transfer of shares The Board may appoint any person to be a Director so long as the total number of Directors does not exceed the limit prescribed in All transfers of shares may be effected by transfer in writing in the Articles.
Any such Director shall hold office only until the next any usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to AGM and shall then be eligible for re-election.
The instrument of transfer shall be signed by or on behalf of the transferor and except in the case of fully paid shares Powers of the Directors by or on behalf of the transferee.
Transfers of shares which are in Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any directions uncertificated form are effected by means of the CREST system.
given by special resolution, the business of the Company will be managed by the Board, who may exercise all the powers of the The Directors may, in the case of shares in certificated form, in Company.
their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason, refuse to register any transfer of shares not being fully paid shares The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow provided that such discretion may not be exercised in such a way money and to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property as to prevent dealings in the shares of that class from taking place and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities, on an open and proper basis.
whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
The Directors may also refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares whether fully paid or not in favour of more than four Significant agreements: change of control persons jointly.
If the Directors refuse to register an allotment or All of the Companys share plans contain provisions relating to a transfer they shall, within two months after the date on which the change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally letter of allotment or transfer was lodged with the Company, send to vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the the allottee or transferee a notice of the refusal.
satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
There are Subject to statutes and applicable CREST rules, the Directors may no other significant agreements that take effect upon a change of determine that any class of shares may be held in uncertificated control.
form and that title to such shares may be transferred by means of Amendment of Articles of Association the CREST system or that shares of any class should cease to be so Any amendments to the Articles of the Company may be made in held and transferred.
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act by way of A shareholder does not need to obtain the approval of the special resolution.
Company, or of other shareholders of shares in the Company, for a By order of the Board transfer of shares to take place.
Ian Haslegrave General Counsel and Company Secretary 19 May 2016 www.
com Electrocomponents plc 37 Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2016 24604.04-AR16-Proof2
