Large Buyouts and Co-investments PARKDEAN RESORTS In 2012 Electra acquired senior debt in Park Resorts for 70 million at Date of initial investment: Jan 2012 a significant discount to face value, making Electra the largest lender to the group.
Epiris strategy was to take an equity position in Park Resorts through Type of deal: Buyout a restructuring of the companys debt and thereafter to grow the business organically and through acquisition.
Equity ownership: 45% Original cost: 132 million This strategy was delivered through a refinancing led by Epiris in 2013: the acquisitions of South Lakeland Parks, Southview and Manor Park and the Amount realised: 110 million Summerfields Holiday Park together with Park Resorts, the Park Resorts Group : and a number of investment and margin improvement programmes.
Valuation: 380 million In November 2015 Electra merged the Park Resorts Group with Parkdean Valuation: Based on multiple Holidays to create Parkdean Resorts.
of earnings Parkdean Resorts is a leading UK operator of caravan holiday parks with 35,000 Multiple of cost: 3.7x pitches across 73 sites nationwide with EBITDA in excess of 100 million.
The company operates in a defensive, fragmented sector supported by positive IRR: 49% customer demographics and strong value propositions.
Future growth is expected to come from yield management improvements, from investment Location: UK in park facilities and capacity and from acquisitions, supplemented by sales Website: www.
co. uk and cost synergies resulting from the merger.
Management: John Waterworth, CEO: Aggregate revenue and profits growth were 8% and 16% respectively in Alan Parker, CBE, Chairman 2015 and strong performance has continued into the current year following successful completion of the post-merger integration programme.
Current and future growth are driven by cost synergies, improved yield management and the return on growth capital expenditure projects.
In July 2016 the business completed the bolt-on acquisition of Vauxhall Holiday Park, its first since the merger.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 51 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview AXIO GROUP In 2013 Electra invested 91 million in debt and equity to finance the Date of initial investment: Apr 2013 148 million acquisition of UBM plcs Data Services division, since renamed AXIO Group.
Type of deal: Buyout AXIO originally comprised seven information businesses serving a range Equity ownership: 69% of sectors in over 25 countries: healthcare, intellectual property licensing, Original cost: 91 million containerised trade and breakbulk services, aviation and forest products.
Amount realised: 193 million AXIOs businesses are defensive by virtue of their industry and geographic diversity.
Its strong brands occupy leadership positions in niche markets and Valuation: 220 million it is robust and cash-generative.
The investment plan is to transform each Valuation: Based on multiple business by developing the right long-term strategy and delivering through of earnings operational improvement and M&A, and then to realise multiple expansion by selling the portfolios components to strategic acquirers.
Multiple of cost: 4.6x AXIO has sold four of its seven businesses, namely JOC Group, Breakbulk, IRR: 78% MIMS and Vidal.
All four of these sales have been to strategic acquirers at double-digit valuation multiples.
Electra has received total cash proceeds Location: International from its investment in AXIO of almost 250 million or 2.7x original cost.
net The group now comprises OAG, a global leader in aviation information and Management: Henry Elkington, CEO: intelligence: TechInsights, the global leader in intellectual property consulting Hans Gieskes, Chairman and technical reverse engineering: and RISI, the leading information provider for the global forest products industry.
Together these businesses generated EBITDA of 16 million in 2015, a level which has more than doubled over the course of Electras ownership, with further strong growth in 2016 as a result of growth and operational initiatives as well as TechInsightss acquisition of Chipworks in June 2016.
52 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 AUDIOTONIX In 2013 Electra invested 42 million in the acquisition of Allen & Heath.
In Date of initial investment: Aug 2014 March 2014 Electra invested a further 15 million in Allen & Heath for the acquisition of Calrec.
In August 2014 Allen & Heath was merged with DiGiCo Type of deal: Buyout to create a new professional audio group valued at 143 million.
Electra retained a 58% interest in the new group at a cost of 64 million.
Equity ownership: 58% Original cost: 64 million Allen & Heath, Calrec and DiGiCo all design and manufacture audio mixing consoles used to manage live sound in settings ranging from concert venues Amount realised: 4 million or houses of worship to live television broadcasts.
All three businesses have strong premium brands, well-regarded products and a history of product Valuation: 141 million innovation.
The group sells worldwide, with over 90% of revenues derived Valuation: Based on multiple outside the UK.
The global market for professional audio products is growing, of earnings fuelled by an increasing number of live events in both developed and developing markets.
Multiple of cost: 2.3x The business is gaining market share in a growing global market by optimising IRR: 49% new product development, through its best in class R&D team and improving sales and marketing activities across the brand portfolio.
Further opportunities Location: UK to consolidate the fragmented professional audio market through acquisition Website: www.
com are also being considered.
Management: James Gordon, CEO: In the financial year ended March 2016, Audiotonix produced revenue Malcolm Miller, Chairman growth of 4%.
Growth has accelerated in the current financial year as a result of a number of product launches following investment in new product development.
The business plans to continue growing through further innovative product launches in core and adjacent markets.
The company sells to more than 90 countries worldwide and more than 50% of its revenues are in US Dollars: so the underlying growth has been supported by the weakening of Sterling.
Original cost reflects the valuation of Electras interest in Allen & Heath which was rolled into the Audiotonix transaction in August 2014.
The original cash cost of the investment is 42 million and on this basis the multiple of cost is 3.3x.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 53 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview TGI FRIDAYS In December 2014 Electra invested 99 million of equity in the management Date of initial investment: Dec 2014 buyout of the UK franchise of TGI Fridays TGIF from its American parent.
Type of deal: Buyout TGIF, which has the exclusive UK rights to operate under the TGI Fridays brand, has 76 American-styled restaurants in a range of locations, including city Equity ownership: 78% centres, shopping centres and leisure parks.
This is an established brand which Original cost: 99 million works well across the country.
It offers bold, distinctive American food as well as an innovative cocktail list, and provides a high-energy, fun environment with Amount realised: 3 million a wide demographic appeal.
Key to the success of the customer experience is the companys focus on hiring and retaining enthusiastic front-of-house staff Valuation: 90 million to offer a high level of service.
Valuation: Based on multiple of earnings The company offers a differentiated product, with a wide demographic appeal, in the growing casual dining market.
It demonstrates attractive financial Multiple of cost: 0.9x characteristics, outperforming its peers across a range of key performance indicators and offering a high return on capital expenditure.
The intention is IRR: 4 % to continue to grow through new restaurant openings, at an average rate of six new sites a year, as well as improving yield management through pricing Location: UK and marketing initiatives.
co. uk Revenue and underlying profits growth were 9% and 12% respectively in 2015 Management: Karen Forrester, CEO: as the benefits of strong operational management and new store openings Murray Hennessy, Non-Executive were somewhat offset by a more competitive environment.
Although 2016 has Chairman been a more challenging year, a number of initiatives have been implemented in order to strengthen the companys product and service proposition which are starting to bear fruit.
54 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 INNOVIA GROUP In April 2014 Electra made a 40 million 33 million equity investment in the Date of initial investment: Apr 2014 498 million buyout of Innovia Group from the Candover 2001 Fund.
In June 2016 Innovia completed the sale of its Cellophane business for 75 million: Type of deal: Co-investment proceeds received were used to pay down debt.
Equity ownership: 24% The group is headquartered in Cumbria and operates four manufacturing sites Original cost: 33 million worldwide.
Innovias Security division is the leading manufacturer of polymer banknote substrate for central banks.
Polymer banknotes have numerous Amount realised: nil advantages over paper notes including security, durability and cleanliness, yet today account for only a small share of all banknotes in circulation.
Innovia Valuation: 80 million Security benefits from a strong intellectual property portfolio and a 20-year Valuation: Based on multiple track record producing substrate for 36 central banks.
of earnings Innovias Films division is a leading global producer of speciality high Multiple of cost: 2.5x performance films primarily used in packaging applications for the food and tobacco industries.
Innovia Films benefits from high barriers to entry and IRR: 45% steadily growing demand.
It occupies leading positions in mature niche markets and enjoys long-term customer relationships.
com, The groups strategy is to develop its banknote substrate business as central www.
com banks around the world increasingly choose to benefit from the advantages of polymer over paper banknotes, while at the same time continuing to grow its Management: packaging films business through product innovation and capacity expansion.
Mark Robertshaw, CEO: Malcolm Fallen, Chairman In 2015 Innovia generated revenue growth of 2% with profits declining slightly although ahead of budget.
Performance in the current year to date has strengthened significantly as a result of product mix and operational improvements.
Production of substrate for the next generation 5 and 10 notes began at Innovias new state-of-the-art facility in Cumbria in early 2016.
The Bank of England began the issue of the new 5 notes in September, whilst new 10 notes are due to enter circulation in summer 2017 and the announcement of the results of the tender for 20 notes is expected before the end of 2016.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 55 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview ALLFLEX CORPORATION In 1998 Electra invested 23 million in the US$160 million buyout of Allflex.
Date of initial investment: Jul 2013 In 2013 Electra sold its investment in Allflex generating a return of 15x original cost and an IRR of 28%.
Electra made a new equity investment of 57 million Type of deal: Co-investment for a minority stake in Allflex alongside the private equity buyer.
In January 2015 Electra made a further investment of 11 million to support the $250 Equity ownership: 11% million acquisition of SCR Engineers Ltd.
In July 2016 Electra sold part of its Original cost: 68 million interest in the business receiving 57 million from the redemption of preferred equity and from the sale of c. 28% of its 15% equity interest.
The return was Amount realised: 57 million equivalent to a return of 0.8x cost.
Valuation: 69 million Allflex is the worldwide leader in animal traceability and farm livestock Valuation: Based on multiple management products.
Its core business is the manufacture and distribution of visual and electronic animal identification tags.
Its 2015 acquisition of SCR, of earnings the worlds largest manufacturer of electronic milk meters and smart tags for Multiple of cost: 1.9x monitoring cow fertility and health, brought a leadership position in the adjacent animal intelligence market.
IRR: 24% The company operates in attractive growth markets driven by greater Location: International regulation of the food chain to ensure food safety, as well as increasingly Website: www.
com sophisticated farm management techniques.
In addition to these demand growth dynamics, the opportunity to build on the groups combined Management: distribution, technology and product development resources creates strong Dr Stefan Weiskopf, CEO long-term growth prospects for Allflex.
The animal identification tags business performed strongly in 2015, despite the headwinds experienced from unsettled conditions in the global agriculture market and adverse currency movements, with revenue and profit growth in the year of 21% and 10% respectively.
The global softness in the agriculture sector has continued into the current financial year.
Against this backdrop Allflexs performance has been robust.
56 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 TREETOPS NURSERIES In 2012 Treetops Nurseries was spun out of PINE as part of a refinancing and Date of initial investment: Feb 2012 is now a standalone investment in Electras portfolio.
Electra invested a further 2 million in 2013 to finance the acquisition of Toybox four freehold sites Type of deal: Buyout in Bedfordshire, an additional 5 million in 2014 to fund the acquisition of Happy Child 15 nurseries and in 2016 Electra underwrote the purchase Equity ownership: 79% of Kindercare ten leasehold nurseries in Yorkshire.
Original cost: 15 million Headquartered in Derby, Treetops is the fifth-largest nursery school operator Amount realised: 3 million in the UK, operating 58 nurseries and 6,500 registered places predominantly in the North of England, the Midlands and the South East.
95% of the companys Valuation: 49 million nurseries are rated Good or Outstanding by OFSTED.
Valuation: Based on multiple of earnings Treetops was separated from PINE in order to allow it to benefit from dedicated management focus and access to growth capital to effect a buy and build Multiple of cost: 3.5x strategy.
Treetops expects to grow organically, in particular through improved marketing and investment in its sites, designed to improve occupancy.
IRR: 44% Opportunities to grow through acquisition of other operators in the highly fragmented nursery market are also being actively pursued.
The cash Location: UK generative nature of the business model creates capacity to finance smaller Website: www.
co. uk acquisitions internally with additional funding available from Electra for more substantial targets.
Management: Charles Eggleston, CEO: Stephen Booty, Chairman Financial performance in the year to September 2015 was strong with revenue and profits growth including the impact of acquisitions of 21% and 46% respectively.
Performance in the current year remains strong, driven by both occupancy and fee increases, while the integration of Kindercare is progressing well.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 57 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview CALA GROUP In 2013 Electra made an equity investment of 13 million alongside Patron Date of initial investment: Mar 2013 Capital Partners and Legal & General in the 210 million acquisition of CALA Group from Lloyds Banking Group.
During 2014 Electra increased its Type of deal: Co-investment investment to 32 million to support land purchases and the acquisition of Banner Homes.
Equity ownership: 11% Original cost: 32 million CALA Group is a national house builder which provides high quality homes in Scotland, the Midlands and South East England.
Banner Homes focus on Amount realised: nil premium homes in London and the South East represents a strong strategic fit for CALA and accelerates its strategy to deliver 1 billion in revenue by 2018.
Valuation: 47 million Valuation: Based on net assets The UK currently experiences a significant undersupply of new houses.
Loosening planning regulations, measures to improve mortgage availability Multiple of cost: 1.5x and a stable macro-economic environment have created favourable conditions for an investment in the housebuilding sector.
IRR: 14% Location: UK In the financial year to June 2016, CALA delivered record revenue and operating profit for the fourth consecutive year, with growth of 15% and 17% Website: www.
co. uk cala-group respectively, whilst the companys return on capital also continued to improve.
The group now has a controlled land bank of over 15,000 plots with a potential Management: Alan Brown, CEO: GDV of 5.5 billion.
Manjit Wolstenholme, Chairman 58 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 PREMIER ASSET MANAGEMENT In 2007 Electra made a 33 million minority equity and debt investment in Date of initial investment: Sep 2007 the take-private of Premier.
In 2009 Electra made a further 24 million equity investment to support the acquisition of two OEICs from Aberdeen Asset Type of deal: Buyout Management.
In 2014 Electra sold a majority shareholding in Premier to funds under the management of Elcot Capital Management for a consideration Equity ownership: 25% comprising 20 million in cash and 26 million of preference shares while Original cost: 57 million retaining an equity interest of 25%.
In October 2015 Premier redeemed 4 million of preference shares.
In October 2016 Premier successfully completed an initial Amount realised: 25 million public offering IPO on the AIM market of the London Stock Exchange.
Electra sold just over 75% of its holding in the IPO, receiving cash proceeds of Valuation: 46 million 36 million and continues to hold approximately 8% of the issued share capital Valuation: Based on multiple of the company, which had a valuation at the offer price of 10 million.
of earnings Premier is a retail asset manager, with the bulk of its assets under management Multiple of cost: 1.3x AUM in branded retail funds, of which the largest franchises are in multi-asset, UK equities, global equities and fixed income.
IRR: 3% The retail investment market displays growth drivers including demographic and Location: UK regulatory change from which Premier is well placed to benefit due to its strong Website: www.
co. uk, product portfolio and investment performance.
The intention remains to accelerate growth by investing in sales and marketing and by exploring other Management: Mike OShea, CEO: opportunities to extend the scope of the business.
Mike Vogel, Chairman Following a strong performance in the financial year to September 2015, with AUM and profits growth of 34% and 48% respectively, Premier has continued its success in growing assets.
AUM now stand at 5.0 billion thanks to strong fund performance and distribution as well as a favourable demand environment.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 59 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview HOLLYWOOD BOWL GROUP formerly The Original Bowling Company In September 2014 Electra made a 50 million equity investment in the Date of initial investment: Sep 2014 91 million management buyout of Hollywood Bowl Group from private shareholders and CBPE Capital.
In December 2015 Hollywood Bowl completed Type of deal: Buyout the acquisition of Bowlplex, adding 10 ten-pin bowling centres to the existing portfolio.
Electra invested 10 million by way of a mezzanine loan to finance the Original equity cost: 50 million acquisition.
Later in the same month Electra invested a further 11 million to Equity proceeds: 155 million pre-emptively acquire a portion of Hollywood Bowl Groups senior debt, at a discount to par, from one of its lenders who was exiting the senior debt market.
Remaining valuation: 44 million In September 2016 Hollywood Bowl Group successfully completed an initial public offering IPO on the main market of the London Stock Exchange, Equity multiple of cost: 3.9x valuing Electras equity and debt investments in the group at 217 million.
Equity IRR: 101% On admission Electra received cash proceeds of 153 million from the sale of its equity investment as well as 22 million from the repayment of the two debt Valuation: Based on listed share price instruments.
In addition Electra continues to hold approximately 18% of the issued share capital of the company with a valuation at 30 September 2016 of Location: UK 44 million.
Website: Hollywood Bowl Group operates 54 ten-pin bowling centres under the www.
com Hollywood Bowl, AMF and Bowlplex brands.
The company offers high-quality Management: Steve Burns, CEO: bowling centres, predominantly located in leisure or retail parks, which offer Peter Boddy, Chairman a complete family entertainment experience with restaurants, licenced bars and state-of-the-art family games arcades.
Ten-pin bowling is a robust and growing part of the UK leisure sector, offering opportunities for further expansion through new openings.
Hollywood Bowl Group is the UK market leader and has grown ahead of the market thanks to its history of investment in sites and customer experience, as a result of which its estate is well positioned to make further advances.
Trading at Hollywood Bowl Group continues to be strong.
In October the business announced revenues to September 2016 including the Bowlplex sites were 22% up on the prior year.
Performance has been driven by growth in the core estate, the centre refurbishment programme, an improved food and beverage offer and higher amusement spend.
60 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 DAVIES GROUP In 2011 Electra invested 36 million in equity in the 60 million management Date of initial investment: Sep 2011 buyout of Davies Group from LDC.
A further 3 million was invested in December 2013 to fund the acquisition of Garwyn.
Since this acquisition, Type of deal: Buyout Davies has acquired three further businesses: ALA in Ireland: MFS, a leading defendant of motor related claims: and Argent, a provider of specialist casualty Equity ownership: 58% services.
Electra provided a further 1 million to support this M&A programme.
Original cost: 40 million Davies is a leading insurance services provider.
It delivers third party Amount realised: 1 million administration TPA and specialist technical services to insurance intermediaries, the Lloyds market, UK & global insurance companies, and large Valuation: 43 million self-insured businesses.
The 750-strong team manages more than 160,000 Valuation: Based on multiple claims per annum across the UK & Ireland.
It works with more than 100 clients, helping them control and manage in excess of 1.2 billion of annual claim cost of earnings across property, casualty, motor and niche insurance classes.
In addition to its Multiple of cost: 1.1x third party administration services, it provides integrated technical services including loss adjusting, surveying, fraud detection, and supply chain solutions.
IRR: 2% The current focus of Davies is on the broker, MGA and Lloyds market and the Location: UK development of selective additional business areas both organically and Website: www.
The companys strategy is to invest in technology and other service improvement and extension initiatives in order to become a partner Management: Dan Saulter, CEO: of choice for insurers increasingly outsourcing claims management.
Adrian Hill, Chairman Davies has continued to make strong progress following the business transformation initiated in 2013.
During the year to June 2016 revenues grew by nearly 40% whilst profits more than doubled.
Growth has been driven by new business wins coupled with reduced attrition: by recent acquisitions, which have successfully broadened Daviess service offering: and by margin improvements.
Two further acquisitions, Surveyorship and Core Claims, were completed in July and September respectively: both were financed by bank facilities.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 61 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview PINE Electra first invested in PINE in 2005 in order to exploit an identified opportunity Date of initial investment: Jun 2005 to create a new institutionally acceptable property asset class in conjunction with an experienced property specialist and a nursery school operator.
Type of deal: Co-investment PINE initially comprised a sale and leaseback property investment portfolio of Equity ownership: 99% nursery schools let on index-linked leases to nursery school operators, as well Original equity cost: 31 million as a nursery school operating business.
Equity amount realised: 19 million The objective is to expand PINEs investment focus to the education sector generally, in order to broaden its appeal and range of exit options.
In 2015 PINE Equity valuation: 40 million made its first investment outside the nursery sector when it acquired a property Equity multiple of cost: 1.9x relating to two special educational needs schools operated by Priory Group.
In March 2016 PINE acquired a further two nursery school freeholds and now Equity IRR: 13% owns a portfolio of over 30 properties leased to education providers with a value of more than 80 million.
Original debt cost: 13 million Debt amount realised: 13 million In March 2016 PINE entered into a new 41 million borrowing facility which allowed the repayment of 20 million to Electra through redemption of Valuation: Derived from property outstanding loan notes and buy back of units.
PINEs properties have performed investment value robustly amid the general slowdown in the UK property sector and they remain an attractive investment with their unexpired lease lengths of 20 years plus, Location: UK indexed rents and strong unit covenants.
com Management: Harry Hyman, CEO Nexus Group 62 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 HOTTER SHOES In January 2014 Electra invested 84 million in equity in the management Date of initial investment: Jan 2014 buyout of Hotter Shoes from Stewart Houlgrave, the companys founder, and Gresham LLP.
Type of deal: Buyout Established in 1959, Hotter is Britains largest shoe manufacturer and sells over Equity ownership: 61% two million pairs of shoes each year in the UK and internationally in stores, Original cost: 84 million in catalogues and online.
The company, with a strong focus on comfort and service, serves customers whose age, health or lifestyle are such that they Amount realised: 2 million require more cushioned and supportive footwear.
Valuation: 31 million Hotter is a growth business whose sales had more than doubled in the four Valuation: Based on multiple years prior to the buyout, driven by demographic change in particular of earnings population ageing, international growth and the rapid roll-out of a retail store estate in the UK.
These growth drivers offer significant further opportunity.
Multiple of cost: 0.4x Profits fell in the year to January 2016, and again in the first half of the current IRR: 31 % financial year, due to operational challenges and some difficulties with scaling processes and systems to the increasing size and complexity of the business.
Location: International This was compounded by generally difficult conditions in the UK clothing retail Website: www.
A number of steps have been taken in response, including the appointment of a new Chief Executive, who has strengthened Management: Sara Prowse, CEO: the leadership team and implemented a turnaround plan focused on cash, Alan White, Chairman inventory and cost management as well as retail performance improvement.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 63 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview KNIGHT SQUARE In 2012 Electra made a 22 million equity investment in the 62 million Date of initial investment: Mar 2012 acquisition of Knight Square formerly known as Peverel, the UKs leading property management services group, from its administrators.
In October Type of deal: Buyout 2014 the company completed a refinancing that allowed it to make loan repayments of 14 million to Electra.
Equity ownership: 50% Original cost: 22 million Knight Square, is one of the UKs leading property services businesses.
Through its FirstPort business, the group provides general management Amount realised: 14 million services to almost 4,000 retirement and other residential developments across the UK.
Through Appello, it also provides telecare and telehealth Valuation: 25 million installation and monitoring services that allow people to live independently Valuation: Based on multiple in their own homes.
of earnings Knight Square is the leader in a robust market.
At the time of investment, the Multiple of cost: 1.8x intention was to invest in process and service improvement initiatives in order to enable the business to solidify this leadership position.
With much of this IRR: 16% work now complete, the focus is on targeting opportunities to grow not only as a result of demographic change but also by taking advantage of the Location: UK companys nationwide coverage and economies of scale.
com, Group revenue and profits growth were 4% and 1% respectively in 2015.
Management: Paul Lester CBE, FirstPort has made considerable improvements to its service delivery, which Chairman were reflected in a substantially improved customer retention rate and new business development success in 2015.
This has continued into the current year albeit with some headwind in the form of weakness in the UK residential property market.
Appello has made progress in implementing its growth strategies and has successfully completed the integration of Call24, the call monitoring centre in the South West acquired in 2015: however profitability has reduced as a result of operational disruption following a flawed systems implementation.
64 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016
