Strategic Report The Strategic Report provides a review of the Companys business, strategy and performance during the year to 30 September 2016, and of its strategy going forward.
It also considers the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company.
References to other sections of this Report and Accounts are provided where appropriate.
Strategy in the year to 30 September 2016 and Strategic Review Throughout the year under review the Company continued to operate as an approved Investment Trust with its business and affairs managed on an exclusive and fully discretionary basis by Epiris Managers LLP Epiris or the Manager.
The conduct of the business was managed by the Manager in accordance with the Management and Investment Guideline Agreement MIG between the Company and the Manager.
Under these arrangements the objective of the Companys investment strategy and policy is to achieve a rate of return on equity of between 10% and 15% per year over the long term by investing in a portfolio of private equity assets.
On 25 January 2016, the Board announced that it would conduct a strategic review of the Companys structure, investment strategy and policy the Strategic Review.
The review was the first such fundamental review of the business that had been conducted for 10 years.
On 12 May 2016, the Board appointed Neil Johnson as non-executive Chairman and Director of the Company, replacing Interim Chairman Dame Kate Barker.
Following further consultation with a leading firm of executive search consultants, the Board announced additional changes to its composition with the appointments of the independent Directors David Lis and Paul Goodson in May 2016, Linda Wilding on 1 December 2016 and Dr John McAdam with effect from 1 January 2017.
On 26 May 2016, the Company published its Interim Update on the Strategic Review.
In order to strengthen its corporate governance structure, the Board elected to establish an executive function to provide it with ongoing support including the provision of administrative and analytical support in relation to the review process.
As part of this process, the Board appointed the non-Executive Director Edward Bramson as unpaid interim Chief Executive Officer: Gavin Manson was subsequently appointed as Chief Financial Officer on 8 August 2016.
To provide the Board with the flexibility to put in place any potential changes as an outcome of the review without any undue delay, the Board also elected to serve notice of termination of the MIG and the related limited partnership agreement.
The MIG provides for a notice period of 12 months ending 31 May 2017 the Notice Period during which time Epiris continues to provide the same administrative and investment management services as previously.
The impact of the termination of the MIG on fee structure was reversion back to the structure in place prior to 1 April 2015, whereby the Company pays the Manager 1.5% on assets held in cash rather than nil and 1.5% is paid on non-core investments rather than 1% as well as 1.5% on core assets.
Pursuant to the terms of the MIG, the Company has reserved 32 million as a termination payment due to Epiris on 31 May 2017.
This termination payment is in addition to the management fees which will be paid to Epiris to 31 May 2017.
The partners of Epiris continue to participate in co-investment and carried interest schemes and will be entitled to carried interest on portfolio assets as at 31 May on their subsequent disposal with a 20% reduction in the effective rate.
These schemes are explained in more detail in Notes 21 and 22 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 7 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview As a consequence of the terms of the MIG the Board is unable to access management or detailed financial information in respect of portfolio company investments.
As such the output of the Strategic Review is being presented in two phases, the first based on analysis of publicly available historical information and the second based on detailed analysis of and discussion with, portfolio companies.
Result of Strategic Review Phase 1 The Board published the outcome of Phase 1 of the review on 14 October 2016.
As part of this announcement, the Board made a number of key recommendations: The Company intends to migrate from a listed investment trust to a corporate structure over a period of time to be determined.
This is intended to result in reduced expenses and reduced discounts to underlying portfolio value The business will create a robust and sustainable corporate governance structure by returning direct control of all executive and investment functions to the Board from 1 June 2017 Following the previous appointment of a CEO and CFO, the Company is to develop its own internal resources to assume all operating responsibilities from June 2017.
There will be no change to the investment strategy or structure of the Company in the interim period A review of the Companys portfolio Phase II will commence in June 2017, or earlier should Epiris agree to grant the Company access to the portfolio companies financial information and management teams The Company intends to follow a flexible capital base model in order to optimise shareholder returns.
On 8 November 2016 the Company initiated the process for an initial 200 million return of capital to shareholders by way of a tender offer which closes on 21 December 2016.
This return of capital was approved by shareholders on 2 December and is a first step to improving the Companys capital allocation policy.
Rationale for Proposed Strategy Over the course of Phase 1 of the review, the Board identified a number of systemic issues facing the company through its existing structure: Expenses Discounts Reinvestment Risk Capital Allocation Expenses The current operating model includes a number of different layers of fees and expenses.
Under the current structure a gross portfolio return of approximately 21% per annum is required to deliver circa 15% NAV growth, in the long-term.
In 2016 4.6% of the gross investment return went to fees and expenses, which amongst other things, contributed to the reduction of the 46% gross investment return to the 35% total return.
8 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 Discounts The current listed private equity investment trust valuation includes the application of two levels of significant discount to asset valuation: In evaluating the Fair Value of each of Electras investee companies, the Manager reflects points of difference between each investee company being valued and its comparator companies by adjusting the multiple, typically by applying a discount, implied by the market valuation of comparator companies before using it to value each investee company: Sustained tendency in the industry for listed private equity funds to trade at a fairly significant discount to NAV.
On a 5 and 10-year average, the Company has traded at an average discount of approximately 15% and 20% respectively.
Reinvestment risk As a permanent capital vehicle, the closed-end investment trust model encourages retention of capital with the need to invest throughout investment cycles.
Incentivised reinvestment of this nature may negatively impact shareholder returns by encouraging investment at high valuations which subsequently decline.
Capital allocation Capital allocation is currently constrained by a focus on the value of assets under management AUM, rather than return on shareholders capital.
This distortion could encourage corporate asset gathering at the expense of capital return, discourages progressive dividends and penalises intra-portfolio capital transfers from cash producers to cash consumers.
In recent years, whilst meeting its performance targets, Electras performance has been supported by the increase of FTSE 250 multiples from 15.2x at 30 September 2011 to 23.5x at 30 September 2016.
The Board consider that there is a significant risk to future performance should this growth not be maintained.
Excluding this risk over future performance, analysis of shareholder returns, assuming on target future investment performance, indicates that the currently realisable value of the portfolio is likely to exceed shareholder returns over the next three year period based on continuation as is.
In addition, it is considered that certain of the portfolio assets may have the potential for value creation not currently reflected in realisable value.
Taking these matters into account the Board considers that shareholder value can be optimised by: Focusing on value creation through a buy, improve and sell strategy: Operational improvements in portfolio assets to be achieved through controlling interests and active management: Removal of market valuation inefficiency through corporate structure: Implementation of an internal management function scaled and costed appropriately: Implementation of best practice corporate governance with direct Board oversight of investments: Capital allocation policy based on returning capital to shareholders when market conditions restrict the Companys ability to deliver on its return objectives: Additional capital from shareholders for investment driven by a high conviction to deliver targeted returns.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 9 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview The Board considers that adoption of these actions would result in: Recurring expense savings in excess of 20 million per annum going forward: Elimination of carried interest on new investments from June 2017, which totalled 122 million in the year to 30 September: Reduction of share price discounts to the portfolios underlying value: A flexible capital allocation policy focused on shareholder returns: Improved capability to generate portfolio operating improvements: Increased transparency of underlying earnings and dividend paying capability: and Improved share liquidity and valuation through a broader shareholder base.
Phase II of strategic review Consultation with shareholders regarding the future strategic direction of the Company and capital allocation policy commenced in November 2016.
Termination of the contracts with Epiris will become effective on 31 May 2017.
Phase II of the Review will begin in June 2017, or earlier should Epiris agree to grant the Company access to the portfolio companies financial information and management teams.
It is the Companys intention to identify and act on any subsequent recommendations as early as possible.
Phase II will maintain the principal objective of maximising long-term shareholder value by, inter alia, undertaking a detailed operating review of the portfolio companies then held, establishing the new capital allocation policy, and proposing a revised compensation plan if necessary to maintain alignment of management interests with the optimisation of return on shareholders capital.
Additionally, the Board will set out a timetable for migration to a new corporate structure.
Shareholder approval for this and other items will be sought, as required.
Principal Risks and Risk Management Risk Management The role of Epiris as AIFM of the Company under the AIFMD means that it is responsible for risk management and the ongoing process of identifying, evaluating, monitoring and managing the risks facing the Company in accordance with the requirements of the AIFMD.
The Board keeps Epiris performance of these responsibilities under review as part of its overall responsibility for the Companys internal controls and will be putting in place appropriate alternative regulated processes as part of its transition arrangements.
The Board and Epiris consider that the risks detailed below are the Principal Risks facing the Company currently along with the risks detailed in Note 18 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
The Board and the Manager can confirm that the Principal Risks of the Company, including those which would threaten its future performance, solvency or liquidity, have been robustly assessed throughout the year ended 30 September 2016, and that processes are in place to continue this assessment.
Macroeconomic Risks The performance of the Companys investment portfolio is materially influenced by economic conditions.
These may affect demand for products or services supplied by investee companies, foreign exchange rates, the price of commodities or other input costs, interest rates, debt and equity capital markets and the number of active trade and financial buyers.
All of these factors have an impact on the Companys ability to realise its investment portfolio and the level of return realisable.
10 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 Foreign Currency Risks A proportion of the Companys investment portfolio, comprising investments in the USA and Continental Europe, is denominated in currencies other than Sterling.
Movements in foreign exchange rates may therefore affect the Companys net assets, as detailed in Note 18 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
The Board regularly reviews the Companys foreign exchange exposure together with the most cost-effective approach to hedging such exposure.
The use of derivatives to hedge specific foreign exchange transactions may be considered where the timing and quantum of cash flows is known.
At 30 September 2016 the Company had no foreign exchange hedges in place.
Foreign exchange exposures also exist across the Companys investment portfolio as a result of the denomination of revenues, costs, assets and liabilities in different currencies.
The Manager works with the Companys investment portfolio to make use of natural, financing and derivative hedges to mitigate these exposures.
Transition Risk The Company is subject to a number of potential risks relating to the transition from a fund with an external investment manager to a corporate structure, which could impact performance and the Companys ability to meet the expectations of shareholders.
There is a risk that Phase II of the Strategic Review, which will include quantifying the operating improvement potential of the controlled portfolio, could create uncertainty within portfolio companies about the Companys plans for the individual businesses and that this uncertainty could impact the individual businesses performance.
The Company will address this through direct and supportive communication as soon as possible during the transition.
To ensure an effective and swift transition, the Company gave the Manager notice of termination on 26 May 2016 Interim Update on Strategic Review.
Phase II will commence upon expiry of the MIG at end of May 2017 but could be brought forward with the Managers agreement to reduce further the period of uncertainty.
The transition period could impact the Managers own performance and focus on value creation.
The Manager has deep experience and is staffed with people of high calibre and professionalism.
The Manager is incentivised, through fees and carried interest, to focus on growth in NAV and the value of the underlying portfolio companies.
The Board, through its Audit Committee, Valuations Committee and now executive function reviews performance with the Manager on a regular basis.
The Company is working to ensure that its internal resource is of sufficient skill and calibre to ensure an effective transition and that the Board has the full complement of skills to provide oversight and strategic guidance.
The creation of the necessary internal resource commenced with the appointment of an interim Chief Executive Officer on 26 May 2016 and the appointment of a Chief Financial Officer on 8 August 2016.
On 14 October 2016, in its announcement on the results of the Strategic Review, the Company provided an outline of the internal resource that would be required to effect an effective transition.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 11 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview The Board reorganisation to ensure effective governance and oversee the transition was completed on 18 November 2016 with the announcement of the appointments of Linda Wilding and Dr John McAdam as Non-Executive Directors with effect from 1 December 2016 and 1 January 2017 respectively.
Linda Wilding has extensive experience in the private equity investment and healthcare sectors, while Dr John McAdam has held senior leadership roles in global businesses in a wide range of industry sectors, including the role of CEO of ICI.
These appointments, like the appointments of David Lis, formerly a CIO at Aviva Investors, and Paul Goodson, formerly managing director of Barclays UK Private Equity business, announced in May 2016, and Chairman Neil Johnson, whose extensive career spanned a number of executive and advisory roles, ensure that the Company has in place a Board of exceptionally high calibre and experienced independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Company also intends to put in place a Risk Committee, whose terms of reference will encompass risk monitoring, management and reporting.
The Company, under the leadership of Edward Bramson, is consulting with shareholders to define and design the compensation plan for the executive management team to align management interests with the return on shareholders capital.
This plan will be reviewed by the Remuneration Committee, comprised solely of independent NonExecutive Directors, before being put to shareholders for approval should amendment to the Remuneration Policy being proposed at the forthcoming AGM be required.
Long-term Strategic Risks The Company is subject to the risk that its long-term strategy and its level of performance fail to meet the expectations of its shareholders.
The Board is undertaking a thorough review of the Companys investment strategy and policy and its structure, with the objective of maximising long-term shareholder value.
Phase I of the Strategic Review was announced in October 2016: Phase II will commence in June 2017 or earlier with the Managers agreement.
Investment Risks The performance of the Companys portfolio is influenced by a number of factors.
These include but are not limited to: i the quality of the initial investment decision: ii the quality of the management team of each underlying portfolio company as well as the ability of that team successfully to implement its business strategy: iii the success of Epiris and, from June 2017, the executive team, in building an effective working relationship with each team in order to agree and implement value-creation strategies: iv changes in the market or competitive environment in which each portfolio company operates: and v the macroeconomic risks described above.
Any one of these factors could have an impact on the valuation of an investment and on the Companys ability to realise the investment in a profitable and timely manner.
Epiris has in place a rigorous investment process which ensures disciplined investment selection and portfolio management.
This includes detailed due diligence, regular portfolio reviews and in many cases an active engagement with portfolio companies including by way of board representation.
Portfolio Diversification Risk The Company is subject to the risk that its portfolio may not be sufficiently diversified by being too heavily concentrated in any one sector or industry, particularly in relation to the UK economy where the majority of its investments are located.
Epiris attempts to mitigate this risk by portfolio diversification, including by making investments in accordance with the Objective and Investment Policy which requires that investments will be made across a broad range of sectors and industries and specifies that at the time of investment not more than 15% of the Companys investments will typically be invested in any single investment and if the Company acquires a portfolio of companies in a single transaction, this limitation shall be applied individually to each of the underlying companies purchased.
12 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 The Board will conduct a thorough review of the portfolio companies in Phase II of the Strategic Review to maximise long-term shareholder value, following which it will initiate a clear strategy to deliver optimised returns.
Valuation Risk The valuation of investments in accordance with IAS 39 and IPEV guidelines requires considerable judgement and is explained on pages 103 to 104.
Operational Risk The Companys investment management, custody of assets and many administrative systems are currently provided or arranged by Epiris.
The Company is thus exposed to a range of operational risks including those relating to human resources, legal and regulatory matters, information technology systems, business disruption or shortcomings in internal controls.
With effect from the end of May 2017, the Company will assume these responsibilities itself.
An executive management team is being established, utilising, where appropriate, the expertise of leading executive search consultants, to ensure that the Company has in place the skills and processes to ensure effective management of the Companys business activities and full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.
The leadership team an experienced CEO and CFO are in place, as are the core finance team, and further appointments will be made to ensure a smooth transition process and ongoing effective management.
The Companys current system of internal control mainly comprises the monitoring of the services provided by Epiris, including the operating controls established by them to ensure they meet the Companys business objectives.
A reorganisation of the Board to ensure that it has people with sufficient calibre and expertise to fulfil its future oversight and strategic responsibilities was completed on 18 November 2016.
Further information is included in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 138 to 145.
Gearing Risks Gearing is used across the Companys investment portfolio.
One of the principal risks of gearing is that it can cause both gains and losses in the asset value of portfolio investments to be magnified.
Another significant risk associated with gearing is the potentially severe impact on portfolio investments of any breaches of their banking covenants.
Secondary risks relate to whether the cost of gearing is too high and whether the contracted terms of the gearing, including those relating to the terms of borrowings is appropriate.
Epiris actively monitors gearing across the investment portfolio, including working closely with management teams to ensure that the terms of any borrowing facilities are being observed and maintaining relationships with the lenders who make facilities available.
Cash Drag Risk Returns to the Company through holding cash deposits are currently low.
As investments are realised and proceeds retained as cash deposits there is increasing risk to future achievement of the targeted rate of return on equity of between 10% and 15% per year.
The risk of this cash drag in future periods escalates as the proportion of cash deposits increases in comparison to the size of the Companys private equity investments portfolio.
The Company intends to manage this risk through the return of capital to shareholders should it be necessary or optimal, in line with the existing Investment Policy.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 13 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview Viability Statement The Directors have carefully assessed the Companys current position and prospects as described in the Chairmans Statement, the Investment Highlights and Portfolio Review, the Market Review and the Financial Review as well as the Principal Risks stated above and have formed a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next three financial years.
The particular factors the Directors have considered in assessing the prospects of the Company and in selecting a suitable period in making this assessment are as follows: The Company presently invests primarily in long-term illiquid investments which are not publicly traded.
When making a new investment the anticipated holding period can be five years or more.
The Board reviews the liquidity of the Company and regularly considers commitments to private equity investments, long-term cash flow projections and the use of gearing.
As detailed in the Corporate Governance Statement, the Valuations Committee oversees the valuation process carried out by Epiris.
Typically, the medium-term prospects of each portfolio company form an important part of the valuation process.
As also detailed in the Corporate Governance Statement, the Board reviews the performance of the Manager and future executive team.
A thorough review of the Companys investment strategy and policy and its structure with the objective of maximising long-term shareholder value is underway.
Taking account of the above factors of anticipated investment holding periods, the term periods of gearing facilities of both the Company and its portfolio companies, the liquidity of the Company, the valuations and medium-term prospects of its portfolio companies and the activities and performance of the Manager, the Directors have formed a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next three financial years.
In making this assessment, the Directors have assumed that the threats to the Companys solvency or liquidity incorporated in the Principal Risks will be managed or mitigated as outlined there.
14 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 Community, Social, Employee, Human Rights and Environmental Issues In carrying out its activities and in its relationships with the community, the Company aims to conduct itself responsibly, ethically and fairly, including in relation to social and human rights issues.
As an investment trust, with limited internal resource the Company has little impact on the environment.
However the Company believes that high standards of corporate social responsibility CSR make good business sense and have the potential to protect and enhance investment returns.
Consequently, Epiris investment process ensures that social, environmental and ethical issues are taken into account.
Electra recognises and supports the view that social, environmental and ethical best practice should be encouraged.
Board Diversity There are currently six male Directors and one female Director on the Board.
Upon Dr John McAdam joining the Board on 1 January 2017 there will be seven male Directors and one female Director on the Board.
The Company aims to have a balance of relevant skills, experience and background amongst the Directors on the Board and believes that all Board appointments should be made on merit and with due regard to the benefits of diversity, including gender.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 15 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview Performance and Prospects Performance A number of Key Performance Indicators KPIs are considered by the Board and Epiris in assessing the Companys success in achieving its objectives.
These KPIs are: Return on equity over the long term The Companys objective is to achieve a return on equity of between 10% and 15% per year over the long term.
Over the 10 years to 30 September 2016 the Companys annualised diluted NAV per share return was 14%.
The NAV per ordinary share total return The Companys net asset value per share total return was 35% over the twelve months and 255% over the ten years to 30 September 2016.
These compared with 28% and 35% respectively by the Morningstar Private Equity Index.
The share price total return The Companys share price total return was 36% over the twelve months and 237% over the ten years to 30 September 2016.
These compared with 34% and 15% respectively by the Morningstar Private Equity Index, 17% and 76% respectively by the FTSE All-Share Index and 10% and 136% respectively by the FTSE 250 Index.
Further details on the KPIs are shown on pages 2 to 3 of this Annual Report.
Further information on the Companys performance is given in the Chairmans Statement, the Investment Highlights and Portfolio Review and the Financial Review on pages 4 to 6, 26 to 41, and 65 to 67 respectively.
Prospects The Companys current position and prospects are described in the Chairmans Statement, the Investment Highlights and Portfolio Review, the Market Review and the Financial Review sections of this Annual Report, on pages 4 to 6, 26 to 42, and 65 to 67 respectively.
Neil Johnson Chairman 8 December 2016 16 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 Audiotonix Audio mixing console manufacturer Photograph taken at the 2012 London Olympics.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 17 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview
