Realisations DALER-ROWNEY In 2011 Electra made a 17 million equity investment in support of the buyout Date of initial investment: Mar 2011 of Daler-Rowney from private shareholders.
Electra invested a further 3 million in 2014 in order to provide additional liquidity.
Date of realisation: Feb 2016 Headquartered in Bracknell, Berkshire, Daler-Rowney is one of the largest Type of deal: Buyout suppliers of fine art materials in the world.
The company has a long history of Original cost: 20 million product innovation its history dates to 1783 and its comprehensive product range includes artists paints, brushes, papers and canvases which meet the Proceeds: 33 million needs of artists of all kinds, from beginners to professionals.
The company manufactures its products in the UK and the Dominican Republic and sells Multiple of cost: 1.7x in more than ninety countries worldwide.
IRR: 12% The investment strategy was to continue organic growth, with investment Location: International in product development and in sales and marketing, and to grow through acquisition.
In 2013 the company acquired the business of Dr. Fr.
co. uk GmbH & Co, a leading manufacturer of fine arts colours under the Lukas and Management: Patrick Giraud, CEO Nerchau brands, thus becoming the market leader in German-speaking Europe.
Following a period of underperformance in 2014, Epiris strengthened the management team and initiated a performance improvement programme.
These actions cemented the companys attractive positions in niche markets, improved its operational and financial performance, and created good growth prospects for the years to come: as a result the business was well positioned for an exit to a strategic buyer.
Electra received proceeds of 33 million from the sale, representing an uplift of 168% on the valuation at 30 September 2015 and equivalent to a return of 1.7x original cost, a 12% IRR.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 45 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview KALLE In 2010 Electra made a 10 million 9 million equity investment in the Date of initial investment: Feb 2010 216 million acquisition of Kalle.
In 2013 a refinancing of the business returned 7 million 6 million to Electra.
Date of realisation: April 2016 Headquartered in Wiesbaden, Germany, and operating from fifteen production Type of deal: Co-investment facilities across nine countries, Kalle is a market leader in the production of Original cost: 9 million artificial casings for sausages, with strong positions in the viscose, textile and plastic product segments.
Proceeds: 29 million Kalle has a portfolio of high-quality products and a pipeline of new innovations.
Multiple of cost: 3.2x It operates in defensive markets which benefit from robust demand in IRR: 22% developed markets, and growing demand in emerging economies, for low-cost protein sources.
Further growth opportunities exist by virtue of increasing Location: Germany penetration of artificial casings.
fide In July 2016 Kalle was sold to a financial buyer with Electra receiving proceeds Management: of 23 million.
Together with proceeds received from the refinancing of Kalle in 2013, Electras total proceeds from this investment were 29 million.
This Dr Carsten Heldmann, CEO: equates to a return of 3.2x cost, an IRR of 22%.
Peter Fearn, non-executive Chairman 46 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 ZENSAR TECHNOLOGIES In 1997 Electra invested US$9 million in the equity of an unquoted subsidiary Date of initial investment: Sep 1997 of Mumbai-listed parent, Zensar Technologies.
In 2001 the listed parent closed down its operations and the unlisted subsidiary performed a reverse merger.
Date of realisation: Oct 2015 This resulted in Electra owning shares in the listed entity.
Type of deal: Co-investment Zensar is a provider of software development services to large corporates, Original cost: 4 million offering both an onsite and an offsite service.
Onsite services consist of contracts, whereby Zensar provides software engineers to work on customers Proceeds: 89 million premises mainly in the US and UK whereas for the offsite business the work is undertaken by Zensars software professionals located in its software Multiple of cost: 19.3x development centres in India.
IRR: 18% As an early entrant to the software services market and having established Location: International strong customer relationships and a good reputation, Zensar was well positioned to be able to grow in the sector.
The company has an acquisition Website: www.
com strategy to add niche capabilities and to bulk up.
Management: Ganesh Natarajan, CEO: Today the company employs over 8,000 people at 20 locations around the Harsh Goenka, Chairman globe.
The company has a global reach operating in the US, Europe, Africa, Middle East, Singapore and Australia and has delivery centres in India Pune, Hyderabad, Delhi and Bangalore, South Africa, the UK, Amsterdam and the USA Westborough.
In October 2015 Electra sold its interest in Zensar for a consideration of 82 million.
Together with 7 million of proceeds from dividends and sales of shares, this generated a total return of 19x original cost, an IRR of 18%.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 47 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview
