Board of Directors Peter Johnson Lindsley Ruth David Egan Chairman Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director Joined in October 2010 Joined in April 2015 Joined in March 2016 External roles External roles External roles Peter is Vice-Chairman of the None.
David is a Non-Executive Director of Supervisory Board of Wienerberger AG, Tribal Group plc and Chairman of its Past roles having been a Member since 1995.
Previously, Lindsley was Executive Vice Past roles Past roles President of the Future Electronics Previously, Peter was Chairman of DS Group of companies, the fourth largest Previously, David was Group Finance Smith plc, a Non-Executive Director of electronics distributor in the world.
He Director at Alent plc and also held a SSL International plc, Chief Executive of joined them in 2002 and was a key variety of senior finance positions at George Wimpey plc and Chief Executive member of their core leadership team.
ESAB Holdings and Hanson plc.
Lindsley has also held senior positions Skills and experience with TTI Inc and Solectron Corporation.
International operations Skills and experience Skills and experience Emerging markets International operations Management Recent financial experience Emerging markets Leadership Distribution Mergers and acquisitions Mergers and acquisitions Manufacturing Distribution International operations Mergers and acquisitions Sales and marketing Emerging markets Service industry Manufacturing Distribution Service industry Committee membership Sales and marketing Chairman Chairman of the Treasury Committee.
Manufacturing Chief Executive Officer Supply chain and procurement Committee membership Committee membership Chairman of the Nomination Member of the Treasury Committee.
32 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Corporate Governance Rupert Soames Bertrand Bodson Karen Guerra Senior Independent Director Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Director Director Joined in July 2007 Joined in June 2015 Joined in January 2013 External roles External roles External roles Rupert is Group Chief Executive at Bertrand is Chief Digital Officer at Karen is a Non-Executive Director of Serco Group plc.
Home Retail Group the owner of Argos Amcor Limited and Davide Campariand Habitat.
Past roles Past roles Past roles Previously, Rupert was Group Chief Executive of Aggreko plc, Chief Previously, Bertrand has held a number Previously, Karen was a Non-Executive Executive of the Banking and Securities of senior eCommerce positions, Director at Swedish Match AB, Division of Misys plc and a Nonincluding leading global and digital Inchcape plc, More Group plc and Executive Director of Baggeridge Brick marketing responsibilities at EMI Samlerhuset Group BV.
He was also Chief held senior executive positions at Executive Officer at Bragster, which is Colgate-Palmolive, including Managing Skills and experience now part of Guinness World Records.
Director and Chairman of both their UK International operations and French businesses.
Skills and experience Emerging markets Skills and experience Digital Digital Manufacturing eCommerce International operations Service industry International operations Sales and marketing Chief Executive Officer Product development Manufacturing Sales and marketing Service industry Committee membership Supply chain and logistics Committee membership Member of the Audit, Nomination and Committee membership Remuneration Committees.
Member of the Audit, Nomination and Member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
com Electrocomponents plc 33 Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2016 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Board of Directors Paul Hollingworth John Pattullo Ian Haslegrave Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive General Counsel and Director Director Company Secretary Joined in May 2008 Joined in January 2013 Joined in September 2006 External roles External roles External roles Paul is a Non-Executive Director of John is Chairman of NHS Blood and None.
Volution Group plc and Chairman of its Transplant, Non-Executive Chairman of Past roles Audit Committee.
Marken Group, Chair of In Kind Direct Previously, Ian was International Legal a Princes Charity and on the Board of Past roles Director at Viacom Outdoor Limited.
GWR UK Acquisition Company Limited Previously, Paul was Group Chief He has also worked at United Biscuits owner of the Freightliner Group.
Financial Officer of Thomas Cook Limited and Freshfields Bruckhaus Past roles Group plc and prior to that he was Deringer.
Chief Financial Officer of Mondi Group.
Previously, John was on the Board Skills and experience He has also held positions as Group of CEVA Group plc and also served International operations Finance Director of BPB plc, fide La Rue as Chief Executive Officer of CEVA Mergers and acquisitions plc and Ransomes plc.
He was also Chief Executive Corporate law and governance Officer of the Europe, Middle East and Skills and experience Risk management Africa division of Exel and when Exel International operations Procurement was acquired by Deutsche Post DHL Emerging markets Manufacturing he went on to run the combined Exel Recent financial experience Service industry and DHL contract logistics business Mergers and acquisitions Committee membership in EMEA.
He spent most of his early Corporate law and governance Member of the Treasury Committee.
career working in supply chain Manufacturing management roles with Procter & Service industry Gamble.
Committee membership Skills and experience Chairman of the Audit Committee.
International operations Member of the Nomination and Emerging markets Remuneration Committees.
Supply chain and logistics Manufacturing Service industry Chief Executive Officer Committee membership Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
