New Investments PHOTOBOX GROUP In January 2016, Electra invested 89 million in the acquisition of Photobox Date of initial investment: Jan 2016 alongside Exponent Private Equity.
The balance of the financing of the transaction was provided from bank facilities arranged by both firms.
Type of deal: Buyout Photobox is Europes leading digital consumer service for personalised Equity ownership: 37% products and gifts.
It enables millions of customers to share memories by Original cost: 89 million turning their digital photographs into a range of personalised products and gifts, from traditional prints and greetings cards to photobooks, calendars Amount realised: 2 million and canvases, using the groups websites, installed software and mobile applications.
Products are manufactured at one of the groups five production Valuation: 102 million facilities and sold across Europe through the PhotoBox, Moonpig, Sticky9, Valuation: Based on multiple Hofmann and posterXXL brands.
of earnings Photobox is the European market leader and due to its scale is well placed to Multiple of cost: 1.2x capture further market growth, which is expected to continue as a result of the growth in digital photography as well as an increased propensity to purchase IRR: 27% personalised products.
Our strategy is to accelerate growth through improving the rate and economics of customer acquisition as well as through product Location: Europe innovation, and to ensure that growth is delivered effectively and efficiently.
com Performance in the financial year to April 2016 was ahead of the Epiris Management: Jody Ford, CEO: investment case and the start to the current financial year has been similarly Douglas McCallum, Chairman positive.
Jody Ford, formerly at eBay, joined the company as CEO in July 2016 as part of the planned management succession.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 43 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview RETIREMENT BRIDGE GROUP In May 2016, working alongside Patron Capital, Electra invested 45 million Date of initial investment: May 2016 in the acquisition of Retirement Bridge Group, formerly known as Grainger Retirement Solutions.
Type of deal: Co-investment Retirement Bridge is a consolidator and servicer of home reversion equity Equity ownership: 50% release plans with a portfolio of more than 3,500 properties across the UK.
Original cost: 45 million The investment offers an attractive risk-adjusted return benefiting from a cash yield and downside protection from the high level of asset backing.
Amount realised: 1 million The intention is to optimise the return from the existing portfolio and to Valuation: 47 million explore opportunities for organic and acquisition-led growth.
Valuation: Based on net assets Since acquisition the company has been successfully separated from its Multiple of cost: 1.1x former parent and the management team has been complemented through the appointment of Steve Groves, formerly CEO of Partnership Group plc, as IRR: 16% Chairman.
Performance since acquisition has been in line with expectations Location: UK and the management team is focused on both growth and operational improvement initiatives.
Website: n a Management: Paul Barber, CEO: Steve Groves, Chairman 44 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016
