Report of the Directors To the Members of Electra Private Equity PLC The Directors present the audited Financial Statements of the Group for the year ended 30 September 2016 and their Report on its affairs.
In accordance with the requirement for the Directors to prepare a Strategic Report and an enhanced Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2016, the following information is set out in the Strategic Report on pages 7 to 16: a review of the business of the Company including details about its objective, strategy and business model, details of the principal risks and uncertainties associated with the Companys activities, information regarding community, social, employee, human rights and environmental issues and the Companys policy regarding Board diversity.
Information about Directors interests in the Companys ordinary shares and or Subordinated Convertible Bonds all the outstanding Bonds having been converted into new ordinary shares in the Company on 29 December 2015 is included within the Annual Report in the Remuneration section of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 124 to 137.
Results and Dividends A revenue profit attributable to shareholders of 5,155,000 2015: profit of 28,573,000 was transferred to Revenue Reserves.
In line with the Companys distribution policy as revised in 2015 following a review of the Companys capital structure, distribution policy and fee arrangements with Epiris, a final dividend of 78p per ordinary share in respect of the year ended 30 September 2015 2014: nil was paid on 26 February 2016 to shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of business on 22 January 2016.
An interim dividend for the year to 30 September 2016 of 44p per ordinary share 2015: 38p was paid on 24 June 2016 to shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of business on 13 May 2016.
The Board has declared a second interim dividend of 110p per ordinary share in respect of the year ended 30 September 2016 2015: nil, making a total payment for the year ended 30 September 2016 of 154p per ordinary share 2015: 116p.
The second interim dividend will be paid on 19 January 2017 to shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of business on 16 December 2016 please note that the Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP option will not apply to the second interim dividend due to be paid on 19 January 2017.
Management Arrangements Epiris is appointed as the Manager of the Company under an agreement dated 12 October 2006 and amended on 11 July 2014 to facilitate compliance with AIFMD regulations and as further amended to facilitate Electras review of its capital structure, distribution policy and fee arrangements with Epiris on 10 February 2015 the Management Agreement.
Epiris is also responsible for the investment management of a number of limited partnership funds to which the Company has subscribed.
Epiris manages the Companys investments in accordance with guidelines determined by the Directors and as specified in limited partnerships and the management and investment guideline agreements.
On 26 May 2016, the Board announced an interim update on the review of the Companys investment strategy and policy and its structure, which was announced on 25 January 2016 with the objective of maximising long-term shareholder value the Review.
As part of this, the Board announced that, in order to provide the Board with the flexibility to put in place any potential changes as an outcome of the Review without any undue delay, it had served notice of termination of the Management and Investment Guideline Agreement MIG and the related limited partnership agreement under which management of the Companys operations and investments is wholly outsourced to Epiris.
The Board stated that it continued to explore a range of options including retaining the services of Epiris as investment manager under a mutually acceptable agreement.
The MIG provides for a notice period of 12 months the Notice Period during which time Epiris has continued to provide the same administrative and investment management services as previously, although there have been some constraints on the rate of new investments.
On 14 October 2016, the Board announced that termination of the contracts with Epiris would become effective on 31 May 2017 and that the Board would return control of all executive and investment functions to the Board with the migration to a corporate structure and related consolidated financial reporting.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 117 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview Under the management agreement Epiris receives a management fee equal to 1.5% per annum on the gross value of Electras investment portfolio, except that there is no management fee payable on cash and the management fee on Non-Core Listed and Primary Fund Investments is 1% per annum.
In addition, members of Epiris receive a carried interest of 18% of net profits on Direct Investments and 9% on Primary Fund Investments, subject to Electra receiving a return of 8% per annum on the relevant investment pool.
Details of the carried interest and co-investment schemes for executives of Epiris are contained in Notes 21 and 22 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
The terms of the agreement with Epiris are that the agreement may be terminated by either party giving notice of not less than 12 months.
Since the Company has given notice to terminate the Management Agreement, Epiris is entitled to receive additional compensation equivalent to 12 months priority profit share determined by reference to the previous 12 months priority profit share.
As part of the Board Review which was announced in February 2015, it was agreed that by way of a transitional arrangement, on 12 months notice being given up to and including 31 May 2017, compensation payable to Epiris under the termination provisions would be calculated on the basis of the fee structure existing prior to 1 April 2015.
These arrangements will apply up to the date of termination at 31 May 2017.
During the year the Company continued to operate carried interest and co-investment schemes for executives of Epiris and details of these schemes are contained in Notes 21 and 22 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
As part of Epiris long-term succession plan, Steve Ozin has replaced Hugh Mumford as a Keyman under the relevant limited partnership agreement.
Share Capital On 29 December 2010 the Company issued 100 million of 5% Subordinated Convertible Bonds due 29 December 2017 at an issue price of 100 per cent and with an initial conversion price of 2,050 pence.
As a consequence of the payment of the interim dividend to ordinary shareholders on 24 July 2015, with effect from 4 June 2015 the conversion price of the Bonds was adjusted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Bonds to 2,025 pence.
During the year to 30 September 2016, the Company exercised its right to a Mandatory Conversion of all of the outstanding Bonds in issue into new ordinary shares.
Accordingly during the year to 30 September 2016, 85,369 Bonds were converted into 4,215,593 new ordinary shares in the Company 2015: 11,165 Subordinated Convertible Bonds were converted into 547,187 ordinary shares.
At 30 September 2016 there were 40,270,531 ordinary shares of 25p each in issue.
The Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
Authority to Make Market Purchases of Shares As at 30 September 2016, the Company had authority to purchase for cancellation up to 6,036,552 shares.
This authority will lapse at the 2017 Annual General Meeting when it is intended that a Special Resolution will be proposed to renew the Companys authority to make market purchases of its own shares.
During the year the Company did not purchase any shares for cancellation.
On 8 November 2016, the Company announced its intention to return up to 200 million of capital to shareholders by way of a tender offer, subject to shareholder approval which will be sought at a General Meeting to be held on 2 December 2016.
A separate circular was sent to shareholders on 8 November 2016 with full details of the tender offer and the General Meeting.
Multi-Currency Loan Facility On 14 June 2016, the Company announced that, having carefully reviewed its cash position, it had decided to cancel its 275 million multi-currency revolving credit facility RCF.
At the time, the RCF was undrawn and no payment was required as a result of the cancellation.
Cancellation of the RCF is expected to result in annual savings to the Company of approximately 3.3 million in fees.
118 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 Directors The current Directors of the Company are listed on pages 150 to 151.
Roger Perkin served as a Director throughout the year ended 30 September 2016.
On 5 November 2015, the Company held a General Meeting, which had been requisitioned by its largest shareholder, Sherborne Investors Sherborne.
At this meeting, two nominees of Sherborne, Edward Bramson and Ian Brindle, were elected to the Board as non-executive Directors.
Following the conclusion of the General Meeting, Roger Yates resigned as a non-executive Director and Chairman of the Company and Dame Kate Barker an existing Director of the Company was appointed Chairman in his place.
On 23 November 2015, Geoffrey Cullinan resigned as a non-executive Director of the Company.
On 12 May 2016 Neil Johnson was appointed as a non-executive Director and Chairman of the Company.
On 26 May 2016 David Lis and Paul Goodson were appointed as non-executive Directors of the Company.
On 2 June 2016 Josyane Gold resigned as a non-executive Director of the Company.
On 20 June 2016 Dame Kate Barker and Francesca Barnes both resigned as non-executive Directors of the Company.
No other person was a Director of the Company during any part of the year.
On 18 November 2016 the Board of the Company announced the appointments of two further non-executive Directors of the Company: Linda Wilding with effect from 1 December 2016 and Dr John McAdam with effect from 1 January 2017.
All of the Directors including John McAdam intend to retire at the Annual General Meeting in 2017 and, being eligible, offer themselves for election or re-election as appropriate.
In addition, it is proposed that, subject to the approval by shareholders of a Remuneration Policy for executive Directors see the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 124 to 137, Mr Gavin Manson, who was appointed as Chief Financial Officer on 8 August 2016, be appointed as a Director of the Company at the Annual General Meeting.
Directors Conflicts of Interest Directors report on actual or potential conflicts of interest at each Board meeting.
The Board has agreed that the Remuneration and Nomination Committee is responsible for considering and reviewing conflicts of interest.
Any Director or Directors with a potential conflict would be excluded from such a review.
After consideration, if required, the Remuneration and Nomination Committee would subsequently make a recommendation to the Board of Directors.
Directors Indemnity Directors and Officers Liability insurance has been put in place.
In addition, the Company provides, subject to the provisions of applicable UK legislation, an indemnity for Directors in respect of costs incurred in the defence of any proceedings brought against them and also liabilities owed to third parties, in either case arising out of their positions as Directors.
This was in place throughout the financial period under review, up to and including the date of the Financial Statements.
Substantial Interests The Company has received the following notifications of interests of 3% or more in the voting rights attached to the Companys ordinary shares: Voting Rights Notified Percentage of Voting Rights Direct No.
Direct % Indirect % Sherborne Investors Management Guernsey LLP and its associates 11,426,086 28.37 Prudential PLC Group of Companies 3,637,169 9.03 Invesco Limited 2,271,141 5.63 Investec Wealth & Investment Limited 1,289,876 3.20 Percentage shown as a percentage of 40,270,531 ordinary shares, being the number of shares in issue at the latest practicable date before the publication of this Directors Report.
Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions for the Year ended 30 September 2016 Electra has a staff of four employees, operating from small serviced office premises.
Accordingly, it does not have any greenhouse gas emissions to report from the operations of the Company, nor does it have responsibility for any other emissions producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013, including those within its underlying investment portfolio.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 119 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview Statement of Disclosure of Information to Auditors Each of the Directors confirms that so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware and they have taken all steps they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
Independent Auditors As described in the Report of the Audit Committee, the Company put the audit contract out to tender during the year and, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Board agreed to appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company with effect from the audit of the Companys Financial Statements for the year ending 30 September 2017, subject to approval by the members at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to be held on 23 March 2017.
A separate resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting authorising the Directors to determine the remuneration of the Auditors.
Going Concern The Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
The Viability Statement of the Company is in the Strategic Report on pages 7 to 16.
Risk Management and Internal Controls Details of the Companys risk management and internal control arrangements, including the Boards annual review of the effectiveness of the system of the Companys risk management and internal control arrangements are contained in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 138 to 145.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on Thursday 23 March 2017.
The formal notice of the Annual General Meeting is set out in a separate circular, which will be posted to shareholders with the Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 September 2016.
Authority to Purchase own Shares It is intended that a special resolution will be proposed to renew the Boards authority to purchase its own shares, so as to permit the purchase of up to 6,036,552 of the Companys ordinary shares or such other number of shares as is equal to 14.99% of the total number of ordinary shares in issue at the date of the passing of the resolution subject to the constraints set out in the special resolution.
The Directors would intend to use this authority to purchase shares only if this would result in an increase in net asset value per share and would be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Should any shares be purchased under this authority, it is the intention of the Board that such shares be cancelled.
The Directors believe that the renewal of the Boards authority to purchase shares, as detailed above, is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole and therefore recommend shareholders to vote in favour of this resolution.
4 requires the Company to include certain information in a single identifiable section of the Annual Report or a cross reference table indicating where the information is set out.
The following disclosures are made in accordance with this requirement: i details of the C ompanys proposed Long-Term Incentive Plan are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 124 to 137: ii details of Directors fees waived by Mr Bramson are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 124 to 137.
The Directors confirm that there are no further disclosures to be made in this regard.
Additional Information for Shareholders Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of the Companys current Articles of Association the Articles and applicable English law concerning companies the Companies Act 2006 Companies Act.
This is a summary only and the relevant provisions of the Articles or the Companies Act should be consulted if further information is required.
120 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 Alteration of Articles of Association Any change to the Companys Articles of Association needs to be approved by shareholders by means of a special resolution.
Share Capital The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary shares of 25 pence each.
The shares are in registered form.
Dividends and Distributions Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies such payment.
The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends payable in respect of the Companys shares from a person with a 0.25% interest of a class of shares if such a person has been served with a notice after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interest in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act.
Voting Rights Subject to any rights or restrictions attached to any shares, on a show of hands, every member who is present in person has one vote and every proxy present who has been duly appointed has one vote.
However if the proxy has been duly appointed by more than one member entitled to vote on the resolution, and is instructed by one or more of those members to vote for the resolution and by one or more others to vote against it, or is instructed by one or more of those members to vote in one way and is given discretion as to how to vote by one or more others and wishes to use that discretion to vote in the other way he has one vote for and one vote against the resolution.
Every corporate representative present who has been duly authorised by a corporation has the same voting rights as the corporation would be entitled to.
On a poll every member present in person or by duly appointed proxy or corporate representative has one vote for every share of which he is the holder or in respect of which his appointment as proxy or corporate representative has been made.
A member, proxy or corporate representative entitled to more than one vote need not, if he votes, use all his votes or cast all the votes he uses the same way.
In the case of joint holders the vote of the senior who tenders a vote shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders, and seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names of the holders stand in the register of members.
A member is entitled to appoint another person as his proxy to exercise all or any of his rights to attend and to speak and vote at a meeting of the Company.
The appointment of a proxy shall be deemed also to confer authority to demand or join in demanding a poll.
Delivery of an appointment of proxy shall not preclude a member from attending and voting at the meeting or at any adjournment of it.
A proxy need not be a member.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by him.
Restrictions on Voting No member shall have the right to vote at any general meeting or at any separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares, either in person or by proxy, in respect of any share held by him unless all amounts presently payable by him in respect of that share have been paid.
In addition if a person with a 0.25% interest of a class of shares has been served with a notice after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interest in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act 2006 the member shall not be entitled to vote.
Deadlines for exercising Voting Rights Votes are exercisable at a general meeting of the Company in respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by corporate representative.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of a proxy form in hard copy and electronic form of not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
In the case of a poll taken subsequently to the date of the meeting or adjourned meeting, the proxy form must be received not less than 24 hours or such shorter time as the Directors may determine before the time appointed for the taking of the poll.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 121 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview Variation of Rights The Articles specify that if the capital of the Company is divided into different classes of shares, rights attached to any class may be varied, either in such manner if any as may be provided by those rights: or in the absence of any such provision, with the consent in writing of the holders of three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class excluding any shares of that class held as treasury shares, or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class, but not otherwise.
At every such separate meeting other than an adjourned meeting the quorum shall be two persons together holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class in question excluding any shares of that class held as treasury shares.
At an adjourned meeting, the quorum shall be two persons holding shares of the class in question other than treasury shares or his proxy.
Transfer of Shares The instrument of transfer of a share in certificated form may be in any usual form or in any other form which the Directors approve and shall be executed by or on behalf of the transferor and, where the share is not fully paid, by or on behalf of the transferee.
Where any class of shares is, for the time being, a participating security, title to shares of that class which are recorded on an operator register of members as being held in uncertificated form may be transferred by means of the relevant system.
The transfer may not be in favour of more than four transferees.
Transfers of shares in uncertificated form are effected by means of the relevant system.
The Directors may, in their absolute discretion, refuse to register the transfer of a share in certificated form which is not fully paid provided that if the share is listed on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority such refusal does not prevent dealings in the shares from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a share in certificated form whether fully paid or not unless the instrument of transfer: a is lodged, duly stamped, at the Office or at such other place as the Directors may appoint and except in the case of a transfer by a financial institution where a certificate has not been issued in respect of the share is accompanied by the certificate for the share to which it relates and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: b is in r espect of only one class of share: and c is in fa vour of not more than four transferees.
If the Directors refuse to register a transfer of a share, they shall as soon as practicable and in any event within two months after the date on which the transfer was lodged with the Company in the case of a transfer of a share in certificated form or the date on which the Operator-instruction was received by the Company in the case of a transfer of a share in uncertificated form to a person who is to hold it thereafter in certificated form send to the transferee notice of the refusal together with reasons for the refusal.
The Directors shall send such further information about the reasons for the refusal to the transferee as the transferee may reasonably request.
Nothing in the Articles shall preclude the Directors from recognising a renunciation of the allotment of any share by the allottee in favour of some other person.
Appointment and Replacement of Directors Unless otherwise determined by the Company by ordinary resolution the number of Directors disregarding alternate Directors shall not be less than three nor more than fifteen.
At the annual general meeting in every year all Directors who held office at the time of each of the two preceding annual general meetings and who did not retire at either of them shall retire from office by rotation and such further Directors if any shall retire by rotation as would bring the number retiring by rotation up to one-third of the number of Directors in office at the date of the notice of the meeting or, if their number is not a multiple of three, the number nearest to but not greater than one third.
The additional Directors to retire shall be those who have been longest in office since their last appointment or reappointment, but, as between persons who became or were last reappointed Directors on the same day, those to retire shall unless they otherwise agree among themselves be determined by lot.
Any non-executive Director other than the chairman who has held office as a non-executive Director for nine years or more shall retire from office at each annual general meeting and shall be eligible for reappointment.
A Director who retires at an annual general meeting may be reappointed.
If he is not reappointed or deemed to have been reappointed, he shall retain office until the meeting elects someone in his place or, if it does not do so, until the close of the meeting.
122 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 If the Company, at the meeting at which a Director retires under any provision of the Articles, does not fill the vacancy the retiring Director shall, if willing to act, be deemed to have been reappointed unless at the meeting it is resolved not to fill the vacancy or a resolution for the reappointment of the Director is put to the meeting and lost.
The office of a Director shall be vacated if a Director: i becomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors generally: ii is prohibited by law from being a Director: iii has a cour t order made in respect of his mental health which wholly or partly prevents him from exercising powers or rights which he would otherwise have: iv sends a notice t o the Company that he is resigning or retiring from his office and such resignation or retirement has taken effect: v sees his appointment at an executive office terminated or expiring and the Directors resolve that he should cease to be Director: vi is absent without per mission of the Board from meetings of the Board for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that the office is vacated: or vii notice is served upon a Director in writing by all other co-Directors.
Powers of the Directors Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company will be managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
The Directors shall restrict the borrowings of the Company and exercise all powers of control exercisable by the Company in relation to its subsidiary undertakings so as to secure that the aggregate principal amount including any premium payable on final repayment outstanding of all money borrowed by the Company and its subsidiaries shall not at any time, save with the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution of the Company, exceed i the amount paid up or credited as paid up on the share capital of the Company or ii the total of any credit balance on the distributable and undistributable reserves of the Company and its subsidiaries, subject to certain adjustments.
The Company may by ordinary resolution declare dividends in accordance with the respective rights of the members, but no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
Subject to the provisions of the Articles and to the rights attaching to any shares, any dividends or other monies payable on or in respect of a share may be paid in such currency as the Directors may determine.
The Directors may deduct from any dividend payable to any member all sums of money if any presently payable by him to the Company on account of calls or otherwise in relation to shares of the Company.
The Directors may retain any dividends payable on shares on which the Company has a lien, and may apply the same in or towards satisfaction of the debts, liabilities or engagements in respect of which the lien exists.
Significant Agreements: Change of control If there is a no fault termination by the Company of the Management Agreement between the Company and Epiris, dated 12 October 2006, as amended on 11 July 2014 to facilitate compliance with AIFMD regulations, and as further amended on 10 February 2015 to facilitate the Boards review of the Companys capital structure, distribution policy and fee arrangements with Epiris within 24 months of a change of effective control of the Company, 100% of the carried interest which has accrued as at the date of termination will be payable to the members of Epiris over three years and any future additional carry on existing investments will vest at 80% and will be paid on the realisation of investments when it becomes due in the ordinary course.
By order of the Board of Directors Frostrow Capital LLP, Company Secretary Paternoster House, 65 St Pauls Churchyard, London, EC4M 8AB 8 December 2016 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 123 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview
