Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Group performance Revenue Revenue Effect of Increase restated exchange decrease Revenue 2015 rates 2015 2016 $million $million $million $million Specialty Products 453.2 7.6 14.8 460.4 Chromium 181.1 12.3 168.8 Surfactants 53.8 0.7 10.0 43.1 Inter-segment 10.9 1.9 12.8 677.2 8.3 9.4 659.5 Operating pro t Operating profit Effect of Increase Operating restated exchange decrease profit 2015 rates 2015 2016 $million $million $million $million Specialty Products 79.9 3.9 2.8 78.8 Chromium 48.0 20.9 27.1 Surfactants 4.5 0.1 5.2 0.6 Central costs 10.9 0.6 0.8 11.1 121.5 3.2 24.1 94.2 after adjusting items see note 5 restated see note 31 In our Specialty Products segment, sales were up 3 per cent In the Surfactants segment, operating pro t declined from over2015 on a constant currency basis, although this progress $4.5 million to a loss of $0.6 million.
Volumes were 13 per cent masks some varied sector performance within this segment: lower as Chinese textile and leather market demand softened, whilst some speci c customer orders were lower.
We have In Energy the impact of the low oil price mainly on North takensteps to lower costs at the Delden site and are conducting American drilling saw constant currency sales reduce by astrategic review of the options for this business, which 16 per cent.
The second half did see some recovery in volumes offers exible manufacturing capabilities across a wide range versus the second half of 2015 as the oil price rise boosted ofchemistries.
activity and we should see this modest momentum carry over into 2017.
Looking at our overall financial performance, the strong cash generation of the Group was a stand out with our year end net In Coatings constant currency sales growth of 4 per cent cash balance at $77.5 million, enabling us to return cash to wassupported by a strong performance in China, which saw shareholders by way of a special dividend.
something of a rebound after the impact of destocking in 2015.
However, reported results from Asia were impacted by the So a decline in 2016 due to dif cult markets in important parts of stronger US dollar.
our business headwinds in Chromium, the low oil price affecting Our Americas activities continued to see growth in decorative Energy demand and the impact of foreign exchange on US dollar coatings with New Martinsville products being a driver as well pro ts.
Looking ahead, I am convinced we cannot rely on the asa modest recovery in Latin America.
Overall, sales growth external environment getting better.
Equally, underlying growth in inthe region was 2 per cent at constant currency.
the rest of our business has been limited.
In EMEA soft market conditions limited growth, but despite thatwe achieved a 3 per cent constant currency sales growth, helped by a strong distributor performance, particularly in southern Europe.
The stand out performer in our Specialty Products segment wasPersonal Care, which achieved a 14 per cent growth inconstant currency sales.
This was accomplished through improved sales in all geographies, with particularly strong growth in Asia, of our new Rheoluxe line of products and strong sales into aerosol anti-perspirants and colour cosmetics.
restated see note 31 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 5 Chief Executive Of cers overview continued Our strategic priorities Pursue best growth Pursue supply chain Innovate for Create a culture of opportunities transformation distinctiveness high performance and high margins Global KAM Address disadvantaged Sustain innovation leadership Structure assets Coatings Asia Deliver new productpipeline Process Manufacturing productivity Personal Care global growth Systematic performance Pursue procurement savings management In 2016 we completed a strategy review on our Specialty Products Our priorities are set out below.
business and deeply analysed both Chromium and Surfactants.
Allof this work has been undertaken with a good balance of 1.
Pursue best growth opportunities outsider input, fresh thinking and contributions from our We have selected three big areas of focus.
This has allowed us to get really clear on where we can improve and I would highlight the following areas: Global key account management This is all about accelerating and globalising how we work and We are quite dependent on business cycles and we need to grow with our major customers.
continue to nd ways to make the business more resilient.
Over the last ten years the large regional coatings companies have We have been a little unfocused in our investment of money globalised.
We want to grow with these companies by developing andpeople in some areas such as Personal Care, Sales aconsistent global approach led by cross functional key account andTechnology.
teams that are focused on meeting clear goals.
Growth opportunities, for example with our larger accounts andin Asia outside China, have not got the focus they need.
Coatings Asia Our functions have been dispersed regionally and have missed We have an established operation in China and we are the clear out on the chance to have a global focus and agenda.
leader in the market, servicing customers through an experienced We have a number of assets which tie up capital but do not sales force.
The opportunity for Elementis is twofold: expanding generate the returns we need we need to make clearer choices into the rest of Asia and building our decorative coatings activities about which assets we improve and which have adifferent future.
Underpinning all that, we need to ensure our organisation is set Personal Care global growth upto succeed and that we run our businesses with a culture of In 2016 we made this sector report directly to me.
committed more resources to support growth.
These opportunities to improve translate into a set of four strategic We have a unique position with our hectorite mine.
Hectorite priorities that we set out in November 2016.
These priorities, taken organoclay is a very important ingredient to give cosmetics together, articulate how we will reignite growth at Elementis.
productsthe right viscosity or rheology.
Just a small amount of it in a product gives it the right texture and makes it look and feel good.
None of these rely on hope or the environment getting better but on Hectorite gives Elementis a real competitive advantage: its colour is us executing really well.
Today is a low growth world and I dont see white, itis all natural and its chemistry is very ef cient and versatile.
any signs of that changing.
We cannot rely only on the hope that Thesecharacteristics make it a highly valued ingredient in personal customer markets will be strong or that we will grow much faster care and we see major opportunities to further expand and grow.
In short, we must also focus on self help.
Next to hectorite, we have recently launched a range of new synthetic rheology modi ers called Rheoluxe.
We used the expertise from our Coatings group to launch these associative thickeners in Personal Care.
6 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information In addition to organic growth which we believe can achieve double We need to continue to strengthen our R&D pipeline of high value digit growth over the medium term, we announced in February projects.
We have eliminated a signi cant number of small projects 2017 the proposed acquisition of SummitReheis.
This will provide a with the intent of focusing on fewer, bigger and more material material and complementary addition to our Personal Care sector.
opportunities to ensure the new products we do choose to get SummitReheis is a high quality, high margin specialty chemicals behind are the most compelling.
We manage this prioritisation on business that produces a range of critical active ingredients and aquarterly basis.
materials tailored for use in personal care, pharmaceutical and dental products.
Create a culture of high performance Beyond the organisational changes we have made, we are SummitReheis anti-perspirant actives business more than makingfurther changes to improve the way we run the business.
60percent of its sales is the global leader in the manufacture and For example, our capital allocation can be more productive: sale of active ingredients for anti-perspirants and has long standing wehave introduced a stage gate process for managing capital relationships with key consumer product companies across the projects and are re-focusing our spend to those areas that Americas, Europe and Asia.
supportstrategy execution and are the most attractive.
It offers enhanced growth potential driven by the combination of The new global Marketing and R&D functions are now ensuring complementary products, customers and a broader geographical people and investment is spent on a clear pipeline that is presence which together offer cross-selling opportunities.
A high performance culture involves strong performance management: clear targets and measurement, ensuring 2.
Pursue supply chain transformation accountability rests clearly with individuals and rewarding success.
We have a good set of assets that are run safely.
We are implementing standard management information and reporting to measure and manage performance in a common way.
Our Chromium sites are globally cost competitive due to low cost energy and economies of scale, production cycles can easily be By focusing on these four priorities we believe we can improve switched on or off to meet demand shifts, and have a exible earnings and returns, whilst delivering improved cash ow and product mix.
All the sites in the US are positioned well to service maintaining a strong financial position.
Summary For Specialty Products, whilst we have a number of advantaged In the short term market conditions will continue to be an important sites, we also have identi ed a number of sites that are neutral or factor in results given our current Chromium and Energy cyclical disadvantaged.
We have to address those assets.
The end markets appear healthier than in the past of a site could mean investment, simpli cation of processes within couple of years but the key to our success will be not to depend the operations, product rationalisation or nding a lower cost option.
only on the markets but to focus on self help and ensure the culture of high performance permeates the organisation.
That gives me Transformation goes beyond our asset portfolio to improvements con dence that focusing on our strategic priorities will reignite inoperations.
This might involve: growth for the Company.
All of this is with the intent of creating value.
This is a strongly cash generative business that gives us resources.
We have shown great Improving utilisation.
discipline in the past, as shown in the dividend policy and record.
Sourcing products from the lowest cost supply chain.
We will continue to be highly disciplined.
It wont necessarily be Reducing cycle times.
asmooth progression with two parts of our portfolio exposed to Product rationalisation.
cycles, but what I can promise you is a relentless determination toimprove this business, even in a low growth world, and create Improving procurement spend.
Innovate for distinctiveness and high margins I strongly believe we can reignite growth earnings growth and We have a great technology base but need to invest in and focus better returns, translating into a strong cash ow and a more our innovation.
We have built industry leading expertise in four valuable business.
I hope you are as excited by the future of areas of technology: Elementis as I am.
Rheology is the control of the ow behaviour of materials.
Rheology modi ers bring this ow control to product formulations.
Paul Waterman Surface active chemistry is another area of technology CEO criticaltothe service we provide to customers.
Surface active 1 March 2017 compounds modify materials to improve their compatibility withother substances.
Designing and synthesising polymers that deliver properties ondemand.
Guiding and supporting customers in creating the formulations sold to the end user.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 7
