Directors report Report and financial statements It is also Group policy for employees who have a disability to The Directors submit their report and the audited financial reasonably accommodate them, where practicable, and to provide statements for the year ended 31 December 2016. training, career development and promotion, as appropriate.
This Directors report includes the Corporate governance reports It is Group policy not to discriminate on the basis of any unlawful from pages 30 to 59. criteria and its practices include the prohibition on the use of child or forced labour.
Strategic report, future development, GHG emissions andR&D Elementis supports the wider fundamental human rights of its The Strategic report can be found on pages 2 to 29. employees worldwide, as well as those of our customers and Thatreport, which forms part of this Directors report, suppliers, and further details are set out in the Corporate alsoincludes information about: responsibility report.
Compliance with the Modern Slavery Act will be published on the Companys corporate website later in the year.
Future developments in the business of the Group.
Employee communications and involvement Greenhouse gas emissions.
The Company is committed to employee involvement throughout R&D activities.
Employees are kept informed of the performance and strategy of the Group through email.
Telephone conference calls Takeover Directive disclosures are held by the CEO to employees worldwide and these serve as The management report, for the purposes of the UK Listing an informal forum for employees to ask questions about the Group.
Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules, comprises the following sections: the Strategic report, this Directors report, the The Company operates savings based share option schemes Directors responsibility statement and the biographical information inthe US and UK to encourage and support employee share on the Directors on pages 30 and 31. ownership.
Dividend Going concern Details about the final dividend for the year, as well as a special The Directors have assessed the Group as a going concern, dividend, are disclosed in the Chairmans statement on pages havinggiven consideration to the factors likely to affect its future 2and 3. performance and development, the Groups financial position and the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, including Directors and their share interests theGroups exposure to credit, liquidity and market risk and the The current Directors and their biographical details are detailed on mechanisms for dealing with these risks.
Changes to the Directors during the year and up to the date of this report, are set out below: The Groups net cash position at the year end of 2016 was $77.5million and it has access to a syndicated revolving credit Name Title Effective date facility of $100 million, which has an expiry date of October 2018.
David Dutro CEO Resigned 7 February 2016 There is a mechanism in the agreement for the facility to be increased by a further $100 million subject to other terms.
Paul Waterman CEO Appointed 8 February 2016 Ralph Hewins CFO Appointed 12 September 2016 Under this principal borrowing facility, the Group performs Brian Taylorson CFO Resigned 31 October 2016 covenant tests for net debt:EBITDA ratio, interest cover and net Sandra Boss NonAppointed 1 February 2017 worth.
No breaches in the required covenant tests were reported executive during the year.
The Group also uses various short and medium Director term forecasts to monitor anticipated future compliance and these Dorothee Deuring NonAppointed 1 March 2017 include stress testing assumptions to identify the headroom on executive these covenant tests.
Director After the year end and in connection with the acquisition of SummitReheis, the Group re nanced the above facility by replacing The interests of Directors in the share capital of the Company are it with a new $275 million revolving credit facility and a new term set out in the Directors remuneration report.
These new facilities were arranged through a syndicate of initially four banks for a period of five years Employment policies and equal opportunities and on terms that are in line with the Groups existing facility.
Elementis policies seek to create a workplace that has an open However, these new facilities are subject to the SummitReheis atmosphere of trust, honesty and respect.
discrimination of any kind based on race, colour, religion, gender, age, national origin, citizenship, mental or physical disabilities, The Directors are satis ed that, after considering all of the above, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other similarly protected itis appropriate for the Group and the Company to adopt the status is not tolerated.
This principle applies to all aspects of goingconcern basis of accounting in preparing these Group and employment, including recruitment and selection, training and the parent company financial statements, and that there are no development, promotion and retirement.
material uncertainties to the ability of the Group and Company to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date Employees are free to join a trade union or participate in collective of approval of the financial statements.
60 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Business viability statement The rules of the Companys various share incentive schemes set In accordance with Corporate Governance Code provision C. 2.2, out the consequences of a change of control of the Company on theDirectors have reviewed the Groups current position andcarried the rights of the participants under those schemes.
Under the rules out a robust assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties that of the respective schemes, participants would generally be able might threaten the business model, future performance, solvency toexercise their options on a change of control, provided that the and liquidity of the Group, including resilience to such threats, and relevant performance conditions have been satis ed and, where consider that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will relevant, options are not exchanged for new options granted by be able to continue in operation andmeet its liabilities as they fall due anacquiring company.
over a period of at least threeyears.
Substantial shareholders A period of three years was chosen as being consistent with As at 1 March 2017, the following interests in voting rights over the theGroups business and financial planning models, R&D plans, issued share capital of the Company had been noti ed.
anumber of key supply contracts and external borrowing facilities, and three years is the period used for mid-term business planning Percentage of issued purposes.
Whilst the Directors have no reason to believe that Ordinary ordinary theGroup will not be viable over a longer period, a three year shares share capital period allows the Directors to make the viability statement with AXA Investment Managers S. A.
46,255,532 9.98 areasonable degree of con dence whilst providing shareholders APG Asset Management N. V. 32,912,296 7.10 with an appropriate longer term outlook.
The Directors viability assessment of the Groups prospects is based on reviews of Blackrock, Inc 25,927,077 5.59 annual operating and three year business plans, the Groups Ameriprise Financial, Inc. strategy and strategic priorities, principal risks and how these anditsgroup 23,267,180 5.02 aremanaged and mitigated.
How these reviews were carried out, FMR LLC 23,192,771 5.00 theprincipal risks and how they are being managed are more Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 23,089,702 4.98 fullydescribed and explained in the risk management section oftheStrategic report on pages 17 to 21, together with relevant assumptions and quali cations.
Deloitte LLP were appointed the Companys auditors by shareholders at the 2016 AGM and a resolution is included in the Share capital Notice of Meeting for the 2017 AGM to re-appoint Deloitte LLP The Companys share capital consists of ordinary shares, as set asauditors.
All of the Companys issued ordinary shares are fully paid up and rank equally in all respects.
The rights The Directors who held of ce at the date of approval of this attached tothem, in addition to those conferred on their holders Directors report con rm that, in so far as they are each aware, bylaw, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys theArticles.
Other than those speci c provisions set out in the auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps Articles, there are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares that they ought to have taken as Directors to make themselves or on the exercise ofvoting rights attached to them.
From time to aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the time the ESOT holdsshares in the Company for the purposes of Companys auditors are aware of that information.
various share incentiveplans and the rights attaching to them are exercised byindependent trustees, who may take into account Political donations anyrecommendation by the Company.
As at 31 December 2016 The Group made no political donations during the year 2015: nil.
Aresolution is being proposed at the 2017 AGM to renew Adividend waiver is in place in respect of all shares that may theauthorisation from shareholders for the Company and become held by the Trust.
itssubsidiaries to make political donations or incur political expenditure up to a maximum annual limit of 50,000.
Directors, Articles and purchase of shares Informationabout this proposal is explained in the Notice of The Directors powers are conferred on them by UK legislation Meeting accompanying this Annual Report.
Rules about the appointment andreplacement of Directors are also set out in the Articles.
Directors con icts of interest Brian Taylorson, up until his resignation on 31 October 2016 as The Board has the power conferred on it by shareholders to CFO, was in receipt of a con ict authorisation from the Company purchase its own shares and is seeking renewal of that power inrespect of him acting as a trustee of the Elementis Group atthe forthcoming AGM within the limits set out in the Notice Pension Scheme.
Ralph Hewins, CFO, was appointed a trustee ofMeeting.
ofthe Elementis Group Pension Scheme in November last year andis also in receipt of a con ict authorisation from the Company.
Signi cant agreements change of control There are few signi cant agreements which the Company is party The con ict authorisation enables Ralph Hewins to continue to actas to that take effect, alter or terminate in the event of change of a trustee notwithstanding that this role could give rise to a situation in control of the Company.
The Company is a guarantor under the which there is a con ict of interest.
The Board considers that it is Groups existing $100 million revolving credit facility and, in the appropriate for the trustees of the UK pension scheme tobene t from event of a change of control, any lender among the facility the financial expertise of the CFO and that his contribution at trustees syndicate, of which there are four with commitments ranging from meetings demonstrates the Boards commitment to supporting the $20 million to $30 million, may withdraw from the facility and that UK pension scheme.
The Boards con ict authorisation is subject to lenders participation in any loans drawn down are required to be annual review and, under the terms of the con ict resolution, reciprocal repaid.
In respect of the replacement facilities see page 60, any provisions have been put in place with a view to safeguarding lender among the facility syndicate may withdraw from the facility information that is con dential to the Group as well as to the trustees.
and that lenders participation in any loans drawn down would be Were a con ict of interest to arise, Ralph Hewins is required to excuse required to be repaid.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 61
