Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 5.
Wai Wong Non-executive Director Age: 55 Company Secretary Committee membership: A, N, R Wai was appointed as Company Secretary in May 2007.
He is also Steve was appointed a non-executive Director in October 2014. a trustee of the Elementis Group Pension Scheme and manages Hehas been a non-executive director of Cape plc since July 2015 insurance, risk and corporate responsibility matters at Group level.
where he is chairman of the remuneration committee, Anglian Prior to joining Elementis, he held a number of senior company Water Services Limited since April 2015, and chairman of secretarial positions including at John Menzies plc, ICSA and Zotefoams plc since April 2016, having been a non-executive .
He has a BCom Honours degree in director since October 2014.
He was CEO of Low & Bonar plc, Business Studies and Law from the University of Edinburgh and an theindustrial textile manufacturing business, from 2009 to 2014.
LLM degree in Corporate and Commercial Law from Queen Mary Prior to joining Low & Bonar he spent ten years with BTP plc College, University of London.
He is a fellow of the Institute of nowpart of Clariant in a variety of leadership positions managing Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
He has a BA degree in Economics and Finance and is a chartered accountant.
Anne Hyland Non-executive Director Age: 56 Committee membership: A c, N, R Anne was appointed a non-executive Director in June 2013 and Chairman of the Audit Committee in August 2013.
She is CFO ofKymab Ltd, a biopharmaceutical company specialising in advanced therapeutic antibody discovery and development.
Previous to that, she was CFO and company secretary of BBI Diagnostics Group Ltd and Vectura Group plc.
Prior to her role at Vectura, she held a number of senior finance positions including 9 10 director of corporate finance at then FTSE 100 Celltech Group plc, Medeva plc and KPMG.
She is also a trustee of the charity 9.
Sandra Boss Sustrans which campaigns for national cycling networks.
Non-executive Director Age: 49 Anneisachartered accountant, a corporate tax adviser and Sandra was appointed a non-executive Director on holdsa degree in Business Studies from Trinity College, Dublin.
She is an external member of the Bank ofEnglands Prudential Regulation Authority board since 7.
She is also an independent director of Enstar Senior Independent Director Age: 64 Group Limited, aNASDAQ-listed insurance group, where she is Committee membership: A, N, R amember of itscompensation, nominating and governance Nick was appointed a non-executive Director in October 2014 committees sinceNovember 2015.
She was a senior partner andSenior Independent Director in December 2014.
He is a atMcKinsey &Company from 2005 to 2014 and a partner from non-executive director of Interserve plc and independent chairman 2000, where she specialised in investment banking and risk, of South East Water Limited.
He was a non-executive director of andheld several senior management positions both in the UK United Utilities Group plc between April 2005 and July 2014, where and the US since joining in 1994.
She has a BA degree in he was also the senior independent director between 2007 and American Studies and Economics from Stanford University and 2014.
He was chief executive of Cookson Group plc from July 2004 an MBA degree from Harvard Business School.
Sandra has also to December 2012 when Cookson demerged to create two new held non-executive and advisory appointments with the Institute listed companies.
He was formerly executive vice-president of of International Finance, the McKinsey Master Retirement Trust Alstom S. A. and chief executive of Babcock International Group plc.
and the Edith Wharton Restoration.
He held other senior management positions that included at GEC and GEC Alsthom in the UK and in France as well as at the China 10.
Dorothee Deuring Light and Power Company in Hong Kong.
Nick holds a BSc degree Non-executive Director Age: 48 in Mechanical Engineering and is a fellow of the Royal Academy Dorothee was appointed a non-executive Director on ofEngineering.
She is a non-executive director of Bil nger SE, aGerman listed industrial services provider where she is also David Dutro amember of its audit committee, and Rchling Group SE, Former Chief Executive Of cer, stepped down from the Board aprivately owned group processing engineering plastics both on7February 2016. since 2016, as well as managing her own corporate advisory consultancy serving a number of European clients in the Brian Taylorson pharma biotech sector.
Her previous executive roles included Former Chief Financial Of cer, stepped down from the Board managing director and head of Corporate Advisory Group on31October 2016.
Europe at UBS in Zurich, head of M&A chemicals and healthcare at a private investment bank in Germany and as a senior executive in the corporate finance department at the Roche group.
Dorothee has an MScdegree in Chemistry from the Universit Louis Pasteur, Strasbourg, and an MBA from INSEAD.
She is active in various industry bodies.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 31
