e r a C l a n o s r e P C h r s o t c m u i d u o y m r g P r Our business model Our business is What we do structured to strengthen value.
We make our customers formulations look, feel and perform at their best.
During the year werestructured Supply chain and manufacturing excellence Customer responsiveness is delivered by our organisation to create supported by a strong asset base where safety building and maintaining close relationships a atter and more accountable is aligned to operational performance.
with our customers so we can meet their structure that enables our needs quickly.
global functions to more Innovation that enhances our customers effectively deploy their expertise needs with proprietary technology, new Leadership which prioritises safety, to support better thebusiness.
product development and innovation pipeline, ethicalbehaviour and systematic supported by differentiated technical service .
Global key account and expertise.
management and our We operate within a disciplined financial Innovation for distinctiveness Distinctive assets and a unique asset base that framework to invest in the best opportunities.
focus will help develop are utilised to serve our customers better than andmaintain our customer our competitors.
relationships and this alongside improvements in supply chain and performance management, will help uscreategreater value.
We operate in three segments Specialty Products, Chromium and Surfactants, supported with More detail can be found in the global functions.
Specialty Products has three distinct sectors Coatings, Energy and Personal Care.
Specialty Products, Chromium and Surfactants split by revenue 2016 What this achieves Engaged customers A reputation for High and stable A capable and who want to work with providing high returns and strong committed workforce us due to our proactive qualityproducts cash generation that operates safely relationships and andservices.
toenhance and takes its social technical know how.
10 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 y e t l n a E i c e p S S u r f a c t a n t s s g n i t a o C Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information What makes us distinct Specialty Products Chromium Surfactants In our global R&D and technical service We are the only US producer of We work in niche volumes and our labs we work closely with our customers chromium chemicals with a strong Delden plant is equipped with specialist on product development to meet reputation for quality and operational equipment that alongside our expertise theirneeds.
excellence, with high levels of customer allows us to meet our customers needs.
We own the only high quality rheology grade hectorite mine in the world, Our unique delivery system in North providing a key raw material that has America allows us to deliver chromium certain molecular properties to enhance chemicals which is not only time and formulation ef ciency and rheology, cost ef cient but also reduces product iswhite in colour and all natural.
The markets we serve Coatings: industrial and decorative Paint and plastic pigment Oil eld production chemicals Energy: drilling and fracturing uids Roo ng and ceramic tiles Construction chemicals foroil and gas extraction Refractory Textile and leather Personal Care: anti-perspirants, Metal and plastic plating Water treatment nailpolish, mascara, eye shadow, Metal alloys lipsticks, creams, haircare and suncare Wood preservative Leather tanning What we make Rheological modi ers Chrome oxide Surface active ingredients Specialty additives Chromic acid Products used for intermediates in the production of chemical compositions Organoclays Chrome sulphate Defoamers Dichromate Adhesion promoters Waxes and resins Flow and levelling additives Dispersing wetting slip and coalescingagents Lanolin and other natural oil derivatives Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 11
