Chief Executive Of cers overview continued Strategic Strategic Global key priority: priority: account management Coatings Asia Our R&D centre in Hsinchu, Taiwan 2016 in action We have developed a consistent global approach led by cross-functional key account teams that are focused on meeting clear goals.
There is now a standard business model for Elementis that includes a common toolkit and plans for each account.
The KAM teams are focused on meeting these clear targets and will be measured against key milestones.
We have initiated quarterly leadership team meetings tomonitor progress and optimise resource allocation.
2016 in action Opportunities to grow our customers The investment we made in our castor wax facility in Hsinchu, % Taiwan, which manufactures our organic thixotropes range of products for the industrial coatings market, has generated 100 signi cant sales.
For the sixth consecutive year running we have won the 80 Other Other Ringier Technical Innovation Award in China.
We received this award due to our development of organic thixotropes.
60 This product improves sag resistance in performance coatings and can be utilised at lower temperatures resulting in 40 a shorter production cycle and lower manufacturing costs.
During the year we were awarded the HNTE Status Top 30 20 accounts HighNew Technology Enterprise Status by the Chinese Top 30 accounts government, and in Taiwan we successfully obtained 0 Regional R&D Centre Status by the Taiwanese government.
Elementis Global coatings coatings market Source: Kusumgar, Nerl & Growney Strategic Personal Care priority: global growth 2016 in action We have grown our Personal Care team to improve customerintimacy, build a local presence and bring better value to ourcustomers.
At the In-Cosmetics show in Paris, we launched Meadowderm, a unique functionally active anti-ageing ingredient for skin treatment.
We have grown sales in Asia by over 40 per cent with major success in China, where sales grew by nearly 70 per cent, and in India where sales were close to tripling.
To demonstrate our commitment to sustainability our Bentone Gel product range achieved Mass Balance certi cation in accordance with the standard of theRoundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil RSPO at theendof2016.
This adds to our RSPO certi cation fororganoclays received in 2014.
Our products are used in a number of personal care applications 8 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic Pursue supply chain priority: transformation 2016 in action We have made progress optimising the location of where wemake several products, rationalised 10 per cent of our materials and established improved operating mechanisms.
Production within our network of assets has been moved toimprove ef ciency and reduce cost.
Cycle times have been reduced to create free capacity.
Low investment debottlenecking activities to avoid large capacity expansions are being executed.
We are continuing to focus on procurement by expanding thenumber of raw material suppliers, looking at different geographies and moving away from sole sources to lower material costs.
Our New Martinsville plant in West Virginia, US Strategic Innovate for distinctiveness priority: and highmargins 2016 in action In 2016 R&D was primarily targeted to projects for our PersonalCare and Coatings sectors.
For Personal Care, new rheological additives for anti-perspirants, skin care and hair care were introduced.
Hectorite based products comprised the major fraction ofthese new rheology control materials.
New synthetic rheology modi ers, under the Rheoluxe brand, expanded our product offering and share in the skin and hair care markets.
Our research is aimed at further expansion of ourpresence in these markets.
New rheology modi ers, dispersants, wetting agents anddefoamers were sold to global customers for use in decorative coatings.
These new additives were primarily sold into the higher sheen applications, where appearance is key.
For the performance driven marine and protective coatings market segment, a new generation of rheology control agents were introduced.
They simplify coatings manufacture and improve the thickness of the lm that can be applied onto a vertical surface.
Our innovation activity in this area continues as we seek to place derivatives of the technology into additional markets.
Our R&D centre in Sci Park in East Windsor, US Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 9
