COM STRATEGIC REPORT | WHAT WE DO WHAT WE DO Our business model Clear portfolio management At a Company level the priority and We have a defined model for managing Talent management responsibilty is managing the overall our portfolio of business activities Essentras employees are a vital resource portfolio of business activities, to in the pursuit of operational excellence create sustainable long-term value Strategic framework and provision of quality products and for shareholders.
Essentra has Essentras business and financial objectives service.
The skills and experience of established processes and practices call for balanced, profitable growth.
Essentras employees drive the innovation in place to ensure effective and Each of the businesses is responsible for which enables the Company to provide efficient management across all contributing to Essentras overall strategic added value to its customers, enhance of the categories which the priorities, to ensure the Companys ongoing supply chain logistics with its suppliers Company serves.
success and, hence, the creation of and reduce the environmental impact sustainable long-term shareholder value.
The Company regularly reviews its organisational structure to Risk management ensure that the business has the necessary Effective management of risk and personnel to deliver its strategic priorities.
opportunity is essential to the protection of Essentras reputation and the Legal requirements and compliance achievement of sustainable shareholder Essentra is committed to ensuring that value.
The Board of Directors is responsible all of its activities are conducted in for determining the risk attitude of the accordance with all applicable legal and Company and for communicating to the regulatory requirements and the highest organisation what constitutes acceptable standards of ethical business conduct.
The Board, supported by The Companys Code of Business Ethics the Audit Committee, also oversees policy aims to guide stakeholders, including the management process for the employees, on the elements that drive the identification, assessment and conduct of Essentra businesses.
The way mitigation of risk across Essentra.
in which Essentra does business reflects its commitment to profitable growth, sustainable development and integrity, and the Companys policies continue to promote fair and ethical dealings with customers and competitors as a matter of law and conscience.
6 STRATEGIC REPORT | WHAT WE DO ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM Clear portfolio management Shared business priorities Delivering value Leverage our scale Invest in new product innovation Building on our leading international We have a well-invested and flexible The continued successful launch and market positions international sourcing, supply chain and commercialisation of new products and We have secured leading international production infrastructure.
This enables services is a key driver of our future positions in many of our served markets businesses across the Company the growth.
Investment in research and in each of our businesses.
With our opportunity to use our existing development functions, supported by investment in international infrastructure, infrastructure and management to the identification of additional product technology, innovation and people, exploit new opportunities efficiently sourcing opportunities to deliver product the strength of our businesses within and cost-effectively.
Our international innovation and range development, their respective markets enables us to distribution network ensures the delivery provides the platform to further enhance deliver balanced, profitable growth.
of cost-competitive and high-quality our competitive positions.
Quality systems products in response to customers maintained to internationally accredited requirements.
High levels of service and standards assist the fulfilment of broad geographic reach are an important customers demands.
Benefit from our experienced Operate efficiently management team and talent base We have a comprehensive international We have a highly experienced and production and distribution footprint, well-regarded management team which can be flexed to respond to and employee base.
Their insight into customers needs, whether they be customer needs and market trends product, service, cost or supply chain allows us to respond proactively to driven.
We are focused on being a low-cost changing priorities and to drive producer, to secure revenue growth at performance.
Technical expertise is attractive margins, and continuous reflected in production and supply improvement programmes serve to chain efficiencies and product innovation.
Develop long-term customer relationships We develop and maintain a close relationship with a wide portfolio of blue-chip customers, who are successful leaders in their respective markets.
The high standards of service and supply demanded by such customers help to drive continuous improvement across the Company.
Our manufacturing and distribution expertise adds value in response to customer demands, and our innovative capabilities drive the joint development of new products and services with key strategic partners.
