COM STRATEGIC REPORT | FULL YEAR 2016 REVIEW FULL YEAR 2016 REVIEW average net debt position during the Further to the announcement in October FY 2016 was a challenging year for year: as a result, and notwithstanding 2015 that we had signed an agreement Essentra, during which progress in a a further 280bps improvement in the tax to acquire the pharmaceutical packaging number of respects was overshadowed rate to 20.0%, adjusted earnings per share assets of Kamsri Printing & Packaging by certain material commercial and at constant exchange decreased by Pvt.
Ltd. Kamsri in India, the operational issues, in particular relating 31.2% to 36.3p.
transaction completed in January 2016 to the integration of a handful of as anticipated.
Having transferred the but significant revenue-generating In light of the imminent divestment of our equipment to Essentras multi-capability Clondalkin SPD sites in Health & Porous Technologies business in Q1 2017 manufacturing site in Bangalore, a second Personal Care Packaging.
of which more below, the FY 2016 results carton line was installed to help support for the Essentra Group are split into growth in this attractive market and which However, with a double-digit adjusted continuing and discontinuing additional capacity has facilitated new operating margin and solid free cash operations in Note 23 to the Financial business wins with domestic customers.
flow generation, Essentra remains a Statements on page 131. fundamentally strong company.
And Separately, in August, we announced under new Chief Executive, Paul Forman, Taking into account intangible amortisation the disposal of the Porous Technologies 2017 will be a year of stabilising the of 32.9m and an exceptional pre-tax business for a gross transaction value of organisation, with a view to formulating charge of 133.7m mainly relating to the 220m to Filtration Group, an affiliate of and implementing a new corporate impairment in carrying value of the Health Madison Industries.
As a leading developer strategy under which sustainable, & Personal Care Packaging business in light and manufacturer of custom vapour, medium-term growth is restored and of the afore mentioned challenges we and fluid-handling components, Porous which maximises the potential of the reported an operating loss of 34.7 m Technologies is well-known for its ability many good businesses which Essentra has.
FY 2015: operating profit of 100.7m to leverage its technical expertise in and the loss per share was 15.4 p collaboration with its customers, to Financial performance FY 2015: earnings per share of 26.2p.
provide them with innovative, high-quality, In FY 2016 like-for-like revenue for the total reliable solutions.
However, as Essentra Group declined 9.1%, owing to challenges During the year, there was further continues to evolve, the positive in a number of activities but most investment in our footprint and characteristics of its Porous Technologies notably in Health & Personal Care equipment, with FY 2016 net capital activities were considered to fit less well Packaging and Filter Products, with expenditure of 38.3m albeit some with the Companys overall portfolio.
substantial integration issues and tobacco 16.5m below FY 2015, which saw As such, the transaction not only tear tape weakness weighing on the significant acquisition-related spend generates value for Essentras shareholders, former and certain short-term issues on further to the Clondalkin SPD transaction.
but also provides our Porous Technologies the latter.
However, with a significantly Following a weaker result in HY 2016, business with a strong platform for future positive foreign exchange translation second-half progress in net working successful development under the benefit, together with a modest gain from capital management supported an strategic ownership of Filtration Group.
change in scope owing to an additional improvement in overall cash conversion, The disposal is expected to result in a months revenue from Clondalkin SPD in with a FY 2016 outturn of 96.1%.
As such, significant exceptional gain in FY 2017.
FY 2016, total Group revenue increased our financial ratios remain robust, with 0.5% to 1,103.7m.
net debt to EBITDA of 2.3x and interest Operational performance cover of 11.0x as at 31 December 2016: In 2016, we continued to rationalise On an adjusted basis, operating profit these metrics will improve further with our site footprint, through continuing to was down 29.3% at constant exchange the anticipated divestment of the Porous adopt a more Company-wide approach at 131.9m.
The 370bps reduction in the Technologies business, with expected net to our manufacturing and distribution margin at constant exchange to 12.0% proceeds in the region of 185-190m capabilities.
In China, we consolidated our was largely driven by the afore mentioned taking into account tax leakage, and Components activities at our facility in issues, notably the profit drop-through costs pertaining to the divestment Ningbo and closed the operation in from lower revenue as well as operational necessary reorganisation of the Company Xiamen, while in Hungary the transfer challenges and double-running site costs being used to repay existing debt facilities.
of filter manufacturing, product in Health & Personal Care Packaging.
As a result, the Board is recommending a development and innovation activities There was a c. 2m increase in our final dividend of 14.4p per share implying from Jarrow, UK was completed.
In financing costs resulting from a higher a FY 2016 dividend of 20.7p per share, addition, further efficiency and financial unchanged versus FY 2015. savings arose from the relocation of 8 STRATEGIC REPORT | FULL YEAR 2016 REVIEW ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM writing instrument nib production from Talent time, this global alignment will improve South Korea to our manufacturing facility At all levels, our employees are a vital our ability to manage career development in Indonesia in the prior year period, which resource in the Companys pursuit of and succession planning across the helped to support growth from a more operational excellence and the provision Company, and result in a more flexible competitive cost base during 2016. of quality products and services to structure which is better able to recruit our customers.
However, the complex site integration programme relating to the Clondalkin Indeed, as an international organisation, The Essentra Graduate Development SPD transaction which entailed the it is important that we attract an Programme enjoyed further success in consolidation of nine of the 24 sites appropriate level of local talent and 2016.
The two-year graduate programme acquired proved to be overly ambitious enhance mobility through increasing has provided a talent pipeline for a in terms of both scope and timeline, cross-divisional moves.
In this respect, number of years and, in 2016, 19 people resulting in material operational and we made progress during the year, both joined the scheme, which continues to commercial challenges at the three largest in terms of developing our existing expand its international reach.
The 2016 facilities in the US and the UK in 2016. employees as well as adding to our talent intake will join the 19 graduates recruited In each case, the receiving site struggled base from outside the Company.
Notably, in 2015, and will have the opportunity to to cope with the additional volume of notwithstanding the afore mentioned develop their management skills through business, with a consequent detrimental challenges at certain Health & Personal bespoke training which takes place around impact on manufacturing efficiency Care Packaging facilities, we successfully Essentras sites, giving graduates exposure and customer service: these issues were reinforced our Operations team in the US to the business while carrying out an exacerbated by the expeditious closing of and recruited a new General Manager at operational role from day one.
Separately, the sending facilities, such that we were Newport, whose collective experience will be in January 2017, the 2014 graduate intake without alternative production options critical in our efforts to stabilise these sites.
completed their programme, with a within the Essentra footprint to provide number of successful presentations hosted any respite.
In addition to the consequent In addition and as part of the revision to in Milton Keynes, UK.
Representatives revenue and profit implications of the complex Group organisation structure from senior management were invited to dissatisfied customers moving certain announced post year-end a new watch the graduate teams drawn from volumes elsewhere, we additionally Managing Director of Health & Personal across functions and geographies present delayed the integration of two of the Care Packaging, Europe was appointed, on topics focusing on Project & four Clondalkin SPD sites in the UK who will join the company on 1 March 2017.
Performance Management, Talent into Newport, which resulted in doubleManagement of Essentra Graduates and running costs versus our ingoing Having introduced assessment-based Challenges Facing Large Organisations expectations.
With performance Leadership Development Centres in during Periods of Acquisition.
continuing to significantly deteriorate 2014, a total of 98 colleagues across all into year-end, these facilities in the US geographical regions have now attended While the Board and the Group and UK are the focus of short-term, the two key development programmes Management Committee GMC remains remedial action in order to stabilise globally.
Further initiatives were also committed to ensuring that Essentra their respective performance, led by introduced during the year, including is a great place to work, it is clear that Paul Forman and the relevant senior a high-potential coaching programme a year of challenge and change has management team together with to support critical talent in their had a negative impact on employee external expertise where appropriate.
development and transition to new motivation and morale particularly at challenges: a new performance appraisal those sites where integration issues have process including pre-implementation arisen.
This manifested itself in a number global training for managers : and a of the responses to our third engagement revised selection process, entailing better survey, which was launched during the use of data insights to help improve hiring year and further to which action plans are decisions, effectiveness and transition as already being developed and implemented.
well as reduce associated costs.
Finally, Indeed, with the stated commitment of we concluded a global grading structure, creating a safe, respectful and diverse based on the key characteristics, workplace, Paul Forman is focused competencies and accountability of on improving employee engagement roles across the organisation.
such a framework in place for the first 9 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | FULL YEAR 2016 REVIEW Accordingly, with additional of addressing the growing risks which The five categories awarded during communications already having taken all companies face in the cyber the year were as follows: place since his joining the business on security domain.
Certificate of Operational 1 January 2017 together with close Safety Performance: to the four sites monitoring and review of the afore In respect of the former, projects included which achieved zero lost-time mentioned action plans a further the investment in a more agile and accidents, an Essentra Safety and engagement survey will be undertaken consistent IT helpdesk service for the Health Management System Level 3 in the second half of 2017, to gauge Essentra Group, together with more rating and OHSAS 18001 certification progress in this respect and to ensure unified, real-time communications Health & Safety Best Practice Project that we are maximising the considerable capabilities and the initial roll-out in the and Improvement: our Components talent we have as a Company.
Americas of a global Human Resourcessite in Kidlington, for developing a related platform to help streamline best practice approach to Control Leveraging Group capabilities payroll, time and attendance metrics of Substances Hazardous to Over the last few years, we have etc, and improve transparency across the Health assessments communicated our efforts to operate in organisation.
At the same time, further a more co-ordinated fashion across the progress was made during the year with Environmental & Social Responsibility: Essentra Group and to better leverage regard to simplifying the estate of legacy our Bangkok facility, for a number of our scale benefits.
During 2016, there hardware infrastructure into fewer, larger energy efficiency initiatives and their were further examples of improvement centres of excellence, which are more support of a local school through HSE in this respect.
In addition, awareness training programmes and the team continues to support the roll-out safety standards improvements First, we appointed a new Group of a Quality Management System which, Quality Best Practice & Improvement: Procurement Director, who has already while initially focused on Health & Personal our Dubai joint venture operation, completed a full review of the projects, Care Packaging, will ultimately take effect for the development of an improved processes and people under his remit.
across the entire Essentra Group.
machine gear box, that reduced This has resulted in a reorganisation downtime and improved quality due of the Procurement group into a small And in respect of the latter, further to reduced part failures centralised team which covers all investment in both capability and businesses and geographies, with a awareness were undertaken in 2016, Safety, Health, Environment & Quality transition from tactical localised including leading technology solutions Champion: Mr Joe Grundza of our purchasing to strategic category to improve threat detection and Charlotte Health & Personal Care management of major spend items across intrusion prevention, as well as improving Packaging site, for his significant both direct materials and indirect costs.
training to enhance the Companys efforts in promoting safety awareness response capabilities.
among fellow colleagues and In 2017, the main areas of focus for the contractors during a time of team will be the roll-out of a global Health and safety HSE extensive machine changes Procurement policy, category management Essentras overriding concern in the During the year, an Essentra-wide and sourcing, and purchase-to-pay and workplace continues to be the health, back to basics initiative was launched, supplier performance management, safety and welfare of all its employees to ensure that the foundations are in which will entail long-term partnering and those who visit the Companys place from which to build further HSE agreements with key suppliers and locations, as well as those who carry improvements.
Indeed, while the regional KPI-based performance measurement out work on our behalf.
leadership structure continues to help drive with regular reviews.
Clear financial targets further close alignment of HSE with their with accountability and measurements As reported in the 2015 Annual Report, respective Operations teams and site have already been set, together with the annual Safety, Health, Environment & General Managers, nonetheless the a programme to standardise payment Quality Awards programme was expanded number of lost-time accidents has terms, with progress anticipated during 2016.
This initiative has the plateaued following the downward trend going forward.
objective of recognising employees and evident in the prior year period.
Based on facilities that have achieved or are analysis of the data from the initiative, Second, we have further aligned our progressing towards excellence in HSE a revised strategy will be launched in 2017 general IT procedures and processes, performance, including the development, with a particular focus on those risk areas with progress also being made in terms sustainment and continuous improvement which contribute to lost-time accidents: of a positive and supportive culture.
10 STRATEGIC REPORT | FULL YEAR 2016 REVIEW ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM namely, ergonomics manual handling, Summary machine safety standards and culture.
In light of our previously stated objectives, With the global legislative backdrop FY 2016 was clearly disappointing with continuing to change apace the a number of unscheduled trading updates Board and GMC are committed to highlighting certain commercial and ensuring that HSE remains at the operational challenges materially forefront of the Companys agenda, impacting the Company versus ingoing so that we make continuous improvement, expectations.
However, the fundamental benefit from local expertise and share dynamics of Essentras various endbest practice around the organisation in markets are essentially unchanged if not, this critical area.
slightly more positive, such that the issues evident in FY 2016 are considered to be Our responsibilities largely self-inflicted and, thus, capable Essentra is committed to the highest of being addressed.
While Paul Formans standards of corporate governance and immediate focus is on stabilising the responsibility, to ensure that the way in organisation in light of the issues evident which we manage our activities reflects in 2016, the work which he has already the expectations of all the Companys initiated in terms of articulating a stakeholders.
As a member of both the sustainable, data-driven corporate FTSE4Good Index and the Carbon Trust, strategy will put the various activities we recognise that our interaction with which comprise the Essentra Group back the environment and local communities on a more stable and sustainable footing, is a critical component of the international from which medium-term growth can reputation and quality of Essentras be restored behind a talented and businesses, as well as a cornerstone of engaged workforce.
developing a responsible, progressive and winning culture.
All our principal manufacturing facilities hold the ISO 14001 environmental accreditation and, with the exception of recently acquired sites which, as per Essentra policy, have a period of 24 months to reach the required standard, they have also achieved the Occupational Health & Safety Management Systems OHSAS 18001.
During the year, a number of our other sites including Brazil and Turkey in Components, and the Malaysia and Thailand seals operations also achieved these certifications, although certain principal Clondalkin SPD sites have still to attain the necessary standards and there is a significant focus on so doing as soon as possible.
Attaining a Group-wide ISO 50001 energy management standard and aligning the varied certifications in operation across the organisation remains our objective.
While our target of end-2016 was not achieved, nonetheless, we anticipate making further material progress towards this goal during 2017.
