STRATEGIC REPORT | REGIONAL REVIEW ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM REGIONAL REVIEW Summary growth in revenue by Region by destination % growth Like-for-like Acquisitions disposals Foreign exchange Total reported Europe -11.7 1.2 6.0 -4.5 Americas -9.1 2.2 11.1 4.2 Americas ex-PPT -8.0 2.3 11.4 5.7 Asia -1.4 9.7 8.3 Total Company -9.1 1.3 8.3 0.5 Europe % growth % growth m Actual exchange Constant exchange Revenue 522.7 -4.5 -10.5 Revenue decreased 4.5% -10.5% at constant exchange to 522.7m, with a like-for-like decline of 11.7%.
The performance was driven by weakness in both the tobacco and health & personal care segments.
In the former, the impact of a sizeable contract which matured during the year more than offset the introduction of innovative new filter products, with a continued negative mix effect in tear tape also weighing on the result.
In the latter, growth in speciality wipes and medical foam, together with business wins in the core packaging portfolio, failed to compensate for site integration challenges in the UK where ongoing operational issues resulted in a significant decline in both revenue and profitability.
Range expansion in metal hardware, combined with contract awards for more technical extruded plastic components, contributed to the outturn in industrial and furniture end-markets.
Further commercialisation of recent launches in porous components, tapes and labels supported the performance in FMCG sectors.
Further to delays in consolidating four Clondalkin SPD sites into the Essentra footprint in the UK which not only constrained our ability to grow the business, but also resulted in significant additional double-running costs the integration process was completed by year end.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | REGIONAL REVIEW Americas % growth % growth m Actual exchange Constant exchange Revenue 387.3 4.2 -6.9 Revenue ex-PPT 375.4 5.7 -5.7 Revenue increased 4.2% decreased 6.9% at constant exchange to 387.3m: like-for-like revenue was down 9.1% -8.0% excluding PPT.
Trading in the Americas was challenging in the broad industrial segment, where progress with custom opportunities in automotives and gains in general protection were offset by weakness in electronics and challenges in the MRO segment.
In respect of the latter, second-half improvement initiatives including a catalogue re-launch helped to arrest the rate of decline evident in HY 2016, although have yet to deliver a consistently improving trend.
Performance in the oil & gas sector also deteriorated against a challenging backdrop for much of the year, although the business encouragingly continued to add new customers and was supported by the breadth of its offering and its efficient manufacturing processes.
The overall result in health & personal care reflected operational issues arising from the integration of two sizeable Clondalkin SPD facilities.
However, this was partly mitigated by further channel expansion in speciality wipes, together with new launches and business wins in medical and cosmetic foam and gains in both labels and literature.
An increase in household was boosted by growth in writing instruments, particularly the commercialisation and sale of polyester nibs to major customers, as well as further progress in air care with porous plastic components.
While development activity in both special filters and the Companys e-cigarette offering continued, the result in tobacco reflected the short-term impact of transferring a particular line of existing business from the US to Asia.
Asia % growth % growth m Actual exchange Constant exchange Revenue 193.7 8.3 -1.4 Revenue increased 8.3% decreased 1.4% at constant exchange to 193.7m.
The result in Asia was driven by tobacco, where further expansion of the joint venture facility in Dubai and new market entry in the Middle East was offset by the impact of fide-stocking in China.
The performance of the industrial segment was supported by growth in electronics in a number of markets, and the consolidation of Components activities in China was also completed during the year.
In health & personal care, the pharmaceutical packaging assets of Kamsri were transferred to Essentras facility in Bangalore, with a second carton line also being installed: in addition, porous components for medical applications performed strongly, with speciality wipes benefiting from further range and footprint expansion.
The household segment continued to benefit from the transfer of writing instrument nib capacity to Indonesia from South Korea in the prior year, as well as new business wins in India.
