COM DIRECTORS REPORT | GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE Paul Forman Jon Green Gavin Leathem Chief Executive Company Secretary & General Counsel Group Human Resources Director Pauls biographical details Jon Green joined Essentra in 2005, Gavin Leathem joined Essentra as can be found on page 46. and was appointed Company Secretary Group Human Resource Director in 2014.
Prior to Prior to joining Essentra, Gavin was Vice joining Essentra, Jon worked as an President of HR for Europe, Middle East Stefan Schellinger in-house lawyer for a number of large and Africa at Emerson Network Power Group Finance Director international businesses, including Systems, before which he was Group Hays plc and Unilever plc.
Jon is a HR Director at Chloride Group plc during Stefans biographical details qualified solicitor.
Gavin is a can be found on page 47.
Chartered Fellow of the Institute of Personnel & Development.
PT Sreekumar Managing Director, Filter Products Managing Director Asia Brett York President, Americas PT Sreekumar joined Essentra in 1995, being initially responsible for Brett York joined Essentra in 2001 as the Companys joint venture in India.
Vice President of Sales & Marketing for Before being appointed to the role of the US Components business.
Before Managing Director, Filter Products in being appointed to his current role in 2005, Sreekumar was Regional Director January 2014, Brett held the position for Asia Pacific, responsible for the of President of Component Distribution business in Asia and the Middle East.
Americas from 2012 and President of Prior to joining Essentra, Sreekumar the Speciality Tapes business from 2007. worked for the Indian tobacco Prior to joining Essentra, Brett held a company Godfrey Philips.
variety of increasingly senior commercial and operational positions at a number of companies, including Industrial Molding Joanna Speed Corp. Waddington and PepsiCo.
Corporate Affairs Director Joanna Speed joined Essentra in 2011 Malcolm Waugh as Corporate Affairs Director, having Group Commercial Director previously held the position of Investor Managing Director, Health Relations Director at Reckitt Benckiser & Personal Care Packaging Group plc and Scottish & Newcastle plc.
Prior to this, Joanna was an equity Malcolm Waugh joined Essentra in analyst and worked in investment 2007 as Managing Director of the Tear banking for a number of international Tape business, and was appointed to banks.
Joanna is a Chartered Accountant, the role of Group Commercial Director having qualified with Arthur Andersen.
Prior to joining Essentra, Malcolm was Commercial Director at Tetra Pak UK and Ireland, holding a variety of business development and commercial positions during his 18-year career there.
44 DIRECTORS REPORT | GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM Scott Fawcett Managing Director, Component Solutions Scott Fawcett joined Essentra in 2010 as Managing Director of the European Components business, and was appointed to his current role in January 2014.
Prior to joining Essentra, Scott was Head of eCommerce at Electrocomponents plc, where he held a variety of increasingly senior sales, marketing and eCommerce positions during his 17-year career there.
Hugh Ross Managing Director, Europe Hugh Ross joined Essentra in 1999.
Before being appointed to his current role in January 2014, Hugh was President of the Speciality Tapes business in the US, prior to which he held increasingly senior roles in the Filter Products and the Packaging & Securing Solutions businesses in North America.
Hugh is a Chartered Accountant, having qualified with PwC, and served as an Officer in the British Army.
