COM DIRECTORS REPORT | BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD OF DIRECTORS Paul Lester, CBE Paul Forman Terry Twigger Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Senior Independent Appointed to the Board: December 2015 Appointed to the Board: January 2017 Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: June 2009 Skills and experience Skills and experience Paul is currently Chairman of the Prior to joining Essentra, Paul was Skills and experience FTSE 250 company John Laing Group Chief Executive of Coats Group plc Terry has considerable mergers and Infrastructure Fund, Greenergy the the world's leading industrial thread acquisitions experience and has also second largest private company in the manufacturer for seven years, where he held a number of senior finance roles, UK Forterra plc and Knight Square oversaw company rationalisation as well including having previously been Finance Holdings.
Paul brings a wealth of as growth through acquisition, instigated Director at Meggitt PLC.
Prior to his experience to Essentra, gained in and delivered a clear vision and corporate retirement in 2013, Terry was Chief increasingly senior operational and strategy, drove material improvements Executive of Meggitt PLC.
strategic executive roles, and has in financial performance and built the also served on a number of Boards momentum to position the business as Other appointments in a non-executive capacity for an innovative and global industry leader.
Senior Independent Non-Executive more than 20 years.
Director and Chairman of the Audit Before assuming the role of Group Committee of X Power Limited.
Paul assumed the role of Non-Executive Chief Executive, Paul held a number Chairman following the Companys 2016 of increasingly senior operational and Past appointments AGM on 20 April 2016. strategic positions at a variety of Chief Executive of Meggitt PLC, companies, and has a proven track Director of Lucas Aerospace.
Other appointments record of international manufacturing Chairman of John Laing Infrastructure experience at the highest level.
Committee membership Fund, Greenergy, Forterra plc and Knight Chairman of the Audit Committee, Square Holdings.
Other appointments member of the Remuneration and Non-Executive Director of Tate & Lyle plc.
Past appointments Chairman of Parabis Group, Chief Past appointments Executive of VT Group plc and Graseby Group Chief Executive of Coats Group plc plc, Group Managing Director of Balfour and Low & Bonar PLC, Non-Executive Beatty plc, President of the Society of Director of Brammer plc.
Maritime Industries, the BSA and the Engineering Employers Federation.
46 DIRECTORS REPORT | BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM Stefan Schellinger Peter Hill, CBE Lorraine Trainer Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: October 2015 Appointed to the Board: July 2013 Appointed to the Board: July 2013 Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Stefan joined Essentra in 2013, and prior Peter is currently Non-Executive Chairman Lorraine began her executive career to being appointed to his current position of Volution Group plc a leading supplier at Citibank, and has some 20 years in 2015, he was Corporate Development of ventilation products, of Keller Group experience in Human Resources at such Director where he played a key role in the plc the worlds largest geotechnical blue-chip companies as the London Stock development of the Companys strategy contractor, and of Imagination Exchange and Coutts NatWest Group.
and in building its mergers and acquisitions Technologies Group plc a global leading Lorraine currently combines her Board activity.
Before joining Essentra, Stefan technology provider.
Peter brings a wealth work with consultancy at and around was Finance Director Emerging Markets of experience to Essentra gained in board level in Director development.
at Gilbarco Veeder Root from 2011, having particular in increasingly senior operational initially joined the Danaher Corporation as and strategic executive roles, and has Other appointments Director, Corporate Development Europe also served on a number of Boards in a Non-Executive Director, Senior in 2005.
Stefan has extensive investment non-executive capacity for over 20 years.
Independent Director and Chairman of the banking and accountancy experience, Remuneration Committee of Jupiter Fund having previously worked at JP Morgan Other appointments: Management plc, Non-Executive Director and Arthur Andersen.
Chairman of Volution Group plc, Keller of Sonae SGPS, S. A.
Group plc and Imagination Technologies plc, Non-Executive Director of the Royal Past appointments Tommy Breen Air Force.
Non-Executive Director of Aegis Non-Executive Director Group plc and Colt Group S. A.
Appointed to the Board: April 2015 Past appointments: Chairman of Alent plc, Chief Executive Committee membership Skills and experience of Laird PLC, Executive Director of Chairman of the Remuneration Tommy is currently Chief Executive of Costain Group PLC, Non-Executive Committee, member of the Audit DCC plc, an international sales, marketing, Director of Cookson Group plc, and Nomination Committees.
distribution and business support services Meggitt PLC and Oxford Instruments plc, group, headquartered in Dublin and with Non-Executive Board member of UK Trade operations in 13 countries.
significant experience to Essentra, in particular of growing diverse businesses Committee membership both organically and via acquisition Member of the Audit, Remuneration during his 30-year career with DCC.
Other appointments Chief Executive of DCC plc.
Committee membership Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Colin Day stepped down as Chief Executive with effect from 31 December 2016, and will retire from the Board and the Company following Essentra's 2017 Annual General Meeting on 20 April 2017 47
