DIRECTORS REPORT | OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION The Directors present their Report The Directors Report comprises pages Directors prepared in accordance with the 44 to 87 and the sections of the Annual As at 31 December 2016, the Board Companies Act 2006, which requires Report incorporated by reference are of Directors comprised: the Company to provide a fair review as set out below: of the business of the Group during the Paul Lester Non-Executive financial year ended 31 December 2016, Chairman Membership of Board during page 51 and audited Financial Statements of Colin Day Chief Executive 2016 financial year the Company and its subsidiary Terry Twigger SI Non-Executive Director Financial instruments and page 95 undertakings for the year ended Stefan Schellinger Group Finance Director financial risk management 31 December 2016.
Tommy Breen Non-Executive Director Greenhouse gas emissions page 43 Peter Hill Non-Executive Director The Companys Registered Office is Corporate Governance report pages Lorraine Trainer Non-Executive Director Avebury House, 201-249 Avebury 50 to 57 Boulevard, Milton Keynes, MK9 1AU.
Future developments of the page 11 The Company is adopting the requirements business of the Group of the UK Corporate Governance Code Employee equality page 41 September 2014 in relation to Directors and diversity appointments, and in particular the annual re-election of all Directors.
In accordance with the UK Financial Paul Forman was appointed as Chief Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules Executive on 1 January 2017 and will be LR 9.8.
4C, the information to be included putting himself forward for election at the in the Annual Report and Accounts, 2017 AGM, having been appointed since where applicable, under LR 9.8.
out in the Directors Report.
Colin Day stood down as Chief Executive Results and dividends on 31 December 2016.
Colin remains as an The loss on ordinary activities after Executive Director until the 2017 AGM, after taxation of the total Group for the year which he will retire and therefore will not ended 31 December 2016 was 39.6m be standing for re-election.
Peter Hill will be retiring as a Non-Executive The loss on ordinary activities after Director following the 2017 AGM and taxation of the continuing operations for therefore will not be standing for re-election.
Except for the above, in accordance with provision B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate As at 17 February 2017, the Company has Governance Code, all the Directors paid the following dividend in respect of previously elected at an AGM, and being the year ended 31 December 2016: eligible, will offer themselves up for re-election.
Per share Total p m None of the Non-Executive Directors Interim dividend 6.3 16.5 paid 30 October 2016 have service contracts.
The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 14.4p 2015: 14.4p per share be paid, making a total dividend distribution for the year of 20.7p 2015: 20.7p.
The final dividend, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM, will be paid on 2 May 2017 to shareholders on the register on 17 March 2017.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT | OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION In accordance with the Companys Conflict No persons hold securities in the Company to other senior executives who are of Interests policy, Directors are required to carrying special rights with regard to control Directors of subsidiaries of the Company, review their potential conflict of interests of the Company.
The Company is not aware to the extent permitted by law and at least on an annual basis and to notify of any agreements between holders of the Companys Articles of Association, any changes to the Company Secretary securities that may result in restrictions on in respect of all losses arising out of or & General Counsel as soon as possible.
the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
in connection with the execution of their The current register was approved by the powers, duties and responsibilities as Board in October 2016, and no material Unless expressly specified to the contrary in a Director or Officer of the Company conflicts of interest were identified the Articles of Association of the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, including the during the year.
the Companys Articles of Association may pension scheme trustee companies.
be amended by special resolution of the The scope of the indemnities extends At no time during the year has any Director Companys shareholders.
to include liabilities to third parties.
had any material interest in a contract with the Group, being a contract of significance Substantial shareholders Significant agreements in relation to the Groups business.
At the close of business on 17 February The Company has committed bank A statement of Directors interests in 2017, the Company was advised of the facilities consisting of two five-year shares of the Company is on page 76. following voting rights attaching to the multi-currency revolving credit facilities of Companys shares in accordance with the 271.0m and 167.5m.
Under the terms of Share capital Disclosure and Transparency Rules: these facilities, the banks can give notice The issued share capital of the Company to Essentra to repay outstanding amounts % of total is shown in note 19 to the Financial and cancel the commitments where there voting rights Statements on page 129. is a change of control of the Company.
Standard Life 12.9 Investments Holdings On 31 December 2016, there were 264,129,170 Under a note purchase agreement dated Limited ordinary shares of 25p each in issue.
There 29 April 2010 relating to US$80m senior FMR LLC 9.2 were 1,286,952 ordinary shares of 25p each notes due 29 April 2017 and US$80m senior held in treasury.
Royal London Asset 3.0 notes due 29 April 2020, on a change of Management Limited control the Company must make an offer The rights and obligations attaching to to prepay all the notes at par, without the Companys ordinary shares, and the any premium of any kind, together with Employees provisions governing the appointment and accrued and unpaid interest thereon.
As at 31 December 2016, the Company replacement of, as well as the powers of, employed 8,358 people globally and 1,423 the Companys Directors, are set out in the All of the Companys share schemes people in the UK.
Information on the Companys Articles of Association, copies contain provisions relating to a change in Groups policies on employee recruitment, of which can be obtained from Companies control.
Outstanding options and awards engagement and the employment of House in the UK or by writing to the normally vest and become exercisable disabled persons can be found in the Company Secretary.
on a change of control, subject to the Corporate Responsibility Statement satisfaction of any performance on page 41.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights conditions at that time.
attaching to the Companys ordinary shares Political contributions or on the transfer of securities in the There are a number of other agreements, In line with Group policy, the Company Company, except, in the case of transfers involving the Company or its subsidiaries, made no political contributions 2015: nil.
of securities: that take effect, alter or terminate upon That certain restrictions may from a change of control of the Company Environmental time to time be imposed by laws following a takeover bid, such as The disclosures concerning greenhouse and regulations for example, commercial contracts and joint venture gas emissions required by law are included insider trading laws agreements.
None are considered to in the Strategic Report on page 43. be significant in terms of their potential Whereby, pursuant to the Listing Rules impact on the business of the Group Directors indemnities of the Financial Conduct Authority, as a whole, to any potential bidder During the year, and as at the date of certain employees of the Company for the Company or Group.
this Report, indemnities are in force require approval of the Company to under which the Company has agreed to deal in the Companys ordinary shares indemnify the Directors and the Company Secretary & General Counsel, in addition 84 DIRECTORS REPORT | OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM Annual General Meeting Allotment of shares for cash Purchase of own shares The AGM of the Company will be held At the 2016 AGM, shareholders approved a At the 2016 AGM, shareholders approved at the Holiday Inn Hotel, 500 Saxon Gate special resolution to enable the Directors a special resolution to enable the West, Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire, to allot shares for cash without first Company to purchase its own shares.
MK9 2HQ on Thursday 20 April 2017 at offering them to existing shareholders in That approval expires at the end of the 12 noon.
proportion to their existing shareholdings.
That approval expires at the end of the In addition to the ordinary business of the forthcoming AGM and resolutions 13 and At this years AGM, the Directors consider AGM, resolutions in respect of the following 14 in the Notice of AGM seeks to renew it.
it expedient to seek shareholders approval matters of special business are included in to enable the Company to purchase, in the Notice of Annual General Meeting: As per previous years, the Company seeks the market, up to 10% of its issued share a resolution which authorises capital excluding any treasury shares Authority to allot unissued shares disapplication of pre-emption rights in for cancellation, or to be held in Treasury, At the 2016 AGM, the Directors were respect of up to an aggregate nominal such power to apply until the end of next granted authority to allot relevant amount of 3,286,106 representing years AGM or if earlier, 20 June 2018. securities up to a nominal amount of 13,144,424 ordinary shares.
This aggregate In accordance with the requirements of 21,867,720, which expires at the end of nominal amount represents approximately the Listing Rules of the Financial Services the forthcoming AGM.
5% of the issued ordinary share capital of Authority, the minimum price exclusive of the Company excluding treasury shares.
expenses which may be paid for a share At this years AGM, shareholders will be is its nominal value and the maximum asked to grant the Directors authority In addition to the above Resolution, the price exclusive of expenses for shares to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe Company seeks a Resolution which which may be paid is the highest of: for or convert any security into shares: authorises disapplication of pre-emption i an amount equal to 105% of the i up to an aggregate nominal amount rights in respect of up to an aggregate average market value for a share for the of 21,903,518 representing approximately nominal amount of 3,286,106 five business days immediately preceding one-third of the Companys issued share representing 13,144,424 ordinary shares the date of the purchase: and ii the capital, excluding treasury shares, at in connection with acquisitions and other higher of the price of the last independent 17 February 2017 such an amount to be capital investments as contemplated by trade and the highest current independent reduced by the nominal amount allotted the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of bid on the trading venues where the or granted under section ii below in Principles.
This aggregate nominal amount purchase is carried out.
excess of such sum : and ii comprising represents an additional 5% of the issued equity securities up to an aggregate ordinary share capital of the Company The Directors have no present intention nominal amount of 45,807,036 excluding treasury shares.
of exercising the authority to make market representing approximately two-thirds purchases, however the authority provides of the issued share capital, excluding These authorities will expire at the the flexibility to allow them to do so in the treasury shares, at 17 February 2017 conclusion of the following AGM or, future.
The Directors will only utilise this such an amount to be reduced by any if earlier, on 20 June 2018.
The proposal authority if satisfied that to do so would allotments or grants made under section conforms to the guidelines issued by the be in the best interests of the Company i above in connection with an offer institutional investment protection bodies and its shareholders generally, and could by way of a rights issue.
to ensure that existing shareholders be expected to result in an increase in interests are safeguarded.
earnings per share of the Company.
The proposal conforms to the guidelines issued by the institutional investment During the financial year ending protection bodies to ensure that existing 31 December 2016, 481,570 ordinary shares shareholders interests are safeguarded.
were transferred out of Treasury by the The Directors have no present intention Company to satisfy share options under of exercising either of these authorities, the Companys Sharesave and executive which will expire at the end of next years share incentive plans.
AGM or, if earlier, the close of business on 20 June 2018 except in relation to No dividends have been paid on shares share options.
while held in Treasury and no voting rights attach to the treasury shares.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT | OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION External auditor Viability statement The geographical and sector diversification KPMG LLP will resign as the external In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the of the Groups operations and markets auditor following the publication of UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, the reduces the risk of serious business the Annual Report.
Directors have assessed the viability of the interruption or catastrophic damage to Group over a period longer than the twelve its reputation.
Furthermore, the business  have expressed months required by the Going Concern model is structured so that the Group is their willingness to be appointed as statement.
In making this assessment, not reliant on one particular group of clients external auditor of the Company.
the Directors have taken into account the or sector, and has the ability to flex the cost Upon the recommendation of the Audit Groups current position and the potential base which protects the Companys Committee, resolutions to appoint them impact of the principal risks documented viability in the face of adverse economic as external auditor and to authorise the on pages 31 to 37.
Based on this conditions and or political uncertainty.
Directors to determine their remuneration assessment, the Directors confirm that will be proposed at the AGM.
they have a reasonable expectation that While this review does not consider all the Company will be able to continue in of the risks that the Group may face, Recommendation operation and meet its liabilities over the the Directors consider that this sensitivity The Directors believe that the resolutions three-year period to 31 December 2019. testing-based assessment of the Groups in the Notice of Annual General Meeting prospects is reasonable in the circumstances are in the best interests of the Company The Directors have determined that a of the inherent uncertainty involved.
and its shareholders as a whole, and three-year period to 31 December 2019 unanimously recommend that shareholders is an appropriate period over which to Directors statement as to disclosure vote in favour of each resolution.
This is the of information to the external auditor period reviewed by the Group Board in As required by section 418 2 of the Derivatives its strategic planning process.
The Directors Companies Act 2006, the Directors who Information related to derivatives believe that this presents a reasonable were members of the Board at the time is included in the Accounting Policies degree of confidence over this of approving this Report, having made on page 95 and in note 14. longer-term outlook.
enquiries of fellow Directors and of the external auditor, confirm that: Going concern statement In making this statement, the Boards As far as each Director is aware, there The Directors have a reasonable assessment has been made with reference is no relevant audit information of expectation that the Company has to the resilience of the Group and its which the Companys external auditor adequate resources to continue in strong financial position, the Groups is unaware operational existence for the foreseeable strategy, the Boards risk appetite and Each Director has taken all steps that future and accordingly have adopted the Groups principal risks, including those he ought to have taken as a Director the going concern basis in preparing the that would threaten its business model, to ascertain any relevant audit consolidated Financial Statements.
future performance, solvency or liquidity, information, and to ensure that the and how these are managed, as described Companys external auditor is aware Further information regarding the financial in the Strategic Report on pages 31 to 37. of that information position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities The Board considers annually and on The Strategic Report and Directors Report, are described in the Financial Review on a rolling basis a three-year, bottom-up including the Report of the Remuneration pages 15 to 16.
In addition, note 1 to the strategic plan.
The output of this plan Committee, were approved by the Board Financial Statements on pages 101 to 103 is used to perform central debt and on 17 February 2017. includes the Groups objectives, policies headroom profile analysis, which includes and processes for managing its capital, a review of sensitivity to business as By order of the Board its financial risk management objectives, usual risks, such as profit growth and details of its financial instruments and working capital variances and severe but JON GREEN hedging activities, and exposures to credit, plausible events.
It also considers the Company Secretary market and liquidity risk.
Cash balances ability of the Group to raise finance and 17 February 2017 and borrowings are included in note 21 deploy capital.
The results take into on page 130.
This disclosure has been account the availability and likely prepared in accordance the with Financial effectiveness of the mitigating actions Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk that could be taken to avoid or reduce Management and Internal Control and the impact or occurrence of the identified Related Financial and Business Reporting underlying risks.
