Our strategy Designed and implemented to deliver increased value to all stakeholders through making insurance simple for our customers Valued Great customer service Growth Contribution Stakeholder returns Effective claims Expense management efficiency Good Strong financial people position 08 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financials Ambition 'Our ambition is to be a 3 million in-force policy business by 2020.
We operate in dynamic markets and will only grow when we believe it is profitable to do so.
Through our focused and controlled approach to underwriting, alongside our footprint expansion opportunities, we have solid foundations from which to grow and deliver our ambition' Stuart Vann Chief Executive Officer Approach Update Growth The Group targets profitable growth Gross written premium growth of 19% through its focused and controlled to 655m: in-force policy growth of 9% approach to underwriting.
and learn basis, the Group continues to widen its customer footprint as it looks Motor customer footprint increased to to grow its market share in Motor and 7080% of the market.
The Group has increased its market share in Motor to an estimated 5.8% 2015: 5.3% and an estimated 2.1% in Home 2015: 2.1%.
Approach Update Effective claims Settling claims is what we are here Over 90% of accidental damage claims management to do when our customers need us the settled through own repair network.
most and that is why our processes aim to put the customer at the centre.
6 to 1 return on counter fraud UK-based claims centres, with over 600 investment.
specialists: our own approved repair network: and market-leading fraud Enhanced strategies to mitigate capabilities help to deliver an excellent claims inflation.
customer service while containing costs.
Approach Update Expense efficiency Low cost philosophy set from the Cost per policy of 73. top and embedded throughout the business.
Customer acquisition costs in Expense ratio of 24.6%.
total flex with the growth of the business through our focus on fixed unit cost price Better use of robotics to drive efficiency.
The Groups agile, flexible and scalable infrastructure aids this approach.
Approach Update Contribution Contribution analytics allow the Data-led contribution analysis across Group to make value-based decisions customer life cycle.
on customer acquisition and retention.
A diversified suite of additional insurance Improved take up rate of additional products and services provide further insurance products.
opportunities to deliver an improved contribution.
esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 09
