Directors Report The Directors present their report together with the audited Changes to Directors during the year and up to the date accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016. of signing this report are set out below: Effective date of appointment Other information that is relevant to the Directors Report, Name Role resignation and which is incorporated by reference into this report, Alan Rubenstein Non-Executive Appointed 8 March 2017 can be located as follow: Director Peter Shaw Non-Executive Appointed 8 March 2017 Strategic Report pages 1 to 27 Chairmans statement pages 4 and 5 Director Chief Executive Officers statement pages 12 and 13 Anne Richards Non-Executive Resigned 25 February Business and Strategy pages 8 and 9 Director 2016 Operating and financial review pages 14 to 21 Risk management pages 22 to 27 Appointment, retirement and removal of Directors Viability statement page 24 The appointment and replacement of Directors is governed Corporate Governance Report pages 34 to 46 by the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, the Companies Strategic Report Act 2006, the Relationship Agreement between the Chairman The Group is required by the Companies Act 2006 to and the Company and related legislation.
The Articles may prepare a Strategic Report that includes a fair review of the only be amended by a special resolution of the shareholders.
Groups business, a balanced and comprehensive analysis of the development and the performance of the Companys The Board has the power to appoint additional Directors business during the year, the position of the Group at or to fill a casual vacancy amongst the Directors.
Any such 31 December 2016 and a description of the principal risks Director holds office only until the next AGM and may offer and uncertainties faced by the Company.
Results and dividends Under the Relationship Agreement between the Chairman The results for the year are shown in the consolidated and the Company, as long as the Chairman or any of his statement of comprehensive income on page 77. associates, when taken together, hold at least 15% of the shares or voting rights attaching to the shares, the Dividends Chairman will be entitled to appoint, remove and reappoint Final dividend per share Interim dividend one person to be a Director, who may be either himself or proposed to be paid per share paid Total dividend paid another person nominated by him.
on 26 May 2017 21 October 2016 per share for 2016 The Code recommends that all directors of FTSE 350 10.5p 3.0p 13.5p companies should be subject to annual re-election, and all Directors will stand for election or re-election at the 2017 Significant changes and events AGM.
In addition to any power of removal conferred by the On 13 September 2016, the Group announced its intention Companies Act, the Company may, by special resolution, to pursue a Demerger of Gocompare.
com Group plc from the remove any Director before the expiration of his or her Group through a separate listing on the main market of the period of office.
A General Meeting was held on 1 November 2016, at which the shareholders of the Group Further details of the re-election and election of the voted in favour of the Demerger.
Subsequently the Directors can be found on page 38 and in the notes to the Demerger of Gocompare.
com Group plc from the AGM Notice on our website at www.
com Group was completed on 3 November 2016. investors  agm.
Post-balance sheet events The governance structure of the Board is illustrated on On 27 February 2017, the Lord Chancellor changed the page 35 and the activities of the Boards governance Ogden discount rate from plus 2.5% to minus 0.75% committees are summarised on pages 40 to 46. effective 20 March 2017.
As at 31 December 2016 the Groups reserve margin included an allowance for a change Directors and Officers insurance and indemnities in the Ogden discount rate to 0%.
To assess the impact on The Group maintains Directors and Officers liability the financial statements of the announced rate being lower insurance, which gives appropriate cover should legal action than the Group had allowed for, the Committee considered be brought against its Directors.
In addition, indemnities are managements analysis and reviews conducted by the in force under which the Group has agreed to indemnify the external auditor and the external actuary.
The Committee Directors against all liabilities and related costs that they concurred with managements assessment that the impact may incur in the execution of their duties.
Copies of these on profit after tax is immaterial.
Refer to note 31 to the indemnities are kept at our registered office and are open consolidated financial statements for further information.
for inspection by any member.
These indemnities do not cover the Directors for fraudulent activities.
Board of Directors The names and biographical details of our current Employees Directors are set out on pages 32 and 33 and are As at 31 December 2016, the Group employed 1,557 people.
incorporated into this report by reference.
The details The Group is committed to creating an environment in which are also available on our website at www.
com individual differences and contributions are recognised and about-us management-structure.
valued, and to safeguard a working environment that promotes dignity and respect for all.
No form of victimisation, discrimination, bullying or harassment will be tolerated.
68 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financials We seek to promote equal opportunities for all, through Organisational boundary: The footprint includes data the provision of employment practices and policies that for the three offices in which the Group employs staff recognise the diversity of our employees and ensure that Reigate, Manchester and Glasgow, as well as two neither our employees nor prospective employees receive domestic apartments.
Note that this does not include less favourable treatment on the basis of their perceived or outsourced activities, for example repair shops and actual age, disability, race, religion or belief, sex including third-party suppliers.
This also includes data for the gender, marital status, pregnancy or maternity, or gender Gocompare.
com office in Newport from 01 01 1601 11 16 reassignment or sexual orientation, working hours partbefore the Demerger of the Company from the Group.
time, full-time or fixed-term employees or physical characteristics.
UK GHG mandatory reporting GHG emissions data for period 1 January 2016 to The Group is committed to employing people who are 31 December 2016. disabled or who become disabled during their career by making reasonable adjustments as appropriate.
Actively Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent tCO e : 2 working with the Access to Work government scheme January 2016 January 2015 enables the Group to support the continued employment Emissions from: December 2016 December 2015 of disabled employees and prospective disabled employees.
Scope 1 The training, career development and promotion of disabled Combustion people are, as far as possible, identical to those of of fuel and other employees.
operation of facilities 666 605 Employees are kept up to date with regular Chief Executive Officer briefings, business updates, team meetings and Scope 2 internal communications.
Employees views are gathered Electricity, through our Employee Consultation Group, department heat, steam forums, employee surveys and Ask Exec question forum.
and cooling purchased for Further information in respect of actions taken with the own use 2,266 2,557 aim of encouraging employee involvement and achieving Companys employee awareness in the Company has been disclosed in chosen intensity tCO e 2 the Our people section on pages 28 to 31. measurement Turnover tCO e Turnover 2 Human rights tCO e Turnover 3.85 4.83 2 The Group resides and offers its products only within mainland UK.
We are subject to both the European Data quality: The quality of the data used for the footprint Convention on Human Rights and the UK Human Rights calculations has been rated as good, average, poor or Act 1998.
We respect all human rights and enact these based on benchmarks.
Around 99.8% of emissions in the particularly in relation to fair treatment, the avoidance footprint were based on good quality data: this is a of discrimination and privacy for our customers, suppliers weighted percentage according to contribution by the and staff.
We aim to ensure that employees comply with emissions source.
all relevant UK legislation and regulations, and this is underpinned by the policies in place and managed by esure Group plcs 2016 GHG Mandatory Report our Human Resources function.
This Report is based on the 12 months between 1 January 2016 and 31 December 2016, reflecting the financial year Political donations of the Group.
Our policy is not to make any donations or contributions to political parties or organisations and no such payments The total carbon emissions associated with the Groups were made during the year.
UK operations were 2,932 tCO e. This is made up of 666.2 2 tCO e of Scope 1 direct emissions and 2,265.9 tCO e of 2 2 Environment Scope 2 indirect emissions.
Global emissions This report presents a narrative report for the 2016 Change of control Greenhouse Gas GHG Mandatory Reporting requirement There are no material agreements to which the Group is of esure Groups UK operations.
party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Group following a takeover bid.
Methodology: The footprint is calculated in accordance with the GHG Protocol and Carbon Trust CT guidance on The provisions of the Companys employee share plans may calculating organisational footprints.
Activity data has been cause options and awards granted under such plans to vest converted into carbon emissions using published emissions upon a change of control.
The data used has been provided by the Group and sense checked but not formally verified by Utilitywise PLC.
Share capital Our share capital consists of one class of Ordinary Shares Emissions sources: The footprint includes the Scope 1 1 of 12p each.
Each share ranks equally and carries the same fossil fuel and refrigerant leakage and Scope 2 electricity rights to vote and receive dividends and other distributions emissions associated with the offices in which the Group is declared.
There are no restrictions on the transfer or holding based.
For the purposes of the report only, Scope 1 direct of shares in the Company.
As at 31 December 2016, the and Scope 2 indirect emissions sources are required.
Company had 417,916,872 Ordinary Shares in issue.
The Company does not hold any shares in Treasury.
esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 69 Directors Report continued The rights attached to shares which are the subject of Relationship Agreement with controlling shareholder awards under any of our employee share plans are not Sir Peter Wood, the Groups Chairman, is a controlling available until any award or option is exercised and the shareholder of the Group with a total holding of shares are allotted or transferred to the relevant individual.
approximately 30.85% of the Companys voting rights.
The Trustee of our employee benefit trust is obliged to act in the best interests of the share plans beneficiaries.
At The Group entered into a Relationship Agreement with General Meetings, the Trustee may exercise discretion and Sir Peter Wood on 8 March 2013, which was amended and vote in respect of Trust shares although it may not always restated on 29 October 2014. choose to do so.
Where shares are beneficially held by an employee within a share plan he or she may direct the The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to Trustee to vote on his or her behalf.
ensure that the Group is capable at all times of carrying on its business independently of Sir Peter Wood and certain Power of Directors to issue shares persons deemed to be connected with him.
The Directors require express authorisation from shareholders to allot new shares.
A resolution will be In addition to other undertakings and agreements, the proposed at the 2017 AGM to renew the authority to Relationship Agreement contains the following undertakings: allot shares.
a that transactions and arrangements between the Group Purchase of own shares and Sir Peter Wood and or any of his associates will The Directors require express authorisation from be conducted at arms length and on normal shareholders to purchase our own shares.
Accordingly, at commercial terms: the 2017 AGM, the Group proposes to renew the authority b that neither Sir Peter Wood nor any of his associates granted by shareholders at the AGM in 2016 to repurchase will take any action that would have the effect of up to a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital.
At preventing the Group from complying with its the present time, the Group has no plans to exercise this obligations under the Listing Rules: and authority and did not exercise the authority during 2016. c that neither Sir Peter Wood nor any of his associates will propose or procure the proposal of a shareholder Further details are provided in the 2017 Notice of the AGM.
resolution that is intended or appears to be intended to circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
Substantial shareholdings As at 31 December 2016, the Group had been notified, The Board confirms that, since the entry into the amended in accordance with Disclosure Guidance and Transparency and restated Relationship Agreement on 29 October 2014 Rule 5.1.
2R, of interests in 3% or more of the voting rights until 6 March 2017, being the latest practicable date prior attached to the Companys issued Ordinary Share capital, to the publication of this Annual Report and Accounts: as set out in the following table: i The Group has complied with the independence Number of % of total provisions included in the Relationship Agreement: Shareholder Ordinary Shares voting rights ii So far as the Group is aware, the independence Sir Peter John Wood 128,609,655 30.85 provisions included in the Relationship Agreement have Toscafund Asset been complied with by Sir Peter Wood and his Management LLP 68,550,414 16.4 associates: and FIL Limited 38,800,731 9.3 iii As far as the Group is aware, the procurement Standard Life Investments obligation included in the Relationship Agreement has Limited 20,759,424 4.98 been complied with by Sir Peter Wood.
Invesco Asset Management 20,507,884 4.91 Restrictions on voting rights All shareholders entitled to attend and vote at a General Meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend, speak and These figures represent the number of shares and vote in their place.
A member may appoint more than one percentage held as at the date of notification to the Group.
proxy provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by the In accordance with Disclosure Guidance and Transparency shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder.
2R, in the period between 1 January 2017 and must be received by our registrars at least 48 hours before 6 March 2017, the following notifications were received: the time appointed for holding a meeting, as set out in any Number of % of total Notice or in any form of proxy circulated by us.
The Shareholder Ordinary Shares voting rights appointment of a proxy does not preclude a shareholder from attending and voting in person at a General Meeting.
Toscafund Asset Further details may be found in the Notice of Meeting sent to Management LLP 71,456,266 17.1 shareholders in advance of the 2017 AGM, a copy of which is also available on our website at www.
Auditor Resolutions to reappoint KPMG LLP as auditor of the Group and to authorise the Directors to determine its remuneration will be proposed at the 2017 AGM.
The Audit Committee considers that the relationship with the auditor is working well and remains satisfied with its effectiveness.
There are no contractual obligations restricting our choice of auditor.
70 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financials Disclosure of information to auditor Risk management and internal control Each Director at the date of the approval of this report The Board is ultimately responsible for the effectiveness confirms that: of the Groups system of risk management and internal control.
To ensure that this is achieved and that the risk so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit management and internal controls are embedded in the information of which the Groups auditor is unaware.
running of the business, the Group operates a three lines of he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought defence structure which is regularly reported on to the Audit to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself and Risk Committees.
This framework mitigates the risk of aware of any relevant audit information and to establish failure to achieve business objectives, unforeseen losses and that the Groups auditor is aware of that information.
Going concern There are a number of controls in place within this framework These consolidated financial statements have to ensure that the Group has robust procedures for preparing been prepared on a going concern basis.
The financial consolidated accounts and for financial reporting.
performance and position of the Group, its cash flows and its approach to capital management are set out in the financial The Risk Committee and the Audit Committee, review on pages 16 to 21.
The Group has a strong financial respectively, regularly review the effectiveness of the position, with robust reserves, a conservative investment Groups risk management and internal control systems.
portfolio and capital significantly in excess of the minimum Their monitoring focuses on material risks and controls regulatory requirement.
In addition, the Board has reviewed and is based principally on reporting upwards within the the Groups projections for the next 12 months and beyond, framework from business management, risk management including cash flow forecasts and regulatory capital and the Internal Audit function so that the Committees may surpluses.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation consider whether significant weaknesses exist.
During the that the Group has adequate resources to continue in course of the reviews, the Committees have not identified or operation for at least the next 12 months.
been advised of any failings or weaknesses that they have determined to be significant.
The Groups viability statement is on page 24.
To support Group policies and to facilitate the raising Material contracts of concerns about possible improprieties in matters Save as disclosed below, there are no material contracts of financial reporting or any other matters, the Group other than contracts entered into in the ordinary course provides a confidential telephone hotline, so that staff of business to which the Group is a party: or third parties may report anonymously any perceived inaccurate or unethical working practices.
An agreement between the Group and CapGemini for the outsourcing of IT services.
The initial term of the The Audit and Risk Committees endeavour to ensure that agreement was for five years from 1 April 2010 to the Group has in place appropriate and effective controls, 31 March 2015. checks, systems, and risk management techniques.
On 16 May 2014, a new seven-year agreement between the Group and CapGemini was signed.
Distributions The Relationship Agreement between the Company and The Board has become aware of certain technical issues in Sir Peter Wood remains in force until the Ordinary Shares respect of the Companys procedures for the payment of the cease to be admitted to the Official List of the FCA and to following dividends: trading on the London Stock Exchange: or the Potential Controlling Shareholder ceases to own, when taken a the final cash dividend of 7.3 pence per share paid on together, 15% or more of the Ordinary Shares or the 20 May 2016: and voting rights attaching to the Ordinary Shares unless, b the interim cash dividend of 3.0 pence per share paid at the time the Potential Controlling Shareholders shall on 21 October 2016, each a Relevant Distribution and cease to own, when taken together, 15% or more of the together, the Relevant Distributions Ordinary Shares or the voting rights attaching to the Ordinary Shares, Sir Peter Wood remains the Chairman of The Companies Act 2006 the Act provides that a public the Company, in which event the Relationship Agreement company may pay a dividend out of its distributable profits shall terminate six months after Sir Peter Wood ceases to as shown in the last accounts circulated to members, or if be the Chairman of the Company.
interim accounts are used, those that have been delivered to Companies House.
These requirements apply even if the Research and development company in question has sufficient distributable profits to In the ordinary course of business, the Group develops new pay the relevant dividend at the relevant time.
products and services in each of its business divisions.
The Company has at all times had sufficient profits Special rights and other distributable reserves to justify the Relevant There are no persons holding securities that carry special Distributions and, as such, it could have prepared relevant rights with regard to the control of the Group.
interim accounts showing the requisite level of distributable profits and delivered these to Companies House in order to satisfy the procedural requirements of the Act.
The Company did not, however, take all of these steps in relation to the Relevant Distributions.
In both instances this constituted a procedural breach of section 838 of the Act and, accordingly, the Relevant Distributions were, regrettably, made otherwise than in accordance with the Act.
esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 71 Directors Report continued At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 17 May 2017, a resolution will be proposed which authorises the appropriation of distributable reserves to the payment of the Relevant Distributions and puts all potentially affected parties in the position in which they were intended to be had the Relevant Distributions been made in accordance with the procedural requirements of the Act.
This resolution constitutes a related party transaction under IAS 24 and under the Listing Rules.
The Company has put in place new procedures relating to all distributions which will ensure that relevant legal requirements are complied with at all times.
These procedures have been subject to external legal review and will be regularly reassessed to ensure they remain appropriate.
Internal Audit The Groups Internal Audit function is fully outsourced.
The activities and effectiveness of Internal Audit are monitored and reviewed by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that adequate access to information and resource is given to the Lead Internal Auditor and for approving the appointment and removal of the Lead Internal Auditor.
The Lead Internal Auditor reports directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Internal Audit reports are presented to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls and the adequacy of these systems to manage business risk and to safeguard the Groups assets and resources.
Internal Audit uses the Groups risk registers to plan and inform its annual audit programme around the most significant risks to the business to ensure that controls are in place and are designed and operating effectively.
The Audit Committee reviews and approves the Annual Internal Audit Plan.
This section together with the reports set out on pages 34 to 72 are approved by order of the Board.
Alice Rivers Company Secretary 9 March 2017 72 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016
