Board of Directors Darren Ogden Chief Finance Officer Darren joined esure Group in 2003.
He was N D promoted to the position of Head of Finance in 2007 and was appointed to the Board as Chief Finance Officer in November 2012.
Sir Peter Wood Chairman Darren is a qualified accountant with over 20 years of experience in the insurance Sir Peter Wood founded the Group in February 2000.
Sir Peter has served industry.
He previously spent 13 years at as the Groups Chairman since February 2000 and was the Groups Chief Legal & General, primarily in the general Executive Officer from 2006 until 2012.
In September 2016 he was insurance division.
appointed as the Chairman of Gocompare.
Darren is a member of the Group Executive Previously, Sir Peter founded Direct Line insurance in 1985, retiring as and Disclosure Committees.
Sir Peter also founded Privilege Insurance with Royal Bank of Scotland, together with two other insurance companies in the US and one in Spain.
D E In 1996, Sir Peter received the honour of Commander of the British Empire in recognition of his services to the UK financial services industry.
In 2016 he was awarded a knighthood in the Queen's birthday honours list.
Sir Peter chairs the Nomination Committee and is a member of the Disclosure Committee.
Shirley Garrood D E Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director Shirley was appointed to the Board as a Stuart Vann Chief Executive Officer Non-Executive Director in July 2013.
She is also a Non-Executive Director of Hargreaves Stuart was appointed to the Board in September 2011 and became Lansdown plc.
Chief Executive Officer in February 2012.
Stuart joined the Company in 2000 and has held various roles including Head of Insurance Risk and Shirley is a Chartered Accountant and Acquisition and Chief Operating Officer.
He is a qualified accountant with Corporate Treasurer, having trained with two decades of experience in the sector.
She was appointed Chief Operating Officer of Henderson Group plc in 2001 and Stuart has played a leading role in esure Groups strategy and results then Chief Financial Officer from 2009 until delivery during his time at esure Group including the Group's investment 2013.
Shirley was an Executive Director at in Gocompare.
com right through to its Demerger, footprint expansion Morley Fund Management Aviva from 1998 and growth plans.
to 2001 and also Chief Operating Officer from 2000 to 2001.
Shirley chairs the He is a member of the ABIs General Insurance Council and also Audit Committee and is a member of the a member of the Worshipful Company of Insurers.
Stuart chairs the Group Executive Committee and is a member of the Disclosure Committee.
A R N Committee Membership A Audit R Risk E Group Executive N Nomination R Remuneration Committee Chair D Disclosure 32 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financials Angela Seymour-Jackson Martin Pike Peter Shaw Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Angela was appointed to the Board as a Martin was appointed to the Board as a Peter was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in October 2015.
He She is also the Deputy Chairman and Senior He is a non-executive director of Standard is a non-executive director of Willis Limited, Independent Director of Gocompare.
com Life plc, where he Chairs the Risk & Capital Aldermore Bank plc and Bank of Ireland Group plc, a non-executive director of Committee and is a member of the UK plc.
Henderson Group plc and Rentokil Initial plc.
Remuneration Committee and the Audit He formerly held a variety of senior In November 2016 she became an Adviser Committee.
He is also on the Board of executive positions, most recently as Interim to Lloyds Banking Group insurance.
Angela Faraday Underwriting Limited, and he is CRO of the Co-operative Banking Group, and was the Managing Director of the Workplace Chairman of Greencore Construction Limited, prior to that in Royal Bank of Scotland Group Division of Aegon UK plc and has held a company of which he is joint founder.
and NatWest where he was CRO for the various senior marketing and distribution Retail, Wealth and Ulster businesses.
Peter roles from 1989 to 2011 at Norwich Union Martin spent 30 years with Towers Watson, has a wide range of experience in both risk Insurance, General Accident Insurance, where he held a number of senior positions, and business roles throughout a career in CGU plc and Aviva.
She was Chief Executive culminating in the post of Managing Financial Services of over 30 years.
Officer of RAC Motoring Services Limited Director, Risk Consulting & Software EMEA.
from 2010 until 2012 and she conducted the Peter is a member of the Risk and sale of RAC to Carlyle.
Angela is a member Martin Chairs the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committees.
of the Risk and Remuneration Committees.
and is a member of the Audit and Risk Committees.
R R A R R R R Mara Dolores Dancausa Alan Rubenstein Peter Ward Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Mara Dolores was appointed to the Board as Alan was appointed to the Board as a Peter was appointed to the Board as a a Non-Executive Director in December 2013.
He is Non-Executive Director in 2001.
Peter is an Her career in the financial and insurance the Chief Executive of the Pension Protection actuary who spent his career in insurance sector has been spent mostly in the Fund, a role he has held since April 2009. working for Commercial Union in Australia, Bankinter Group.
Immediately prior to joining the PPF he was South Africa and the UK.
In 1994, he was a Managing Director at Lehman Brothers appointed as a Group Executive Director of She was appointed General Secretary and from 20062008 and before that at Morgan Commercial Union plc, a position from which to the Board of Lnea Directa in 1994, the Stanley from 19972006.
He began his he retired in 2000. year it was founded.
Mara was appointed career with Scottish Widows, where he CEO of Lnea Board in 2008 and it went on to qualified as a Fellow of the Faculty Peter is a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries become the fifth largest car insurer in Spain.
and of the Chartered Insurance Institute, a At the end of 2010, she was appointed CEO Past President of the Insurance Institute of of Bankinter.
During these years, Bankinter He also serves as an Investment Adviser London and a Past Master of The Worshipful was confirmed as one of the healthiest and to the British Coal Staff Superannuation Company of Insurers.
Peter chairs the most creditworthy institutions in Europe.
Alan is a member of the Audit Risk Committee and is a member of the and Nomination Committees.
Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Mara Dolores is a member of the Committees.
N A N R R A N esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 33
