COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Directors Report Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC is a public June 23 2016, brings the total dividend for one share of the companys dividends.
It holds a premium listing on the year to 23.40p per ordinary share 2015: are no special control rights attached to them.
the London Stock Exchange main market for 23.40p.
The company is not aware of any agreements listed securities and is a member of the FTSE or control rights between existing shareholders SHARE CAPITAL 250 share index.
that may result in restrictions on the transfer The companys share capital is divided of securities shares or loan notes or on voting The Directors Report comprises pages 32 to into ordinary shares of 0.25p each.
45 of this report together with the sections of At September 30 2016 there were 128,313,356 the Annual Report and Accounts incorporated ordinary shares in issue and fully paid.
During CHANGE OF CONTROL by reference.
Some of the matters required by the year, 64,462 ordinary shares of 0.25p There are a number of agreements that take legislation have been included in the Strategic each 2015: 115,477 ordinary shares with an effect, alter or terminate upon a change of Report pages 4 to 30 as the board considers aggregate nominal value of 161 2015: 289 control of the company following a takeover them to be of strategic importance.
specifically, were issued following the exercise of share bid.
None of these agreements is deemed to these are future business developments and options granted under the companys share be significant in terms of their potential impact principal risks.
option schemes for a cash consideration of on the business of the group as a whole.
Details of the companys companys share plans contain provisions that It is expected that the company, which has share capital are given in note 23 to the group take effect in such an event but do not entitle no branches, will continue to operate as the financial statements.
The companys ultimate participants to a greater interest in the shares holding company of the group.
controlling party is given in note 31. of the company than created by the initial grant or award under the relevant plan.
Details GROUP RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS EMPLOYEE SHARE TRUST of the directors entitlement to compensation The group profit for the year attributable to The executive directors of the company together for loss of ofce following a takeover or equity holders of the parent amounted to with other employees of the group are potential contract termination are given in the Directors 30.7m 2015: 105.4m.
The companys beneciaries of the Euromoney Employee Share Remuneration Report.
policy is to distribute a third of its adjusted Trust and as such, are deemed to be interested after-tax earnings by way of dividends each in any ordinary shares held by the trust.
At AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE AND year.
However, although adjusted earnings September 30 2016, the trusts shareholding ALLOT OWN SHARES have declined, the companys strong balance totalled 1,700,777 shares representing 1.3% of At the 2016 AGM, the company was sheet means the board is able to recommend the companys called-up ordinary share capital.
authorised by shareholders to purchase up to an unchanged final dividend of 16.40p per There have been no awards transferred between 10% of its own shares and to allot shares up ordinary share 2015: 16.40p, payable on September 30 2016 and the date of this Annual to an aggregate nominal amount of 96,187.
Thursday February 9 2017 to shareholders Report and Accounts.
The resolutions to renew this authority for a on the register on Friday December 2 2016. further period will be put to shareholders at This, together with the interim dividend of VOTING RIGHTS AND RESTRICTIONS the 2017 AGM.
7.00p per ordinary share 2015: 7.00p which ON TRANSFER OF SHARES was declared on May 19 2016 and paid on Each share entitles its holder to one vote at shareholders meetings and the right to receive SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDINGS As at November 24 2016, the company had been notied of the following significant interests: Name of holder Nature of holding Number of shares % of voting rights DMG Charles Limited Direct 85,838,458 66.90 to management and business skills training.
includes specic policies on matters such as RELATIONSHIP DEED The group has the advantage of running the use of the groups information technology The company and Daily Mail and General Trust plc, the parent company of DMG Charles external training businesses and uses this inresources, data protection policy, the UK house resource to train cost-effectively its Bribery Act, and disciplinary and grievance Limited, entered into a relationship deed on July 16 2014 in accordance with the Listing employees on a regular basis.
The group operates an intranet also encouraged actively to seek external which is used to communicate with employees Rules and have acted in accordance with its terms since execution.
and provide guidance and assistance on dayto-day matters facing employees.
The group High-quality and honest personnel are an EMPLOYEES has a specic whistle-blowing policy that is essential part of the control environment.
supported by an externally managed whistleQUALITY AND INTEGRITY The high ethical standards expected are blowing hotline.
The whistle-blowing policy is communicated by management and through OF EMPLOYEES updated regularly and is reviewed by the audit The competence of people is ensured through the employee handbook which is provided committee.
The employee handbook high recruitment standards and a commitment 42 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance DIRECTORS REPORT HUMAN RIGHTS AND HEALTH AND DISABLED EMPLOYEES GOING CONCERN It is the groups policy to give full and fair Having assessed the principal risks and the SAFETY REQUIREMENTS consideration to applications for employment other matters discussed in connection with The group is committed to the health and from people who are disabled: to continue, the viability statement, the directors consider safety and the human rights of its employees wherever possible, the employment of, and it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis and communities in which it operates.
Health to arrange appropriate training for, employees of accounting in preparing this Annual Report and safety issues are monitored to ensure who become disabled: and to provide and Accounts.
compliance with all local health and safety opportunities for the career development, regulations.
External health and safety advisors ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES training and promotion of disabled employees.
The UK businesses Additional information that is relevant to this benefit from a regular assessment of the POLITICAL DONATIONS report, and which is incorporated by reference working environment by experienced assessors No political donations were made during the into this report, including information required and regular training of all existing and new UK year 2015: nil.
in accordance with the UK Companies Act employees in health and safety matters.
4R, can be located POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS as follows: Events arising after September 30 2016 are Financial instruments note 19 set out in note 30 to the group financial statements.
Related party transactions note 29 GREENHOUSE GAS GHG REPORTING The company, as part of the wider Daily Mail and General Trust plc group DMGT, participates in a DMGT group-wide carbon footprint analysis completed by ICF International.
This exercise has been undertaken every year since 2007 using the widely recognised GHG protocol methodology developed by the World Resource Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development.
The directors are committed to reducing the groups absolute carbon emissions and managing its carbon footprint.
Greenhouse emission statement The following emissions have been calculated according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition methodology.
Data was gathered to full the requirements under the CRC Energy efficiency scheme, and emission factors from the UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014.
The carbon footprint is expressed in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent and includes all the Kyoto Protocol gases that are of relevance to the business.
The companys footprint covers emissions from its global operations and the following emission sources: Scope 1 and 2 as dened by the GHG Protocol, business travel and outsourced delivery activities.
Assessment parameters Baseline year 2012 Consolidation approach Operational control Boundary summary All entities and facilities either owned or under operational control Consistency with the financial statements The only variation is that leased properties, under operational control, are included in scope 1 and 2 data, all scope 3 emissions are off-balance sheet emissions Assessment methodology Greenhouse Gas Protocol and Defra environmental reporting guidelines Intensity ratio Emissions per m of revenue FY 2016 FY 2015 Greenhouse gas emission source tCO e tCO e m tCO e tCO e m 2 2 2 2 Scope 1: Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 2,100 5.2 2,100 5.2 Scope 2: Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 2,200 5.4 2,400 6.0 Total scope 1 and 2 4,300 10.6 4,500 11.2 Scope 3: Business travel and outsourced activities 6,200 15.4 6,900 17.1 Total emissions 10,500 26.0 11,400 28.3 Statutory carbon reporting disclosures required by Companies Act 2006 43 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 WWW.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Directors Report CONTINUED AUDITOR APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Each director confirms that, so far as he she is The directors are responsible for preparing the DIRECTORS aware, there is no relevant audit information Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration The companys Articles of Association give of which the companys auditor is unaware: Report and the Accounts in accordance with power to the board to appoint directors from and that each of the directors has taken all applicable law and regulations.
In addition to the statutory the steps that he she ought to have taken as law requires the directors to prepare financial rights of shareholders to remove a director by a director to make himself herself aware of statements for each financial year.
Under that ordinary resolution, the board may also remove any relevant audit information and to establish law the directors are required to prepare the a director where 75% of the board gives that the companys auditor is aware of the group financial statements in accordance with written notice to such director.
International Financial Reporting Standards Association themselves may be amended by a IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and special resolution of the shareholders.
A resolution to reappoint Pricewaterhouse Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the parent Coopers LLP as the companys statutory auditor Following best practice under the 2014 UK company financial statements in accordance and to authorise the audit committee to Corporate Governance Code the Code and with United Kingdom Generally Accepted determine their remuneration will be proposed in accordance with the companys Articles of Accounting Practice United Kingdom at the 2017 AGM.
Association, all directors submit themselves for Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Accordingly, all directors Under company law the directors must not ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, being approve the accounts unless they are satisfied The companys next AGM will be held eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
In that they give a true and fair view of the state at Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC, addition, in accordance with the Code, before of affairs of the group and the company and of 8 Bouverie Street, London EC4Y 8AX on the re-election of a non-executive director, the the profit or loss of the group for that period.
January 26 2017 at 9.30 a. m. A separate chairman is required to confirm to shareholders In preparing the financial statements, the circular comprising the Notice of Meeting, that, following formal performance evaluation, directors are required to: together with explanatory notes, accompanies the non-executive directors performance this Annual Report.
select suitable accounting policies and apply continues to be effective and demonstrates them consistently: commitment to the role.
Accordingly, the DIRECTORS non-executive directors will retire at the make judgements and accounting estimates forthcoming AGM and, being eligible DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS that are reasonable and prudent: following a formal performance evaluation by INTERESTS state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted the chairman, offer themselves for re-election.
The membership of the board and by the European Union and applicable UK biographical details of the directors are given DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES Accounting Standards have been followed, on page 31.
Following the changes to the A qualifying third-party indemnity QTPI subject to any material departures disclosed board announced on November 19 2015, as permitted by the Companys Articles of and explained in the group and parent CHC Fordham, NF Osborn, fide Alfano, Association and Section 232 and 234 of the company financial statements respectively: JL Wilkinson and B AL-Rehany did not seek Companies Act 2006, has been granted re-election as executive directors of the state whether all accounting standards by the company to each of the directors company at the AGM in January 2016.
MWH which are considered applicable have been of the company.
Under the provisions of Morgan retired as non-executive director followed in preparing the parent company QTPI the company undertakes to indemnify on May 31 2016 and PA Zwillenberg was financial statements: and each director against liability to third parties appointed as non-executive director on excluding criminal and regulatory penalties prepare the financial statements on the June 1 2016. and to pay directors costs as incurred, provided going concern basis unless it is inappropriate Details of the interests of the directors in that they are reimbursed to the company if the to presume that the group and company will the ordinary shares of the company and of director is found guilty or, in an action brought continue in business.
options held by the directors to subscribe for by the company, judgement is given against ordinary shares in the company are set out in the director.
the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 58.
44 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance DIRECTORS REPORT The directors are responsible for keeping the Strategic Report and the Directors Report adequate accounting records that are include a fair review of the development sufficient to show and explain the companys and performance of the business and the transactions and disclose with reasonable position of the group taken as a whole, accuracy at any time the financial position together with a description of the principal of the company and group and enable them risks and uncertainties that it faces.
to ensure that the financial statements and On behalf of the board Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the ANDREW RASHBASS group financial statements, Article 4 of the Director IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for November 24 2016 safeguarding the assets of the company and COLIN JONES group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and Director November 24 2016 other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on page 31 of the Annual Report confirms that to the best of their knowledge: the group financial statements, are prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the group taken as a whole: and 45 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6
