Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS Board of Directors R N A N A JC BOTTS THE VISCOUNT ROTHERMERE TP HILLGARTH Non-executive chairman Non-executive director Independent non-executive director Appointed to the board: 1992 Appointed to the board: 1998 Appointed to the board: 2012 Skills and experience: John Botts is senior Skills and experience: The Viscount is Skills and experience: Tristan Hillgarth adviser of Allen & Company in London and a chairman of Daily Mail and General Trust plc has over 30 years of experience in asset director of several private companies.
He was and he brings significant experience of media.
management and has held senior positions at formerly non-executive chairman of United He worked at the International Herald Tribune Framlington, Invesco and Jupiter.
He is a nonBusiness Media plc.
in Paris and the Mirror Group before moving executive director of JPMorgan Growth and to Northcliffe Newspapers in 1995.
N A RASHBASS he became managing director of the Evening R N PA ZWILLENBERG Chief executive officer Standard.
Non-executive director Appointed to the board: 2015 N SIR PATRICK SERGEANT Skills and experience: Andrew Rashbass has Appointed to the board: 2016 Non-executive director and president broad international experience and proven Skills and experience: Paul Zwillenberg ability to manage top-quality editorial products Appointed to the board: 1969 is chief executive of Daily Mail and General while also growing digital revenues.
Between Skills and experience: Sir Patrick founded the Trust plc.
Paul has over 25 years experience 2013 and 2015 Andrew was the chief executive company in 1969 and was managing director across the media sector.
He has a breadth of Reuters, the news division of Thomson until 1985 when he became chairman.
He of experience across DMGTs portfolio and Reuters, the global business information group.
retired as chairman in September 1992 when a broad knowledge of the group, having set Before joining Reuters, he spent 15 years at he was appointed as president and a nonup the digital division of dmg media formerly The Economist Group, where for the last five executive director.
Prior years he was chief executive and successfully to joining DMGT, Paul was the Global Leader R A DP PRITCHARD led its transformation from a traditional print Media Sector at The Boston Consulting Group, to leading digital business.
Before that he was where he focused on digital media and content Independent non-executive director publisher of The Economist.
and before that founded an early interactive Appointed to the board: 2008 media company and launched a European Skills and experience: David Pritchard is a CR JONES technology services rm.
director of The Motability Tenth Anniversary Finance director Trust.
David has over 30 years of experience Appointed to the board: 1996 in the banking industry.
He was formerly Skills and experience: Colin Jones is a chairman of AIB Group UK plc, deputy chartered accountant.
He joined the company chairman of Lloyds TSB Group, chairman of in 1996 from Price Waterhouse, and was Cheltenham & Gloucester plc and a director appointed finance director in November of Scottish Widows Group and LCH.
ART BALLINGAL Independent non-executive director Appointed to the board: 2012 Skills and experience: Andrew Ballingal is chief executive of Ballingal Investment Advisors, an independent investment rm based in Hong Kong.
Andrew has over 20 years of experience as an advisor, investor, and partner in hedge funds, much of it in Asia.
He has been a member of the Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Asia Pacic Advisory Board since 2008.
Member of the remuneration committee R Member of the nominations committee N Member of the audit committee A Chairman of the committee 31 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6
