COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Strategy 2016 2017 2018 onwards NO CHANGE TRANSITION GROWTH Euromoney needed to revise its strategy because of challenges to the business model facing some of its businesses and changing dynamics within its markets.
The performance over the year, especially in the first half, reects these challenges.
The groups new strategy is to actively manage a portfolio of businesses in asset management, price discovery and other sectors where information, data and convening market participants are valued.
We deliver products and services that are critical to our customers businesses.
The group has always had a structured approach to capital allocation, but financial performance in future will come from a more rigorous allocation of capital, in line with the following quadrants: Batten down the hatches Protect and enhance competitive position New product development Careful selective investment Prepare Sales and marketing Invest for when cycle turns for upturn Acquisition Opportunistic on revenue Fix any operational deficit opportunities Tight control cost Fix any operational deficit CYCLE - Modest investment to move to top-right quadrant above Maximise shorter-term Use the Maximise shorter-term profit profit and cash Disinvest time wisely and cash Divest Fix any operational deficit Prevent future build-up Consider divestment - All businesses within the Euromoney portfolio have been assessed and classied according to this framework and strategic activity for each quadrant prioritised.
The invest quadrant is where new product development, sales and marketing initiatives and acquisitions will be prioritised.
In contrast, in the use the time wisely quadrant investment will be directed towards areas which are most likely to move businesses to the top quadrant, with a clear focus on shorter-term profit and cash generation.
In some cases as represented by the disinvest quadrant, the group will consider restructuring or divestment of part of or whole individual businesses and minimal capital will be allocated to these areas.
The prepare for upturn quadrant is populated by strong businesses in cyclically challenged areas.
Here, capital allocation will be focused on protecting and enhancing the groups competitive position with careful, selective investment, tight cost control and, where possible, exploiting revenue opportunities.
This assessment leads to our three pillars of strategic activity see page 11: 10 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 STRUCTURE Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report STRATEGY STRATEGIC PILLARS 3 1 1 2 2 INVEST AROUND BIG THEMES TRANSFORM THE OPERATING MODEL ACTIVELY MANAGE THE PORTFOLIO Investing around big themes such as Introducing an effective operating Actively managing the portfolio, the information and services to support model that marries the best of disinvesting in businesses where the the asset management industry, price the group entrepreneurial culture market is weak and the business discovery and others.
closeness to customers, passion for model structurally challenged and brands, knowledge of products and investing where the businesses are accountability for revenue and profit structurally strong and there are with a new emphasis on modern market tailwinds.
marketing techniques, group-wide talent management, seeking economies of, and opportunities from, scale and adopting a more strategic approach to developing each business.
During 2016, encouraging progress has been Modern marketing techniques: a central ACTIVELY MANAGE THE PORTFOLIO made around each area, as can be seen below: marketing team has been established as The groups portfolio management focus is a resource for all our businesses.
Their now centred on investing where businesses INVEST AROUND BIG THEMES specialist marketing skills and capabilities are structurally strong and there are market The big themes such as the information and are already being used in areas ranging from tailwinds.
It will consider disinvesting services to support the asset management creating pricing structures for new products businesses where the market is weak and industry, price discovery and other areas will through to developing YouTube and other the business model is structurally challenged.
Existing asset video content to promote new services.
The In April, the group completed the sale of management-related brands, Institutional YouTube Rival Advocates advertisement is Gulf Publishing and Petroleum Economist Investor, BCA and Ned Davis Research all a good example of the effective, specialist for US$18m.
In August and September, the provide an excellent platform for investment to support provided to the Euromoney group completed two acquisitions in the drive growth.
The groups asset management businesses.
strategically important areas of price discovery product development and investments are and insurance.
The acquisition of Reinsurance Group-wide talent management: in order aligned with the key market trends such as the Security has extended the insurance and to develop the strong entrepreneurial culture shift from traditional active towards passive reinsurance information portfolio into the throughout Euromoney, a structured talent fund management, specialist alternative asset high-value counterparty risk market.
The development programme needs to be more management and the unbundling of sell-side acquisition of FastMarkets for 13.3m will effectively established.
Euromoneys businesses operating extend Metal Bulletins capabilities into realrecently appointed group-wide HR director, in sectors such as air finance, telecoms and time data delivery and will be an integral part Euromoney will develop a range of talent insurance, together with price discovery of its extensive portfolio of digital pricing initiatives including leadership coaching and businesses such as Metal Bulletin, are among products.
management training to ensure the group the groups other key areas of investment.
has the right specialist skill set to harness the opportunities in our current marketplaces.
TRANSFORM THE OPERATING MODEL Seeking economies of scale through To ensure that the best of the groups sharing best practice around the business: entrepreneurial culture is aligned with a strong the new approach to product development, operating model, various initiatives have been pricing structures and marketing skills are instigated in 2016 to form a rm foundation examples of this which are now prevalent for future growth, including a new emphasis across the group.
on modern marketing techniques, group-wide Adopting a more strategic approach to talent management, seeking economies of, developing each business: each Euromoney and opportunities from, scale and adopting a business has now adopted the new more strategic approach to developing each quadrant capital allocation framework and business.
Each of these strategic development prioritises monitoring progress to achieving areas are explained in more detail: its strategic goals.
