Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report SEGMENT REVIEW Segment Review ASSET MANAGEMENT The asset management segment includes the brands and businesses that serve the global asset management industry.
It provides independent research that enables our clients to make informed investment decisions: it runs networks and conferences that bring asset allocators and asset managers together in an effective and efficient way: and it provides news and data that are critical for the industry to stay informed and visible in an increasingly complex world.
Its main brands include BCA, Ned Davis Research NDR and the Institutional Investor family of businesses.
Ned Davis Approximately 80% of the segment revenues are derived from subscriptions to its research and Research data products and annual membership fees.
Group Asset management is a key strategic focus and significant investment was made during 2016 to grow the product portfolio, especially at BCA and Institutional Investor Research II Research, and we continued to launch new Institutional Investor forums and memberships.
2016 2015 Movement Underlying m m % % REVENUE SPLIT Revenue 164.5 150.8 9% 1% Adjusted operating profit 55.9 51.9 8% 3% Adjusted operating margin 34% 34% Total asset management revenues increased by 9% to 164.5m, with underlying revenues up by 1%.
With 80% of revenues in subscriptions and content, the year-on-year underlying performance reects the tightening of budgets across the sector during 2016.
Underlying revenues were at in the first half, followed by a more encouraging 1% increase in the second, largely from the strategic initiatives undertaken for new products, pricing and sales.
Institutional Investors subscriptionbased memberships performed strongly throughout 2016, while BCA and NDR ended the year on a positive note with Q4 performance showing encouraging signs of returning to growth.
Subscriptions and content 80% The adjusted operating margin remained at 34%, reecting headcount investment in BCA and Advertising 9% Institutional Investors memberships to drive new product and sales initiatives offset by cost Sponsorship 9% reductions in the more challenged parts of the groups portfolio.
Adjusted operating profit fell by Delegates 2% an underlying 3%, largely due to the headcount and new product investment.
Trading Survey in BCA Equity Trading Strategy II Research BCA Research has been the leading provider of independent macroeconomic investment The development of a research ballot research for nearly 70 years.
platform and the launch of the new All-American Trading Team Survey this As BCA conducted extensive market research to support its future product strategy, year demonstrated Euromoneys strategy it became evident that investors required a way to link macro investment strategies of investing around big themes and with individual investment decisions, and that the more specic the investment effective, efficient product development.
recommendation is to individual instruments, the more valuable it is for investors.
Driven by MiFID II and the unbundling Working with clients, BCA developed Equity Trading Strategy ETS, a product for of sell-side services, the II Research investors that combines BCAs top-down macro research with company fundamental and team identied that it could provide quantitative analysis to deliver a 360-degree view of stocks.
more targeted, actionable insight to its customers without asking for materially Launched in December 2015 covering US equities only, ETS has been a huge success more time from its voters.
with clients and is becoming one of BCAs best-selling products.
Following this success, ETS was further extended in October 2016 with the launch of European and The approach adopted was also highly Asian market coverage.
cost effective, agile and licensed best-inclass technology in preference to building The launch of ETS illustrates Euromoneys strategy of responding to a market need and in-house.
bringing new and exciting products to market efficiently and effectively.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Segment Review CONTINUED PRICING, DATA AND MARKET INTELLIGENCE The pricing, data and market intelligence segment houses businesses spanning many industries that provide information and analysis critical for our clients business processes and workows.
The segments largest business is Metal Bulletin, a leading price reporting agency for the metals and mining industries, but also includes our businesses active in the telecoms, insurance, airline and banking industries.
Two-thirds of the segments revenues are derived from subscriptions.
Price discovery is a key strategic theme for Euromoney and it is expected to grow signicantly as most industries are seeking more transparency around prices and risks they face in their traditionally opaque markets.
During 2016 we signicantly enhanced our capabilities through the acquisitions of FastMarkets, a pricing platform in the metals industry, and Reinsurance Security, a provider of risk ratings for the reinsurance sector.
2016 2015 Movement Underlying m m % % REVENUE SPLIT Revenue 134.9 129.0 5% 0% Adjusted operating profit 44.3 41.2 8% 1% Adjusted operating margin 33% 32% Reported revenues increased by 5% to 134.9m reecting strong performances from the groups wholesale telecoms business, TelCap, and the groups emerging market information and data products provider, CEIC.
Weakness in other parts of the portfolio resulted in underlying revenues being at year-on-year.
The segments adjusted operating margin increased by one percentage point to 33% reecting 11% Subscriptions 67% Advertising an improvement in the mix driven by the strong performances of TelCap and CEIC, and cost and content 8% Sponsorship savings from streamlining marketing and event logistics teams.
Adjusted operating profit fell by Delegates 13% Other 1% an underlying 1% largely due to additional investment associated with the bolt-on-acquisitions.
Metal Bulletin INVESTING TO TRANSFORM A TRADITIONAL NEWS AND INFORMATION PROVIDER INTO A DATA-DRIVEN PRICE REPORTING AGENCY The Metal Bulletin business is today dened by the integral position of its data within the markets it serves.
Over time, the prices assessed and published by Metal Bulletin have become established benchmarks used by the industry as reference pricing in contracts and enabling trading in many markets to function effectively.
The market shift towards benchmark pricing has also brought greater scrutiny to the processes in terms of compliance.
Metal Bulletin has applied industry-wide principles that have been laid down principally for the oil and energy markets and now is able to use that as an additional competitive advantage underlining the credibility and integrity of the business and the data it provides.
The proliferation of the use of its data as benchmarks has allowed Metal Bulletin to go through a rapid business change across the organisation that puts the emphasis on being a Price Reporting Agency PRA.
This has led to a shift in the way our data and content is monetised and has allowed us to adopt a new data licensing strategy alongside the traditional subscriptions model.
To augment the high-quality data produced, the acquisition of FastMarkets allows Metal Bulletin to provide key exchange data to complement the physical price assessments it provides through a highly versatile and congurable desktop application that can be scaled into the vertical sectors of the markets it serves.
The investment and changes that the group is making in Metal Bulletin are examples of the strategy of investing in big themes, such as price discovery, to position the group for future growth.
22 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report SEGMENT REVIEW BANKING AND FINANCE Banking and finance provides market intelligence, news, training and conferences to the global finance industry.
It includes the agship Euromoney magazine, a leading publication for the global banking sector, which through its awards for excellence has been the arbiter of status for banks for over 45 years.
Its conferences across the Euromoney and IMN brands are the pre-eminent events for their specic industry sectors.
The segment derived over 70% of its revenues from delegates and sponsorships for its events.
2016 2015 Movement Underlying m m % % Revenue 74.6 80.5 7% 13% Adjusted operating profit 10.9 17.3 37% 46% Adjusted operating margin 15% 22% REVENUE SPLIT Reported revenues decreased by 7% to 74.6m, with underlying revenues down 13% largely reecting the groups decision to reduce the number of conferences held due to continued weakness in banking and capital markets, and the strategic decision to focus on in-house training while signicantly reducing the number of public training courses held.
Weakness in the groups financial publishing titles was an additional drag on the segments performance given their dependence on bank advertising.
In contrast, large events, particularly, in structured finance performed well.
The adjusted operating margin fell seven percentage points to 15% due to the drag from the poor performance of the training business and the reduction in event volumes.
As a result, adjusted Sponsorship 40% 13% Advertising operating profit fell by an underlying 46%.
31% Delegates Other 2% Subscriptions 14% and content Euromoneys Rival Advocacy TRANSFORMING RIVALS INTO ADVOCATES Some careful research this year led us to a ground-breaking discovery: a banks immediate rivals are unintentionally a key determinant of that banks credibility among clients, via a process we called Rival Advocacy.
The concept is simple: the process of describing yourself by comparison to peers validates the peer in the listeners mind.
Euromoney magazine is now pivoting its business model by creating multi-platform thought leadership packages around the Rival Advocacy concept that will enable it to reduce its reliance on conventional advertising spend and create a content marketing platform for its clients.
Through its leading, high-quality journalism and awards, which are widely recognised as the key benchmarks of excellence in the global banking industry, Euromoney is perfectly placed to provide this valuable process of peer-to-peer reputation management.
The launch of the Rival Advocacy concept at Euromoney magazine is in line with our strategy of moving businesses in our four-quadrant model by investment in product development and implementing a more effective operating model.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Segment Review CONTINUED COMMODITY EVENTS Commodity events consists of the leading conferences in the metals, agriculture, energy and wine sectors.
Most of the conferences are large scale trading events, bringing the whole industry together to conduct business and exchange market intelligence.
2016 2015 Movement Underlying m m % % Revenue 29.2 29.6 1% 18% Adjusted operating profit 8.0 9.0 10% 40% Adjusted operating margin 27% 30% Reported revenues were down 1% to 29.2m, and down 18% on an underlying basis.
This performance reects the continued challenging market conditions faced by the groups commodities-related events, especially for the coal and mining industries, following the collapse REVENUE SPLIT in commodity prices in 2015.
These declines more than offset the double digit growth of Global Grain events in 2016.
The adjusted operating margin dropped three percentage points to 27% reecting the loss of high-margin ow through delegate revenues in 2016.
As a result adjusted operating profit fell by an underlying 40%.
Delegates 78% Sponsorship 20% Advertising 2% Global Grain Events TRADING EVENTS STRATEGY Global Grain Events organises a series of world-leading events for the global grain trading industry.
The business has delivered strong growth since acquisition, driven by its high quality content and extensive networking opportunities for delegates.
The challenge for Global Grain is how to continue to grow as it already attracts most of the key players in the industry to its events.
Global Grains response is to promote more trading activity at its events and move from a content-led model to a trading event strategy.
This will be achieved through new pricing structures to enable customers to send their whole deal teams: facilitating trading activity by providing better meeting rooms and price discovery: and improving the customer experience throughout the event.
These changes are in line with Euromoneys strategy of investing in growth areas and implementing changes to the operating model to build stronger businesses.
