COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Business Model The group actively manages a portfolio of B2B businesses in asset management, price discovery and other sectors where information, data and convening market participants are valued, delivering products and services that support the groups clients critical activities.
Through more than 20 agship brands, the group serves customers with information, insight and marketing services.
We provide world-leading investment research and data and run an extensive portfolio of dynamic and vibrant events, enriched with content that enables our customers to make more informed decisions, get better results and be more productive.
The culture of the group is entrepreneurial, with heads of businesses given significant autonomy to develop their businesses to capture market opportunities.
At the same time, small but increasingly strong central functions make sure best practice is shared, economies of scale are achieved and appropriate governance and controls are in place.
Business Model Customers Barriers to entry Scalable and cash generative Larger wallet than Strong brands Create once, Recurring retail customers sell many revenues Long-standing relationships Relatively price inelastic between buyers and sellers Pricing Low capital Sophisticated and knowledgeable Network effects power intensity Understand the value of the Developed infrastructure, service in order to remain difficult to replicate competitive or compliant Repeat customers High operating High Depend on product or service leverage margin Often similar across geographies Information needs not dissimilar Strong, sustained earnings and cash generation HOW WE MONETISE OUR ACTIVITIES Subscription Content Sponsorship Delegates Advertising revenues are the fees that revenues represent fees paid revenues represent fees paid revenues represent the fees customers pay to receive access by customers to sponsor an by customers to attend a that customers pay to place an to the groups information, event.
A payment of conference, training course or advertisement in one or more through online access to sponsorship can entitle the seminar.
of the groups publications, various databases, through sponsor to high-profile either in print or online.
regular delivery of soft copy speaking opportunities at the research, publications and conference, unique branding newsletters or hard copy before, during and after the magazines.
Subscriptions are event and an unparalleled also received from customers networking opportunity to who belong to Institutional invite the sponsors clients and Investors exclusive membership representatives.
The groups costs are tightly managed and the group benefits from having a flexible cost base, hiring external venues for events and using freelancers, contributors, external trainers and speakers to help deliver its products.
Other than its main offices, the group does not incur fixed costs of offices in most of the markets in which it operates: this allows the group to scale up or reduce overheads as the economic environment in which it operates demands.
