Directors report Introduction In accordance with section 415 of the normally included in the Directors Report have Companies Act 2006, the Directors of EVRAZ instead been included in other sections of the plc present their report to shareholders Annual Report, as indicated below.
for the financial year ending 31 December 2016, which they are required to produce by The Company was incorporated under the applicable UK company law.
The Directors name EVRAZ plc as a public company limited Report comprises the Directors Report section by shares on 23 September 2011 under of this report, together with the sections of the registered number 7784342.
EVRAZ plc listed Annual Report incorporated by reference.
As on the London Stock Exchange in November permitted by legislation, some of the matters 2011 and is a member of the FTSE 250 Index.
Dividends The Companys current dividend policy was adopted on 8 April 2014.
It allows payment of regular dividends only when the net leverage net debt EBITDA target of below 3.0x is achieved and the Company records a net profit.
No dividends were paid in 2016.
No dividend is recommended for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Share capital Details of the Companys share capital are set out in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, including details on the movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year.
As of 31 December 2016, the Companys issued share capital has consisted of 1,506,527,294 ordinary shares, of which 87,015,166 ordinary shares are held in treasury.
Therefore, the total number of voting rights in the Company is 1,419,512,128.
The Companys issued ordinary share capital ranks pari passu in all respects and carries the right to receive all dividends and distributions declared, made or paid on or in respect of the ordinary shares.
There are currently no redeemable non-voting preference shares or subscriber shares of the Company in issue.
Authority to purchase Details of the Companys authority to purchase its own shares, which will be sought at the Companys forthcoming Annual own shares and General Meeting, will be set out in the notice of meeting for that AGM.
transfer of treasury On 20 May 2016, the Company transferred 11,368,416 ordinary shares out of treasury to the Companys Employee shares to Companys Share Trust, which represented 0.76% of the Companys issued share capital.
Details are set out in Note 20 to the Employee Share Trust Consolidated Financial Statements.
Directors Biographies of the directors who served on the Board during the year are provided in the Governance section on pages 100-101.
In addition, Duncan Baxter and Olga Pokrovskaya served as directors until 14 March 2016.
Directors The Board has the power at any time to elect any person to be a director, but the number of directors must not exceed appointment the maximum number fixed by the Companys Articles of Association.
Any person so appointed by the directors will and re-election retire at the next AGM and then be eligible for election.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
For additional information about directors appointment and resignation, see the Corporate Governance Report on page 105.
All of the continuing directors will stand for re-election at the 2017 AGM to be held on 20 June 2017.
Directors interests Information on share ownership by directors can be found in this Report and in the Remuneration Report on page 127.
Directors As at the date of this report, the Company has granted qualifying third-party indemnities to each of its directors against indemnities and any liability that attaches to them in defending proceedings brought against them, to the extent permitted by the director and officer Companies Act.
In addition, directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries have been and continue to be liability insurance covered by director and officer liability insurance.
Powers of directors Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, UK legislation and to any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
The Articles of Association contain specific provisions concerning the Companys power to borrow money and also provide the power to make purchases of any of its own shares.
The directors have the authority to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company.
Further details of the proposed authorities are set out in the Notice of the AGM.
Major interests in Notifiable major share interests of which the Company has been made aware are set out in this Directors Report.
shares 130 orporate governance Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Research and EVRAZ is constantly engaged in process and product innovation.
EVRAZ research and development centres located development at the Companys production sites improve and develop high-quality steel products to better meet customers needs and to ensure that the Company remains competitive in the global and local markets.
For examples of the Companys efforts in R&D in different operations, please refer to the Business Review on pages 38-71.
Sustainable The Corporate Social Responsibility section of this report focuses on the health and safety, environmental and development employment performance of the Companys operations, and outlines the Companys core values and commitment to the principles of sustainable development and development of community relations programmes.
Details of the Companys policies and performance are provided in the CSR Report on pages 74-94.
Payments to EVRAZ published its report on payments to governments in June 2016.
The report provides citizens, authorities and governments independent users with information on payments made to governments where the Company conducts its extractive activities.
The report is prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules Instrument 2014 Report on payments to governments, issued by the UK Financial Conduct Authority.
The report is available on the Companys website at www.
Political donations No political contributions were made in 2016.
Greenhouse gas In 2016, in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Directors Report emissions Regulations 2013, EVRAZ undertook to assess full emissions of greenhouse gases GHGs from facilities under its control.
Details can be found in the CSR Report on pages 80-81.
Employees Information regarding the Companys employees can be found in the Our People section on pages 86-89.
Overseas branches EVRAZ does not have any branches.
A full list of the Groups controlled subsidiaries is disclosed in Note 34 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Financial risk Information regarding the financial risk management and internal control processes and policies, as well as details management and of hedging policy and exposure to the risks associated with financial instruments, can be found in Note 29 to the financial instruments Consolidated Financial Statements, the Corporate Governance, Risk Management and Internal Control section on pages 107-109, and the Financial Review on pages 24-29.
Going concern The financial position and performance of the Group and its cash flows are set out in the Financial Review section of the report on pages 24-29.
The Directors have considered the Groups debt maturity and cash flow projections and an analysis of projected debt covenants compliance for the period to the end of June 2018.
The Board is satisfied that the Groups forecasts and projections, taking into account reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group will continue in operation for the foreseeable future and has neither the intention nor the need to liquidate or materially curtail the scale of its operations.
For this reason the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
More details are provided in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements on page 155.
Auditor The Audit Committee conducted a tender for the external audit of the Group in July 2016.
In November, the Board approved the Committees recommendation to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditor.
Details of the tender process are set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 115.
Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution seeking to re-appoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Future developments Information on the Group and its subsidiaries future developments is provided in the Strategic Report on pages 8-37.
Events since the The major events after 31 December 2016 are disclosed in Note 33 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 237. reporting date Annual general The 2017 AGM will be held on 20 June 2017 in London.
At the AGM, shareholders will have the opportunity to put questions meeting AGM to the Board, including the chairmen of the Board committees.
Full details of the AGM, including explanatory notes, are contained in the Notice of the AGM, which will be distributed at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Notice sets out the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM and an explanation of each resolution.
All documents relating to the AGM are available on the Companys website at www.
Electronic A copy of the 2016 Annual Report, the Notice of the AGM and other corporate publications, reports and communications announcements are available on the Companys website at the following links: http: www.
com investors information general meeting http: www.
com investors annual reports Shareholders may elect to receive notification by email of the availability of the Annual Report on the Companys website instead of receiving paper copies.
Corporate governance The Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 7.2 require certain information to be included in a corporate governance statement statement set out in a company`s Directors Report.
In common with many companies, EVRAZ has an existing practice of issuing, within its Annual Report, a Corporate Governance Report that is separate from its Directors Report.
The information that fulfils the requirement of DTR 7.2 is located in the EVRAZ Corporate Governance Report and is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference, with the exception of the information referred to in DTR 7.2.
6, which is located in this Directors Report.
com 131 Major shareholdings The Companys issued share capital as of 31 December 2016 and 28 February 2017 was 1,506,527,294 ordinary shares, of which 87,015,166 ordinary shares are held in treasury.
Thus, the total voting rights are 1,419,512,128 ordinary shares.
As of 31 December 2016 and 28 February 2017, the following significant holdings of voting rights in the Companys share capital were disclosed to the Company under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5.
Number of ordinary shares % of issued ordinary shares 1 Lanebrook Ltd. 905,487,416 63.79 Lanebrook Ltd. Affiliates 33,960,653 2.39 2 Kadre Enterprises Ltd. 83,751,827 5.90 3 Verocchio Enterprises Ltd. 82,887,014 5.84 1 Lanebrook Ltd. the major shareholder is a limited liability company incorporated under the laws of Cyprus on 16 March 2006.
Its beneficiaries are Roman Abramovich, Alexander Abramov, Alexander Frolov, and Eugene Shvidler.
2 Includes shares held by Gennady Kozovoy, Kadres shareholder, both indirectly through Kadre and directly 3 Verocchio Ltd. is owned by Alexander Vagin.
The Company is aware of the following individuals who each have a beneficial interest in three percent or more of EVRAZ plcs issued share capital in each case, except for Gennady Kozovoy, held indirectly as of 31 December 2016 and 28 February 2017: Number of ordinary shares % of issued share capital Roman Abramovich 440,528,063 31.03 Alexander Abramov 303,541,958 21.38 Alexander Frolov 151,573,018 10.68 Gennady Kozovoy 83,751,827 5.90 Alexander Vagin 82,887,014 5.84 Eugene Shvidler 43,805,030 3.09 Listing rule disclosures For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4CR, the information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4R can be found in the following locations: Item Location Interest capitalised Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Detail of long-term incentive schemes Remuneration Report Waiver of emoluments by a director None Waiver of future emoluments by a director None Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash None Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash in relation to major subsidiary undertakings None Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary None Contract of significance in which a director is interested None Contracts of significance with a controlling shareholder Relationship Agreement section on pages 133-134 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder None Shareholder waiver of dividends None Shareholder waiver of future dividends None Agreements with controlling shareholder Relationship Agreement section below 132 orporate governance Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Significant contractual arrangements Relationship agreement Controlling Shareholder or a member of the Controlling Shareholder shall not, and the Controlling Shareholder Group on the shall procure, insofar as it is legally able to The Controlling Shareholder and the Company other shall be entered into and conducted do so, that each member of the Controlling have entered into a Relationship Agreement on arms length terms and on a normal Shareholder Group shall not, subject to that regulates the on-going relationship between commercial basis, unless otherwise agreed specified exceptions, take any action or them, ensures that the Company is in compliance by a committee comprising the Nonomit to take any action to prejudice the with the provisions of the Listing Rules and Executive Directors of the Company whom Companys status as a listed company, capable of carrying on its business independently the Board considers to be independent or its suitability for listing, or its on-going of the Controlling Shareholder, and ensures that in accordance with paragraph B.
1.1 of compliance with the Listing Rules and any transactions and relationships between the the UK Corporate Governance Code the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Company and the Controlling Shareholder are at Independent Committee : arms length and on normal commercial terms.
the Controlling Shareholder shall not, This Agreement was last amended and restated the Controlling Shareholder shall, insofar and shall procure, insofar as it is legally in December 2014 in order to comply with certain as it is legally able to do so, exercise its able to do so, that each member of the changes to the Listing Rules.
powers, and shall procure that each member Controlling Shareholder Group shall not, of the Controlling Shareholder Group does exercise any of its voting or other rights This Agreement terminates if the Controlling the same, so that the Company is managed and powers to procure any amendment to Shareholder ceases to own or control directly or in accordance with the principles of good the Memorandum and Articles that would indirectly in aggregate at least 30% of the issued governance set out in the UK Corporate be inconsistent with, undermine or breach Ordinary Shares in the Company or at least 30% Governance Code, save as agreed in writing any of the provisions of the Relationship of the aggregate voting rights in the Company, or by a majority of the Independent Committee: Agreement, and will abstain from voting on, if the Controlling Shareholder ceases to have a and will procure that the Lanebrook Directors larger interest in the Company than the interest of the Controlling Shareholder will, and will abstain from voting on, any resolution to any other shareholder of the Company.
procure as far as is reasonably possible approve a transaction with a related party that each member of the Controlling as defined in the Listing Rules involving the Under the Relationship Agreement, the Shareholder Group will, treat as confidential Controlling Shareholder or any member of Controlling Shareholder and the Company all information subject to certain exceptions the Controlling Shareholder Group: agree that: acquired relating to the Company and its subsidiaries: the provision of, access in any matter that, in the opinion of an the Controlling Shareholder has the right to and use of information pursuant to independent Director, gives rise to a to appoint the maximum number of Nonthe Relationship Agreement is governed potential conflict of interest between the Executive Directors that may be appointed by applicable laws relating to insider Company and or any of its subsidiaries on whilst ensuring that the composition of information and the disclosure rules of the the one hand and the Lanebrook Directors, the Board remains compliant with the UK Financial Conduct Authority: the Controlling Shareholder or any member Corporate Governance Code for so long as of the Controlling Shareholder Group on the it holds an interest of 30% or more of the the Controlling Shareholder shall not, and other, such matter must be approved at a Company or holds 30 % or more of the shall procure, insofar as it is legally able to duly convened meeting of the Independent aggregate voting rights in the Company do so, that each member of the Controlling Committee or in writing by a majority of the with each appointee being a Shareholder Shareholder Group shall not, take any action Independent Committee: Director: that precludes or inhibits the Company and or any of its subsidiaries from carrying on its for so long as the Controlling Shareholder the Controlling Shareholder and its business independently of the Controlling holds an interest of 50% or more in the Associates shall not take any action that Shareholder or any member of the Company, the Controlling Shareholder would have the effect of preventing the Controlling Shareholder Group: undertakes that it will not and will use its Company from complying with its obligations reasonable endeavours to procure that no under the Companies Act, the Listing Rules the quorum for any Board meeting of other member of the Controlling Shareholder and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: the Company shall be two, of which at Group becomes involved in any competing least one must be a Director other than business subject to certain exceptions in neither the Controlling Shareholder nor any a Controlling Shareholder Director and Russia, the Ukraine or the CIS without giving of its Associates will propose or procure or a Director who has or had, in the 12 the Company the opportunity to participate the proposal of any shareholder resolution months prior to the relevant date any in the relevant competing business.
that is intended or appears to be intended business or other relationship with the to circumvent the proper application of the Controlling Shareholder or any member of The Board is satisfied that the Company Listing Rules: the Controlling Shareholder Group that could is capable of carrying on its business materially interfere with the exercise of his independently of the Controlling Shareholder transactions, relationships and agreements or her independent judgement in matters and that the Board makes its decisions in between the Company and or its concerning the Company Lanebrook a manner consistent with its duties to the subsidiaries on the one hand and the Director : Company and stakeholders of EVRAZ plc.
com 133 The Independent Non-Executive Directors Articles The trustee of the Companys Employee Share of the Company have conducted an annual Trust is entitled, under the terms of the trust review to consider the continued good of Association deed, to vote as it sees fit in respect of the standing of the Relationship Agreement shares held on trust.
and are satisfied that the terms of the The Companys Articles of Association were Relationship Agreement are being fully adopted with effect from June 2012 and observed by both parties.
In accordance contain, amongst others, provisions on Transfer of shares with LR 9.8.
4R 14 it is confirmed that: the rights and obligations attaching to the the Company has complied with Companys shares, including the redeemable The Companys Articles provide that transfers the independence provisions of the non-voting preference shares and the of certificated shares must be effected in Relationship Agreement: subscriber shares.
The Articles of Association writing, and duly signed by or on behalf of the so far as the Company is aware, the may only be amended by special resolution at transferor and, except in the case of fully paid Controlling Shareholder or any of a general meeting of the shareholders.
shares, by or on behalf of the transferee.
The its associates has complied with transferor shall remain the holder of the shares the independence provisions of the concerned until the name of the transferee is Relationship Agreement: and Share rights entered in the Register of Members in respect of so far as the Company is aware, the those shares.
Transfers of uncertificated shares Controlling Shareholder has complied Without prejudice to any rights attached to may be effected by means of CREST unless the with the procurement obligations in the any existing shares, the Company may issue CREST Regulations provide otherwise.
shares with rights or restrictions as determined by either the Company by ordinary resolution The directors may refuse to register an or, if the Company passes a resolution, the allotment or transfer of shares in favour Other agreements Directors.
The Company may also issue shares of more than four persons jointly.
that are, or are liable to be, redeemed at the The 9.50% per annum notes due 2018, option of the Company or the holder and the issued by Evraz Group S. A. on 24 April 2008, directors may determine the terms, conditions Audit information contain change of control provisions.
If a and manner of redemption of any such shares.
change of control occurs under the terms Each of the Directors who were members of the of these notes, note holders will have the Board at the date of the approval of this report option to require Evraz Group S. A. to redeem Voting rights confirms that: notes together with interest accrued, if any.
So far as he or she is aware, there is no At 31 December 2016, the principal amount There are no other restrictions on voting rights relevant audit information of which the of these notes amounted to US$125 million.
or transfers of shares in the Articles other than Companys auditors are unaware.
those described in these paragraphs.
Details of He or she has taken all the reasonable steps The US$350 million high-yield bonds issued deadlines for exercising voting rights and proxy that he or she ought to have taken as a by Evraz Inc NA Canada on 7 November appointment will be set out in the 2017 Notice Director to make him or herself aware of any 2014 contain change of control provisions.
relevant audit information and to establish a change of control occurs under the terms that the Companys auditors are aware of of these notes, the Issuer should make At a general meeting, subject to any special the information.
an offer to purchase all outstanding notes rights or restrictions attached to any class of together with accrued interest, if any.
shares on a poll, every member present in The confirmation is given and should be person or by proxy has one vote for every share interpreted in accordance with the provisions The change of control provisions contained in that he or she holds.
of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. several loan agreements with a total principal amount of US$1,088 million outstanding A proxy is not entitled to vote where the The EVRAZ Directors Report has been as of 31 December 2016 specify that if a member appointing the proxy would not have prepared in accordance with applicable UK change of control occurs, each lender under been entitled to vote on the resolution had company law and was approved by the Board these agreements has a right to cancel their he or she been present in person.
Unless the on 28 February 2017. commitments and request prepayment of directors decide otherwise, no member shall their portion of the respective loans.
be entitled to vote either personally or by proxy or to exercise any other right in relation By the order of the Board to general meetings if any sum due from him or her to the Company in respect of that share remains unpaid.
Alexander Frolov Chief Executive Officer, EVRAZ plc 28 February 2017 134
