Success factors and KPIs Health, safety & environment Human capital Strategic goal.
EVRAZ top priority is the health Strategic goal.
Involved, motivated, loyal and and safety of its employees.
The Groups competent employees are the key pillar of the strategic goal is to achieve and preserve LTIFR Groups business.
EVRAZ aims to reach total below a level of one by 2021. standardisation of human resources processes organisation-wide.
Behaviour safety conversations, and developing and implementing standard safe Overview.
During 2016, EVRAZ efforts focused work procedures are the two initiatives that mainly on the From Foreman to Managing have been consistently implemented across Director programme, which aims to evaluate EVRAZ in 2016.
Additionally, in 2016, EVRAZ and develop operations management to assets started to implement their key risk create a management candidate pool at localisation programmes, which will continue plants.
In response to market conditions Alexander Kuznetsov in 2017-2018. in the beginning of the year, the Group has Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Performance management undertaken a headcount reduction programme Outlook.
In 2017, EVRAZ will put extra and streamlined administrative functions.
The focus on the quality of behaviour safety total number of employees has decreased conversations, making sure issues raised by 6,625 people.
during such conversations are duly addressed and changes are made to conditions and Outlook.
Looking into 2017, the Groups focus We base our processes.
EVRAZ will also continue its efforts will be on employee engagement management, to standardise all processes from both a safety staff assessment and development annual KPI targets and and efficiency perspective.
The 2017 annual programmes, as well as continuing ongoing initiatives on EVRAZ target is to achieve LTIFR below 2.0x.
initiatives to centralise HR functions and improve process quality.
vision of being a leader in infrastructure steel products worldwide 1 1 and the Russian coking LTIFR excluding fatalities, Labour productivity steel, per 1 million hours US$ t coal market.
2.47 xxx KPI KPI 2.36 55.9 2.18 2.05 xxx 41.6 1.60 36.5 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Despite the Groups efforts, there Labour costs per tonne of steel were 6 fatalities 6 employees and products decreased once again 0 contractors at its sites during the year, and in 2016, down by 12.4% to US$36.5 the lost-time injury frequency rate LTIFR per tonne compared with US$41.6 per reached 2.36, compared with 2.18 in 2015. tonne in 2015, due to the ongoing labour One of the reasons for the increase in these productivity improvement project pipeline.
statistics is the improved reporting through the implementation of an incident reporting system that the Group developed in-house and implemented in 2015.
EVRAZ remains committed to the goal of reaching zero fatalities at its sites and will continue efforts 1 to improve reporting transparency.
Please see page 261 for details.
14 Strategic report Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Human capital Customer focus Steel Coal Steel, North America Strategic goal.
EVRAZ aims to increase the Strategic goal.
The Groups strategic goal is to Strategic goal.
Evraz North America aims to be share of value-added products in its sales maximise market share in Russia and Ukraine, the leading North American producer of largeportfolio, secure its domestic market shares in while moving its export price formula closer to diameter pipe with superior product capabilities railway and construction steel products, and to hard coking coal benchmarks.
and technical expertise, as well as the leading expand rail export shipments.
producer of rails with a strong portfolio of Overview.
Last year, EVRAZ efforts helped to premium rail and technical relationships with Overview.
Last year, the Groups efforts on the secure its position on the Russian market and customers.
domestic market supported demand for key to further expand its customer base in Ukraine, products.
In railway products, EVRAZ collaborated Europe and Asia.
During 2016, EVRAZ completed major with its major client, Russian Railways, on domestic clients helped the Group to benefit construction on the investment projects in Regina shipment terms and services and benefited from the international coking coal price surge to upgrade steelmaking capabilities, install a new from the increase in its investment programme see page 62.
Altogether, sales and marketing large diameter pipe mill, and a new coating see pages 42, 50.
In structural products, EVRAZ improvements added US$3 million to EBITDA facility see page 69.
Additionally, the heat-treat targeted the substitution of welded plates and last year.
expansion project in Calgary ramped up, allowing tubes with beams by offering better terms for the the Group to compete more effectively for ERW latter.
In overseas destinations, EVRAZ increased Outlook.
During 2017, EVRAZ plans to increase OCTG pipe demand in Western Canada.
the sales of railway products up 43 kt, as well sales of premium mid-vol coal grades, optimise as premium slabs and billets up 810 kt.
The logistics to export destinations, and increase the Outlook.
In 2017, the Group will benefit from the combined EBITDA effect from these initiatives premium for semi-hard coking coal.
approval of pipelines and a recovery in oil and gas was $US170 million.
In addition, favorable results on trade cases in tubular and flat products should Outlook.
In 2017, the Group will continue result in a more favorable pricing environment.
expanding domestic and overseas sales of railway products by debottlenecking operations, developing new products, and optimising logistics.
It will also analyse a number of product portfolio development options.
EVRAZ also aims to increase domestic consumption of beams by offering engineering solutions for the civil construction industry.
KPI See page 18 for KPIs and detailed tracking www.
com 15 Success factors and KPIs Asset development Steel Coal Steel, North America Strategic goal.
EVRAZ has an annual strategic Strategic goal.
The Groups strategic goal Strategic goal.
The Groups strategic goal target to generate cost-reduction initiatives in the coking coal business is to reduce costs is to be the lowest-cost producer of rails, LD, in the amount of 2-3% of the cost base at every by 3-7% of the cost base every year and remain OCTG pipes and plate products when delivered business unit across the Steel segment.
in the first quartile of the global cost curve.
to the Western United States and Western Canada.
During 2016, the Group focused its Overview.
During 2016, the Groups efforts cost-cutting efforts on production yields and to increase labour productivity, shorten mining Overview.
Last year, the Group implemented auxiliary supply consumption improvements equipment relocation periods and improve cost-cutting programmes at the Portland across its steel mills, labour optimisations and other operational efficiency measures had and Regina rolling mills, and also achieved energy efficiency initiatives.
These initiatives an EBITDA effect of US$94 million.
a US$30 million reduction in G&A expenses resulted in an EBITDA effect of US$134 million across all production facilities and last year.
In 2017, EVRAZ will continue to focus headquarters.
Efficiency improvements on improving mining and development and negotiations with suppliers resulted Outlook.
In 2017, EVRAZ steel mills are productivity, as well as major equipment in the optimisation of scrap and ferroalloys going to implement a pig iron cost reduction modernisation.
The Group will also support purchases.
Altogether, the EBITDA effect was programme, as well as continue to work current mining volumes by developing new US$89 million.
on energy efficiency and procurement seams at current mines and implementing optimisations.
The Group will also conduct a proactive degassing programme.
The primary focus for 2017 will be most of the construction works for a new blast on the successful finalisation of the Regina furnace project at the EVRAZ NTMK steel mill.
steelmaking upgrade project, which will reduce alloying costs and increase capacity.
The Group also plans to execute power cost reduction projects and decrease expenses on maintenance.
KPI See page 19 for KPIs and detailed tracking 16 Strategic report Annual Report & Accounts 2016 EVRAZ business system Strategic goal.
The EVRAZ Business System EBS is a combined approach to the Groups operations.
The key elements are target-setting, people development, processes improvements, management system support, culture principles and necessary implementation infrastructure.
The Group aims to implement 100% EBStransformation organisation-wide, from the top management down to every worker on the shop floor.
In 2016, the Groups primary focus was on transitioning from a lean tools approach to full EVRAZ Business System deployment through EBS-transformations.
Last years cost-cutting initiatives delivered the EBITDA The 2016 targets were met in employee effect of US$316 million.
Combined with a US$169 million basic EBS tool trainings, rapid improvement gain from customer-focus efforts, EVRAZ total EBITDA events and the implementation of operational excellence projects.
effect from initiatives was US$485 million in 2016.
The key focus for 2017 will be EVRAZ EBITDA reached US$1,542 million in 2016, up by on combining the efforts of vital corporate 7.2% from US$1,438 million in 2015. functions including HR and HSE to develop a sustainable process improvement system through EBS-transformation projects.
Free cash flow was US$659 million in 2016, down by 18% from US$799 million in 2015.
The decrease can be explained by the reduction in net working capital release.
