Board of Directors Introduction Alexander Alexander Eugene Eugene Abramov Frolov Shvidler Tenenbaum Non-Executive Chief Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Chairman Officer Director Director 98 orporate governance Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Karl Deborah Alexander Sir Michael Gruber Gudgeon Izosimov Peat Independent Independent Independent Senior Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director Director Director 99 Biographies of the members of the Board of Directors Appointment: Alexander Abramov has been a Board member since April 2005.
He was CEO and chairman of Evraz Group S. A. until 1 January 2006, and continued to serve as chairman until 1 May 2006.
Mr Abramov was a non-executive director from May 2006 until his re-appointment as chairman of the Board on 1 December 2008.
He was appointed chairman of EVRAZ plc on 14 October 2011.
Committee membership: Mr Abramov is a member of the Nominations Committee.
Skills and experience: Mr Abramov graduated from the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology with a first-class honours degree in 1982, and he holds a PhD in Physics and Mathematics.
Mr Abramov is a Bureau member of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs an independent non-governmental organisation, a member of the Board of Skolkovo Institute for Science and Technology, and a member of the Board of Moscow University of Physics and Alexander Technology.
Abramov Non-Executive Chairman Appointment: Alexander Frolov has been a Board member since April 2005.
He was chairman of the Board of Evraz Group S. A. from May 2006 until December 2008, and was appointed CEO with effect from January 2007.
Mr Frolov was appointed CEO of EVRAZ plc on 14 October 2011.
Committee membership: Mr Frolov is a member of the Health, Safety and Environment Committee.
Skills and experience: Mr Frolov graduated from the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology with a first-class honours degree in 1987 and received a PhD in Physics and Mathematics in 1991.
Prior to joining EVRAZ, he worked as a research fellow at the I. V. Kurchatov Institute of Atomic Energy.
He joined EvrazMetall in 1994 and served as its chief financial officer from 2002 to 2004, then as senior executive vice president of Evraz Group S. A. from 2004 to April 2006.
Alexander Frolov Chief Executive Officer Appointment: Eugene Shvidler has been a Board member of Evraz Group S. A. since August 2006.
He was appointed to the Board of EVRAZ plc on 14 October 2011.
Committee membership: Mr Shvidler is a member of the Nominations Committee.
Skills and experience: Mr Shvidler currently serves as chairman of Millhouse LLC and Highland Gold Mining Ltd.
He is also on the Board of AFC Energy plc.
Mr Shvidler served as president of Sibneft from 1998 to 2005 having previously been senior vice president from 1995.
Eugene Shvidler Non-Executive Director Appointment: Eugene Tenenbaum has been a Board member of Evraz Group S. A. since August 2006.
Skills and experience: Mr Tenenbaum is currently managing director of MHC Services Ltd and serves on the Board of Chelsea FC Plc.
He served as head of corporate finance for Sibneft in Moscow from 1998 through 2001.
Mr Tenenbaum joined Salomon Brothers in 1994 as director for corporate finance where he worked until 1998.
Prior to that, he spent five years in corporate finance with KPMG in Toronto, Moscow and London, including three years 1990-1993 as national director at KPMG International in Moscow.
Mr Tenenbaum was an accountant in the business advisory group at Price Waterhouse in Toronto from 1987 until 1989.
Eugene Tenenbaum Non-Executive Director 100 orporate governance Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Appointment: Karl Gruber has been a Board member of Evraz Group S. A. since May 2010.
Committee membership: Mr Gruber serves as chairman of the Health, Safety and Environment Committee.
He is also a member of the Audit Committee and Nominations Committee.
Skills and experience: Mr Gruber has extensive experience in the international metallurgical mill business and holds a diploma in mechanical engineering.
He has held various management positions, including eight years as a member of the Managing Board of VOEST-Alpine Industrieanlagenbau VAI, first as executive vice president of VAI and then as vice chairman of the Managing Board of Siemens VAI.
He also served as chairman on the Boards of Metals Technologies MT Germany and MT Italy.
Further, he has executed various consultancy projects for the steel industry and served as CEO and chairman of the Management Board Karl Gruber of LISEC Group.
Independent NonExecutive Director Appointment: Deborah Gudgeon has been a Board member of EVRAZ plc since May 2015.
Committee membership: Ms Gudgeon serves as chairman of the Audit Committee and is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Skills and experience: Ms Gudgeon started her career in 1983 as an accountant with Coopers and Lybrand and in 1987 became a senior accountant for Salomon Brothers International.
From 1987 to 1995, Ms Gudgeon served as a finance executive at Lonrho PLC and was appointed a member of the Finance Committee in March 1993.
From 1995 to 1998, Ms Gudgeon served as a director for Halstead Services Limited, and from 1998 to 2003, she served as a director of Deloitte, specialising in corporate finance.
From 2003 to 2009, Ms Gudgeon served as a founder director of the Special Situations Advisory team for BDO LLP, providing integrated advice on corporate finance, restructuring, debt and performance Deborah improvement.
Since 2011, Ms Gudgeon has served as managing director of Gazelle Corporate Finance Limited.
Gudgeon Independent NonExecutive Director Appointment: Alexander Izosimov was appointed to the Board of EVRAZ plc on 28 February 2012.
Committee membership: Mr Izosimov is chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He is also a member of the Nominations Committee and the Audit Committee.
Skills and experience: Mr Izosimov has extensive managerial and board experience.
From 2003 to 2011, he was president and CEO of VimpelCom, a leading emerging market telecommunications operator.
From 1996 to 2003, he held various managerial positions at Mars Inc and was regional president for CIS, Central Europe and Nordics, and a member of the executive board.
Prior to Mars Inc, Mr Izosimov was a consultant with McKinsey & Co Stockholm, London 1991-1996 and was involved in numerous projects in the transportation, mining, manufacturing and oil businesses.
Until recently, Mr Izosimov served on the boards of MTG AB, Dynasty Foundation, LM Ericsson AB and Transcom SA.
He also previously served as director and chairman of the GSMA global Alexander association of mobile operators board of directors, and was a director of Baltika Breweries, confectionery company Sladko, and IT Izosimov company Teleopti AB.
He holds an MBA from INSEAD.
Independent NonExecutive Director Appointment: Sir Michael Peat was appointed to the Board of EVRAZ plc on 14 October 2011.
Committee membership: Sir Michael Peat serves as chairman of the Nominations Committee and is a member of the Remuneration Committee Skills and experience: Sir Michael Peat is a qualified chartered accountant with over 40 years experience.
He served as Principal Private Secretary to HRH The Prince of Wales from 2002 until 2011.
Prior to this, he spent nine years as the Royal Households Director of Finance and Property Services and then Treasurer to The Queen and Keeper of the Privy Purse.
Sir Michael Peat was at KPMG from 1972, and became a partner in 1985.
He left KPMG in 1993 to devote himself to his public roles.
Sir Michael Peat is an independent non-executive on the Board of Deloitte LLP, a director of CQS Management Limited and a partner in CQS UK LLP, chairman of GEMS MENASA Holdings Limited, a non-executive director of Arbuthnot Latham Limited, a non-executive director Sir Michael of M&C Saatchi plc, a director of Architekton Limited, chairman of the Regeneration Group Limited and chairman of the Advisory Peat Board of BellAziz Holdings Limited.
He holds an MA and MBA, and is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England Senior Independent and Wales.
