22 Strategic report Viability statement Viability statement Assessment of viability Assessment of prospects The directors have concluded that the most relevant time period The context for the assessment for this assessment is the three-year period of our normal Our business model and strategy are central to understanding financial planning cycle.
In making their assessment, the our prospects, and details can be found in those sections directors have taken account of the strongly cash-generative of the Strategic report.
We have a regular cycle of strategic nature of our business, our robust capital solvency position, planning, budgeting, and forecasting of current year business our ability to raise new finance in most market conditions, and performance and future prospects.
This considers the our key potential mitigating actions of restricting acquisitions, Groups revenue, EBIT, cash flows, dividend cover, committed capital investment and, in considering scenarios affecting and forecast funding and liquidity positions and other key viability, reducing dividend payments.
financial ratios, including those relevant to maintaining our investment-grade credit ratings.
Over the last three years, we Although the strategic plan reflects the directors best estimate have generated free cash flow of US$3.3bn which, alongside of the Groups future prospects, they have also tested the modest increases in Net debt, we have principally used to fund potential impact of a number of scenarios over and above dividends of US$1.1bn, net share purchases of US$1.2bn and those included in the plan, by quantifying their financial impact acquisitions of US$1.3bn.
and overlaying this on the plans detailed financial forecasts.
These scenarios, which are based on aspects of the principal Our strategic aims are to focus on our core areas of competitive risks highlighted above, represent severe but plausible strength and develop growth opportunities in our key markets.
circumstances that we could experience.
Our plans for the Groups core operations therefore include organic strategic initiatives and inorganic opportunities.
The scenarios tested included: The assessment process and key assumptions an event leading to serious reputational and brand damage, We assess our prospects through our planning process and legal penalties and class action litigation: review our growth expectations and the external environment a significant regulatory change or restriction to our business annually as part of the strategic planning process.
The Board through law change or enforcement, or taxation, leading to a participates in this process, using the January strategy meeting change in how we operate our business: and each year to focus on the Groups strategy.
We then develop our a significant economic deterioration, currency weakness or annual budget and a further two-year financial plan.
restriction in one of our major countries of operation.
The key assumptions in the latest financial forecasts, presented The results of this stress testing showed that, due to the to the March 2016 Board meeting, reflect the approved strategy diversified nature of the Group, the resilience of the core and include: business, its substantial free cash flows and strong investmentmid single-digit organic revenue and EBIT growth at grade rating, the Group would be able to withstand the impact constant exchange rates: of these scenarios occurring during the period of the financial forecasts, by adjusting its operating plans within the normal cash flow conversion in excess of 95%: course of business.
Net debt EBITDA ratio in the range of 2.0 to 2.5: broadly stable effective tax rates over the medium term: and Viability statement use of excess cash for acquisitions and shareholder returns.
Based on their assessment of prospects and viability, the directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation The table of Principal risks in the Strategic report summarises that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet the risks that could prevent the Group from executing its its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period ending strategy.
As explained below, we have considered a number of 31 March 2019.
The directors have considered whether they are these risks as part of our assessment of the Groups viability.
aware of any specific relevant factors beyond the three-year horizon and have confirmed that there are none.
Strategic report Our stories 23 Empowering you to take Our stories control of your credit Unlocking the potential of data for consumers 7.8 When you want to obtain credit, whether its for a mobile phone, car or a house, its important to check your credit report before you make any application.
Because lenders look at how you have managed your finances in the past telephone conversations before deciding to lend to you.
They look at the information on your credit report, with people, including which includes what type of credit you use and your history of repaying it, along with information provided in the application form, your past transactions with educating them on them and their lending policy, to help them calculate a credit score.
This score how debt affects their helps them assess whether a credit product is suitable for you and whether you credit score can afford to repay it.
So the more you learn and understand about credit, then the more power you have to better manage it, be in line to get better credit deals and achieve your financial goals.
3.5 million And if your credit report isnt that great right now?
Taking control credit reports of your credit history takes time.
produced every day Here are some things you can do to help take control of your credit: Pay your bills on time, every time Be selective when applying for new overdue payments have a major negative credit a lot of applications for credit impact on your application for credit.
in a short space of time may suggest to lenders that you are over-reliant Keep your credit card balances low on credit.
high outstanding debt can affect your credit application.
If you want to make a big purchase, review your credit report at least three Register to vote at your current address months in advance to help reduce any this makes it easier for lenders to surprises when you apply for credit.
