32 Strategic report Latin America Latin America Summary Our own growth initiatives and counter-cyclical products helped us deliver good growth in Brazil, despite the economic weakness, and we saw strong momentum in Spanish Latin America.
Jos Luiz Rossi Managing Director, Latin America Total revenue from continuing activities in Latin America was US$633m, with Sharing knowledge to help both total and organic revenue growth of 7% at constant exchange rates.
a business and a family Credit Services I gave up my weekend to help out on the Real Dreams project and Im so glad I At constant exchange rates, total did.
We sat on stools around the sewing and organic revenue growth in Credit machines in her seam room.
The other room in her house was where she and her Services was 7%, with good growth five children slept, so it was the only place we could sit.
It was hard, seeing the across both consumer and business conditions they lived in.
In Brazil, consumer information was helped by strong Adriana told me that she makes bags and sells them for R$1.25 each.
She said volumes of counter-cyclical products, sewing was her dream since she was 12, but she was giving up on it because she particularly delinquency notifications couldnt even make enough money to pay the water bill.
I thought that if we could and collections, while business just help her control the money coming in, we could solve some of her problems.
information was driven by higher So I showed her how, just by keeping track of costs and profits, she could pay her volumes, and good demand for new bills and start to save, too.
She was so keen to learn, so I was touched that we scores and analytics from small and could help her.
In After that first meeting, a group of us from Experian raised R$1,415 around US$380 our other Latin American markets for Adriana to buy fabric for her bags.
We gave her a book for her to keep track of her growth was strong, with progress in finances too.
Now she brings it to each meeting, full of notes.
She says it helps her business information as we continue work out her profit from the bags so she knows how much more fabric she can buy.
to build our product range for small She makes lovely bags, in lots of different colours.
I didnt imagine that just sharing and medium enterprises.
knowledge could change someones life.
Decision Analytics Thais Micucci Strategy Planning Analyst, Serasa Experian Brazil Total and organic revenue growth was 10% at constant exchange rates.
After a weak start, we benefited from considerable momentum, particularly in our Spanish Latin American markets.
We have secured several multi-year relationships with larger customers as we integrate credit risk management software with credit data.
Strategic report Latin America 33 Highlights 2016 14% 7% Contribution to Organic Group revenue revenue growth 226m 0.6bn EBIT US$ Revenue with 35.7% margin US$ Marketing Services Revenue, EBIT and EBIT margin Total and organic revenue at constant exchange rates declined 4%.
While Total Organic the year started weakly, there was a 1 2 2 2016 2015 growth growth significant improvement in the second Year ended 31 March US$m US$m % % half driven by cross-channel marketing Revenue and data quality in Brazil.
Credit Services 579 782 7 7 Decision Analytics 36 46 10 10 EBIT and EBIT margin Marketing Services 18 28 4 4 For Latin America, EBIT increased by 7% Total continuing activities 633 856 7 7 at constant currency.
The depreciation of 3 Discontinuing activities 1 the Brazilian real relative to the US dollar Total Latin America 633 857 had a significant impact on reported EBIT, which decreased to US$226m EBIT 2015: US$313m.
Foreign exchange Total Latin America 226 313 7 movements also had a significant impact on the reported EBIT margin, which EBIT margin 35.7% 36.6% was 35.7% compared to 36.6% in the 1 2015 restated for discontinuing activities see note 3 below for details.
2 Growth at constant exchange rates.
3 Discontinuing activities include the divestment of Consumer Insights.
