06 Strategic report Our business activities Our business activities We manage data that helps applying for credit and widening access Credit Services businesses and organisations to lend to credit across society, by providing an fairly, consistently and responsibly, objective basis for assessing risk.
Although the laws governing data 50% This includes information on how people hosting and access vary by country, Contribution to and businesses have repaid credit in access to our data is strictly controlled.
Group revenue the past and the details of their previous To check the credit history of a person applications for credit.
or business and to store data with us, a company must have a legitimate reason Lenders use this data to make informed for doing so and applicants are notified credit decisions, from setting terms in markets when required.
for new accounts, through to effective management of existing customer and Market position we are the number supplier relationships.
one or two in most of our markets.
They can quickly assess whether a credit Competitors include Equifax, REVENUE BY REGION product is suitable for an individual or TransUnion and Dun & Bradstreet.
business and whether they can afford to Financial characteristics primarily North America 55% repay it, helping to ensure that credit is Latin America 26% transactional, pricing is volume-tiered, extended responsibly.
UK and Ireland 12% per report delivered.
EMEA Asia Pacific 7% Decisions are based on factual information, helping to ensure that customers are treated more fairly when We use expertise, science and We combine our data with client Decision Analytics and other third-party data, then analytics to unlock the potential apply analytical models to transform of data, so that people and it into meaningful information, businesses may act on the 13% helping our clients find answers knowledge held within.
Contribution to Our sophisticated technology helps Our platforms help clients carry out Group revenue our clients to access, understand and everything from the simple to the interpret the vast quantities of data that complex: from managing day-to-day they generate and are exposed to.
It activities, such as compiling, allows them to make fast and efficient standardising and retrieving data, to decisions, provide their customers with managing workflows and strategic great service, improve performance and decision making.
Our industry experts work For example, our software automates collaboratively with our clients.
They REVENUE BY REGION and drives the process when a person listen to them, identify issues and applies online for a bank loan.
This focus on the wider context of their includes checking the persons credit North America 29% business, so as to provide solutions Latin America 6% status and their ability to repay the loan, that add value to their business and UK and Ireland 41% applying the banks lending criteria, improve performance.
EMEA Asia Pacific 24% running anti-fraud checks and giving an Market position we are a market answer all within a matter of seconds leading provider in our major regions.
for a process that previously took days.
We help our clients do this for hundreds Competitors include Fair Isaac, IBM, of millions of applications every year.
SAS and smaller niche providers.
By bringing together our expertise, data, Financial characteristics scores analytics and software platforms, we and checks are sold on a transactional, provide a powerful range of services: volume-tiered basis.
Software and system sales include implementation fees, recurring licence fees and transactions.
Strategic report Our business activities 07 We help brands around the world sets, linking records at the customer Marketing Services to connect with people, whenever account level and enhancing them with they communicate and engage with third-party data.
This helps to ensure them and on whatever device they data is accurate, up-to-date and provides 16% are using.
Contribution to We use our strengths in data Our marketing platform helps clients Group revenue management and analytics to create a to plan, manage and execute their picture of who our clients customers campaigns quickly and efficiently.
are, pulling together data from many It allows them to communicate sources.
This helps our clients to with their customers, with the right identify their best customers and message, through their preferred point better understand their interests and of contact, whether by post, email or motivations so that they may create social media, as well as measure the offers which are relevant.
success of a campaign and the return on their investment.
REVENUE BY REGION Using this information, our clients can increase customer retention by rewarding Market position we hold leading customer loyalty.
They can also find new positions in our three focus areas: North America 52% Latin America 3% customers to interact with, and increase data, data quality and crossUK and Ireland 27% engagement by developing the most channel marketing.
EMEA Asia Pacific 18% appropriate and personalised offers.
Competitors include Acxiom, Adobe, High-quality, accurate data is crucial Epsilon, IBM, Oracle, Salesforce.
com to a brands ability to connect with and Teradata.
customers and deliver the products and Financial characteristics services they want.
We help our clients transactional, volume-tiered charges, to verify, validate and cleanse their data data licences and subscription fees.
We provide online access to a Our identity protection services give Consumer Services persons credit report and score, people peace of mind, by helping to giving them the tools to understand protect their identity and detect when and improve their financial status, this may have been compromised or 21% and helping to protect against fraud stolen.
Every day we check a persons and identity theft.
credit report for changes that might Contribution to indicate identity theft and, in the event Group revenue A credit report includes how a person of fraud, give people access to our has repaid their credit in the past, such dedicated fraud resolution experts.
We as credit cards, car loans, utility bills scan the wider web and social networks and mortgages, and forms the basis in real time for the unauthorised for their credit score.
This measures presence of personal, contact and the likelihood that they will repay what financial information, to help prevent they owe and is used by lenders to identity fraud before it happens.
understand the risk of lending to them.
Market position a market leader in REVENUE BY REGION Using our online services, people can the USA and the UK.
monitor their credit score, learn about managing their finances and find ways Competitors include CallCredit, Credit North America 73% to improve it themselves.
They can call Karma, Noddle, Equifax, Fair Isaac, UK and Ireland 27% our helplines and speak directly with us TransUnion and other niche providers.
for extra support and information.
An Financial characteristics monthly fee improved credit score may help a person for direct-to-consumer subscriptions or a to negotiate better rates for loans, credit free base with pay-as-you-consume addcards and mortgages.
ons, and revenue or profit share basis for affinity partnerships.
