Governance Directors report 103 Directors report The directors present their report and Share capital on 20 July 2016, being eligible, will the audited financial statements for the Details of the Companys share capital offer themselves for election or reyear ended 31 March 2016. and changes during the year ended election at the 2016 AGM.
An evaluation p176 31 March 2016 are set out in note P to of the performance of the Board, its Report layout the Company financial statements.
committees and individual directors was The presentation of information within carried out during the financial year.
Financial risk management, this report has been reviewed and the The Board is satisfied that all directors objectives and policies format has been amended this year contribute effectively and demonstrate As indicated in the Financial review to provide the information in a more commitment to their roles.
The p38 p67 within the Strategic report, descriptions structured manner.
Corporate governance report contains of the use of financial instruments further details of the evaluation process.
p64 The Corporate governance report and Experians treasury and risk and the Shareholder and corporate management objectives and policies Insurance and third-party p128 information form part of this Directors are set out in note 7 to the Group indemnification p04 report.
The Strategic report contains financial statements.
During the year and up to the date of certain information equivalent to that approval of this Annual Report, the Political donations required in this Directors report.
Company maintained liability insurance Experian did not make any political and third-party indemnification Financial and donations during the year ended provisions for its directors and officers.
Appointment and removal Results and dividend Going concern of directors The Group income statement Details of the adoption of the going Both the Company, by ordinary shows a profit for the year ended concern basis in preparing the Group resolution, and the directors may 31 March 2016 of US$752m financial statements are set out in elect any person to be a director.
The directors have p118 note 2 to the Group financial statements The number of directors shall not exceed announced the payment of a second and are incorporated into this report the maximum number fixed by the interim dividend, in lieu of a final dividend, by reference.
Any of 27.50 US cents per ordinary share person appointed by the directors shall 2015: 27.00 US cents to be paid on Directors only hold office until the next AGM and 22 July 2016 to shareholders on the Information on directors holding shall then be eligible for election.
The register of members on 24 June 2016. office in the year office of a director shall be vacated on A first interim dividend of 12.50 US cents The directors names, biographical the occurrence of any of the events listed per ordinary share was paid on details and key skills and experience are in article 92 of the Companys articles 29 January 2016, giving a total dividend p62 shown in the Board of directors section.
The Company may, in for the year of 40.00 US cents per ordinary Luiz Fleury was appointed as a nonaccordance with its articles of association, share 2015: 39.25 US cents.
executive director on 8 September 2015. remove any director from office and elect Alan Jebson retired as a non-executive Research and development another person in their place.
director on 22 July 2015, and Jan Research and development plays a key Babiak resigned and Fabiola Arredondo Annual General Meeting role in supporting Experians activities.
stepped down as non-executive Details of such activities are given in the The Companys 2016 AGM will be held directors on 13 January 2016 and p04 Strategic report.
at The Merrion Hotel, Upper Merrion 31 January 2016 respectively.
Street, Dublin 2, D02 KF79, Ireland, Disposal of businesses at 9.30am on Wednesday 20 July 2016.
Particulars of directors remuneration, Information in respect of the disposal Shareholders who are unable to attend service contracts and interests in the of businesses during the year is may submit questions beforehand via Companys ordinary shares are shown in p136 contained in note 13 to the Group email to agmquestions@experianplc.
com p82 the Report on directors remuneration.
or on the prepaid card sent to There were no changes in the directors shareholders with the notice of meeting.
Post balance sheet events interests in the ordinary shares between the The questions will be addressed at the Details of events occurring after the end of the financial year and 10 May 2016. meeting, via the Companys website at end of the reporting period are www.
com or individually In line with the UK Corporate p169 contained in note 42 to the Group as appropriate.
The notice of meeting Governance Code, all directors with financial statements.
has been circulated to shareholders the exception of Judith Sprieser, who and can also be viewed on the will retire from the Board with effect Companys website.
from the conclusion of the 2016 AGM 104 Governance Directors report Directors report continued Restrictions on transfers of The deferred shares in the Company Share capital information shares and or voting rights carry no voting rights.
Rights and obligations The Company is not aware of any Unless the directors determine The rights and obligations attaching to agreements between shareholders that otherwise, members are not entitled the ordinary and deferred shares are set may result in restrictions on the transfer to vote personally or by proxy at a out in note P to the Company financial of securities and or voting rights and, shareholders meeting, or to exercise statements and in the Companys articles apart from the matters described below, any other members right in relation of association, a copy of which can be there are no restrictions on the transfer to shareholders meetings, in respect obtained from the Experian website, of the Companys ordinary shares and or of any share for which any call or www.
The Companys voting rights: other sum payable to the Company articles of association may be amended by remains unpaid.
Certain restrictions on transfers of Unless the directors determine shares may from time to time be ADR programme otherwise, members are not entitled imposed by, for example, insider The Company has a Level 1 American to vote personally or by proxy at a dealing regulations.
In accordance Depositary Receipt ADR programme shareholders meeting, or to exercise with the UK FCAs Listing Rules, in the USA, for which the Bank of New any other members right in relation directors and certain employees York Mellon acts as depositary.
The ADRs to shareholders meetings, if the are required to seek the Companys are traded on the highest tier of the US member fails to provide the Company approval to deal in its shares.
over-the-counter market, OTCQX, with with the required information Some of Experians share-based each ADR representing one Experian concerning interests in those shares, employee incentive plans include plc ordinary share.
Further details are within the prescribed period after p184 restrictions on the transfer of shares, given in the Shareholder and corporate being served with a notice under the whilst the shares are subject to information section.
The Companys articles of Substantial shareholdings As described in the Report on association state that, except for The Companys articles of association directors remuneration, nonp95 certain limited circumstances, if the oblige shareholders to comply with the executive directors receive a number of shares in the Company notification obligations contained in the proportion of their fees in shares, beneficially owned by residents of UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
until the value of their shareholding the USA exceeds a defined permitted As at 10 May 2016, the Company had been equals their annual fee.
These shares maximum and the directors give notified of the indirect interests below may not normally be transferred notice to the holder s of such in its issued ordinary share capital or during their period of office.
shares, the shares do not give their voting rights.
Where participants in a share-based holder s the right to receive notice employee incentive plan operated by of, attend or vote at the Companys Experian are the beneficial owners general meetings.
of the shares but not the registered owner, the voting rights are normally Details of deadlines in respect of exercised by the registered owner at voting for the 2016 AGM are contained the direction of the participants.
in the notice of meeting that has been circulated to shareholders and Shares carry no voting rights while which can also be viewed at the they are held in treasury.
Number of ordinary Percentage of issued Date of notification Shareholder shares voting rights share capital voting rights 6 August 2015 Harris Associations L. P. 50,233,366 4.94% 24 March 2016 BlackRock, Inc. 51,677,790 5.38% Governance Directors report 105 Purchase, cancellation and Significant agreements Employment information holdings of own shares change of control Employment of people The existing authority for the Company to The Group is party to a number of with disabilities purchase its own shares was given at the agreements that take effect, alter, People with disabilities have equal AGM held on 22 July 2015.
It permits the terminate, or have the potential to do opportunities when applying for Company to purchase 98,516,227 of its so, upon a change of control of the vacancies.
In addition to complying own shares in the market.
with legislative requirements, the Group These agreements are as follows: has procedures to ensure that it treats On 10 November 2015, the Company disabled employees fairly and carefully announced the extension of its US$600m The Groups banking facilities contain manages their training and career shares repurchase programme provisions which, in the event of a development needs.
The policies are announced on 28 January 2015 change of control, could result in their considered to operate effectively.
The repurchases are renegotiation or withdrawal.
Group supports employees who become to be carried out pursuant to and in The Groups Senior Notes and disabled during the course of their accordance with the authority conferred Euronotes allow holders to require employment, by offering re-training or by the Companys shareholders at repayment of the notes, if a rating re-deployment, to enable them to remain the 2015 AGM.
The announcement agency re-rates the notes to below with the Group whenever possible.
in November 2015 indicated the investment grade, following a change intention that shares repurchased after Employee involvement of control.
10 November 2015 under the programme Experian is committed to employee All of Experians share-based would be cancelled.
employee incentive plans contain The Group is intent on motivating staff, provisions relating to a change of During the year ended 31 March 2016, keeping them informed on matters that control.
Outstanding awards and the Company purchased 29,612,926 of concern them in the context of their options would normally vest and its own shares, at a cost of US$533m of employment, and involving them through become exercisable, subject to which 13,638,278 shares were purchased local consultative procedures.
Where satisfaction of any performance before the 2015 AGM.
On 15 May there are recognition agreements with conditions at that time.
2015, 1,806,546 ordinary shares in the trade unions, the consultation process Company were transferred from treasury The Group is party to a limited is established through national and local to RBC cees Trustee Limited, the number of operational arrangements trade union representatives and through administrator of Experians share plans, which can be terminated or joint consultation committees.
for nil consideration, to be used to meet altered upon a change of control obligations under employee share plans.
of the Company, but these are Employees are kept well informed on not considered to be individually matters of interest and the financial No shares have been purchased by the significant to the Groups business and economic factors affecting the Company since 31 March 2016. as a whole.
In certain cases, it is Groups performance.
This is done considered that their disclosure through management channels, As at the date of approval of this Annual would be seriously prejudicial to conferences, meetings, publications Report the Company 1 holds 63,164,322 the Company.
More detail on 2015: 46,233,732 of its own shares employee engagement, together with as treasury shares, and 2 had an information on diversity, succession unexpired authority to purchase up to planning and talent development, 82,541,579 of its own shares.
p46 can be found in the Our people section of the Strategic report.
Details of the new authority being requested at the 2016 AGM are Experian supports employee share contained in the circular to shareholders, ownership by providing employee share which accompanies this Annual Report plan arrangements, which are intended and is available on the Companys to align employees interests with those website at www.
Details of the shares in the Company purchased by and held under The Experian plc Employee Share Trust and the Experian UK Approved All-Employee Share Plan are set out in note Q to the p177 Company financial statements.
106 Governance Directors report Directors report continued taking such steps as are reasonably In addition, each of the directors Auditor information open to them to safeguard the assets considers that the Annual Report and Relevant audit information of the Company and the Group, and financial statements, taken as a whole, As at 10 May 2016, so far as each to prevent and detect fraud and other is fair, balanced and understandable director is aware, there is no relevant irregularities: and and provides the information necessary audit information, being information for shareholders to assess the Groups the maintenance and integrity of the needed by the auditor in connection position and performance, business statutory and audited information with preparing the audit report, of model and strategy.
Jersey which the auditor is unaware, and each legislation and UK regulation director has taken all steps that he or By order of the Board governing the preparation and she ought to have taken as a director in dissemination of financial statements order to make himself or herself aware may differ from requirements in of any relevant audit information and to Charles Brown other jurisdictions.
establish that the auditor is aware of Company Secretary that information.
In addition, the directors consider that, 10 May 2016 in preparing the financial statements: Independent auditor As disclosed in the Report of the suitable accounting policies Audit Committee, following a tender have been selected and conducted during the year, KPMG Corporate headquarters: applied consistently: LLP was selected as the Companys Newenham House judgments and estimates made have auditor.
Accordingly, a resolution will be Northern Cross been reasonable and prudent: proposed at the AGM on 20 July 2016 Malahide Road for its appointment as the Companys the Group financial statements Dublin 17 auditor.
This appointment will take comply with IFRSs as adopted for D17 AY61 effect for the financial year ending use in the European Union: Ireland 31 March 2017. all accounting standards which Registered office: they consider applicable have been Statement of directors 22 Grenville Street followed in preparing the Company responsibilities St Helier financial statements: and The directors are responsible for: Jersey it is appropriate that the Group JE4 8PX and Company financial statements preparing the Annual Report, the Channel Islands have been prepared on a going Group and Company financial concern basis.
statements and the Report on directors remuneration, in The directors also confirm that, to the accordance with applicable law best of their knowledge, the financial and regulations: statements are prepared in accordance preparing financial statements which with the applicable set of accounting give a true and fair view of the state standards, give a true and fair view of affairs at the balance sheet date, of the assets, liabilities, financial and the profit or loss for the period position and profit of the Company and then ended of a the Group in the Group taken as a whole: and the accordance with IFRSs as adopted for Strategic report contains a fair review use in the European Union, and b of the development and performance the Company in accordance with UK of the business and the position of the Accounting Standards : Company and the Group taken as a keeping proper accounting records whole, together with a description of the which disclose, with reasonable principal risks and uncertainties that accuracy, at any time, the financial they face.
position of the Group and the Company and enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with applicable law and Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards Regulation:
