36 Strategic report EMEA Asia Pacific EMEA Asia Pacific Summary Good growth in Decision Analytics and We continue to build good Marketing Services helped to maintain momentum.
By combining and our position in a challenging economic integrating our capabilities we environment.
We have reorganised around increased average contract values key geographies and customer segments on new wins, and our contract to enable scale and drive further growth.
pipeline continues to grow strongly.
Chris Clark Managing Director, Joy Griffiths Chairman, UK and Ireland, and EMEA Asia Pacific Total revenue from continuing activities Growth in Asia Pacific was strong, Decision Analytics in EMEA Asia Pacific was US$417m, with particularly in Japan and India, which Total and organic revenue growth at total and organic revenue both up 7% at partially offset a decline across our constant exchange rates were both constant exchange rates.
There was significant growth was primarily due to weak conditions in momentum, driven by a number of new Credit Services some markets such as the Nordics and client wins for credit risk management Total and organic revenue at constant South Africa.
software, other credit decisioning tools exchange rates decreased by 3%.
A simple banking product making a big change to livelihoods Developing products for banks, our team constantly see how those products work for the banks customers, but we never really know what impact they have on the wider community.
So we were surprised to see how a product we created to prove peoples identity actually changed peoples lives.
A lady I met in Alwar, in Rajasthan, wasnt earning enough to feed her two children.
She needed a loan, and to get one she had to prove who she was.
But shed just moved from another village, so no one knew her here, and she had no identification to show.
I showed her how to use Prove-ID, the tool weve created at Experian.
One could just put her biometrics through it and it would search for her credit history and all the identification she needs to say whos who.
She was overwhelmed she could prove that she was from another village, and hadnt come into the country shopping for loans.
It was different because with banks we mostly see urban customers so their credit report is one of a thousand reports about them.
But for people in this rural district, like this lady, their application is a single page.
A loan is their only option, so they have to be able to prove who they are.
I was very proud that we could help her.
Sreeram Upendran Head of Bureau Products & Head of Technology, Experian India Strategic report EMEA Asia Pacific 37 Highlights 2016 9% 7% Contribution to Organic Group revenue revenue growth 4 m 0.4bn EBIT US$ Revenue with 1.0 % margin US$ Marketing Services Revenue, EBIT and EBIT margin Total and organic revenue growth at constant exchange rates were both 10% Total Organic as we benefited from new client wins 1 2 2 2016 2015 growth growth for integrated data and cross-channel Year ended 31 March US$m US$m % % marketing capabilities.
Revenue Credit Services 149 176 3 3 EBIT and EBIT margin Decision Analytics 135 130 18 18 Losses in EMEA Asia Pacific were Marketing Services 133 135 10 10 significantly reduced to US$4m 2015: Total continuing activities 417 441 7 7 US$10m.
EBIT margin improved to 1.0 % 3 Discontinuing activities 15 45 from 2.3 % at actual exchange rates, as Total EMEA Asia Pacific 432 486 operating efficiencies were partially offset by foreign exchange headwinds.
EBIT Continuing activities 4 10 3 Discontinuing activities 1 9 Total EMEA Asia Pacific 3 1 n a 4 EBIT margin 1.0 % 2.3 % 1 2015 restated for discontinuing activities see note 3 below for details.
2 Growth at constant exchange rates.
3 Discontinuing activities includes the divestments of FootFall, Consumer Insights and other smaller businesses.
4 EBIT margin is for continuing activities only.
