F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Business Model and Strategy The Company carries on business as a closed-ended property The Company uses gearing throughout the Group to enhance investment company.
Its shares are traded on the Main Market of the returns over the long-term.
Gearing, represented by borrowings as a London Stock Exchange.
percentage of total assets, may not exceed 50 per cent.
However, the Boards present intention is that borrowings of the Group will be limited The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall stewardship of to a maximum of 35 per cent of total assets at the time of borrowing.
the Company, including investment and dividend policies, corporate strategy, gearing, corporate governance procedures and risk Investment of Assets management.
Biographical details of the Directors, all of whom are At each quarterly Board meeting, the Board receives a detailed independent non-executive Directors, can be found on page 21.
The presentation from the Managers which includes a review of investment Company has no executive Directors or employees.
performance, recent portfolio activity and a market outlook.
It also The Board has contractually delegated the management of the considers compliance with the investment policy and other investment investment portfolio and other services to the Managers.
A summary restrictions during the reporting period.
An analysis of how the portfolio of the terms of the management agreement is contained in note 2a was invested as at 31 December 2016 is contained within the Managers to the accounts.
Review on pages 15 to 19 and a portfolio listing is provided on page 20.
Investment Strategy The Groups borrowings are described in note 13 to the accounts.
Objective Responsible Property Investment Strategy The Companys investment objective is to provide ordinary The Property Managers acquire, develop and manage properties on shareholders with an attractive level of income together with the behalf of the Company.
It is recognised that Environmental, Social potential for capital and income growth from investing in a diversified and Governance ESG factors are relevant at each stage of this UK commercial property portfolio.
The Company and its Investment Policy Property Managers have a fiduciary obligation to make sure that these The Companys policy is to hold a diversified portfolio of freehold and are attended to properly, in order that relevant risks are managed long leasehold over 60 years remaining at the time of acquisition appropriately and that shareholder returns are optimised.
It invests principally in three commercial The Property Managers will work in partnership with contractors, property sectors: office, retail and industrial.
It also has a small tenants and consultants to minimise negative impacts, manage exposure to residential property and student housing.
risks, capture value enhancement and environmental improvement The Company invests in properties which the Board, on the advice of opportunities, and deliver positive societal benefits.
the Managers, believes will generate a combination of long-term growth in income and capital for shareholders.
Investment decisions are based Continuation Vote on an analysis of, amongst other things, prospects for future income Following the adoption of new articles of incorporation in November and capital growth, sector and geographic prospects, tenant covenant 2014, the next continuation vote of the Company will be in 2024. strength, lease length, and initial and equivalent yields.
Discount Control Investment risks are spread by investing across different The policy regarding share buy backs was set out in a Circular issued geographical areas and sectors and by letting properties to low to shareholders ahead of the General Meeting in November 2014.
The Company has not set any maximum geographic detailed the Companys continued commitment to the application of exposures, but the maximum weightings in the principal property share buy backs to limit any discount to the NAV per share at which the sectors at any time stated as a percentage of total assets are: Companys shares may trade.
A discount of 5 per cent or more remains a office: 50 per cent: retail: 65 per cent: and industrial: 40 per cent.
level at which the board will review share buy back implementation.
No single property may exceed 15 per cent of total assets and the five largest properties excluding indirect property funds may The review will take into account the current and the likely prospective not exceed 40 per cent of total assets in each case at the time level of discount to the value of your Company's high quality but, by their of acquisition.
Short leasehold properties with less than 60 years nature, illiquid assets, which are independently valued every quarter.
It remaining may not exceed 10 per cent of total assets at the time will also consider other factors that the Board believes might promote the of acquisition.
achievement of the Companys long-standing, stated objectives.
The Company is permitted to invest up to 15 per cent, at the time These factors include alternative property investment opportunities, of acquisition, of its total assets in indirect property funds including whether direct or indirect, which may be standing at greater levels of listed property companies which invest principally in UK property, discount to underlying value than the Companys own shares: the impact but these investments may not exceed 20 per cent of total assets at on net asset value accretion and improvement in dividend cover from any subsequent date.
The Company is permitted to invest cash, held share buy backs: and the levels of liquidity, gearing and loan to value by it for working capital purposes and awaiting investment, in cash within the Company.
deposits, gilts and money market funds.
10 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Shareholder Value The Board and the Managers recognise the importance of both marketing and share buy backs in increasing demand for the Companys shares.
Share buy backs can help reduce the volatility of any discount of the share price to the net asset value per share and enhance the net asset value per share for continuing shareholders.
In terms of marketing, the Managers offer a range of private investor savings schemes, details of which can be found on page 66.
In addition, meetings are held regularly with current and prospective shareholders and stockbroking analysts covering the investment company sector.
Communication of quarterly portfolio information is made through the Companys website.
Principal Risks and Risk Management As stated within the Report of the Audit Committee on page 27, the Board applies the principles detailed in the internal control guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council, and has established an ongoing process designed to meet the particular needs of the Company in managing the risks and uncertainties to which it is exposed.
The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Company are described below and in note 17, which provides detailed explanations of the risks associated with the Companys financial instruments.
Market the Companys assets comprise direct investments The Board seeks to mitigate and manage these risks through continual in UK commercial property and it is therefore exposed to review, policy-setting and enforcement of contractual obligations.
movements and changes in that market.
It also regularly monitors the investment environment and the Investment and strategic poor investment decisions and management of the Companys property portfolio.
The Managers seek incorrect strategy, including sector and geographic allocations, to mitigate these risks through active asset management initiatives and use of gearing, inadequate asset management activity and tenant carrying out due diligence work on potential tenants before entering defaults could lead to poor returns for shareholders.
into any new lease agreements.
All of the properties in the portfolio are Regulatory breach of regulatory rules could lead to suspension insured.
of the Companys London Stock Exchange listing, financial penalties or a qualified audit report.
Principal risks encountered during the year Environmental inadequate attendance to environmental factors Tax Structure and Compliance by the Managers, including those of a regulatory and market A key area of concern relates to the recent change to UK corporation nature and particularly those relating to energy performance, tax legislation regarding restrictions on interest deductibility in tax health and safety, flood risk and environmental liabilities, leading computations.
The UK government have issued a consultation paper to the reputational damage of the Company, reduced liquidity in on whether non-resident companies should be brought into the UK the portfolio, and or negative asset value impacts.
corporation tax scheme at a point in the future.
If such a decision were Management and control changes that cause the management to be made, the interest rate deductibility rules would have a significant and control of the Company to be exercised in the United Kingdom effect on the level of taxation payable by the Company.
The Company could lead to the Company becoming liable to United Kingdom is in consultation with their tax advisors on this and is monitoring the taxation on income and capital gains.
These changes may result in the Company converting to a Operational failure of the Managers accounting systems or UK Real Estate Investment Trust at a future date.
disruption to its business, or that of other third party service Valuation Accuracy providers, could lead to an inability to provide accurate reporting There was concern over the accuracy of property valuations following and monitoring, leading to a loss of shareholders confidence.
A caveat on the accuracy of the valuations was Financial inadequate controls by the Managers or other included in the June 2016 external valuation but has since been third party service providers could lead to misappropriation of removed, although uncertainty still exists.
Inappropriate accounting policies or failure to comply Discount Premium to Net Asset Value with accounting standards could lead to a qualified audit report, misreporting or breaches of regulations.
Breaching Guernsey The share price went through a period of instability and fell significantly solvency test requirements or loan covenants could lead to a loss to a discount of 24 per cent following the Brexit vote.
The share price of shareholders confidence and financial loss for shareholders see recovered reasonably quickly and has subsequently settled at a small note 13 for details of the principal loan covenants.
St Christophers Place, London Report and Accounts 2016 | 11
