STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Managers Review Richard Kirby, Fund Manager Richard Kirby, Fund Manager joined the predecessor to the F&C Asset Management plc group F&C in 1990.
He has been a fund manager since 1995 and has experience of managing commercial property portfolios across all sectors for open-ended, closed-ended and life fund clients.
He sits on both the Executive Committee and Investment Committee of BMO REP Asset Management plc BMO REP.
He is a Chartered Surveyor and a member of the Investment Property Forum, the British Council of Offices and the British Council for Shopping Centres.
Property Managers BMO Real Estate Partners is a leading UK-based real estate manager focused on commercial real estate investment management.
The team behind BMO Real Estate Partners has been successfully managing commercial property assets for a wide range of UK clients for over 50 years and currently manages as at 31.12.2016 some 6.4 billion of real estate assets, employing 141 staff.
The team structure provides for sector specific teams offering specialist capabilities across the market, establishing strong peer to peer and occupier relationships and sourcing of a range of transactional opportunities.
The fund management team and sector heads have on average 25 years of industry experience each.
BMO Real Estate Partners undertakes fund and asset management services as well as, where appropriate, the day-to-day property management, complemented by a project management team and full accounting and service charge teams.
On 8 March 2017, BMO Global Asset Management announced the acquisition by F&C Asset Management plc of the 30% minority interest in BMO Real Estate Partners LLP BMO REP. As part of the transaction a small portion of BMO REPs business will be demerged.
This portion of the business is currently responsible for the management of UK value add assets for certain family trusts and investment joint ventures in which these trusts are invested.
With effect from August 2017, it will transfer to a new family office.
In the UK, BMO REP will retain their specialist sector team focus.
There will be no change to the Fund Manager resource or the asset management teams dedicated to the Company.
Highlights over the year Strong total return from property portfolio of 5.3 per cent compared with 3.6 per cent from the MSCI IPD benchmark.
Portfolio capital growth of 0.8 per cent compared with capital falls of 1.1 per cent from the MSCI IPD benchmark.
Gross rental income increased by 2.0 million per annum.
See Alternative Performance Measures on page 63.
Report and Accounts 2016 | 15 F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST Geographical Analysis Sector Analysis as at 31 December 2016, % of total property portfolio as at 31 December 2016, % of total property portfolio figures as at 31 December 2015 in brackets figures as at 31 December 2015 in brackets Scotland 12.9% 13.1% Other 2.8% 2.5% North West 10.8% 10.6% Rest of London 1.4% 1.2% Source: BMO REP Asset Management plc Property Market Review for 2016 The industrial distribution sector and the other sector, comprising The benchmark total return for the year, as measured by the MSCI non-traditional property assets such as student accommodation, Investment Property Databank 'IPD' Quarterly Universe was 3.6 drew ahead of the field with both delivering an annual total return of per cent.
Performance was adversely affected by a change in 7.4 per cent.
This compares with 2.7 per cent for offices and 1.6 per stamp duty early in the year and by a marked weakening in investor cent for retail.
Within retail, Central London continued to deliver a sentiment reflecting, in large part, the perceived impact of Brexit on strong performance but retail warehousing and regional retail underthe UK economy and property market.
The final quarter witnessed performed, while shopping centres delivered a negative total return.
some rebalancing with a benchmark total return of 2.2 per cent.
In 2015, the office market was the strongest performing sector but in 2016 all the main components under-performed the all-property The period following the EU referendum result saw a change in the average, with City offices particularly badly affected.
UKs political leadership, a reduction in official interest rates and an expanded quantitative easing programme.
Despite initial survey The yield compression that has driven performance in recent years, evidence from the Purchasing Managers Index to the contrary, the drew to a close in 2016.
The initial yield edged out to 4.9 per cent GDP growth rate remained positive throughout the year.
However, from 4.8 per cent at the all-property level.
Outward yield movement sterling fell sharply in the wake of the vote and inflation expectations was most pronounced in retail warehousing, shopping centres and have risen.
Attention has been focused on the exit terms and timing South East offices sectors.
The alternative property sector recorded an of the withdrawal from the EU, with Article 50 having been triggered inward yield shift.
Rental growth for standing investments at the all-property level slipped Investment activity in 2016 fell back to its lowest level since 2012. to 2.1 per cent in 2016.
The deceleration was widespread but Central Investors were becoming concerned about pricing ahead of the London offices were particularly affected.
Regional retail assets and referendum vote and holding back until the outcome of the result.
supermarkets continued to record rental decline.
Gross rent passing Once this was known, investment activity fell further.
Some deals rose by only 0.8 per cent in the year, underscoring the difficulty of proceeded, some were aborted and others renegotiated.
The fall capturing rental growth.
The occupational market has been affected in sterling may have mitigated the impact on transaction levels to by the Brexit vote, incentives have increased and development activity a degree and the fourth quarter saw investment activity revive, re-appraised.
boosted by strong net investment from overseas buyers.
UK The year was characterised by high levels of uncertainty and a move institutions were net sellers of property for most of the year.
Reaction towards a more defensive strategy by investors, although the final to the referendum result also saw open-ended property funds quarter of the year showed some steadying in sentiment.
There is struggle with redemptions.
This necessitated moves in pricing, fair significant equity in the market but property owners are holding on value adjustments, suspension of redemptions and some forced to their best assets.
This has been a watershed year, where the yield sales.
However, this period was relatively short lived and all funds compression and capital growth of earlier years has been replaced by had reopened by year-end.
a return to income as the driver of performance and a focus on income The income return was largely unaffected by the volatility elsewhere security and protection.
in the market and was 4.7 per cent in the year to December.
Capital growth resumed in the fourth quarter at 1.0 per cent, but with capital values down by 1.1 per cent for the year, attention has switched Valuation and Portfolio Growth more towards income to deliver performance.
The year witnessed The Company continues to invest in a diversified UK commercial real a marked shift, with investors focusing on long leases and secure estate portfolio of 36 properties.
income streams, with the focus moving from enhancing to defending and protecting the income stream.
16 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited South East 26.6% 26.6% Ofces 35.5% 39.9% London West End 33.9% 35.7% Retail 29.0% 26.5% Eastern 2.0% 1.5% Retail Warehouses 16.5% 16.9% Midlands 12.4% 11.3% Industrial 16.2% 14.2% FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS GOVERNANCE REPORT STRATEGIC REPOR STRAT TEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT OTHER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT Lease Expiry Profile Covenant Strength At 31 December 2016 the weighted average lease length for as at 31 December 2016, % of income by risk bands the portfolio, assuming all break options are exercised, was figures as at 31 December 2015 in brackets 7.1 years 2015: 6.9 years 50% 31 December 2016 43.9% 31 December 2015 40.2% 40% 31.7% 28.4% 30% Low to Medium 6.1% 4.0% Low 21.9% 17.0% 20% Negligible and Government 17.6% 17.4% 58.6% 68.0% 10.7% 10.1% 10%' 0% 0 - 5 years5 - 10 years 10 - 15 years 15 - 25 years Lease Length Source: BMO REP Asset Management plc Source: IRIS Report, MSCI Inc CBRE are external valuers to the Company and they independently St Christophers Place valued the portfolio at 1,322,455 million as at 31 December 2016.
St Christophers Place Estate remains a core holding for the Company and the largest asset with a value approaching 300 The total return from the portfolio over the year was 5.3 per cent million.
The holding comprises 44 individual properties across a 30th percentile compared with the benchmark return of 3.6 per range of uses including traditional retail, restaurants, offices and a cent.
The portfolio has delivered a strong track record of longer term growing number of residential units.
The Estate performed strongly performance: Second quartile over three years and top quartile over over the period with an 8.5 per cent increase in its capital value.
The rise in capital value was driven by rental growth across the retail, restaurant and office sectors.
Total Return Analysis The redevelopment of 71-77 Wigmore Street is almost complete.
Market Segment - Direct Property Portfolio Benchmark The restaurant is under offer on a new lease to a renowned % % London restaurant group and although the shop unit, on the St Retails South East 9.0 5.8 corner of St Christophers Place, has received a number of offers St Retails Rest of UK 5.6 1.5 we will be formally marketing the opportunity on completion of the development to ensure optimal market exposure.
Elsewhere Shopping Centres 0.2 planning consent has been approved for the redevelopment of Retail Warehouses 0.2 0.2 1-2 Barrett Street and several other development opportunities of varying scale have been identified and will be the subject of Offices City 1.7 1.7 planning applications for redevelopment or reconfiguration over the Offices West End 0.2 3.5 next 12 months.
Offices South East 1.9 2.8 There has been very strong occupier interest in the Estate over the Offices Rest of UK 2.9 1.8 last 12 months, particularly in the food and beverage sector and this is producing interesting opportunities to refresh the occupier Industrials South East 24.6 8.3 line up.
As an example, on James Street, Caf Rouge surrendered Industrials Rest of UK 15.5 5.8 their lease for a premium of 650,000 and the unit has been relet to Bone Daddies, a Japanese Ramen operator who paid an Other Commercial 14.8 7.4 ingoing premium of 400,000 and the rent reflected an uplift of All Segments 5.3 3.6 80,900 per annum 77 per cent over the previous rent passing.
We foresee similar opportunities arising to bring in new operators Includes West End Retail Source: MSCI IPD over the short and medium term.
Retail Market The opening of the Elizabeth Line Crossrail 1 in 2018 and the The Companys exposure to the in town retail sector consists of predicted increase of pedestrian traffic to the Oxford Street St Christophers Place Estate, London W1, The Broadway, Wimbledon area, has acted as a catalyst for discussion with other key West and a shop in Conduit Street, London W1.
The value of these holdings End stakeholders to secure further improvements to the public is 383 million.
The total return on the retail portfolio was 5.2 per cent realm and the general visitor experience.
In particular we are compared with the MSCI IPD benchmark total return of 1.6 per cent.
promoting the opportunities for reduced through traffic on James Report and Accounts 2016 | 17 Unscored and ineligible 1.2% 1.0% Maximum 3.9% 3.0% High 3.0% 2.0% Medium to High 5.3% 5.0% % of leases expiring weighted by rental value F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Street and we intend that this will form part of the overall strategy for Building B at Watchmoor Park, Camberley.
Significant transactions environmental improvements in this part of the West End in the future.
are being negotiated at Cassini House, 2-4 King Street, London SW1 and 7 Birchin Lane, London EC3 where refurbishments have now Other Retail completed.
We also sold 25 Great Pulteney Street at 54.3 million reflecting a net initial yield of 3.95 per cent.
At 16 Conduit Street, Christian Dior surrendered their lease in July 2016 and a new 15-year lease was simultaneously granted to luxury Elsewhere in the regions 82 King Street, Manchester has continued retailer MCM, at a record rental level for their London flagship store.
its letting success post refurbishment works with leases completed Meanwhile at the Companys retail and leisure holding in Wimbledon, to Lloyds Bank Plc, Arbuthnot Latham and Inflexion Private Equity Uniqlo renewed their lease for a term of 10 years at a higher rent, at 32.50 psf, which is a record for this building.
Total rent from new supporting a round of rent reviews and lease renewals that will become lettings is 319,000.
The vacant area in the building has now reduced due over the next 12 months.
A number of announcements have been to 7,381 sq.
ft. 9 per cent compared to 24,352 sq ft 29 per cent of made concerning Crossrail 2, which it is proposed will run through the building in 2014.
Wimbledon and active consultation is being undertaken.
The longer HSBC have now confirmed that they will be vacating Nevis and Ness term impact is likely to be very positive for the Companys ownership.
Houses at Edinburgh Park but, subject to refurbishment, we are in Key asset management activities in the out of town retail sector discussion with two other potential occupiers.
included the completion of the letting to Boots the Chemist at Newbury Aberdeen remains the Companys largest exposure to Rest of UK Retail Park, following their agreement to surrender the lease of unit Offices.
This market remains quiet, which is a general reflection of the 10.
Boots took a new 10-year lease from July 2016 at a rent of sub regional macro economy, but the buildings are high quality and 325,000 per annum 32.50 psf.
The valuers pro-forma estimated located on Aberdeens prime office park with strong landlord friendly rental value for this unit was 281,000 per annum 28.10 psf.
Linked leases to undoubted covenants.
to this transaction, the agreement for a lease with T K Maxx for unit 10 became unconditional when both planning consent and vacant possession were achieved.
Works started on site in September 2016 Industrial & Logistics to extend the floor area and to modernise the shop front of the unit.
2016 saw the Big Box logistics sector, where the majority of the The premises were handed over to T K Maxx to fit out in February eleven properties in this sector are held, deliver another year of strong 2017.
This is a new 15 year lease with a tenants break option in the performance.
The total return on the industrial and logistics portfolio tenth year, at 351,000 per annum 29.25 psf in excess of the prowas 17.5 per cent compared with the MSCI IPD benchmark total forma estimated rental value of 27.50 psf.
The combined value rose from 193 million to 214.5 million, an 11 per cent increase.
This was due to further yield Terms have also been agreed with Homesense to take a new lease of compression, owing to the continued demand for core logistics from a unit 7, currently occupied by Poundstretcher who will surrender the wider variety of investors, coupled with the successful conclusion of a remaining 5 years of the existing lease.
Work will be undertaken to number of key asset management initiatives.
extend the current unit by 2,000 sq ft.
Upon completion of these works Homesense will take a new lease of 15 years tenant break option in At Hams Hall in Birmingham, we both renewed and extended year 10 at a commencing rent of 310,000 per annum 31.00 psf.
lease agreements with our tenants Arvato and Nestle.
These two The existing rent is 212,477 per annum 26.50 psf.
transactions in isolation provided an increase in value over the period in excess of 8.2 million.
This new leasing and rent review evidence resulted in the holdings estimated rental value increasing by 4.8 per cent.
Agreement was also reached to capitalise on the sectors current high level of rental growth with a rent review on the DHL occupied Sears Retail Park, Solihull is fully income producing following the expiry logistics facility in Liverpool.
This will be documented at an increase of of the rent-free period granted to T K Maxx on Unit 5.
New totem 275,000 per annum, an uplift of circa 20 per cent over the previous directory signage for the retail park was erected as part of the ongoing rent.
This rewards our historic belief in the potential of the North West three-year park refurbishment and business plan.
The next phase as a region.
of these works will include the modernisation of the shop fronts and signage zones for those units still to be refurbished.
Post year-end the lease renewal with Mothercare at Plot E4 DIRFT Daventry concluded.
At Dane Street, Rochdale, Asda has presented to their board for approval for a new reversionary lease.
This will extend the existing 5 Significant progress has been made in exiting the former Ozalid year term to 20 years, in return for a rent free period.
The grant of outline planning for a residential development accompanied by a completed s106 agreement with the Office Market Local Authority more than doubled the value of the property.
Following The Companys exposure to the office sector amounts in total to the appointed agents marketing campaign we are in advanced 469 million 35.5 per cent of the portfolio across 16 properties and contract negotiations with one of the UKs major house builders for the provides approximately 39 per cent of gross rental income.
The total return on the office portfolio was 0.5 per cent compared Opportunities to invest in prime assets in both the logistics and with the MSCI IPD benchmark total return of 2.7 per cent.
This relative industrial market remain limited and expensive, but we continue to underperformance can be attributed to the short term income of our scour the market for value and genuine reversion.
West End holdings and void space on our South East out of town properties, particularly TVP One at Thames Valley Park, Reading and 18 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Solihull, The Alternative Property Sector Implementing a system for the classification of all assets under Sears Retail Park management according to their energy performance risk and The student accommodation block, let in its entirety to the University energy consumption characteristics, which the Company is using of Winchester on a long lease, remains the Companys only exposure as a basis for prioritising actions and determining the frequency of to this sector.
The property produced a total return of 1.1 per cent its comprehensive ESG monitoring activities at the property level.
This lease is subject to annual RPI increases and the annual rent is now 1.748 million per annum.
Installing a market-leading RPI Appraisal system, which is now applied to all acquisitions made by the Company.
We are also in Acquisitions & Sales the process of applying the Appraisal system to all assets under As previously announced the Company completed the sale of its management, a process which will be completed by Q4 2017. freehold interest in 25 Great Pulteney Street, London W1 for 54.3m, Preparing Guidelines for Sustainable Development & reflecting a net initial yield of 3.95 per cent.
The property comprised a Refurbishment, which is to be applied to all significant capital seven-storey building providing high quality, contemporary, Grade A projects undertaken on the portfolio.
office accommodation and was fully let to four tenants.
The sale price exceeded the last external valuation of 51.2 million.
Delivering training to its fund, investment, asset and property management teams to ensure that they are cognisant of the 25 Great Pulteney Street was a property that the Company fully evolving RPI agenda, aware of the expectations which the redeveloped, completing 2011.
It was subsequently leased at high Company places upon them in relation to ESG factors, and rents reflecting the quality of the building.
The most recent reletting knowledgeable about what needs to be done to implement the achieved a rent of 96.50 psf.
The property produced an annualised new RPI Strategy.
total return of 16.5 per cent since completion of the works.
The disposal crystallised substantial value for the Company, reduced its In carrying out the above, the Property Managers appointed a exposure to Central London and allows capital to be employed into specialist RPI consulting and training firm, Hillbreak, which will other opportunities.
continue to support and advise by taking an independent role on the Property Managers ESG Committee.
Responsible Property Investment The Company and its Property Managers will remain vigilant of the The principles of Responsible Property Investment RPI, through evolving nature of the RPI agenda and will continue to develop its which environmental, social and governance ESG factors are approach to ESG factors so that it remains on track to realising its RPI integrated into investment processes and asset ownership activities, goals.
have continued to gain significant traction and momentum in the UK property market.
In particular, the emergence of new regulations Outlook which target the energy performance of existing buildings, together Despite some recovery in property performance towards year-end and with the ratification and coming into force of the Paris Agreement on upward revisions to GDP growth forecasts, market sentiment remains Climate Change during 2016, have been key stimulants of investor cautious.
There is a focus on political issues, with Brexit negotiations engagement on the topic.
Increasingly, investment decision-making to the fore, but the impact of the US election and developments is influenced by these factors, in terms of capital allocation strategies in Europe are also potential areas of concern.
Within property, the and commercial property transactions.
introduction of new business rates will affect tenants occupational The Company, through the policies and procedures of its Property costs, while margins could be hit by higher prices for imported goods.
Manager has taken strides to strengthen its approach to RPI during With interest rates expected to remain low by historic standards and 2016 including: property benefiting from a relatively high and stable income return, the Formalising an ESG Committee with representation from across its asset class is likely to retain its appeal to income seeking investors.
We investment management teams, with the purpose of leading on, expect a period of positive single digit total return performance, driven monitoring and overseeing the Property Managers approach to by income in an uncertain environment.
We continue to favour quality RPI.
industrial and distribution, Central London retail and alternative assets on a selective basis.
The outlook for Central London offices is still Establishing a new RPI Strategy for its corporate and investment unclear.
In the short and medium term, the path of Brexit negotiations activities, which is reflective of strengthening market expectations is expected to be a major determinant of performance but over the with respect to ESG factors, and which has the mutual goals of longer-term, the impact of any move towards the normalisation of ensuring portfolio resilience: driving environmental improvements: interest rates also needs to be borne in mind.
and engaging with our stakeholders.
Putting in place comprehensive RPI requirements for asset and property managers to ensure continued attendance to ESG factors across the property investment lifecycle.
Introducing Responsible Property Management Guidelines Richard Kirby to support property managers in identifying and capturing opportunities for improving the ESG performance and attributes Fund Manager of assets, covering factors such as energy efficiency, water BMO REP Asset Management plc conservation, health and well-being, waste management and 3 April 2017 procurement.
