FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS GOVERNANCE REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT Board of Directors Peter Niven FCIB, CDir Chris Russell FCA, FSIP Status: Independent non-executive director and Chairman of Status: Chairman and independent non-executive Director.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
the Management Engagement Committee Date of appointment: 21 January 2005 retiring at AGM Date of appointment: 31 October 2009 appointed Chairman 19 May 2011.
Country of residence: Guernsey Country of residence: Guernsey Experience: Peter Niven has over 35 years experience in the financial services industry both in the UK and offshore.
He was Experience: Chris Russell was, before 2001, an executive director of Gartmore Investment Management plc.
He is a a senior executive in the Lloyds TSB Group until his retirement in 2004.
He was, until March 2013, a director of Resolution director of Schroders C. I.
Limited, Enhanced Index Funds PCC and Hanseatic Asset Management LBG.
He is a director of a number of Guernsey based investment funds and a captive insurance PCC.
Other public company directorships: Ruffer Investment Company, HICL Infrastructure Company Limited and Other public company directorships: SQN Asset Finance Income Fund Limited and India Capital Growth Fund Limited.
Chairman of Macau Property Opportunities Fund Limited.
Trudi Clark ACA Paul Marcuse FRICS Status: Independent non-executive director and Chairman Status: Independent non-executive director of the Audit Committee Date of appointment: 12 January 2017 Date of appointment: 4 February 2014 Country of residence: UK Country of residence: Guernsey Experience: Paul Marcuse has approximately 35 years Experience: Trudi Clark is a former Chief Executive experience in the real estate and finance sectors.
He Officer of Schroders C. I.
Limited and has over 25 years was Head of Global Real Estate at UBS Global Asset experience in the financial services industry.
She is a nonManagement between 2007 and 2012.
Prior to this, executive director of a number of Guernsey based funds he was Chief Executive of AXA Real Estate Investment and companies.
He is currently Chairman of the Management Board of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors and Other public company directorships: Sapphire PCC holds several other Senior Adviser roles.
Limited Sapphire IV Cell, and River and Mercantile UK Micro Cap Investment Company Limited.
Other public company directorships: None Martin Moore MRICS Peter Cornell Status: Independent non-executive director and Senior Status: Independent non-executive director independent director Date of appointment: 1 May 2015 Date of appointment: 31 March 2011 Country of residence: Guernsey Country of residence: UK Experience: Peter Cornell was, until 2006, Global Experience: Martin Moore was, until June 2013, Managing Partner of Clifford Chance.
He then joined Terra Chairman, of M&G Real Estate Ltd, the property asset Firma Capital Partners where he was Managing Director management arm of Prudential plc.
He was non-executive Director of Circle board adviser to The Crown Estate and a board member Holdings PLC from 2011 to 2013.
He is a founding partner of the British Property Federation.
of Metric Capital Partners and has a wealth of legal and commercial experience.
Other public company directorships: SEGRO plc and Secure Income REIT plc.
Other public company directorships: None.
David Preston ACA Status: Independent non-executive director Date of appointment: 1 May 2015 Country of residence: Guernsey Experience: David Preston is Managing Director of First Names Guernsey Limited, a Guernsey based fiduciary and fund services business.
He is a Director of a number of regulated, unlisted open and closed-end real estate funds invested in the UK, Europe, Asia and the USA.
He is a Chartered Accountant and has significant property, financial, corporate administration and regulatory experience.
