F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Report of the Directors The Directors present their report and accounts of the Group for the Paul Marcuse who was appointed on 12 January 2017.
There were year ended 31 December 2016. no other changes to the composition of the Board during the year.
As explained in more detail under Corporate Governance on pages Results and Dividends 25 to 26, the Board has agreed that all Directors will retire annually.
The results for the year are set out in the attached accounts.
Mrs T Clark, Mr M R Moore, Mr C Russell, Mr P Cornell and Mr D Preston will retire at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, The Group paid interim dividends during the year ended offer themselves for re-election.
As Mr P Marcuse was appointed to 31 December 2016 as follows: the Board since the last Annual General Meeting, he will offer himself Payment Rate per for election.
date share The Directors believe that the Board has an appropriate balance of Ninth interim for prior year 29 January 2016 0.5p skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company Tenth interim for prior year 29 February 2016 0.5p to enable it to provide effective strategic leadership and proper Eleventh interim for prior year 31 March 2016 0.5p guidance of the Company.
The Board confirms that, following the Twelfth interim for prior year 29 April 2016 0.5p evaluation process set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 25 and 26, the performance of each of these Directors First interim 31 May 2016 0.5p continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
Second interim 30 June 2016 0.5p The Board therefore believes that it is in the interests of shareholders Third interim 29 July 2016 0.5p that these Directors are re-elected elected.
Fourth interim 31 August 2016 0.5p There are no service contracts in existence between the Company Fifth interim 30 September 2016 0.5p and any Directors but each of the Directors has been issued with, Sixth interim 31 October 2016 0.5p and accepted the terms of, a letter of appointment that sets out Seventh interim 30 November 2016 0.5p the main terms of his or her appointment.
Amongst other things, Eighth interim 30 December 2016 0.5p the letter includes confirmation that the Directors have a sufficient understanding of the Company and the sector in which it operates, It is the policy of the Directors to declare and pay dividends as and sufficient time available to discharge their duties effectively interim dividends.
The Directors do not therefore recommend a final taking into account their other commitments.
Three further interim dividends, each of 0.5p per share, available for inspection upon request at the Companys registered were paid on 31 January 2017, 28 February 2017 and 31 March office.
The twelfth, and last, interim dividend in respect of the year, of 0.5p per share, will be paid on 28 April 2017 to shareholders on the Management register on 7 April 2017.
It is the intention of the Directors that the The Board has appointed F&C Investment Business Limited Company will continue to pay dividends monthly.
referred to throughout this document as FCIB or the Investment Managers as the Companys investment managers and BMO REP Principal Activity and Status Asset Management plc referred to throughout this document as The Company is a  company registered BMO REP or the Property Managers as the Companys property number 50402 and, during the year, carried on business as a managers.
FCIB and BMO REP are both part of the F&C Asset closed-ended property investment company.
The Companys shares Management plc group F&C and, collectively, are referred to are traded on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange.
in this document as the Managers.
FCIB was appointed as the The principal activities of the Companys subsidiaries are included in Companys AIFM on 18 July 2014. note 1b and note 20 to the accounts.
The Managers provide investment management and other services to the Company.
Details of the arrangements between the Company Directors and the Managers in respect of management services are provided Biographical details of the Directors, all of whom are non-executive, in note 2a to the accounts.
As disclosed in last years Annual Report, Mr Peter Niven is not standing for re-election and will The Board keeps the appropriateness of the Managers therefore retire from the Board at the Annual General Meeting.
In doing so the Board reviews Company employed the services of an independent external search performance quarterly and considers the past investment consultant, to assist with the recruitment of new Board Member, Mr performance of the Company and the capability and resources 22 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS GOVERNANCE REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT of the Managers to deliver satisfactory investment performance Going Concern in the future.
It also reviews the length of the notice period of In assessing the going concern basis of accounting the Directors the investment management agreement and the fees payable to have had regard to the guidance issued by the Financial Reporting the Managers, together with the standard of the other services Council.
They have reviewed detailed cash flow, income and provided.
expense projections in order to assess the Companys ability to pay its operational expenses, bank interest and dividends.
The Directors The Directors are satisfied with the Managers ability to deliver have examined significant areas of possible financial risk including satisfactory investment performance and the quality of other cash and cash requirements and the debt covenants, in particular services provided.
It is therefore their opinion that the continuing those relating to loan to value and interest cover.
They have not appointment of the Managers on the terms agreed is in the interests identified any material uncertainties which cast significant doubt of shareholders as a whole.
on the ability to continue as a going concern for a period of not less than 12 months from the date of the approval of the financial Depositary statements.
The Board believes it is appropriate to adopt the going JPMorgan Europe Limited acts as the Companys depositary in concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Companys accordance with the AIFM Directive.
The depositarys responsibilities longer term viability is considered in the Viability Assessment and which are set out in an Investor Disclosure Document on the Statement on page 13.
Companys website, include cash monitoring, segregation and safe keeping of the Companys financial instruments and monitoring Annual General Meeting the Companys compliance with investment limits and leverage The Notice of the Annual General Meeting, to be held on 31 May requirements.
Share Capital Directors Authority to Allot Shares As at 31 December 2016 there were 799,377,108 Ordinary Shares Resolution 12 seeks an authority from shareholders to allow the of 1 pence each in issue.
Subject to the Articles of Incorporation, Directors to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of all shares rank equally for dividends and distributions and carry 799,366, being equivalent to approximately 10 per cent of the one vote each and there are no restrictions concerning the transfer issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 3 April 2017. of Ordinary Shares in the Company.
No agreements between the holder of Ordinary Shares regarding their transfer is known to the Resolution 13 seeks an authority from shareholders to disapply Company and there is no agreement which the Company is party to pre-emption rights in relation to the issue of shares as set out in the that affects its control following a take-over bid.
Listing Rules made by the Financial Conduct Authority under Part VI of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended.
Substantial Interests in Shareholdings Resolution 12 gives the Directors, for the period until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2018 or, if earlier, on the expiry As at 31 December 2016 the Company had received notification of of 15 months from the passing of the resolution, the necessary the following holdings of voting rights under the Financial Conduct authority either to allot securities or sell shares held in treasury, Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules : otherwise than to existing shareholders on a pro-rata basis, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 799,366.
This is equivalent to Number of approximately 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Ordinary Shares Percentage Company as at 3 April 2017.
Held Held The Directors will only allot new shares pursuant to the authority Aviva Group 181,308,005 22.7 granted by Resolutions 12 and 13, Guernsey law and the authority Investec Wealth & to allot shares contained in the articles of incorporation of the Investment Limited 78,609,886 9.8 Company if they believe it is advantageous to the Companys Based on 799,366,108 Ordinary Shares in issue as at 31 December 2016. shareholders to do so and in no circumstances that would result in There have been no changes notified to the Company in respect of a dilution to the net asset value per share.
the above holdings, and no new holdings notified, since the end of the year.
Report and Accounts 2016 | 23 F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Report of the Directors continued Directors Authority to Buy Back Shares Auditor The Company did not buy back any shares during the year.
 CI LLP has expressed their willingness to continue in office as the Companys auditor and a resolution The current authority of the Company to make market purchases of proposing their re-appointment will be submitted at the Annual Ordinary Shares expires at the end of the Annual General Meeting General Meeting.
and Resolution 14, as set out in the notice of the Annual General Meeting, seeks renewal of such authority until the earlier of the Annual General Meeting in 2018 and 18 months from the passing Statement Regarding Annual Report and Consolidated of the resolution.
Any buy back of Ordinary Shares will be made Accounts subject to Guernsey law and within any guidelines established from Following a detailed review of the Annual Report and Consolidated time to time by the Board and the making and timing of any buy Accounts by the Audit Committee, the Directors consider that backs will be at the absolute discretion of the Board.
Purchases of taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and Ordinary Shares will only be made through the market for cash at provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the prices below the prevailing net asset value of the Ordinary Shares Companys performance, business model and strategy.
In reaching as last calculated where the Directors believe such purchases will this conclusion, the Directors have assumed that the reader of the enhance shareholder value.
The price paid will not be less than the Annual Report and Consolidated Accounts would have a reasonable nominal value of 1p per share.
Such purchases will also only be level of knowledge of the investment industry in general and the made in accordance with the rules of the UK Listing Authority which investment company sector in particular.
provide that the price to be paid must not be more than the higher of i 5 per cent above the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock On behalf of the Board Exchange for the Ordinary Shares for the five business days before the shares are purchased: and ii the higher of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venue which the purchase is carried out.
Any shares purchased under this authority will be cancelled or held in treasury within the following limits: C Russell no more than 10 per cent of the Companys issued shares will Director be held in treasury at any time: and 3 April 2017 shares will only be re-issued out of treasury at a premium to the net asset value.
Disclosure of Information to the Auditor The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Report of the Directors confirm that: so far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
