STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT INTRODUCTION In very challenging market conditions, where the iron ore price traded at eightyear lows, the Group was able to increase its net cash flows from operations by over 1.5 times to US$332 million compared to 2015 allowing it to significantly reduce its financial leverage and strengthen its balance sheet.
Ferrexpos strategy is founded on reliably producing and selling a high quality iron ore product to the best steel mills in the world while remaining competitively placed on the cost curve.
I joined the Ferrexpo Board in May 2016 and was appointed Chairman on 28 November 2016.
I am very positive about the future of this Group as I have been most impressed with the quality STEVE LUCAS CHAIRMAN and depth of the executive team as well as the talent and enthusiasm of all the Groups employees, most notably in Ukraine, together with the high quality of the Groups assets.
The Group has an In 2016, Ferrexpo demonstrated enviable track record of achieving its stated targets and delivering strong operational the strength of its business performance over decades despite operating in a challenging emerging market and a volatile commodity industry.
Testimony to this is the high quality of the customer base who rely on Ferrexpo to supply a premium input into their production process.
These customers are significant economic contributors to their respective countries of operations 11.7MT and produce a top quality product with RECORD SALES VOLUMES relatively inelastic demand which in turn provides Ferrexpo with a high degree of 2015: 11.3 million tonnes reliability regarding its sales volumes.
I would like to thank all of Ferrexpos employees for contributing to a successful 2016 through their dedication and hard work.
We can look back with pride at what 159% we have achieved during the year.
NET CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES US$332 MILLION HEALTH AND SAFETY Most regrettably there were two fatalities 2015: US$128 million at the operations in 2016 2015: nil.
These deaths have been investigated in detail and Ferrexpos goal remains firmly focused on TO READ MORE ABOUT OUR achieving zero fatalities or injuries.
47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE For further information on health and safety performance see page 17.
FINANCIAL RESULTS 2016 can be characterised as a year of two halves.
The first half followed a weak ending to 2015 and the average PLATTS 62% Fe iron ore fines price was US$51.87 02 FERREXPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
