STRATEGIC REPORT VIABILITY STATEMENT The Board monitors the Groups risk management and internal control systems on an ongoing basis, and confirms that during the year it carried out a thorough assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, their potential impact and the mitigating strategies in place as described on pages 26 to 35.
The principal risks include those that would threaten the Groups business model, future performance, liquidity or solvency.
For the purposes of assessing the Groups Ferrexpo has considered various scenarios viability, the Directors have chosen a fiveincluding severe situations outside the year time period given the long-term nature normal course of business, including a of mining assets, including the period breakdown in the linkage between the required to invest in such assets and taking movements of the iron ore price with other into account the cash flows generated by commodity prices, notably the oil price.
those assets, as well as the cyclical nature of the commodities industry.
As such a The viability of the Group under these five-year time period was considered an scenarios remains sound, principally due appropriate length for the Boards strategic to Ferrexpos competitive position on the planning period.
iron ore cost curve, its high quality product offering and the Groups experience In determining the viability of the business, of managing adverse situations in the the Directors have stress tested which past.
Management actions to address a individual risks and combination of risks severe situation include adjusting capital could materially impact the future viability allocation, accessing additional funding of the business.
This includes commodity and altering mining schedules, price changes, production and logistics if necessary.
stoppages, incidents impacting the Groups ability to maintain a social licence CONCLUSION to operate, political and legal changes and Having taken into account the current exchange rate movements.
The Group position and the known principal risks is exposed to commodity price changes currently facing Ferrexpo, the Directors through the price it receives for its iron ore have a reasonable expectation that for pellets which is influenced by the iron ore the five-year period of its assessment the fines price and the pellet premium as well Group will continue in operation and meet as to its cost base which is exposed to its liabilities as they fall due.
3 6 FERREXPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
