CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the views of shareholders are communicated to the Board as a whole, and reports on his discussions with shareholders as part of the standard agenda for scheduled Board meetings.
Information about the views of major investors is provided to the Board on a regular basis by the CEO, the CFO and the Head of Investor Relations.
J. P. Morgan Cazenove, the Groups brokers, also provide regular reports to the Board on changes to the shareholdings of the Groups major investors.
The Executive Directors and other senior executives maintain appropriate contact with institutional shareholders on a range of issues affecting the Groups performance, and meet with institutional investors and analysts following the announcement and presentation of the annual and interim results.
The Chairman, the CEO, the CFO, and the Head of Investor Relations meet major shareholders and analysts regularly to discuss performance, strategy and governance, and the Senior Independent Director and other Non-executive Directors are available for discussions with shareholders if required.
New Directors are encouraged to meet with major shareholders shortly after their appointment, and Sir Malcolm Field and Steve Lucas met representatives of CERCL Holdings Limited which was at the time a significant shareholder following their appointment as Non-executive Directors during 2016.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting AGM each year to communicate with shareholders and welcomes their participation.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees normally attend the AGMs and are ready to answer questions from shareholders, as required.
Notice of the AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The voting results of the AGM are available on the Companys website following the meeting.
Information on matters of interest to investors can be found on the Groups website at www.
The Board approved this report on 21 March 2017.
STEVE LUCAS CHAIRMAN 60 FERREXPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
