BUSINESS MODEL Inputs: resource A long-life asset base with over six billion tonnes of reserves in a central geographic location, with a skilled workforce and a low cost, well invested asset base.
Process: WORKFORCE MINING PROCESSING LOGISTICS MARKETING Outputs: Skilled Efficient and Niche valueReliable, Diversified, workforce low cost added product controlled and high quality Ferrexpo has been producing Ferrexpo is one of the Ferrexpo produces iron flexible customer iron ore pellets for 40 years lowest cost producers in ore pellets, which are a Ferrexpos central portfolio and has a deep knowledge the world of iron ore pellets premium input used in the geographic location allows of the skills required to on a delivered basis.
Ferrexpos Ferrexpo has a it to competitively deliver consistently produce high consistently improved its product improves blast geographically diversified product to customers in quality pellets at a competitive position on the global cost furnace productivity in the portfolio of long-term Europe and Asia.
cost and service its worldwide curve since its IPO in 2007. steel production process contracts with steel mills customer base.
due to its form, substance Ferrexpo transports its who are focused on The cornerstone of the and low level of impurities.
finished products by rail producing high value-added The majority of Ferrexpos cost reduction strategy is Pellets also produce less air to border dispatch points, steel products in niche employees are based in to increase production, emissions during the steel predominantly using its own markets.
Mining is part of develop its asset base with making process compared rail cars.
supplied some of these Ukraines history and culture.
value accretive investments to sinter fines.
steel mills for a number of The country has a large and and continually reduce From the border points, decades.
The controllable costs through In 2016, 94% of the Groups means of transportation follow internationally Group is committed to further the Business Improvement product contained 65% iron include barges and rail accepted terms for iron developing the skills of its Programme BIP to content this is a premium to customers in Eastern ore supplied into Europe employees and supporting the improve mining productivity.
benchmark product used and Central Europe and and Asia.
by the highest quality steel Capesize vessels, through of product is allocated mills around the world.
65% its 49% owned port terminal Ferrexpo applies fair and for the spot market to Fe pellets command a price at Port Yuzhny on the Black consistent employment manage: 1 any production premium to the benchmark Sea.
Ferrexpo charters practices that demonstrate a variability: 2 development 62% Fe fines product, ocean going bulk carriers up commitment to human rights, of new customers: and 3 both in terms of quality and to 210,000 tonnes to deliver non-discrimination, freedom opportunistic sales into pelletpremium.
to customers in Western of association and the right market spikes.
Europe, the Middle East to engage in collective and Asia.
Crisis resistant customers Sustainable stakeholder relationships: WORKFORCE COMMUNITY GOVERNMENT CUSTOMERS SUPPLIERS CAPITAL PROVIDERS FERREXPO PLC 05 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
