Strategic Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting the Strategic Report of Investment Policy the Company.
It provides a review of the Companys business and The Company invests in a diversified portfolio consisting primarily describes the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
The report of securities issued by companies listed in China or Hong Kong includes an analysis of the performance of the Company during and Chinese companies listed on other stock exchanges.
The the financial year and the position at the year end, its objective, Company may also obtain exposure to other listed companies strategy and risks and how these are measured using Key which have significant interests in China or Hong Kong.
The Chairmans Statement and Portfolio Managers Review form part of the Strategic Report.
The Company may invest through equities, index linked, equity linked and other debt securities, cash deposits, money market Business and Status instruments, foreign currency exchange transactions, equity related The Company carries on business as an investment company securities, forward transactions and other interests including and has been accepted as an approved investment trust by derivative instruments.
Forward transactions and derivatives, HM Revenue & Customs under Sections 1158 and 1159 of the including futures, options and contracts for difference, may be Corporation Tax Act 2010, subject to the Company continuing to used to enhance portfolio performance as well as for efficient meet eligibility conditions.
The Directors are of the opinion that the portfolio management and hedging.
The Companys interest in Company has conducted its affairs in a manner which will satisfy any one investment will not, on acquisition, exceed 15% of the the conditions for continued approval.
The Company is registered as an investment company under In addition, the Company may invest in China A Shares both Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and operates as such.
It is directly through the Investment Managers Qualified Foreign not a close company and has no employees.
Institutional Investor QFII licence and indirectly through third parties who have a QFII facility.
Objective During the year the Company invested in equity linked notes, The investment objective of the Company is to achieve long-term call and put options, long and short contracts for difference and capital growth from an actively managed portfolio made up warrants and utilised the QFII licence of the Investment Manager.
primarily of securities issued by companies listed in China or Hong Kong and Chinese companies listed elsewhere.
The Company may Unlisted Investments also invest in listed companies with significant interests in China and Hong Kong.
The Company is permitted to invest up to 5% of Gross Assets in unlisted securities issued in companies which carry on business, or Strategy which have significant interests, in China or Hong Kong.
In order to achieve this objective, the Company has an actively managed portfolio of investments and operates as an investment As at 31 March 2016, the Company held two unlisted investments Company.
As such, it is able to gear the portfolio and the with a fair value of 20,317,000 representing 2.0% 2015: nil of Board takes the view that long-term returns for shareholders can Gross Assets.
be enhanced by using gearing in a carefully considered and As mentioned in the Chairmans Statement on page 4, the Board monitored way.
is seeking shareholder approval to increase the unlisted securities As part of the strategy, the Board has delegated the management limit from 5% of Gross Assets to 10% of Gross Assets.
of the portfolio and certain other services.
The Portfolio Manager aims to achieve a total return in NAV in excess of the equivalent Use of Derivative Instruments return on the MSCI China Index the Companys Benchmark The Company may use derivative instruments for efficient portfolio Index, as expressed in UK sterling.
The stock selection approach management, gearing and hedging purposes.
They may also be adopted by the Portfolio Manager is considered to be well suited used to achieve the investment objective i. e. to enhance portfolio to achieving this objective.
The objective, strategy and principal activity have remained The Board has adopted a policy that the Gross Asset Exposure of unchanged throughout the year ended 31 March 2016. short positions held by the Company will not in aggregate exceed 15% of Gross Assets.
It is the Boards policy that total exposure to The summary of the years activities and indications of future any single counterparty from all activities, including, but not limited developments and the factors likely to affect this have been to, the management of cash and the use of derivatives should not reviewed and supported by the Board.
Details can be found in exceed 15% of Gross Assets.
Derivative exposures are included the Chairmans Statement and the Portfolio Managers Review on after the netting off of off-setting positions and allowing for any pages 3 to 9.
The Board recognises that investing in equities is a collateral placed by the counterparty with the Company.
long-term process and that the Companys returns will vary from year to year.
10 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2016 Job No: 25800 Proof Event: 21 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 As at 31 March 2016, the Companys exposure to short derivative FIL has had a presence in Asia since 1969 and now has offices instruments represented 3.7% 2015: 2.2% of Gross Assets.
The in seven countries across the region, including in three cities in Companys exposure to any single counterparty from all derivative mainland China and in Hong Kong.
The Hong Kong office is FILs activities was 14.8% 2015: 11.6% of Gross Assets.
second largest in the region, and the analysts in the Hong Kong investment team evaluate companies, meet their managements Investment in other Investment Companies and interpret the effects of international and local events.
The Board has set a limit of 15% on the proportion of the Performance Companys Gross Assets that can be invested in the securities of other listed investment companies including listed investment The Companys performance for the year ended 31 March 2016 trusts which themselves do not have stated investment policies.
and details on future trends and factors that may impact the future performance of the Company are included in the Chairmans As at 31 March 2016, the Company held no investments in other Statement and the Portfolio Managers Review on pages 3 to 9. investment companies 2015: nil.
The Forty Largest Holdings, the Distribution of the Portfolio, the Attribution Analysis and the Record since Launch are on pages 15 Borrowing and Gearing policy to 20.
The Board considers that long-term capital growth can be enhanced Results and Dividends by the judicious use of borrowing.
The Board is responsible for the Companys gearing strategy with day-to-day decisions being made The Companys results for the year ended 31 March 2016 by the Manager within the remit set by the Board.
are set out in the Income Statement on page 43.
The net loss after taxation was 0.9 million, of which the revenue profit was The Company may borrow up to 25% of Net Assets and the Board 11.6million.
has adopted the policy that the Gross Asset Exposure of the The Directors recommend that a dividend of 1.80 pence 2015: Company, whether from borrowing or the use of derivatives, will 1.30 pence per Ordinary Share be paid on 26 July 2016 to not exceed the Net Assets of the Company by more than 30%.
The shareholders who appear on the register as at the close of Portfolio Manager is responsible for operating within these limits.
business on 24 June 2016 ex-dividend date 23 June 2016.
During the year, the Gross Asset Exposure of the Company did not Key Performance Indicators KPIs exceed the Net Assets of the Company by more than 30%.
As at 31 March 2016, Gross Asset Exposure in excess of Net Assets was Given the Companys objective and strategy, the Board has 27.2% 2015: 25.9%.
identified the following KPIs against which performance can be measured.
Foreign Exchange Hedging Policy The Companys Financial Statements are denominated in UK Year ended Year ended sterling, while investments are made and realised in currencies 31 March 31 March other than UK sterling, including Chinese renminbi, Hong Kong 2016 2015 dollars and US dollars.
It is the policy not to hedge the underlying % % currencies of the holdings in the portfolio but rather to take the Net Asset Value total return 0.02 45.34 currency risk into consideration when making investment decisions.
Share Price total return -4.53 39.89 Dividend Policy MSCI China Index total return -16.17 39.26 As the Companys objective is to achieve long-term capital Discount to Net Asset Value 17.16 13.11 growth, the Board does not expect that dividends will constitute a material element of any return to shareholders.
However, in order Ongoing charges 1.20 1.29 to continue to qualify as an investment company, the Company Sources: Fidelity and Datastream is required by Section 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 to distribute sufficient net income so that it retains no more than 15% In addition to the KPIs set out above, the Board also regularly of its income.
monitors other relevant statistics, such as the various factors contributing to investment results, as set out in the Attribution FIls Investment Management Philosophy, Style and Process Analysis on page 19.
The principal risks and uncertainties stated FIL Investment Management Hong Kong Limited and FIL on pages 12 and 13 include descriptions of other performance Investments International collectively FIL provide management indicators, their monitoring and management which are important of the investment portfolio and certain other services.
FILs to the business of the Company.
distinctive investment approach is bottom up stock picking investing in companies on the basis of their underlying strengths, facilitated by extensive research capabilities.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2016 11 Job No: 25800 Proof Event: 21 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Strategic Report continued Principal Risks and Uncertainties and Risk Management with controls to mitigate these risks, is prepared by the Managers and considered by the Audit Committee at each of its meetings.
As required by provision C. 2.1 of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has a robust ongoing process for The Alternative Investment Fund Manager, FIL Investment Services identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks and UK Limited also has responsibility for risk management for the uncertainties faced by the Company and this is reviewed on a Company.
It works with the Board to identify and manage the regular basis.
principal risks and to ensure that the Board can continue to meet its UK corporate governance obligations.
The Board is responsible for the Companys system of risk management and of internal controls and for reviewing its The Board considers the following as the principal risks and effectiveness.
It determines the nature and extent of any risks it uncertainties facing the Company: is willing to take in order to achieve its strategic objectives.
An internal controls report providing an assessment of risks, together Principal Risks Description and Risk Mitigation Market risk Investing in an emerging market such as the PRC subjects the Company to a higher level of market risk than investment in a more developed market.
This is due, among other things, to the existence of greater market volatility, lower trading volumes, the risk of political and economic instability, legal and regulatory risks, risks relating to accounting practices, disclosure and settlement, a greater risk of market shut down, standards of corporate governance and more governmental limitations on foreign investment than are typically found in developed markets.
This reporting year has seen considerable market volatility as outlined in the Chairmans Statement and Portfolio Managers Review on pages 3 to 9.
The Board reviews material economic, market and legislative changes at each Board meeting.
The Company has exposure to a number of companies with all or part of their business in Variable Interest Entity VIE structures.
These are entities where there is a controlling interest that is not based on the majority of voting rights and may result in a risk to investors being unable to enforce their ownership rights in certain circumstances.
The proportion of the portfolio invested in companies operating a VIE structure is monitored on a monthly basis by the Manager and holdings are reported to the Board.
Performance risk The achievement of the Companys performance objective relative to the market requires the taking of risk, such as strategy, asset allocation and stock selection, and may lead to underperformance of the Benchmark Index.
The Company has a clearly defined strategy and investment remit.
There is a clearly defined Management Agreement, and borrowing derivative limits are also set by the Board.
The portfolio is managed by a highly experienced Portfolio Manager.
The Board relies on the Portfolio Managers skills and judgement to make investment decisions based on research and analysis of individual stocks and sectors.
The Board reviews the performance of the portfolio against the Companys Benchmark Index and that of its competitors and the outlook for the market with the Portfolio Manager at each Board meeting.
The emphasis is on long-term investment performance and the Board accepts that by targeting long-term results the Company risks volatility in the shorter-term.
Performance improved and was well ahead of its Benchmark Index in the 2015 16 financial year as outlined in the Portfolio Managers Review above.
The Company has also strongly out-performed its Benchmark Index since launch.
12 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2016 Job No: 25800 Proof Event: 21 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 Principal Risks Description and Risk Mitigation Discount control risk Due to the nature of investment companies, the Board cannot control the discount at which the Companys share price trades to Net Asset Value.
However, it can influence this through its share repurchase policy and through creating demand for shares through good performance and an active investor relations programme.
The Companys share price, NAV and discount volatility are monitored daily by the Managers and regularly reported to the Board.
Further details are provided in the Chairmans Statement on page 4.
Gearing risk The Company has the option to invest up to the total of any loan facilities and to use Contracts For Difference CFDs to invest in equities.
The principal risk is that while in a rising market the Company should benefit from gearing, in a falling market the impact would be detrimental.
Other risks are that the cost of gearing may be too high or that the term of the gearing inappropriate in relation to market conditions.
The Company has a US$150,000,000 revolving credit facility agreement with Scotiabank Europe PLC which has been fully drawn down.
Additional geared exposure is being achieved through the use of long CFDs.
The Board regularly considers gearing and gearing risk.
Currency risk The functional currency and presentational currency of the Company in which it reports its results, is UK sterling.
Most of its assets and its income are denominated in other currencies, mainly Hong Kong dollars, US dollars and Chinese renminbi.
Consequently, it is subject to currency risk on exchange rate movements between UK sterling and these other currencies.
It is the Companys current policy not to hedge against currency risks.
Borrowings are denominated in US dollars and, therefore, the effect of US dollar exchange rate movements on assets denominated in US dollars will be offset by the effect on these loans.
Further details can be found in Note 18 to the Financial Statements on pages 57 to 62.
Other risks facing the Company include: September 2014, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Company over a longer period than the twelve month period Tax and Regulatory risks required by the Going Concern provision.
The Company is an investment trust with the objective of achieving long term capital A breach of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 could growth and the Board consider five years is an appropriate lead to a loss of investment trust status, resulting in the Company investment horizon to assess the viability of the Company, although being subject to tax on capital gains.
The Board receives regular the life of the Company is not intended to be limited to this or any reports from the Managers confirming tax and regulatory other period.
The Board monitors tax and regulatory changes at each In making an assessment on the viability of the Company, the Board meeting and is provided with regular briefings from the Board has considered the following: Association of Investment Companies AIC as well as details of industry and the Managers lobbying activities.
The ongoing relevance of the investment objective in prevailing market conditions: Operational risks Service Providers The Company relies on a number of third party service providers, The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company as principally the Managers, Registrar, Custodian and Depositary.
set out above and their potential impact: It is dependent on the effective operation of the Managers The demand for the Companys shares: control systems and those of its service providers with regard to the security of the Companys assets, dealing procedures, The Companys discount to the NAV: accounting records and the maintenance of regulatory and legal requirements.
The liquidity of the Companys portfolio: They are all subject to a risk-based programme of internal audits The level of income generated by the Company: and by the Manager.
In addition, service providers own internal controls reports are received by the Board on an annual basis and Future income and expenditure forecasts any concerns investigated.
The Companys performance has been strong since launch and Viability Statement the investment policy is kept under review and the Board considers it to be appropriate.
Based on the Managers compliance with In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate the Companys investment objective, its investment strategy and Governance Code, issued by the Financial Reporting Council in Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2016 13 Job No: 25800 Proof Event: 21 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Strategic Report continued asset allocation and the fact that the portfolio mainly comprises social, environmental and ethical issues into account when, in readily realisable securities which can be sold to meet funding the Managers view, these have a material impact on either requirements if necessary: the Boards discount management investment risk or return.
policy: and the ongoing processes for monitoring operating costs and income forecasts, the Board have concluded that there is a Corporate Engagement reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue The Board believes that the Company should, where appropriate, in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next take an active interest in the affairs of the companies in which five years.
it invests and that it should exercise its voting rights at their general meetings.
Unless there are any particularly controversial In addition, the Directors assessment of the Companys ability to issues which are then referred to the Board it delegates the operate in the foreseeable future is included in the Going Concern responsibility for corporate engagement and shareholder voting to statement on page 23. the Managers.
These activities are reviewed annually.
Board Diversity Future Developments The Board carries out any candidate search against a set of Some trends likely to affect the Company in the future are objective criteria on the basis of merit, with due regard for common to many investment companies together with the the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
As at impact of regulatory change.
The factors likely to affect its future 31March 2016, there were five male Directors and two female development, performance and position are set out in the Directors.
This will change to four male Directors and two female Chairmans Statement and the Portfolio Managers Review on Directors when John Owen retires from the Board on 22 July 2016. pages 3 to 9.
Employees, Social, Community and Human Rights Issues By order of the Board FIL Investments International The Company has no employees and all of its Directors are Secretary non-executive.
The Companys day-to-day activities are carried out 1 June 2016 by third parties.
There are therefore no disclosures to be made in respect of employees.
The Board notes that FIL encourages the Environmental, Social Governance ESG factors in its investment decision making process.
FIL has been a signatory to the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment UNPRI since 2012 and submit an annual report detailing how it incorporates ESG into its investment analysis.
The Company has not adopted a policy on human rights as it has no employees and its operational processes are delegated.
The Companys financial reports are printed by a company which has won awards for its environmental awareness and further details of this may be found on the back cover of this report.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions The Company has no premises, consumes no electricity, gas or diesel fuel and consequently does not have a measurable carbon footprint.
FIL Investment Services UK Limited and FIL Investments International are registered with the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme administered by the Environment Agency.
Socially Responsible Investment The Managers primary objective is to produce superior financial returns for the Companys shareholders.
It believes that high standards of corporate social responsibility CSR make good business sense and have the potential to protect and enhance investment returns.
Consequently, its investment process takes 14 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2016 Job No: 25800 Proof Event: 21 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
