Portfolio Managers Review to invest in the market.
While it is sensible to regulate margin Dale Nicholls has over twenty years financing, there were questions as to why it was able to grow to investment experience.
He joined such a level in the market around10% of  Fidelity as a research analyst in 1996, in the middle of 2015 was assumed to be from margin finance covering the Japanese textiles and and why the consequent market intervention was so aggressive apparel, banks, chemicals, consumer and wide reaching.
In the fourth quarter of 2015, the authorities products, technology, miscellaneous relaxed the exchange rate mechanism.
They went from focusing finance and insurance sectors.
During on a tight band against the US dollar to adopting a broader band this time it was essential for Dale to visit Chinese companies against a basket of currencies.
While this was a positive step to get a clear view of the key supply and demand dynamics towards liberalising Chinas foreign exchange markets, the poor for these industries.
From 1999, he managed Japanese communication about this change and its aim left many confused.
sector funds for the Fidelity Japanese office and then I hope that these are just teething problems for the authorities as became portfolio manager of Fidelity Funds Pacific Fund, an China looks to liberalise its capital markets.
Asia Pacific including Japan mandate, in September 2003.
He has also previously managed a number of regional Reform in China will be key to the future success of the economy small-cap strategies, including Fidelity Funds Asian Smaller and markets.
Despite the strong blueprint laid out in the third Companies Fund.
His success in managing these mandates, plenum, reform, particularly of state-owned enterprises SOEs, his experience in investing in China and his small mid-cap has generally been slower than expected.
However, we have investment style led to his appointment as Portfolio seensome steps in the right direction, with improved management Manager of this Company on 1 April 2014. incentive schemes to align management and shareholder objectives, and an increase in public listing of assets and merger This year has witnessed significant swings in sentiment as Chinas and acquisition M&A activity among SOEs.
Meanwhile, stock markets enjoyed and endured both bull and bear market increased policy discussion about addressing supply side issues runs.
Whilst there were some spectacular stock moves last year, related to excess capacity in industrial sectors is clearly a positive, some this year were even more severe.
Against this backdrop, the especially in areas such as steel.
Execution, though, needs to be Companys NAV was broadly flat recording a 0.02% total return.
Many companies in these industries have heavy The MSCI China Index, by contrast, fell by 16.17%.
Unfortunately, debt levels, so the challenge of taking capacity out of these negative sentiment towards China weighed on the Companys sectors and the non-performing loan problem at banks is closely share price, which fell 4.53%.
This means that the share price related.
outperformed the Benchmark although the discount to NAV I spend a lot of time looking for SOEs that could benefit from such increased.
Taking a three-year view, the numbers remain strong, reform.
I have found some interesting opportunities such as CITIC with the Companys NAV up 73.70% and its share price up 52.34% Telecom, which remains in a strong position to take on the CITIC against the MSCI China Index return of 8.67%.
All figures on Groups significant broadband network in China, and Shanghai atotal return basis International Airport, where there is scope for further passenger Market View growth and improved returns.
Chinas stock markets have been a tough place for investors in the year under review which ended on 31 March 2016.
Sentiment was negatively impacted by confusing policy messaging, growth concerns and currency depreciation in the second half of 2015.
It is undeniable that some investor concerns are valid.
For instance, some of Chinas old growth drivers are struggling and headline growth is undoubtedly moderating as Chinas economy matures.
Debt levels also continue to expand at a significant pace and, in my view, banks are probably understating the true extent of their non-performing loans.
The longer this rapid growth in debt continues the greater the longer term risks for the economy.
Policy and communication have been dominant swing factors for markets over the review period and have had a significant impact on market confidence in China.
There is room for improvement here and it will take some time for investors to regain confidence in the authorities ability to manage Chinas financial system.
In Shangai Pudong International Airport.
the middle of last year, the government cracked down on margin finance investors borrowing money from financial institutions 6 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2016 Job No: 25800 Proof Event: 21 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 Despite this rather subdued message, what is often lost among the Several positions in the consumer discretionary sector contributed dramatic headlines is the long-term investment potential offered to positive returns against the MSCI China Index.
The position by Chinas growing middle class and the associated multi-year in budget hotel operator China Lodging rallied after it reported growth in domestic demand.
Indeed, consumption continues to improved free cash flow in light of new franchised hotel openings expand at a robust pace and the economy is rebalancing towards and an increase in pre-paid membership.
The exposure to New a higher quality and more sustainable growth model.
This has Oriental Education & Technology Group also proved rewarding as been reflected in the strength of the so-called new economy in demand for its after-school tutorial services proved resilient.
The areas such as online sales and travel.
companys strongbrand and emphasis on the quality of teachers supported an improvement in enrolment levels.
Rising utilisation Relative to the developed world, many consumer products and levels and the impact of heavy online investment is helping to services in China remain vastly underpenetrated, which offer drive margin improvement.
Meanwhile, bakery chain Gourmet significant structural growth potential.
In particular, rising internet Master reported a recovery in its operating margins across and mobile usage is redefining the landscape, particularly in geographies China, Taiwan and US while ongoing growth in rural markets where traditional bricks and mortar enterprises its same store sales also bolstered sentiment towards the stock.
This provides a solid backdrop for further growth Another consumption-led position in Zhejiang Supor Cookware in consumption, internet penetration and e-commerce in China.
continues to see strong results and is clearly benefiting from the The investment opportunities in these areas are reflected in the strong technology support offered by its largestshareholder, Companys significant holdings in the consumer and information Frances SEB, which continues to support astrong rollout of new technology sectors.
products in the Chinese market.
Recently, we have also seen some improvement in areas that have been a drag on growth, such as property and trade.
There has been improved pricing in some of the oldeconomy industries such as steel.
While the Company continues to focus primarily on new economy sectors, there aresome opportunities to be found in more cyclical sectors, especially where we are seeing signs of supply adjustment combined with very low valuations.
Sell-offs in the market often tend to be broad-based and do not discriminate between the companies that are likely to benefit from structural trends and those that are clearly impacted by macro challenges.
From an investment perspective, this provides a fertile environment for stock pickers to invest in attractively valued quality companies that are well-positioned to benefit from the ongoing development of Chinas middle class.
This is what the Company All Seasons Hotel, Huazhu Hotels Group Ltd. China Lodgings.
Elsewhere, an overweight position in oncology and immunology Performance Review focused drug innovator Hutchison China MediTech contributed to Despite the uncertain macro environment, the Companys NAV returns.
Investors favoured the drug makers promising product remained flat over the year, driven mainly by stock selection in pipeline and drug-specific partnerships with global healthcare areas of the market that still offer excellent growth opportunities leaders.
The company has also now listed in the US which and attractive valuations.
That said, the Companys share price fell should support further understanding.
Online games producer by 4.5% as sentiment reflected the general concerns highlighted NetEase supported returns given the strong performance of its above rather than the opportunities that I am seeing on the mobile games.
Among industrial holdings, conviction in Shanghai ground.
However, this was a positive result relative to the China International Airports prospects proved rewarding, given the solid market as a whole, as represented by the 16.2% fall of the MSCI growth in traffic and emergence as an international travel hub.
Overall, the Companys focus on smaller and mid-cap The increase in its leasable area after the renovation of one of its companies was beneficial as much of the relative outperformance key terminals also improved the prospects of its non-aeronautical was from stocks with a  of below 5 billion.
The Company benefited from the continued tilt towards consumer discretionary and technology companies.
These companies Conversely, China Animal Healthcare was the single largest operate in industries with structural growth drivers such as rising detractor to relative performance over the year.
The company incomes, the expanding middle class and ongoing urbanisation.
manufactures and markets drugs and vaccines for poultry and Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2016 7 Job No: 25800 Proof Event: 21 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Price Index Portfolio Managers Review continued other livestock, and there is a clear growth opportunity in this At the end of 2015, the Company bought its first unlisted industry.
However, during the year, its auditor resigned, accounting position since the successful initial public offering of Alibaba in records were lost and its listing was suspended.
Didi Chuxing manages both Chinas and the its position was written down to zero.
Elsewhere, CITIC Securities, worlds largest social transportation network.
Through its online which provides brokerage, trading and underwriting services network and apps, users can hail taxis, private cars and arrange suffered a volatile year in line with the market.
There is a huge unmet demand in China for more was reduced, the clampdown on margin finance and swings in efficient commuting and Didi Kuaizhi aims to position itself as a market sentiment impacted trading volumes and consequently transportation solution provider.
Both Alibaba and Tencent are CITIC Securities revenue potential.
strategic investors in the company.
Thisposition was initiated as part of a round of financing by the companyin the third quarter Positioning of 2015, which valued the company at around US$16 billion.
In a Apart from gearing, the key change in the Company was the recent new round of financing, Didis valuation was increased to reduction in the exposure to A-shares in the middle of last year $20 billion, which has already been reflected in the Companys following a strong run.
The overweight stance in the consumer NAV.
sector was increased, while the exposure to healthcare was lowered.
The underweight position in financials was also Companys Gearing increased.
The Companys gearing detracted from returns as we were geared in a falling market.
Although this was reduced as the market Within the consumer area, the Company took new positions rose over the reporting period, it cost around 2% of performance.
in Dongfeng Motor, Fu Shou Yuan and Shangri-La.
Shares However, following the market correction and my view that the in automobile company Dongfeng Motor, which has a joint sell-off was overdone and that valuations were presenting real venture with Peugeot and Nissan, were trading at historically value, net gearing was increased closer to the upper limit of 30% in low valuations and should benefit from a refresh of its product the first quarter of 2016.
This was achieved through a combination cycle.
Funeral services firm Fu Shou Yuan has the potential to of closing short stock positions which added value in a falling consolidate in a very fragmented and underdeveloped market.
market and adding to existing holdings that had suffered due to Meanwhile, international hotel chain Shangri-La was also trading broad-based sell-offs driven by broader negative sentiment rather at trough valuations.
The company is nearing the peak of its recent than fundamentals.
This level of gearing reflects my confidence that capital expenditure programme and combined with stabilising valuations in the Chinese market, particularly in areas like consumer, fundamentals should see improved cash flows going forward.
large-cap A-Shares and small-cap H-Shares, are attractive relative to Overall, I remain a firm believer in the long-term structural their fundamentals and growth prospects.
I continue to find some of the most attractive growth opportunities in this segment as many areas 130 85 of consumption remain under-penetrated compared with other 80 126 markets.
75 122 The Company has a sizeable overweight position in industrials, 70 driven by the holding in Shanghai International Airport.
It also 118 owns smaller positions in Shenzhen Airport and Guangzhou 65 114 Baiyun International Airport as both are located in tier one cities 60 with strong potential for passenger growth and improved returns.
110 55 Elsewhere, within industrials, the Company has strong market positions related to certain infrastructure spending, such as China 106 50 State Construction International and Jiangnan Group.
More cyclical stocks have been added, as well as selected names in deeper cyclical industries such as cement and paper due to an Total Net Market Exposure of Securities Derivatives MSCI China Index RHS improvement in demand, supported by increased infrastructure spending, an improvement in the supply picture and low valuations.
In the financial sector, I remain concerned about the Over the review period, the Company actively used gearing, growth of credit, particularly off balance sheet, and the potential reducing it when the market rallied as there was a greater risk implications this has for banks non-performing loan exposure.
I of a market fall, and adding gearing when markets fell to low continue to avoid banking stocks mostly for this reason.
Conversely, valuations, thereby creating more opportunities.
This is a strategy I remain positive on the life insurance sector given low penetration that I will continue to pursue capitalising on opportunities as I rates, which are being reflected in strong new business growth, see them in the market.
combined with valuations that reflect much lower growth rates.
The Company has selected holdings in leasing companies that I believe have strong underwriting skills.
8 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2016 Job No: 25800 Proof Event: 21 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 % Mar-14 Apr-14 May-14 Jun-14 Jul-14 Aug-14 Sep-14 Oct-14 Nov-14 Dec-14 Jan-15 Feb-15 Mar-15 Apr-15 May-15 Jun-15 Jul-15 Aug-15 Sep-15 Oct-15 Nov-15 Dec-15 Jan-16 Feb-16 Mar-16 The Company aims to provide shareholders with an exposure to Chinas growth story to be held over the medium term.
I am convinced that the Chinese middle class continues to grow both in wealth and in number and much of the Company is invested in businesses providing goods and services to the rising Chinese consumer market.
However, I also look for undervalued opportunities whether in the SOE sector or in oversold parts of the market.
Given the investment opportunities in China, I remain confident in our ability to grow the NAV of the Company over the medium-term.
Dale Nicholls Portfolio Manager 1 June 2016 Fidelity International won the Money Observers Premier Investment Trust Group of the year.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2016 9 Job No: 25800 Proof Event: 21 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
