Board of Directors John Owen CMG MBE DL The Hon.
Peter Pleydell-Bouverie DL Chairman Chairman of the Investment Committee Appointed 4 February 2010 Appointed 4 February 2010 Member of the: Member of the: Audit Committee: Audit Committee: Management Engagement Committee Chairman : Management Engagement Committee: Nomination and Remuneration Committee: Nomination and Remuneration Committee: Investment Committee.
Investment Committee Chairman Mr Owen has enjoyed careers in both the diplomatic service and Mr Pleydell-Bouverie is an investment professional with over 30 years industry.
He served in the diplomatic service for 30 years until of investment experience, particularly in the Far East and emerging his retirement in 1999, serving in Indonesia, Vietnam, France, El markets.
His current non-executive positions include acting as CIO and Salvador, Iran, Brazil, China and London.
Mr Owen was British Trustee on investment committees for family and charitable trusts.
He Consul General in Boston, USA from 1992 to 1995, and Governor is also a Deputy Lieutenant of the County of Wiltshire.
Previously, Mr of the Cayman Islands from 1995 to 1999.
He also worked in Pleydell-Bouverie spent ten years with FIL where he was investment industry for seven years.
Mr Owen is currently Chairman of several Director until 1996, managing Japanese-focused unit trusts, oshore companies including Iceman Capital Limited, an investment company funds, pension funds and the Fidelity Emerging Markets Fund.
specialising in investment in the developing markets of Asia.
He has Prior to this, he was an associate Director at Kleinwort Grieveson a number of directorships including Queensgate Bank Company Investment Management and fund manager at Grieveson, Grant Limited.
Mr Owen is also Chairman of the Friends of Cayman in and Co, where he also managed Asia-focused investment funds.
He is an Honorary Fellow of the University of Aberystwyth and also a Deputy Lieutenant of the County of Isle of Wight.
Nicholas Bull FCA Elisabeth Scott Senior Independent Director and Chairman of Appointed 1 November 2011 the Nomination and Remuneration Committee Member of the: Appointed 4 February 2010 Audit Committee: Member of the: Management Engagement Committee: Audit Committee: Management Engagement Nomination and Remuneration Committee: Committee: Nomination and Remuneration Investment Committee.
Mr Bull is the Senior Independent Director of Coats Group plc.
He is Ms Scott is a non-executive Director of Pacic Horizon Investment also a Member of Council of the University of Exeter, a Trustee of the Trust PLC, Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC and Allianz Design Museum and Deputy Chairman of the Trustees of the Conran Technology Trust PLC.
Ms Scott worked in the asset management industry Foundation.
He was a Director, then Chairman, of hotels group fide in Hong Kong from 1992 to 2008, where she was Managing Director Vere from 2010 until the completion of its asset disposal programme in and country Head of Schroder Investment Management Hong Kong 2015.
He was also Chairman of the Advisory Board of City stockbroker, Limited and Chairman of the Hong Kong Investment Funds Association.
Previously Mr Bull worked for 30 years as a corporate finance practitioner with Morgan Grenfell subsequently Deutsche Bank, Socit Gnrale and ABN AMRO in London, Sydney, Singapore and Hong Kong.
He is a qualied Chartered Accountant.
David Causer FCA Vera Hong Wei Chairman of the Audit Committee Appointed 24 March 2016 Appointed 4 February 2010 Member of the: Member of the: Audit Committee: Audit Committee Chairman : Management Engagement Committee: Management Engagement Committee: Nomination and Remuneration Committee: Nomination and Remuneration Committee: Investment Committee.
Mr Causer is a non-executive Director and Audit Committee Chairman Ms Wei has over 18 years experience in the Chinese financial industry of Schroder Income Growth Fund plc, an investment company listed on spanning central bank, commercial bank and asset management the London Stock Exchange.
He is a qualied Chartered Accountant sectors.
She is Chief Executive of the Sloan Culture and Education and a member of the Securities Institute.
Mr Causer has held a Exchange Ltd.
Her previous roles include Managing Director of number of senior positions within financial services organisations, Greenwoods Asset Management, Vice General Manager of Ping including as Finance Director of Mercury Asset Management An Annuity in Shanghai, Head of Corporate Banking at Shenzhen Group plc and as a Managing Director of Merrill Lynch Investment Development Bank and Director of The Peoples Bank of China.
He was Finance Director of The British Red Cross Society until December 2007.
He is also a Trustee of a number of charities and a former public member of Network Rail.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2016 21 Job No: 25800 Proof Event: 21 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Board of Directors continued Andrew Wells John Ford Appointed 21 May 2012 Appointed 22 July 2016 Member of the: Member of the: Nomination and Remuneration Committee: Nomination and Remuneration Committee: Investment Committee.
Mr Wells became Vice Chairman for Fidelity Canada in early 2016, prior Mr Ford has been FILs Global Chief Investment Ocer, Fixed Income, to which he was Global CIO Fixed Income for FIL from 2007 responsible Solutions and Real Estate and has been a member of FILs Global for developing the xed income investment process, team and structure Operating Committee since 2016.
Prior to this, he was Chief Investment and a member of FILs Global Operating Committee from 2010.
Mr Wells Ocer for FILs entire Asia Pacic region from 2008.
He joined FIL in has over 20 years of investment experience, particularly in Asia, having 2005 as the Hong Kong based Managing Director of its operations in worked as a portfolio manager in FILs Hong Kong oce from 2002 South East Asia before becoming the Chief Investment Ocer in 2006 becoming FILs Chief Investment Ocer for Asian Fixed Income in 2005. for Japan.
He has worked in the asset management industry since In 2007, Mr Wells became Global CIO Fixed Income for FIL, responsible 1986, having spent 19 years at Schroders.
He was located in Asia for for developing the xed income investment process, team and structure, much of that time and worked in a number of dierent countries in and in 2016, he became the Vice Chairman for Fidelity Canada.
the region including Hong Kong, Japan, Singapore and Malaysia.
All the Directors are non-executive directors and all are independent, with the exception of Andrew Wells and John Ford.
22 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2016 Job No: 25800 Proof Event: 21 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
