Portfolio Managers Review concerns were compounded by the Brexit vote and the expectation Sam Morse has been the Companys of a concerted response from the European Central Bank in terms Portfolio Manager since 1 January 2011.
He has more than 26 years investment of more quantitative easing which would continue to pressure experience.
He also manages the banks income and, therefore, earnings and dividends.
financial sector saw a big turnaround in the second half, however, as investors saw banks as major potential beneficiaries of an improving global economy and rising bond yields.
The healthcare sector, in contrast, was weak throughout the year with mounting evidence of price pressure in the US pharmaceutical market Performance Review compounded by strong threats of further action on drug pricing.
As shown in the Financial Summary on page 2, the net asset value Portfolio Review NAV total return, in the year to 31 December 2016, was 17.6% The Companys NAV recorded strong returns of 17.6% for 2016 as compared to a total return of 19.7% for the FTSE World Europe ex some of our high conviction holdings performed strongly.
However, UK Index which is the Companys Benchmark Index.
The share on a relative basis, the NAV underperformed the Benchmark price total return was 7.6%, which is considerably less than the Index by 2.1%.
It per formed strongly relative to the Benchmark NAV total return as a consequence of a significant widening in in the first half of the year but, frustratingly, gave up all those the share price discount.
The discount widened from 2.9% at the relative gains, and more, in the second half of the year.
This was beginning of the year to 11.1% at the end of the reporting period, due to a combination of poor stock selection, particularly in the based on the NAV excluding income all figures in UK sterling.
healthcare sector, and a change in the market environment with The widening of the discount is disappointing but reflects a a sharp rotation into more risky economy-sensitive stocks, which general pattern seen in the European investment trust sector which often do not meet the stock selection criteria of your Portfolio may reflect a growing anxiety about the future of the European Manager.
However, the absolute return in sterling terms appears Union and the Eurozone following the Brexit referendum result.
impressive largely owing to the devaluation of sterling.
Gearing, achieved through the use of contracts for difference, added little to Market Background performance owing to the low level of leverage employed through 2016 will be remembered as a year of political shocks with the year.
Gearing is low because the Portfolio Manager remains three outcomes which, at the beginning of the year, might have cautious about the prospects for continental European stock been considered major risks to the progress of continental markets given generally high levels of valuation.
European stock markets: a yes to Brexit, Trumps election and Renzis resignation following the rejection of his proposals for The Companys underperformance against the Benchmark constitutional reform.
Despite all this, continental European this year was partly due to companies in the pharmaceutical stock markets actually made modest, if bumpy, progress in euro sector.
The shares of Novo-Nordisk were hit when management terms but made strong gains in sterling terms, mainly owing to downgraded earnings expectations owing to pricing pressures in a devaluation in sterling which accelerated post the Brexit vote.
the companys diabetes franchise in the US.
The announcement Why did the markets rise despite these shocks?
Well, with that the well-respected CEO was retiring at the end of the year apologies to former President Bill Clinton: Its the economy also added to the uncertainty.
The company, which has a strong stupid!
While the year began with investors fretting about the long-term record of dividend growth, is now selling on a healthy outlook for the Chinese economy and its potential negative impact dividend yield of over three percent.
The insulin market continues on global growth, it ended with a tidal wave of optimism that to see strong volume growth given the growing incidence of Trumps policies would re-inflate the US economy thereby rediabetes and the company also has an exciting pipeline of invigorating global growth and the earnings and dividend growth new products.
2017 is, however, likely to be a transition year for of companies.
Novo-Nordisk as Eli Lillys biosimilar, called Basaglar, continues to put pressure on pricing in the US market for basal insulin.
The The changing sentiment regarding economic growth resulted in Companys other holdings in the pharmaceutical sector, Roche a lot of volatility through the year in terms of sector performance.
and Sanofi, both also suffered from the more general concerns Economy-sensitive sectors, such as energy, started the year very around pricing pressure in the US and the threat of additional poorly but recovered from mid-February, led by the oil price, as action by both Presidential candidates.
Given the Republicans, China introduced measures to boost its economy.
This stronger who control Congress, have typically been supportive of the performance of the more cyclical sectors continued when industry, recognising its record on innovation and its contribution to evidence of economic improvement gathered pace and following restraining hospital costs, we expect these companies to be able Trumps election.
The financial sector had a roller-coaster ride to continue to grow their dividends from increasingly attractive in 2016.
Banks performed very poorly in the first half of the year levels of yield.
with investors worrying, in particular, about the capital position of Italian banks, given high levels of non-performing loans.
These Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2016 5 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Portfolio Managers Review continued Holdings in the energy sector, by contrast, contributed very Twentyfive Years positively to the Companys performance as it became clear that On Guy Fawkes day, last year, the Company celebrated the 25th both Shell and Total have begun to address their operating and anniversary of its launch.
Your Portfolio Manager is not sure if that capital expenditures, in light of the lower oil price, to improve date was chosen intentionally but certainly the performance of returns.
These companies have high dividend yields but are the Company, since then, has been quite explosive.
In vestors at not currently growing their dividends.
The prospects for future launch, who have reinvested their dividends, will have multiplied dividend growth improved as the year progressed and as the oil their money over twenty-five times.
Thats turning ten thousand price doubled from its lows in the early part of the year.
This has pounds into almost a quarter of a million.
Much has changed resulted in higher share prices and your Portfolio Manager still since November 1991.
For instance, few would have expected thinks there is the potential for further gains as both companies interest rates, which were so high then, to have fallen over the start to generate enough cash to cover and, indeed, increase period to the point that bond investors, last year, were being those dividends.
asked to pay companies for the privilege of lending to them negative interest rates.
Some things, however, have stayed the Finally, 3i Group, one of the few UK-listed companies in the same: although during its life the Company has had four different portfolio, delivered a very strong performance during the year portfolio managers, each with their own investment style, all the largely due to a revaluation of their largest portfolio company, portfolio managers have stuck to the same Fidelity principle of Action, a Benelux-based discount retailer, which is rapidly and staying focused on stock-picking while avoiding the macro noise successfully expanding into France and Germany.
and, at times, negative headlines about Europe.
Each portfolio manager has, also, been able to draw on the same strong Outlook research resource: Fidelitys in-house team of analysts, who are the Earnings and dividend forecasts have been downgraded real heroes of this celebration.
So what about the next twenty-five consistently such that continental European companies have, in years?
Well, your Portfolio Manager will take Peter Lynchs advice aggregate, delivered little in the way of earnings and dividend and will not try to predict the future direction of interest rates, the growth in recent years.
The second half of 2016, however, saw an economies or the stock markets but will focus on the companies end to this cycle of downgrades and analysts are now confidently in which the Company invests.
There will always be some predicting again double digit earnings growth for 2017 and great stock-picking opportunities and your Portfolio Manager is 2018.
The hope now is that the global economy will be given confident that, with the invaluable help of Fidelitys research team, additional impetus by Trumps reflationary policies fiscal spending, the Company will continue to be able to identify those winning a reduction in taxes, etc.
and that this will lead to acceleration in investments in the next twenty-five years.
European earnings, particularly in sectors that have struggled to grow earnings for many years, such as the banks.
Strong earnings and dividend growth is, indeed, needed to support valuations that are high relative to historic ranges, especially given that one Sam Morse of the crutches for high valuations -- low bond yields -- is slowly Portfolio Manager being removed.
There is the potential for more political shocks to 14 March 2017 come, especially given the heavy load of elections in Europe in 2017.
The main risk, however, would be any hiatus in the current economic improvement.
The uglier aspects of Trumps agenda, such as protectionism, may have an impact here or a monetary squeeze, if inflation starts to get out of control, and may also slow any recovery.
Your Portfolio Manager remains focused on attractively-valued companies, with strong balance sheets and a track record in cash generation, which have the potential to grow dividends consistently on a three to five year view.
These types of companies should outperform the Benchmark over the long term.
6 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2016
