Strategic Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting the Strategic Report of although certain investment restrictions apply in an attempt to the Company.
The Chairmans Statement and Portfolio Managers diversify risk.
Review form part of the Strategic Report.
No material change will be made to the investment policy without Business and Status shareholder approval.
The Company carries on business as an investment company Investment Management Philosophy, Style and Process and has been accepted as an approved investment trust by HM Revenue & Customs under Sections 1158 and 1159 of the The Portfolio Managers key focus is on identifying attractively Corporation Tax Act 2010, subject to the Company continuing to valued companies which exhibit good long term structural growth meet eligibility conditions.
The Directors are of the opinion that the prospects.
The Portfolio Manager prefers companies that he Company has conducted its affairs in a manner which will satisfy believes can grow their dividends over the next few years, as he the conditions for continued approval.
believes these are likely to grow in value.
The Company is registered as an investment company under In order to identify these companies, the Portfolio Manager looks Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and its ordinary shares for the following main characteristics: are listed and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
It is not a close company and has no employees.
Positive fundamentals - structural growth, disciplined use of capital, proven business models: Objective Cash generative often a good indication of future dividend The Companys objective is to achieve long term capital growth growth: principally from the stockmarkets of continental Europe.
Strong balance sheet ensures ability to grow the dividend Strategy is not jeopardised: and In order to achieve this objective, the Company operates as an investment company which has an actively managed portfolio of Attractive valuation good quality at a reasonable price.
investments, consisting primarily of continental European securities.
As an investment company it is able to gear and the Board takes The Portfolio Manager draws upon the extensive research the view that long term returns for shareholders can be enhanced generated by Fidelitys team of pan-European analysts when by the use of gearing in a carefully considered and monitored researching companies.
This first hand research is fundamental to way.
seeking success stories of the future.
A great deal of importance is placed on attending company meetings.
Being a bottom-up stock As part of the strategy, the Board has delegated the management picker, the Portfolio Manager aims to generate outperformance of the portfolio and certain other services.
The Portfolio Manager through company selection, on a three to five year investment aims to achieve a total return on the Companys total assets over horizon, rather than through sector or country positions.
the longer term in excess of the Benchmark Index, the FTSE World Europe ex UK Index.
The stock selection approach adopted by Investment Restrictions the Portfolio Manager is considered to be well suited to achieving the objective.
Although income is being received by way of A minimum of 80% of gross assets will be invested in dividend payments, the emphasis is placed on capital growth and companies from countries which are included in the the Board takes the view that investing in equities is a long term Benchmark Index.
A maximum of: The Companys objective and st rategy have remained unchanged throughout the year ended 31 December 2016. a 20% of gross assets may be invested in companies of European countries which are not included in the Investment Policy Companys Benchmark Index and will include investing in UK companies: and The Company invests principally in continental European securities with a view to achieving long term capital growth for shareholders.
b 5% of gross assets may be invested in companies of The portfolio is selected by the Portfolio Manager on the basis of non-European countries which have some exposure to, or its assessment of the fundamental value available in individual connection with Europe.
Any investment in this category will situations.
Whilst the Companys overall exposure to individual count towards the 20% maximum limit in a above.
countries and industry sectors is monitored, the portfolio is not structured primarily on a country or industrial weightings basis, Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2016 7 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Strategic Report continued A maximum of 10% of the Companys gross assets may be The limits are: invested in the aggregate of: The aggregate exposure of the Company to equities, including a securities not listed on a recognised stock exchange: and borrowing and the use of derivatives but excluding hedging, will not exceed 130% of total assets at the time at which any b holdings in which the interest of the Company amounts to derivative contract is entered into or security acquired.
This 20% or more of the equity capital.
equates to a gearing level of 30%.
The Company will not invest more than 10% of gross assets in The aggregate exposure of the Company under short any one quoted company at the time of acquisition.
derivatives, excluding hedges and covered call options, will not exceed 10% of total net assets at the time any derivative A maximum of 5% of the Companys gross assets may be held contract is entered into.
in unquoted securities in aggregate at any one time.
The aggregate exposure of the Company under covered The maximum amount of cash or cash equivalents held by the call options, being the notional exposure of the calls, will Company will be 25% of the Companys total net assets, but not exceed 20% of total net assets at the time any derivative this limit will not include any cash or cash equivalent paid as contract is entered into.
The notional exposure of covered call collateral for unrealised losses on derivatives.
In practice the options is the number of contracts written multiplied by the cash position will normally be much lower.
notional contract size multiplied by the underlying share price.
The Board reserves the right to lend stock and or assets of up The majority of the Companys exposure to equities will be to 10% of the Companys total net assets.
through direct investment and not through derivative instruments.
In addition, the limits on exposure to individual companies will The Board reserves the right to hedge the portfolio by way of be calculated on the basis that the Company has acquired the currency.
securities to which the derivative instrument is providing exposure.
A maximum of 10% of the Companys gross assets may be Gearing invested in the securities of other investment companies The Companys normal policy is to be geared in the belief that including listed investment trusts.
long term investment returns will exceed the costs of gearing.
This gearing will be obtained through the use of borrowing and or Derivative Instruments through the use of CFDs to obtain exposure to securities selected The Company may utilise derivative instruments, including indexby the Investment Manager.
The effect of gearing is to magnify linked notes, futures, contracts for difference CFDs, covered call the consequence of market movements on the portfolio and if the options, put options and other equity-related derivative instruments portfolio value rises the NAV will be positively impacted, but if it as a tool to meet the investment objective of the Company.
They falls the NAV will be adversely impacted.
The Board is responsible are used principally in the following ways: for the order of magnitude of gearing in the Company while the Investment Manager decides the day-to-day gearing within a As an alternative form of gearing to bank loans.
The Company range set by the Board.
The level of gearing is reviewed by the will enter into long CFDs which achieve an equivalent effect to Board and the Portfolio Manager at each Board meeting.
The purchasing an asset bought from bank borrowing but often at Company can gear up to a maximum of 30% of total net assets.
Performance To hedge equity market risks where suitable protection can The Companys performance for the year ended 31 December be purchased to limit the downside of a falling market at a 2016, including a summary of the years activities, and details reasonable cost.
on trends and factors that may impact the future performance of the Company are included in the Chairmans Statement and the To enhance investment returns by taking short exposures on Portfolio Managers Review on pages 3 to 6.
The Portfolio Listing, stocks that the Portfolio Manager considers to be over-valued.
the Distribution of the Portfolio, the Ten Year Record and the Summary of Performance Charts can be found on pages 13 to 19.
To enhance returns through writing covered call options and writing put options.
The Board has created strict policies and exposure limits and sub-limits to manage derivatives.
These limits and their impacts are monitored by the Manager on a daily basis and reported regularly to the Board.
8 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2016 Results and Dividends In addition to the KPIs set out above, the Board regularly reviews The Companys results for the year ended 31 December 2016 are the Companys performance against its peer group of investment set out in the Income Statement on page 40.
The total return per companies.
Long term performance is also monitored and the Ten ordinary share was 31.44 pence of which the revenue return was Year Record and the Summary of Performance Charts on pages 4.34pence.
The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 4.17 pence per Principal Risks and Uncertainties share for the year ended 31 December 2016 2015: final dividend As required by provision C. 2.1 of the 2014 UK Corporate of 3.33 pence be paid on 19 May 2017 to shareholders who Governance Code, the Board has a robust ongoing process appear on the register as at the close of business on 24 March for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks 2017 ex-dividend date 23 March 2017. and uncertainties faced by the Company.
The Board, with the assistance of the Manager, has developed a risk matrix Attribution Analysis which, as part of the risk management and internal controls The attribution analysis table below shows how the increase in the process, identifies the key risks that the Company faces.
The NAV total return for the year ended 31 December 2016 has been risks identified are placed on the Companys risk matrix and achieved.
This process, together with the policies and procedures for the mitigation of risks, is updated and reviewed Analysis of change in NAV during the year % regularly in the form of comprehensive reports considered by the Impact of: Audit Committee.
The Board determines the nature and extent of any risks it is willing to take in order to achieve its strategic Index 3.3 objectives.
Exchange Rate 16.3 Gearing 0.1 The Alternative Investment Fund Manager, FIL Investment Services UK Limited, also has responsibility for risk management for the Stock Selection -1.2 Company.
It works with the Board to identify and manage the Share Repurchases 0.1 principal risks and to ensure that the Board can continue to meet its UK corporate governance obligations.
0 NAV total return for the year ended The Board considers the following as the principal risks and 31 December 2016 17.6 uncertainties faced by the Company: Sources: Fidelity and Datastream Past performance is not a guide to future returns Key Performance Indicators The key performance indicators KPIs used to determine the performance of the Company and which are comparable to those reported by other investment companies are set out below.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 % % 1 NAV per Ordinary Share 17.6 6.9 1 Share Price 7.6 9.2 FTSE World Europe ex UK 1 Index 19.7 5.3 Discount to NAV ex income 11.1 2.9 Discount to NAV cum income 12.9 4.7 2 Ongoing Charges 0.99 0.94 1 Total returns 2 The Board regularly considers the costs of running the Company to ensure they are reasonable and competitive Sources: Fidelity and Datastream Past performance is not a guide to future returns Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2016 9 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Strategic Report continued Principal Risks Description and Risk Mitigation Market Risk The Companys assets consist mainly of listed securities and the principal risks are therefore market related such as market downturn, interest rate movements, and exchange rate movements.
The Portfolio Managers success or failure to protect and increase the Companys assets against this background is core to the Companys continued success.
Risks to which the Company is exposed and which form part of the market risk category are included in Note 17 to the Financial Statements on pages 52 to 57 together with summaries of the policies for managing these risks.
Performance Risk The achievement of the Companys performance objective relative to the market requires the application of risk such as strategy, asset allocation and stock selection and may lead to underperformance of the Benchmark Index.
The Board reviews the performance of the portfolio against the Companys Benchmark and that of its competitors and the outlook for the market with the Portfolio Manager at each Board meeting.
The Portfolio Manager is responsible for actively monitoring the portfolio selected in accordance with the asset allocation parameters and seeks to ensure that individual stocks meet an acceptable risk reward profile.
The emphasis is on long term results as the Company risks volatility of performance in the shorter term.
Economic and Political Risk The Company may be impacted by economic and political risks, such as Brexit and the US presidential election outcome.
As outlined in the Chairmans Statement, markets have responded positively to these events but the future outlook is uncertain.
The Board regularly reviews such risks and the potential implications for the Company.
Discount Control Risk The price of the Companys shares and its discount to NAV are factors which are not within the Companys total control.
The Board continues to adopt an active discount management policy.
Some short term influence over the discount may be exercised by the use of share repurchases at acceptable prices within the parameters set by the Board.
The Companys share price, NAV and discount volatility are monitored daily by the Manager and considered by the Board at each of its meetings.
Gearing Risk The Company has the option to invest up to the total of any loan facilities or to use CFDs to invest in equities.
The principal risk is that the Portfolio Manager may fail to use gearing effectively, resulting in a failure to outperform in a rising market or to underperform in a falling market.
Other risks are that the cost of gearing may be too high or that the term of the gearing is inappropriate in relation to market conditions.
The Company currently has no bank loans and gears through the use of long CFDs which provide greater flexibility and are significantly cheaper than bank loans.
The Board regularly considers the level of gearing and gearing risk and sets limits within which the Manager must operate.
Derivatives Risk Derivative instruments are used to enable both the protection and enhancement of investment returns.
There is a risk that the use of derivatives may lead to a higher volatility in the NAV and the share price than might otherwise be the case.
The Board has put in place policies and limits to control the Companys use of derivatives and exposures.
These are monitored on a daily basis by the Managers Compliance team and regular reports are provided to the Board.
Further details on derivative instruments risk is included in Note 17 on pages 52 to 57.
Cybercrime Risk The risk posed by cybercrime is rated as significant.
The Board receives regular updates on measures taken by the Manager to mitigate cyber attacks.
Other risks facing the Company include: Operational Risks The Company relies on a number of third party service providers, Tax and Regulatory Risks principally the Manager, Registrar, Custodian and Depositary.
It A breach of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 could is dependent on the effective operation of the Managers control lead to a loss of investment trust status, resulting in the Company systems and those of its service providers with regard to the being subject to tax on capital gains.
security of the Companys assets, dealing procedures, accounting records and compliance with regulatory and legal requirements.
The Company may be impacted by changes in legislation, taxation They are all subject to a risk-based programme of internal audits or regulation.
These are monitored at each Board meeting and by the Manager.
In addition, service providers own internal managed through active lobbying by the Manager.
10 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2016 controls reports are received by the Board and any concerns five years based on the following considerations: investigated.
The Managers compliance with the Companys investment Although the likelihood of poor governance, compliance and objective, its investment strategy and asset allocation: operational administration by third party service providers is The fact that the portfolio mainly comprises readily realisable low, the financial consequences could be serious, including the securities which can be sold to meet funding requirements if associated reputational damage to the Company.
necessary: Continuation Vote The Boards discount management policy: and A continuation vote takes place every two years.
There is a risk that shareholders do not vote in favour of the continuation of the The ongoing processes for monitoring operating costs and Company during periods when performance is poor.
The next income which are considered reasonable in comparison to the continuation vote will take place at this years AGM.
Viability Statement In addition, the Directors assessment of the Companys ability to In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 UK Corporate operate in the foreseeable future is included in the Going Concern Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects of statement in the Directors Report on page 21. the Company over a longer period than the twelve month period required by the Going Concern basis.
The Company is an Board Diversity investment trust with the objective of achieving long term capital The Board carries out any candidate search against a set of growth.
The Board consider long term to be at least five years objective criteria on the basis of merit, with due regard for and accordingly, they believe that five years is an appropriate the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
As at investment horizon to assess the viability of the Company, although 31December 2016, there were four male Directors and one the life of the Company is not intended to be limited to this or any female Director on the Board.
A risk to the Companys continuation is shareholder dissatisfaction, and therefore in accordance with the Companys Employee, Social, Community, Human Rights and Articles of Association, a continuation vote is held every two years, Environmental Issues the next one taking place at this years AGM.
The Company has no employees and all of its Directors are In making an assessment on the viability of the Company, the non-executive and its day-to-day activities are carried out by third Board has considered the following: parties.
There are therefore no disclosures to make in respect of employees.
The ongoing relevance of the investment objective in prevailing market conditions: Fidelity encourages Environmental, Social and Governance ESG considerations in its investment decision making process.
It has The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company as been a signatory to the United Nations Principles for Responsible set out above and their potential impact: Investment UNPRI since 2012 and submits an annual return detailing how it incorporates ESG into its investment analysis.
The future demand for the Companys shares: The Company has not adopted a policy on human rights as it has The Companys share price discount to the NAV: no employees and its operational processes are delegated.
As an investment vehicle, the Company does not provide goods and The liquidity of the Companys portfolio: services in the normal course of business and has no customers.
Accordingly, the Board consider that the Company is not within the The level of income generated by the Company: and scope of the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
Future income and expenditure forecasts The Companys financial reports are printed by a company which has won awards for its environmental awareness and further The Companys performance has been strong since launch.
The details of this may be found on the back cover of this report.
Board regularly reviews the investment policy and considers it to be appropriate.
The Board has concluded that there is a Greenhouse Gas Emissions reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue The Company has no premises, consumes no electricity, gas in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next or diesel fuel and consequently does not have a measurable Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2016 11 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Strategic Report continued carbon footprint.
FIL Investment Services UK Limited and FIL Investments International are registered with the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme administered by the Environment Agency.
Socially Responsible Investment The Managers primary objective is to produce superior financial returns for the Companys shareholders.
It believes that high standards of corporate social responsibility CSR make good business sense and have the potential to protect and enhance investment returns.
Consequently, its investment process takes social, environmental and ethical issues into account when, in the Managers view, these have a material impact on either investment risk or return.
Corporate Engagement The Board believes that the Company should, where appropriate, take an active interest in the affairs of the companies in which it invests and that it should exercise its voting rights at their general meetings.
Unless there are any particularly controversial issues which are then referred to the Board it delegates the responsibility for corporate engagement and shareholder voting to the Manager.
These activities are reviewed regularly by the Managers corporate governance team.
Future Developments Some trends likely to affect the Company in the future are common to many investment companies together with the impact of regulatory change.
The factors likely to affect the Companys future development, performance and position are set out in the Chairmans Statement and the Portfolio Managers Review on pages 3 to 6.
By Order of the Board FIL Investments International Secretary 14 March 2017 12 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2016
