Board of Directors Vivian Bazalgette James Robinson Chairman since 12 May 2016 Senior Independent Director Appointed 1 December 2015 since 18 May 2010 Member of the: Chairman of the Audit Committee Audit Committee since 18 May 2010 Management Engagement Committee Chairman Appointed 1 June 2007 Member of the: Audit Committee Chairman Management Engagement Committee Vivian Bazalgette is a non-executive Director of Brunner Investment Trust James Robinson is a Chartered Accountant and has 34 years PLC and Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust PLC.
He is currently Chairman of Polar Capital acts as an advisor to BAE Systems Pension Fund.
Global Healthcare Growth and Income Trust plc and a nonChristophers Hospice.
He was previously Chief Investment O cer at executive Director of Invesco Asia Trust plc, Montanaro UK Smaller M&G PLC and a non-executive Director of St Jamess Place PLC as well Companies Investment Trust PLC and JPMorgan Elect plc.
He was as the Chairman of the Investment Committee of St Jamess Place.
Chief Investment O cer Investment Trusts and Director of hedge funds at Henderson Global Investors prior to his retirement in 2005.
Simon Fraser Robin Niblett Director Director Appointed 26 July 2002 Appointed 14 January 2010 Member of the: Audit Committee Management Engagement Committee Simon Fraser is Chairman of Foreign and Colonial Investment Trust Robin Niblett is the Director and Chief Executive of Chatham House plc and Merchants Trust plc and a non-executive Director of Ashmore the Royal Institute of International A airs.
Prior to this, he worked Group plc, McInroy and Wood and Fidelity funds S. I. C. A. V. He is also for the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, Chairman of The Investor Forum.
He spent 27 years at Fidelity where DC, becoming Executive Vice President in 2001 and also serving as he started as an analyst and spent a number of years in Japan, Director of its Europe Programme from 2004 to 2006.
He is currently latterly as Chief Investment O cer for the Asia Paci c region.
He a member of the World Economic Forums Global Agenda Council on returned to the UK in 1999 to take up the position of Chief Investment Europe and served as Chair from 2012 to 2013.
He is also a Special O cer for Fidelity International, a position he held until 2005.
Advisor to the House of Commons Foreign A airs Select Committee.
Marion Sears Paul Yates Director Director Appointed 17 January 2013 Appointed 6 March 2017 Member of the: Member of the: Audit Committee Audit Committee Management Engagement Committee Management Engagement Committee Paul Yates has 37 years investment management experience.
He is Marion Sears is a non-executive Director of Dunelm Group plc, Persimmon PLC and Aberdeen New Dawn Investment Trust Chairman of the Advisory Board of 33 St James s and is a non-executive Director of Aberdeen UK Tracker Trust plc and The Merchants Trust PLC.
She is a Director of WA Capital.
Her executive career was in investment banking and mergers and acquisitions.
He was CEO of UBS Global Asset Management UK Limited and held a number of global roles at UBS prior to his retirement in 2007.
20 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2016
