Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report and the Simon Fraser, a non-executive Director of the Company, is audited Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended a Director of the Fidelity SICAV funds and is therefore not a 31 December 2016. memberof the Audit and Management Engagement Committees.
FIL Limited has no beneficial interest in shares of the Company The Company was incorporated in England and Wales as a public 2015: same.
limited company on 16 August 1991 under the registered number 2638812 and was launched on 5 November 1991.
Directors and O cers Liability Insurance In addition to benefits enjoyed under the Managers global Management Company Directors and Officers liability insurance arrangements, the FIL Investment Services UK Limited FISL was appointed as the Company maintains insurance cover for its Directors under its own Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager the Manager policy as permitted by the Companies Act 2006. from 17 July 2014.
At the same time, FISL, as the new Manager, delegated the portfolio management of assets and the role of the Going Concern company secretary to FIL Investments International FII.
The Directors have considered the Companys investment objective, risk management policies, liquidity risk, credit risk, The Alternative Investment Fund Management and Secretarial capital management policies and procedures, the nature of its Services Agreement the Management Agreement was updated portfolio being mainly securities which are readily realisable and on 14 May 2015 to reflect the changes in the investment policy its expenditure and cash flow projections and have concluded and will continue unless and until terminated by either party giving that the Company has adequate resources to continue to adopt to the other not less than six months notice in writing.
However, the going concern basis for at least 12 months from the date of it may be terminated without compensation if the Company is this Annual Report.
The prospects of the Company over a period liquidated, pursuant to the procedures laid down in the Articles of longer than 12 months can be found in the Viability Statement on Association of the Company.
It may also be terminated forthwith page 11. as a result of a material breach of the Management Agreement or on the insolvency of the Manager or the Company.
In addition, Auditors Appointment the Company may terminate the Management Agreement by As mentioned in last years Annual Report, Ernst & Young LLP was sixty days notice if the Manager ceases to be a subsidiary of FIL appointed as the Companys Auditor at the AGM on 12 May 2016.
Auditors Right to Information Fee Arrangements As required by Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each The Management Agreement provides investment management Director in office as at the date of this report confirms that: services to the Company for an annual fee of 0.85% of the Companys net assets excluding the value of any investment in any a so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit fund which is managed by the Manager.
The fees are calculated information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and and paid quarterly.
There is no additional company secretarial fee.
The annual performance related fee was removed with effect b each Director has taken all the steps that ought to have been from 1 January 2015. taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information, and to establish that the Companys The Manager has an arrangement with certain brokers whereby Auditor is aware of that information.
a portion of commissions from security transactions may be paid to the Company to reduce transaction costs.
Amounts received by Corporate Governance the Company under this arrangement are credited to capital and Full details are given in the Corporate Governance Statement, included in the gains on sales of investments for the year in Note which forms part of this report on pages 24 to 27.
There is a regulatory requirement for Registrar, Custodian and Depositary Arrangements the Manager to obtain best execution and no individual deal is The Company employs Capita Asset Services to manage the entered into which prevents compliance with this requirement.
Companys share register, JPMorgan Chase Bank as its Custodian, which is primarily responsible for safeguarding the Companys The Board assets and J. P. Morgan Europe Limited as its Depositary, which All the Directors served on the Board throughout the year ended is primarily responsible for oversight of the custody of investment 31 December 2016 with the exception of Humphrey van der Klugt funds and the protection of investors interests.
who retired from the Board on 12 May 2016 and Paul Yates who was appointed on 6 March 2017.
A brief description of all serving Directors as at the date of this report is shown on page 20 and indicates their qualifications for Board membership.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2016 21 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Directors Report continued Share Capital Substantial Share Interests The Companys share capital comprises ordinary shares of As at 31 December 2016 and 28 February 2017, notification had 2.5pence each which are fully listed on the London Stock been received that the shareholders listed below held more than Exchange.
As at 31 December 2016, the issued share capital of 3% of the voting share capital of the Company.
31 28 Therefore, the total number of shares with voting rights was December February 415,352,177.
Deadlines for the exercise of voting rights and details Shareholders 2016 2017 of arrangements by which someone other than the shareholder Fidelity Platform Investors 18.93 18.56 can exercise voting rights are detailed in the Notes to the Notice Wells Capital Management 9.28 8.34 of Meeting on pages 59 and 60.
1607 Capital Partners 7.03 7.18 Premium Discount Management: Enhancing Shareholder Rathbones 4.55 4.41 Value The Board recognises the importance of the relationship between Investec Wealth & Investment 4.21 4.03 the Companys share price and the net asset value per share and Brewin Dolphin 3.70 3.62 monitors this closely.
It seeks authority from shareholders each year to issue shares at a premium or to repurchase shares at a Quilter Cheviot Investment discount to NAV either for cancellation or holding in Treasury.
The Management 3.45 3.36 Board will exercise these authorities if deemed to be in the best Hargreaves Lansdown 3.09 3.06 interests of shareholders at the time.
An analysis of shareholders as at 31 December 2016 is detailed in Share Issues the table below.
No ordinary shares were issued during the year to 31 December 2016 2015: nil and none have been issued since the year end Analysis of Shareholders % of voting and as at the date of this report.
as at 31 December 2016 share capital Retail 69.98 The authorities to issue shares and disapply pre-emption rights expire at the conclusion of this years AGM and therefore Mutual funds 22.33 resolutions renewing these authorities will be put to shareholders Insurance companies 3.92 at the AGM on 15 May 2017.
Pension funds 1.85 Share Repurchases Hedge funds 1.16 During the year to 31 December 2016, the Company repurchased 1,095,733 ordinary shares for holding in Treasury 2015: nil.
Since Trading 0.72 the year end and as at the date of this report, no further ordinary Other 0.04 shares have been repurchased.
Total 100.00 The authority to repurchase ordinary shares expires at the Additional Information required in the Directors Report forthcoming AGM and a special resolution to renew the authority Information on proposed dividends, financial instruments and to purchase ordinary shares for cancellation, including the ability greenhouse emissions is set out in the Strategic Report on pages to buy them into Treasury, will therefore be put to shareholders at 8 to 12. the AGM on 15 May 2017.
22 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2016 Annual General Meeting shares in issue excluding Treasury shares on 14 March 2017 THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR either for immediate cancellation or for retention as Treasury IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
shares at the determination of the Directors.
Once shares are held in Treasury, the Directors may only dispose of them in accordance If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you with the relevant legislation by subsequently selling the shares for should seek your own personal financial advice from your cash or by cancelling the shares.
Purchases of ordinary shares will stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other financial adviser be made at the discretion of the Directors and within guidelines authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. set from time to time by them in the light of prevailing market conditions.
Purchases will only be made in the market at prices If you have sold, transferred or otherwise disposed of all your below the prevailing net asset value per share.
shares in the Company, you should pass this document, together with any accompanying documents but not the personalised Form Continuation Vote of Proxy or Form of Direction as soon as possible to the purchaser Resolution 15 is an ordinary resolution regarding the continuation or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through of the Company as an investment trust for a further two years.
The whom the sale or transfer was effected, for onward transmission to Directors expect the continuation vote to be passed.
The full text of the resolutions are set out in the Notice of Meeting At the AGM on 15 May 2017, resolutions will be proposed relating contained on pages 58 and 59. to the items of business set out in the Notice of Meeting on pages 58 and 59, including the items of special business summarised Recommendation: The Board considers that each of below.
the resolutions is likely to promote the success of the Company and is in the best interests of the Company and Authority to Allot Shares its shareholders as a whole.
The Directors unanimously Resolution 12 is an ordinary resolution and provides the Directors recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions as they with a general authority to allot securities in the Company up to an intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
If passed, this resolution will enable the Directors to allot a maximum of 20,822,395 ordinary shares which represents approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company including Treasury shares as at By Order of the Board 14 March 2017, and to impose any limits or restrictions and make FIL Investments International any arrangements which they consider necessary or appropriate Secretary to deal with Treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, 14 March 2017 legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter.
The Directors would not intend to use this power unless they considered that it was in the interests of shareholders to do so.
Any shares issued would be at net asset value per share, or at a premium to net asset value per share.
Authority to Disapply Pre-emption Rights Resolution 13 is a special resolution disapplying pre-emption rights and granting authority to the Directors, without the need for further specific shareholder approval, to make allotments of equity securities or sale of Treasury shares for cash by way of a rights issues, normally on a proportionate basis but where necessary taking into account practical considerations, such as fractions and foreign securities laws: and b other issues up to an aggregate nominal value of 520,560 including Treasury shares approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 14 March 2017 and equivalent to 20,822,395 ordinary shares.
Authority to Repurchase the Companys Shares Resolution 14 is a special resolution which renews the Companys authority to purchase up to 14.99% 62,425,541 of the ordinary Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2016 23 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
