Fidessa group plc 07 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 To further assist customers to the world, Fidessas platform will fixed income market.
This research is differentiate, Fidessa established a also provide BNP Paribas with continuing, and additional resource partnership programme during 2015. specialised derivatives algorithms has been brought in to assist with This programme aims to enable and advanced synthetic order types this exercise.
In addition, a small carefully selected third parties to to normalise trading across markets.
amount of additional investment integrate their innovative applications Fully-integrated risk functionality will has been actioned around specific and technology within the Fidessa manage BNP Paribas client limits on market gateways for fixed income environment, while Fidessa maintains a global basis.
Fidessa is also seeing instruments.
Fidessa expects to control over the customer experience demand for platforms to support continue its work in this area during both technically and commercially.
electronic execution of exchange- 2017, but this is not expected to have In this way Fidessa is able to offer a based derivatives, and this is a material financial impact.
route for innovative companies to illustrated by the deal with ABN Buy-side trading access the Fidessa community and to which includes significant elements Sentiment within the buy-side meet the complex compliance and of derivatives functionality.
Fidessa community remained relatively information security requirements continues to broaden into further subdued throughout 2016, however mandated by regulators.
For Fidessas parts of the derivatives market by Fidessas buy-side business signed a customers they are able to benefit providing platforms for Commodity number of new customers for its from an even greater diversity of Trading Firms CTFs with another investment management, compliance applications within their Fidessa deal signed in this area during 2016. and post-trade products and services, platform, helping them to differentiate The pressure within the FCM market as well as establishing a growing their business.
During 2016, the has made it a challenging area in forward pipeline.
The business number of partners within this which to deliver rapid progress: experienced a reduced impact from programme extended to three, however, research published by the consolidations and closures compared with a further partner announced Tabb Group in Q4 16 indicates that to the previous year and this, as in early 2017. the FCM community now believe they anticipated in the 2015 preliminary have weathered the worst of the Fidessa has continued to make results, helped facilitate an improved storm, and that the tide of the good progress with deliveries of its performance.
Throughout 2016 business will rise over time.
This is derivatives platform during 2016, Fidessa continued to invest in its expected to make market conditions although as mentioned in previous buy-side products and services, with more favourable, and Fidessa is results announcements, growth during a focus on specific areas to address already seeing some evidence of this 2016, and particularly the second half, particular challenges in the industry.
The level was suppressed by the headwind of investment Fidessa is making in its Compliance has always been a key resulting from the 2015 closure of the derivatives platform has started to part of Fidessas offering to the Jefferies Groups Bache futures unit.
normalise as it achieves scale, and buy-side, and Sentinel has historically During 2016 there has continued to Fidessas derivatives business been primarily seen as a leading be considerable pressure on FCMs, remains on track to make a positive portfolio compliance solution.
but despite this Fidessa has seen contribution to Fidessas overall However, in 2015 Sentinels reach was continued demand for  within two years.
significantly extended to provide based derivatives trading, with In addition to being a valuable business trading compliance.
The first deliveries in 2016 including a new in its own right, the derivatives customers for this went live during platform for BNP Paribas.
This business is also providing Fidessa with 2016, and this differentiating feature platform will support the banks a natural entry point into further asset was also key in securing further new futures and options agency trading classes within the sell-side.
The active compliance operations for listed derivatives features of Sentinel have now been across Europe, Asia-Pacific and With the changing market conditions, further extended, adding counterparty North America.
Delivering order Fidessa has been investigating the exposure and more sophisticated management, global order handover potential of further extensions to the algorithms within the transactional capabilities and execution across all asset classes it supports looking checks across mandates.
This enables the major derivatives markets around specifically at the rates segment of the asset managers to evaluate gains and
