Fidessa group plc 05 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 2015: 45.0 pence is proposed and, if predominantly organic and there have Futures Commission Merchants FCM approved by shareholders, will be paid been only been two small acquisitions community, who now believe that they at the same time as the final dividend in the last 20 years.
Providing tailored may have weathered the worst of the and brings total dividends for the year products and services to a broad storm, and a view across the market to 92.5 pence, an 11% increase from range of customers on both the that the new US presidency will herald 83.5 pence in 2015. buy-side and sell-side means Fidessa a significant reduction in regulation has a unique understanding of the and increased freedom within Business model and strategy complete marketplace.
Fidessas vision is to make it easier for financial services firms to buy, sell and Fidessa charges for its solutions Despite the challenging backdrop, own financial assets of all types on a primarily on a rental and subscription Fidessa continued to make progress global basis.
Its mission is to deliver basis which is reflected in the as customers switched away from solutions that use technology to high level of recurring revenue purely cost focused strategies automate workflow and take cost out reported each period.
This gives towards a more strategic approach.
of the system, and so make increased stability to the business This approach, which typically involves customers business processes easier, and allows Fidessa to commit to Fidessas customers reviewing their quicker and cheaper.
the long-term development of its positioning for the longer term, can products and services.
result in some customers restructuring Fidessas multi-asset trading, some areas of their business whilst investment and information solutions Fidessa has consistently been strengthening their commitment in cover the complete lifecycle from profitable and generated cash, and other key areas.
As anticipated investment decision through to actual with the very small number of in the 2015 preliminary results trading in the marketplace and are acquisitions has built a healthy cash announcement, this restructuring did provided to both the buy-side and balance.
The annual dividend has a result in an increase in the headwind sell-side communities.
Traditionally typical pay-out ratio of between 40% that Fidessa saw from consolidations the solutions were delivered on a and 50% which provides a reasonable and closures within its customer highly configured, enterprise basis, return to shareholders whilst also base, but this was balanced out but in recent years the predominant providing funds for potential by customers committing to delivery mechanism has been as a acquisitions and replenishing the and investing in other areas of managed service through Fidessas cash balance.
In the absence of their business.
own global connectivity network and acquisitions, Fidessa has a track data centres.
record of returning additional cash The investments Fidessa has made to to shareholders in the form of extend the range of asset classes it Fidessas buy-side solutions operate special dividends.
supports, expand its regional coverage across all asset classes, whereas its and build out its global infrastructure sell-side solutions have historically Market review have positioned it well to help its focused on cash equities.
In recent 2016 was a challenging year for customers to address the cost of their years Fidessa has expanded its many of Fidessas customers, with activities through a robust, multisell-side suite to cover listed a slowdown in trading activity in the asset, service-based delivery platform.
Long-term first half being followed by political Fidessa has seen further customers commitments are required for each uncertainty as a result of the adopting this approach during 2016 asset class in order to build Brexit vote and the US election.
and believes that the value of this core functionally rich offerings that are The continued crisis in the Chinese platform, and the importance of effective in all regions.
stock market meant that each region Fidessas multi-asset strategy, will had its individual difficulties, creating a become increasingly clear as the new Fidessa maintains ownership of its challenging backdrop.
However, there product and service architecture and MiFID II regulations are introduced were also positive elements within the and firms adapt to the new political is committed to internal development market which are expected to feed to obtain tight integration throughout landscape.
Fidessa also believes that through into 2017.
These include the the global nature of its trading its solutions.
As a result of this increasing clarity around regulation, approach, growth has been platforms means that it is less improved sentiment amongst the
