Fidessa group plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and corporate governance report continued The Board At 31st December 2016 the Board comprised the Chairman, two executive directors and four non-executive directors whose Board and Committee responsibilities are set out in the table below: Board Audit Remuneration Nominations John Hamer Chairman Chairman Chairman Chris Aspinwall Chief Executive Member Andy Skelton Chief Financial Officer Member Ron Mackintosh Senior Independent Member Non-Executive Director John Worby Independent Member Chairman Member Member Non-Executive Director Elizabeth Lake Independent Member Member Member Member Non-Executive Director Ken Archer Independent Member Member Chairman Member Non-Executive Director The Board meets formally on a regular basis to monitor operating issues, risk and trading performance, to review forecasts, strategy and policy, to consider key projects and major investments and to oversee appropriate shareholder reporting.
During 2016 the Board met on 10 scheduled occasions for this purpose.
In addition, if required, impromptu Board meetings occur to consider specific issues as and when necessary.
Meetings were held by the Chairman with the non-executive directors, without the executive directors present, to discuss the performance of the executives.
The Chairman and non-executive directors also held meetings throughout the year with various senior managers to improve insight into the business operations and marketplace.
The attendance of all directors at Board meetings and nonexecutive directors at Committee meetings is presented in the table below: Board meetings Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee attended meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended John Hamer 10 10 2 2 Chris Aspinwall 10 10 Andy Skelton 10 10 Andy Malpass 1 1 Ron Mackintosh 10 10 4 4 3 3 2 2 John Worby 10 10 4 4 3 3 2 2 Elizabeth Lake 10 10 4 4 3 3 2 2 Ken Archer 9 10 4 4 3 3 2 2 As previously announced, Andy Malpass retired from the Board on 15th February 2016.
Absences were due to illness.
The Board is responsible for corporate governance and delegates operational control to the executive directors.
At each Board meeting it considers strategic issues, finance, business development, governance and risks facing the business.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the decision of the Board that covers key areas of Fidessas affairs.
Fidessa group plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The schedule includes approval of the Annual Report and any other financial statements, the adoption of budgets or business plans, decisions on acquisitions and disposals, material financial commitments and the release of inside information.
Certain matters require Board approval and other matters may be approved by senior management, but notification to the Board is required.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board is reviewed regularly.
A procedure exists to allow the directors to seek independent legal advice in respect of their duties at Fidessas expense where the circumstances are appropriate.
No such advice was sought by any director during the year.
All directors have access to the Company Secretary for his advice and services.
There was a rigorous formal evaluation of the performance of the Board during 2016.
This consisted of a review conducted by way of a performance evaluation questionnaire which was based on the Code and included questions related to the following areas: Board structure and diversity, effectiveness, frequency and content of Board meetings, decision making, strategy, training, risk oversight, succession planning and Committees.
Questionnaires were completed by the directors and that was followed by review at a Board meeting to give directors the opportunity to discuss specific points raised.
The conclusion was reached that the Board is operating effectively, that it is considered to be the right size and composition with appropriate skills represented and that each director continues to contribute effectively and demonstrates commitment to their role.
An evaluation of the Chairman by the non-executive directors without the executive directors present was also carried out and it was concluded that he was performing his role effectively.
In accordance with the requirements of paragraph B.
6.2 of the Code, the next independent evaluation of the performance of the Board is scheduled to be conducted during 2018.
There is a formal written policy on the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive such that their roles are complementary to each other.
John Hamer as Chairman is principally responsible for leading the Board, promoting constructive debate amongst the Board and facilitating communication with shareholders as well as overseeing strategy.
Chris Aspinwall as Chief Executive is responsible for all aspects of Fidessas operations: he leads and develops the strategy plans for the business and identifies risk factors and the steps required to mitigate them.
Directors undergo a thorough, formal and tailored induction process on joining and, following regular reviews by the Chairman of training and development requirements, receive ongoing updates to improve their skills and knowledge according to their personal and external needs.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board and updating it on governance and regulatory matters.
The Companies Act 2006 imposes a statutory duty on directors to avoid conflicts of interest.
The Articles of Association allow the directors to consider and, if they deem fit, to authorise conflicts of interest.
The Articles of Association set out the process for authorisation of such conflicts and any such conflicts will be recorded in the Board minutes and maintained on a register which will be reviewed on an annual basis by the Nominations Committee and by the Board.
No conflicts have arisen since that legislation came into effect.
