Fidessa group plc 1 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 About Fidessa Exceptional trading, investment and information solutions for the worlds financial community.
New technology, new regulation, new challenges: making money in todays financial markets is all about staying ahead of the curve.
Having the capability to spot new trends and act fast turns change into opportunity.
Thats why 85% of the worlds premier financial institutions trust Fidessa to provide them with their multi-asset trading and investment infrastructure, their market data and analysis, and their decision making and workflow technology.
Its also why $20 trillion worth of transactions flow across our global network each year.
Because were a market leader, we can also offer access to one of the worlds largest and most valuable trading communities of buy-side and sell-side professionals, from global institutions and investment banks to boutique brokers and niche hedge funds.
Fidessa is a global business with scale, resilience, ambition and expertise.
Weve delivered over 20% compound growth since our stock market listing in 1997 and were recognised as a thought leader in our space.
We set the benchmark with our unrivalled set of mission-critical products and services and, uniquely, serve both the buy-side and sell-side communities.
Ongoing investment in our leading-edge, integrated solutions ensures Fidessa remains the industrys number one choice.
Fidessa group is listed on the London Stock Exchange symbol FDSA and is a FTSE 250 company.
Contents Strategic report Directors and corporate Financial statements governance report 01 Results at a glance 17 Directors 52 Independent auditors report 20 The Board 57 Consolidated financial statements 02 Overview 22 Directors remuneration report 61 Notes to the consolidated 03 Finance review financial statements 05 Business model and strategy 23 Directors remuneration policy 90 Company financial statements 05 Market review 32 Annual report on remuneration 93 Notes to the Company financial 06 Sell-side trading 42 Audit Committees report statements 07 Buy-side trading 46 Nominations Committees report 100 Financial calendar 47 Other statutory disclosures 08 Regulation 09 Outlook 10 Risk factors and uncertainties 14 Employees, employee involvement and equal opportunities 15 Corporate social responsibility and human rights 15 Environmental matters 16 Greenhouse gas emissions
