Fidessa group plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and corporate governance report continued Employees and shareholders Fidessa expects the total remuneration for employees to be at a level appropriate to attract, recruit, motivate and retain the most suitable individuals.
Employees receive a bonus, which in many cases will be a percentage of salary with an element determined by personal performance and an element determined by Fidessas financial performance.
For more senior employees, a higher proportion of remuneration is payable as a bonus.
The benefits available are dependent on market practice in each country.
The pension scheme available to an employee varies according to location with contributions at a competitive level for each country: Fidessa only offers defined contribution pension schemes.
There is no formal mechanism through which Fidessa consults with employees when determining executive directors remuneration but the Committee takes into consideration the remuneration policy for employees when reviewing the remuneration of the executive directors.
Fidessas shareholders have historically been very supportive of the remuneration philosophy and policy.
On the occasions that dialogue has been required, this has been constructive and positive.
The Committee has consulted with its major shareholders and representative shareholder bodies, the majority of whom were supportive of the changes being introduced for 2017.
In the interests of maintaining an open and transparent approach to remuneration, the Committee will consult with major shareholders before making any material changes to the remuneration policy.
As has been the case in the past, the Committee will consider shareholder feedback provided for the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and throughout the year when setting the overall policy.
Annual report on remuneration Membership, meetings and evaluation During the year the Committee comprised Ken Archer Committee Chairman, Elizabeth Lake and John Worby.
All members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors.
No member of the Committee has any personal financial interest other than as a shareholder, to the extent disclosed in this report, conflict of interest arising from cross-directorships, or day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The Chairman and executive directors may attend Committee meetings by invitation.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
As announced by the Company on 11th January 2016, Ron Mackintosh stepped down as Chairman and a member of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 8th January 2016.
The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the Board evaluation process during the year and the conclusion was that the Committee was functioning effectively.
Responsibilities The Committee operates within its terms of reference, which are reviewed and, if necessary, updated annually and are available at www.
The Committee is responsible for determining the policy and application for remuneration, other benefits and terms of employment, including performance-related bonus schemes and oversight of share plans, for executive directors, senior management and the Chairman.
