Fidessa group plc 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report continued losses on distinct time horizons and Portfolio Studio provides customers commission management and establish controls that trigger with next generation investment reporting.
Integrating this into notifications, or even suspend trading, decision making functionality fully Fidessas post-trade workflow allows if results are out of normal tolerance.
buy-side firms to more easily meet Enhanced order handling capabilities these new regulatory requirements, The buy-sides customers today are have been delivered across futures, and leveraging Fidessas distribution much more willing to move funds options and swaps, as well as in this way enables the process to be between asset managers, and mergers comprehensive support for complex implemented in a very cost effective within the industry drive further interest rate products.
Fidessa has and seamless manner.
As a also been working with Neptune, an result, compliance teams are onRegulation open standards network utility for boarding new accounts and mandates Regulation continues to be an active pre-trade indications in bond markets.
in greater numbers, driving the topic around the world, with the main This will improve information requirement for new levels of focus now shifted to the imminent dissemination among market operational efficiency.
Sentinels implementation of MiFID II in Europe participants and aid in the search for portfolio compliance capabilities meet and the uncertainty in America liquidity in this increasingly this challenge by streamlining user following the US election.
workloads, making the on-boarding Fidessa has been working closely of new funds and the adoption of Fidessas offerings in the post-trade with its customers to develop a new mandates faster and more space have continued to expand comprehensive programme which accurate with account cloning, bulk throughout 2016.
Its Affirmation will support them through the maintenance of rules and one-click Management Service AMS is now complex regulatory environment and account termination.
being used by over 60 firms and help them maintain their compliance usage has increased with the utility across all regions.
Fidessas Sentinel compliance system now handling around 40,000 continues to be recognised by the In Europe, Fidessa is continuing to transactions per month.
During 2017, industry for its leading position in the develop its MiFID II programme on the Fidessa intends to expand the service market, receiving further accolades basis that the rules will come into from equities and fixed income into during the year.
These included effect on 3rd January 2018 and will derivatives and the number of firms winning Best Buy-side Compliance apply to all firms in the UK regardless using AMS and the volume handled Product in the Waters Buy-side of the outcome of the Brexit by the service are both expected to Technology Awards for the seventh negotiations.
The scope of Fidessas continue rising.
time, as well as winning Best Buy-side MiFID II programme is wide ranging Compliance Product in the Hedge Fidessas Partnership Programme has and covers: Fund Manager US Technology Awards.
provided new opportunities for enhanced controls including expansion in the post-trade space, Fidessas Investment Management pre-trade risk checks: taking advantage of Fidessas System IMS provides buy-side firms increased transparency including positioning across both the buy-side with a global, consistent, integrated enhanced trade reporting: and the sell-side.
Under MiFID II, firms workflow across all asset classes and support for downstream record must not only unbundle the fees paid geographic regions, whilst at the same keeping and transaction reporting by buy-side firms to brokers for time delivering powerful functionality including additional order and research, but also implement an to allow them to maximise returns and trade data: and affirmation process to confirm these enforce controls.
This allows the firms IT infrastructure and cyber fees trade by trade.
Commcise joined to pursue the twin goals of best security requirements.
the Fidessa Partnership Programme execution and maximum efficiency, in 2016, and its commission It is clear that in order to meet the so they can take advantage of new management solution enables firms new regulations, firms will be under opportunities while demonstrating to transform their processing of increasing pressure to have tighter tight operational controls.
During Commission Sharing Agreements integration of all their electronic flow 2016, Fidessa has continued to expand by providing reconciliation, invoice and to ensure that workflow across all the capabilities of its IMS.
The new management, broker voting,
