Fidessa group plc 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report continued susceptible to the effects of regional shaped to respond to future demand.
allows customers to plug in and trade Fidessa continues to believe that changes such as Brexit and the US nearly any listed instrument anywhere election, as trading infrastructure is these challenges will create in the world in a systematic way.
opportunities as firms seek a partner likely to continue to operate on a Within the regions, despite the cross-border basis.
who can provide the applications they challenges in China, Asia has need for the future, integrated with In addition to investing in its core continued to deliver the strongest the complex trading infrastructure platform, Fidessa has also worked to growth helped by a robust they need, as a cost-effective service.
help its customers achieve high levels performance from Japan.
Further This enables them to deal with the of differentiation.
One area in which Chinese brokers have been signed in upcoming regulatory challenges and these enhancements have been Hong Kong and additional wins in focus on the unique elements of their focused is in trade optimisation and Japan have helped further strengthen business model, whilst keeping a tight measurement, where Fidessas Fidessas position in this market.
Optimized Trading initiative and During the second half of 2016, During 2016 Fidessa has seen Fidessa Prospector have been Shenzhen Connect went live allowing quick to win awards for innovation.
continued progress with its serviceinternational investors to trade 881 based platform across Europe, the Further initiatives address compliance, Shenzhen listed stocks through Hong for both monitoring and reporting, Americas and Asia.
It also allows mainland included two sales of large global as well as information security at all China-based investors to trade 417 levels across both the buy-side and platforms as well as a number of Hong Kong stocks through local smaller platforms across all regions.
Fidessa has also put in brokers there.
This complements the place initiatives to enable its The large deals included an equity Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect platform for a large global bank as customers to extend their use of their solution which went live in 2014, and Fidessa systems more widely across well as a substantial contract with Fidessa has already connected ABN AMRO Clearing to provide their organisations, automating more around 15 brokers to the new business processes and helping them a cross-asset execution service.
The deal with ABN will allow it to offer to further improve efficiency.
These Across all regions, the overall theme initiatives, across both buy-side and its customers low-latency access to of a market in transition is strongly in more than 110 futures, options, sell-side, will help secure Fidessas evidence with more focus around central position within the financial equities and FX markets worldwide.
service differentiation and execution The platform will be delivered out of markets over the longer term and quality.
Fidessas Optimised Trading will provide a strong base for 11 key locations around the world and, initiative, which provides a range of in addition to low-latency market further growth.
tools, aimed at helping brokers to access, also includes frameworks Sell-side trading work more effectively and efficiently, around smart order routing, During 2016 Fidessa has continued is targeted directly at this space.
internalisation, algorithmic trading and to develop its sell-side business.
These include the Order Performance risk management.
Fidessa has also Fidessas customers have seen Monitor which gives brokers insight seen interest in smaller sales of this challenges coming from several into their orders and executions in real platform as measurable execution different directions, including new time and Fidessa Prospector which quality becomes an increasingly regulation and reporting monitors a range of live and historical important requirement within the requirements, increased capital data to provide context and help market.
Fidessa believes that this requirements and cost pressures identify liquidity.
These tools have trend will strengthen further with the within their own customer bases.
been well received as they roll out to introduction of MiFID II, as unbundling Additional uncertainty has been customers across the regions and will make the cost and quality of added to these challenges as a result were quick to win awards, with execution increasingly visible.
Fidessa of the Brexit vote and the US election.
Prospector being voted best business is making some additional investment These challenges mean that many intelligence and analytics service in into its execution services as it builds firms are continuing to review their the Banking Technology Readers towards a long-term vision of a global, business models in order to identify Choice Awards.
scalable, fully managed platform that how their businesses need to be
