Fidessa group plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and corporate governance report This section of the Annual Report outlines how the Board maintains high standards of corporate governance as well as providing a summary of how each of the Boards Committees function.
The Board believes in good governance and recognises the importance of complying with the various aspects of the UK governance framework.
After conducting an externally facilitated evaluation process last year, I led an internal review process that concluded that the Board was operating effectively.
The observations arising from that review were discussed during 2016.
Further details are set out in this report.
The composition and stability of the Board continues to be a key focus.
As announced on 8th February 2017, Richard Longdon will be joining the Board on 1st March as Senior Independent Director: he will also be a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Ron Mackintosh will stand down as Senior Independent Director when Richard joins the Board but will remain on the Board as an independent non-executive director.
Finally, the Board continues to welcome interaction with shareholders and I and the other non-executive directors are available for dialogue as an alternative to meetings with the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
John Hamer Chairman The directors present their report and the audited financial statements for Fidessa group plc company number 03234176 for the year ended 31st December 2016.
These will be laid before the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 26th April 2017.
The Strategic Report is incorporated by reference into this Directors Report.
All sections of the Annual Report contain certain forward looking statements which by their nature involve risk and uncertainty.
The forward looking statements are based on the knowledge and information available at the date of preparation and on what are believed to be reasonable judgements.
A wide range of factors may cause the actual results or events to differ materially from those contained within, or implied by, these forward looking statements.
The forward looking statements should not be construed as a profit forecast.
Directors For the majority of 2016, the Board comprised a Chairman, four independent non-executive directors and two executive directors.
Currently there are four independent non-executive directors.
The Board considers its overall size and composition to be appropriate, having regard to the experience and skills which the Board members bring together and the fact that the Board considers the non-executive directors to be independent of management.
The serving directors are: John Hamer age 57, Chairman John Hamer joined Fidessa in 1983.
in Computer Science from Leeds University and was Chief Executive of the Group between 1992 and 2001 when the Group had multiple divisions, each division having its own Chief Executive.
John became Chairman in 2001 when the Group focused on the Fidessa business by divesting the help desk and call centre software businesses.
The Board considers the Chairman role to be similar to that performed prior to 2001 when there were multiple businesses and there to be no conflict with Chris Aspinwall, the Chief Executive, who was already the Chief Executive of the Fidessa business prior to 2001.
He currently has no other material business commitments.
Chris Aspinwall age 53, Chief Executive Chris Aspinwall joined Fidessa in 1986 as a software engineer and was appointed to the Board in 1992.
He became Chief Executive of the Fidessa business in 1992 and has grown it to its current world leading position.
In 2001 he became Group Chief Executive.
in Computer Science from York University.
Fidessa group plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and corporate governance report continued Andy Skelton age 45, Chief Financial Officer Andy Skelton joined Fidessa in October 2015 as Chief Financial Officer.
He was previously Deputy Chief Financial Officer at CSR plc, a global fabless semiconductor company that was listed on the London Stock Exchange and on NASDAQ, before its acquisition in 2015 by Qualcomm Incorporated.
Prior to joining CSR, Andy held a number of senior finance positions at Ericsson and Marconi, including two years as Chief Financial Officer of Ericsson Nikola Tesla in Zagreb, Croatia.
He has a BA in Accounting and Finance from Heriot-Watt University and qualified as a chartered accountant in 1994.
Ron Mackintosh age 68, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Ron Mackintosh was appointed to the Board in 2004.
Ron has held a number of senior executive positions in European technology companies.
Between 1992 and 2000 he was Chief Executive of Computer Sciences Corporations CSC European business which had revenue of $2.5 billion.
He has been Chairman of each of CSR plc, SmartStream Technologies Limited, Northgate Information Solutions plc, Differentis Limited and Alertme.
com Limited and is a former director of Gemplus SA.
Elizabeth Lake age 74, Independent Non-Executive Director Elizabeth Lake was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director in October 2008.
Until June 2009, Elizabeth was a director and president of Securities Processing Solutions International, a subsidiary of Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc Broadridge, a global provider of technology based outsourcing solutions to the financial services industry.
She was a partner in the consultancy practice of KPMG and has also held senior executive positions at CSC Index within the financial services sector and at Ziff Davis Technical Information Company, where she was responsible for software products and services for the financial services industry.
John Worby age 66, Independent Non-Executive Director John Worby was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director in May 2014.
John is a chartered accountant who is an experienced executive and non-executive director.
In 2013 he retired as Group Finance Director of Genus plc, having previously been Group Finance Director and Deputy Chairman at Uniq plc formerly Unigate PLC.
John is the senior independent director and Chairman of the Audit Committee at both Carrs Group plc and Hilton Food Group plc and has held a number of other non-executive positions including at Connect Group PLC formerly Smiths News PLC and Cranswick plc.
John is a member of the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
Ken Archer age 65, Independent Non-Executive Director Ken Archer joined the Board as a non-executive director in November 2014.
He is Chairman of Gresham Technologies plc formerly Gresham Computing plc, where he has been a non-executive director since 2010.
Ken was Chief Executive Officer of SmartStream Technologies until 2009 and prior to that, the President, European Business Development of Computer Sciences Corporation where he managed the sales team responsible for large scale outsourcing projects across Europe.
Ken has also worked at J. P. Morgan, where he served as VP, Information Services and subsequently at Mercantile Information Services and The Savings Corporation.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code Code all the directors offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Fidessa group plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 As announced on 8th February 2017, Richard Longdon will be joining the Board on 1st March as Senior Independent Director: he will also be a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Ron Mackintosh will stand down as Senior Independent Director when Richard joins the Board but will remain an independent non-executive director.
Further details are set out in the Nominations Committee Report.
Richard Longdon has had a highly successful executive career in the technology sector having spent 33 years with AVEVA Group plc.
Richard was chief executive officer at AVEVA for 17 years and retired from that role and as a director of AVEVA in December 2016.
Richard is currently the president of AVEVA, a non-Board role that he will hold during 2017.
Richard has been Chairman of Process Systems Enterprises Ltd since January 2015.
In 2013 Ron Mackintosh completed nine years of service as non-executive director of Fidessa.
Following consultation in October 2013 with the largest 13 shareholders holding over 60% of Fidessas shares at that time the Board reappointed Ron and he has been re-elected by shareholders at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
During 2016, the Board undertook a rigorous review of Rons independence and contribution to the Board and continues to conclude that he remains independent in character and judgement.
The Board believes that Rons considerable experience within the technology sector in UK listed companies is both rare and very valuable and given recent changes in other parts of the Board it is beneficial to the Company to retain Rons services as an independent non-executive director.
The Board further considers his valuable contribution to, and in-depth understanding of, Fidessas business together with his fair and transparent participation in Board discussions as beneficial and valuable to the Board and Fidessa as a whole.
Accordingly, the Board recommends that Ron be re-elected as an independent non-executive director at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
The Board also recommends the election of Richard Longdon as the Senior Independent Director.
As announced by the Company on 11th January 2016, Ron Mackintosh stepped down as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee with Ken Archer assuming that role and also becoming a member of the Nominations Committee, both with effect from 8th January 2016.
After a formal review, the Board confirmed that John Worby, Elizabeth Lake and Ken Archer are independent in character and judgement.
When reaching its decision on independence, the Board considered the independence criteria set out in paragraph B.
The Chairman confirms that the performance of each of the directors continues to be effective and that they continue to demonstrate commitment to their roles, bringing their considerable commercial experience to Fidessa: accordingly their re-election is recommended.
The Senior Independent Director, Ron Mackintosh, confirms, on behalf of the nonexecutive directors, that the performance of the Chairman continues to be effective and his re-election is accordingly recommended.
Directors interests in shares and share incentives in Fidessa group plc are detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
At the date of this Directors and Corporate Governance Report, indemnities are in force under which Fidessa has agreed to indemnify the directors and the Company Secretary to the extent permitted by law and by Fidessa group plcs Articles of Association in respect of losses arising in their capacity as officer of any member of the Fidessa group.
In addition, Fidessa has purchased and maintained throughout the year, directors and officers liability insurance in respect of itself and its directors and officers.
