Fidessa group plc 09 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Fidessa is committed to playing an increasingly important role in the markets as customers focus on efficiency, transparency, compliance and performance.
the regulated asset classes is well period has now been extended to and structural change.
To support its customers 1st May 2017.
With the new US with over 60% of its revenue derived through MiFID II, Fidessa is planning administration indicating a preference from outside of Europe, and over 70% a number of major software releases towards deregulation, there is now in non-sterling currencies, Fidessa during 2017 and expects that some some uncertainty as to whether remains well positioned to benefit customers will look to move to a RegAT in its current form will from any continued weakness in service provider with scale, such as continue.
The new administration has sterling, providing further support Fidessa, as the work required to also indicated a desire to make for its strong cash generation and comply becomes clearer.
significant structural alterations to the dividend policy.
Fidessa expects that Wall Street Reform and Consumer 2017 constant currency revenue In the US, Fidessa has successfully Protection Act of 2010 the Doddgrowth will be around the levels that deployed new functionality to support Frank Act, and has indicated that it has seen during 2016, with further the Securities and Exchange it will be introducing detailed cost headline gains if sterling remains Commissions SECs Tick Size Pilot benefit analysis of any new proposed weak.
Fidessa anticipates that one off study, which widens the minimum rules.
As a result, Fidessa believes that and duplicate costs in respect of the quoting increment for a subset of pilot in the short term, there may be a relocation of its main US office from stocks.
This pilot, created in part as a pause in regulatory drivers within the New York to Jersey City will reduce result of the Jumpstart Our Business US market, although Fidessa may profit after tax margin by Startups Act JOBS Act, is a benefit from improved customer approximately 1% during 2017. programme aimed at studying sentiment if growth opportunities are whether liquidity in smaller companies Looking further ahead, although it is boosted.
Fidessa also expects that can be improved by widening the clear that both the Brexit vote and the despite any hiatus with regard to quoting increment, thereby result of the US election will create US regulation, most large firms will incentivising market makers.
It also some uncertainty, Fidessa believes continue to look for best practice includes a Trade-at provision, the that it is entering a period where when managing their global risk purpose of which is to encourage the opportunity is returning to the market.
routing of orders to lit markets.
Fidessa expects to continue to make Fidessa is also continuing to prepare Outlook progress with its multi-asset initiative for the forthcoming CAT NMS plan, Whilst Fidessa continues to see and will continue to investigate the which was approved by the SEC in structural and regulatory drivers possibility of extending its asset class November.
The plan aims to create a within the market, there is clearly a coverage further.
Fidessa believes single, comprehensive database degree of uncertainty as a result of that, across all asset classes, the known as the Consolidated Audit Trail the Brexit vote and the US election market is moving towards the CAT that will enable regulators to and it is likely to be some time before increased use of service-based more efficiently and thoroughly track it has a clear view of how these events solutions and that few vendors have all trading activity in the US equity will impact its customer base.
In both the depth of applications and and options markets.
It is likely to Europe, however, Fidessa continues to the scale of infrastructure needed to expand in future phases to include expect that MiFID II will be introduced deliver these solutions.
Fidessa is US Fixed Income instruments and as planned and that regardless of committed to playing an increasingly dealing activities related to Initial Brexit, this will include the UK.
In the important role in the markets as Public Offerings.
US there are signs that the regulatory customers focus on efficiency, environment may be loosened but, transparency, compliance and At the end of 2015 a proposal to move whilst early indications are that performance, and expects that this forward with Regulation Automated Fidessas customers see this as will provide it with significant Trading RegAT was unanimously beneficial, at this stage it is too early opportunities for further growth.
approved by the Commodity Futures to say how this might develop.
Work on the definition of RegAT continued Overall, Fidessa continues to believe during 2016, but the regulation was that it is well positioned to benefit not finalised before the US election as from the opportunities that will arise originally planned, and the comment in the markets as a result of regulatory
