Fidessa group plc 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Other statutory disclosures In accordance with Section 414C 11 of the Companies Act 2006, to the extent they are not addressed in the Directors and Corporate Governance Report, the disclosures relating to the following matters are included in the Strategic Report: future developments: current and proposed product development and investment: risk management: equal opportunities for disabled persons, employee engagement and other employee related disclosures: environmental matters, including greenhouse gas emissions: and corporate social responsibility.
The financial results and position are shown in the financial statements.
A fuller explanation of the results, including the recommended dividend and financial position, is provided in the Overview, the Finance Review, the Market Review and Outlook sections of the Strategic Report and the notes to the financial statements.
Fidessa has an active programme of research and development covering the expansion and improvement of its products and services.
Total expenditure on product development is set out in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
No political donations were made by Fidessa during 2016 2014: nil.
There are no off-balance sheet arrangements.
Details of the trusts relating to Fidessas share incentive plans, including any rights relating to the shares held by those trusts, are set out in note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.
4C R, the information required to be disclosed by LR9.8.
4 R can be found in the following locations: Section Topic Location 1 Interest capitalised Not applicable 2 Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable 4 Details of long-term incentive schemes Not applicable 5 Waiver of emoluments by a director Not applicable 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a director Not applicable 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable 8 Section 7 in relation to major subsidiary undertakings Not applicable 9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary Not applicable 10 Contracts of significance Directors report 11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Not applicable 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable Fidessa group plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and corporate governance report continued Share capital, articles of association and restrictions on transfers of securities Details of the called-up and fully paid share capital are set out in note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights attached to the shares and no person holds securities carrying special rights with regard to control.
As set out in note 16 the Fidessa group plc Employee Benefit Trust has waived its voting and dividend rights in connection with the shares held by it.
The rights and obligations attaching to the shares and the powers of the directors are set out in the Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House.
The appointment and replacement of directors is governed by the Articles of Association and the Nominations Committees Terms of Reference.
The Articles of Association may be amended by a special resolution.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the Company, except: that certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations: and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority whereby certain employees of the Group require the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
Fidessa is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
Disclosure of information to the auditor The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors and Corporate Governance Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditor is unaware and each director has taken the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to ascertain any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
Authority to purchase own shares At the Annual General Meeting held on 27th April 2016 shareholders approved a general authority to purchase up to 3,826,332 ordinary shares in the market.
This represented approximately 10% of the issued ordinary share capital at the time.
No purchase of shares has been made pursuant to this authority.
There is no present intention to use such authority, but the Board considers it desirable that the possibility of making such purchases under appropriate circumstances remains available.
A similar authority will be requested at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, again limited to a maximum of 10% of the issued share capital.
The Board intends only to exercise this authority if it believes that it will lead to an increase in earnings per share for the remaining shareholders.
Significant agreements Under the DABP, MSPP and SIP, on a change of control, options and awards would vest in full subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at the time.
Part of the PSP awards would also vest subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at the time but these would be time pro-rated.
Other than a limited number of customer contracts that give additional termination rights upon a change of control, Fidessa is not party to any other significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover or upon a takeover bid.
No director had material interest in any significant contract, other than a service contract, appointment letter or qualifying indemnity, with the Company or any of its subsidiaries at any time during the year.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Fidessa is committed to high standards of corporate governance and is subject to the principles of the Code which is published and regularly updated by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
The latest applicable update was published by the FRC in September 2014 and is available on the FRC website.
In respect of the year ended 31st December 2016 Fidessa has complied with all of the provisions of the Code.
Fidessa group plc 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Dialogue with shareholders Fidessa values the views of its shareholders and recognises their interests in its strategy and performance.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer hold briefing meetings with analysts and institutional shareholders, primarily following the announcement of interim and preliminary results but also at other times during the year as may be suitable.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer provide feedback to the Board from meetings with shareholders and also provide the Board with updates on communications with shareholders.
The Board also obtains formal feedback from analysts and institutional shareholders via Fidessas PR adviser and financial advisers.
Communication with private investors is through the Annual Report and the Annual General Meeting.
Financial and other information is made available on the website, www.
com, which is regularly updated.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director also meet with major shareholders as and when there is a requirement to do so.
Principal shareholders The following have disclosed that they have an interest in 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital.
As at 10th February 2017, the last holding notified to Fidessa is shown below.
Percentage of Ordinary 10p issued share shares capital Lindsell Train Limited 5,796,274 15.0 MFS Investment Management 3,929,856 10.2 Schroders plc 2,138,444 5.5 BlackRock, Inc. 2,020,043 5.2 Liontrust Investment Partners LLP 1,978,763 5.1 Kames Capital 1,915,889 5.0 Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its group 1,738,359 4.5 Prudential plc group of companies 1,629,727 4.2 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 1,619,001 4.2 Legal & General Group plc 1,425,065 3.7 FMR LLC 1,243,151 3.2 DA Taylor 1,153,049 3.0 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 1,148,500 3.0 The date of notification was not during 2016.
Going concern and longer term viability Fidessas business activities and position in its market are described in the Overview, Business Model and Strategy, Market Review, Outlook and Risks and Uncertainties sections of the Strategic Report.
The financial position, cash flows and liquidity position are described in the Finance Review and the notes to the financial statements.
In addition, the notes to the financial statements include Fidessas objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
Having reviewed the future plans and projections for the business, the principal risks that could impact on Fidessas liquidity and solvency over the next 12 months and its current financial position, the Board believes that Fidessa is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
Therefore, the Board has a reasonable expectation that Fidessa has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, a period of not less than 12 months from the date of this report.
For this reason, it continues to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Fidessa group plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and corporate governance report continued In addition to the going concern consideration, the Board has assessed Fidessas viability over a period longer than the 12 months covered by the going concern statement.
The Board determined that an assessment covering a period of three years, to 31st December 2019, was an appropriate period to assess Fidessas longer term viability.
In reaching this determination, consideration was given to Fidessas long-term strategy and focus and the period for which Fidessa has visibility over typical commercial arrangements with customers.
Consideration was also give to Fidessas track record of high levels of recurring revenue, ability to manage variable costs, strong cash generation, healthy cash balances and its absence of debt.
The review included stress tests on the future performance and solvency for changes in the base assumptions over the three years and also for the principal risks facing the business in severe but plausible combination scenarios together with the effectiveness of any mitigating actions.
Consideration has also been given to the risks of regional changes such as Brexit and the American election: however, the Board believes that the global nature of its trading platforms means that it is less susceptible to the effects of regional changes, as trading infrastructure is likely to continue to operate on a cross border basis.
Additionally, the foreign exchange movements during 2016 were considered with the Board noting that a weaker sterling represented a tailwind as over 70% of the Groups revenues and a lower proportion of its costs are denominated in non-sterling currencies.
Based on this assessment, the Board has reasonable expectations that Fidessa will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 31st December 2019.
In doing so, it is recognised that such future assessments are subject to a level of uncertainty that increases with time and, therefore, future outcomes cannot be guaranteed or predicted with certainty.
Fidessa group plc 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors responsibilities statement in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Company financial statements on the same basis.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Report that comply with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on Fidessas website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: the Strategic Report and the Directors Report together include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and its subsidiaries included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Andy Skelton Director 10th February 2017
