Business model Our services help to create strong, vibrant and sustainable local economies and our opportunity is to be the provider of choice for the customers and communities we serve.
Our lean corporate centre focuses on fostering What makes us different Our vision a high performance culture, sets the strategic We have a competitive advantage direction, raises and allocates capital, as a result of our scale and the To provide solutions for develops and manages our talent, establishes diversity of our portfolio of anincreasingly congested key targets and standards, monitors businesses: we design and operate performance and provides challenge.
worldkeeping people hundreds of networks in partnership While the detailed drivers differ by division, movingand communities with our communities: procure, andare reviewed in depth inthe business prospering.
maintain and operate around review see pages 10-19, the business model of any transport operator is in principle simple.
69,000 vehicles: hire, train and Our values Revenues are generated either from manage 110,000 employees: and passengers paying for the transportation transported 2.2 billion passengers Committed to our customers service directly, or the serviceis procured on last year.
We keep our customers at the behalf of passengers by government or other parties.
The operator must ensure appropriate heartofeverything we do.
Our business model vehicles are available where and when they Our overall strategy is to leverage our scale areneeded, staffed by suitably qualified and Dedicated to safety and the breadth of our global expertise for engaged employees, and that the service Always front of mind, safety thebenefit of our local markets.
Through this provided meets the safety, environmental, strategy we are ideally placed to provide the isour wayoflife.
reliability and other needs of the customers transport solutions increasingly needed by and communities served.
Successful Supportive of each other ourcustomers and to deliver the promises execution of this business modeldelivers gains embodied in our vision and underpinned We trust each other to deliver for a wide range of stakeholders: passengers byour values.
and worktohelp one another get wherethey wantto go via attractive, Each of our five divisions is exposed to succeed.
modern services: employees have arewarding different geographies, customers, revenue career: governments facilitate increased models, demand drivers and competitors Accountable for performance economic activity: local communities limit within the overall transport industry, and is congestion and other environmental costs of Every decision matters, we therefore run in a decentralised way so as transport: suppliers arepart of a successful dothe rightthing to achieve tobe responsive to the needs of our local ecosystem: and shareholders receive an ourgoals.
The diversity of our revenues appropriate return, even after the substantial bygeography and customer type typically reinvestment necessary to sustain the Setting the highest standards makes the overall Group relatively resilient business model for the longterm.
We want to be the best, through the business cycle.
continually seeking a better wayto do things.
Our strategic objectives Focused and disciplined bidding in our Driving growth through attractive commercial contract businesses propositions in our passenger revenue Approximately half our revenues are backed by businesses contracts or franchise agreements with national Our other main source of revenues is directly government, regional and local authorities in the UK, from our passengers, who represent a very broad and state and municipal authorities, local school demographic mix and travel using our services for a district boards, universities and private companies in wide range of business, commuting, educational, North America.
Across the Group we manage medical, social and recreational purposes.
All of almost 1,600 such contracts, which are typically our markets are highly competitive, and therefore competitively tendered, and of multi-year duration.
a strong understanding of the changing needs of Continuing to build on our many years of experience our local customers is vital to ensure our services formulating successful bids at appropriate levels are successful.
Offering a responsive range of of risk, and managing the delivery of the resulting destinations, frequencies and convenient ticket contracts, is critically important for our business.
options at competitive prices is a key objective in our passenger revenue businesses.
30 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Approximate Group revenue by type Approximate Group revenue by geography Passenger revenue 50% UK 42% Contract or franchise revenue 50% US 51% Canada 7% Our business model Safe and reliable transport for 2.2bn Shareholder passengers every year value and returns Our customers Profit and cash and communities generation Continuous improvement in operating and Prudent investment in our key assets Maintain responsible partnerships with financialperformance fleets, systems and people ourcustomersand communities By its nature, the transport industry involves the risk Through successful execution of the first three Our final strategic objective is to invest time, energy of injury to employees, passengers and third parties, strategic objectives, we delivered safe and reliable and capital in what matters to our key stakeholders.
which is why it is central to our culture and values to transportation services for around 2.2bn We focus on building long term partnerships with keep safety front of mind.
No less important for our passengers last year, and generated profits and our customers and communities, learning what customers is delivering a consistent and attractive substantial operating cash flow.
To continue to they want and striving to deliver it for them.
Our long service on which they can rely.
In both areas we deliver for all of our stakeholders over the longer term success is built on being a responsible partner constantly reinforce standards and seek out best term, reinvesting appropriately in the future is vital.
to all our stakeholders, an approach that is about practice from across the Group and beyond in order Our most important assets are our 110,000 people much more than meeting certain licence to to strive for ever more stretching improvement we invest in hiring, supporting and developing our operate contractual stipulations.
In reality we act targets.
This focus on disciplined operations and employees to ensure we continue to have the best as a responsible corporate citizen because the long continuous improvement is also brought to bear on people delivering our services.
We also invest to term success of our business is tightly entwined our financial performance, where we must manage ensure our fleets of more than 55,000 vehicles with the aspirations, opportunities and success employee productivity, asset fuel efficiency, across the Group are fit for purpose and offer of our customers and communities.
We can only procurement, overheads, insurance and other the safety systems and other services that our create value and deliver sustainable returns to our costs to ensure efficient use of our resources.
customers want such as smart ticketing, real-time shareholders if our services help to create strong, information and Wi-Fi.
We also invest in our vibrant and sustainable local economies, where systems and processes to support other strategic we are the provider of choice for the customers objectives, such as the current programme to and the communities we serve.
transform Greyhounds pricing, seat management and ticketing systems.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 31
