Governance Other statutory information Directors Share capital The Directors of the Company who served during the year and their As at 31 March 2016, the Companys issued share capital was biographical details are shown on pages 48 and 49, together with John 1,204,926,756 ordinary shares of 5p, each credited as fully paid.
McFarlane and Chris Surch who stood down from the Board on 16 July Asatthe date of this report, the Company holds 157,229 ordinary 2015 and 1 December 2015 respectively.
Details of Directors interests shares in treasury, and the issued share capital of the Company which in shares can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report.
carries voting rights of one vote per share comprises 1,204,769,527 ordinary shares excluding treasury shares.
Further details of the The Companys Articles of Association provide that each Director Companys issued share capital are shown in note 8 tothe Company whohas been appointed by the Board since the last Annual financial statements.
GeneralMeeting must retire from office and stand for election bytheshareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after their The Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Matthew Gregory, having been appointed to the A list of subsidiary undertakings is given in note 38 to the consolidated Boardon 1 December 2015, will be seeking election as a Director financial statements.
atthe forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the UKCorporate Governance Code, all other Directors will retire and Substantial shareholdings submit themselves for re-election at the Companys forthcoming As at 14 June 2016, the Company had been notified under Rule 5 Annual General Meeting.
Details of Directors contracts or letters ofthe Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct ofappointment are included in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Authority of the following interests in its total voting rights of 3% or more: Number of The performance of each Director was reviewed and it was found that ordinary % of total each of them continues to make an effective and valuable contribution Name of holder shares voting rights to the deliberations of the Board and demonstrate commitment to the Orbis Investment Management Limited 72,664,252 6.03 role.
The performance of the Chairman was led by the Senior Schroders plc 64,283,712 5.34 Independent Director.
Threadneedle Asset Management Limited 63,621,244 5.28 During the year, no Director had any interest in any shares or Franklin Mutual Advisers, LLC 60,595,200 5.03 debentures in the Companys subsidiaries, or any material interest Jupiter Asset Management Limited 60,603,024 5.03 inany contract with the Company or a subsidiary being a contract ofsignificance in relation to the Companys business.
Results The results for the year are set out in the consolidated income Directors indemnities and liability insurance statement on page 106.
FirstGroup maintains liability insurance for its Directors and Officers.
The Company has also granted indemnities to each of the Directors Articles of Association aswell as the Company Secretary, Group Director of Finance, Group The following description summarises certain provisions of the Financial Controller and Group Head of Tax to the extent permitted by Companys Articles of Association and applicable Scottish law law.
These indemnities are uncapped in amount, in relation to certain concerning companies the Companies Act 2006.
This summary losses and liabilities which they may incur to third parties in the course isqualified in its entirety by reference to this Companys Articles of of acting asa Director or Officer or Company Secretary as the case Association and the Companies Act 2006.
The Companys Articles may be of the Company or any of its associated companies.
In the ofAssociation may be amended by a special resolution of the case of the Group Director of Finance, Group Financial Controller and Companys shareholders.
Head of Tax the indemnities are limited to their actions as Directors of Shares specific associated companies.
Neither the indemnity nor insurance The rights attaching to the ordinary shares of the Company are defined cover provides cover in the event that a Director or Officer or Company in the Companys Articles of Association.
No person has any special Secretary as the case may be is proved to have acted fraudulently or rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares dishonestly.
The indemnity is categorised as a qualifying third-party are fully paid.
Details of the Companys issued share capital are set out indemnity for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006 and will in note 8 to the Company financial statements.
continue in force for the benefit of Directors or Officers or Company Secretary as the case may be on an ongoing basis.
Voting rights Shareholders are entitled to attend and vote at any general meeting Annual General Meeting ofthe Company.
It is the Companys practice to hold a poll on every The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at 1.30pm resolution at general meetings.
Every member present in person or by onTuesday 19 July 2016 at Norwood Hall Hotel, Garthdee Road, proxy has, upon a poll, one vote for every share held.
In the case of joint Aberdeen AB15 9FX, United Kingdom.
Details of the meeting venue holders of a share the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether and the resolutions to be proposed, together with explanatory notes, inperson or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes are set out in a separate Notice of Annual General Meeting which ofthe other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority shall be accompanies this Annual Report and Accounts.
determined by the order in which the names stand in the Register of A summary of the business carried out at the Annual General Meeting Members in respect of the joint holding.
The Notice of the 2016 Annual will be published on the Companys website www.
General Meeting accompanying this document specifies the deadlines for exercising voting rights.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 101 Other statutory information continued ofthe Company to make donations to EU political organisations or to Dividend rights incur other political expenditure.
However, as a result of the broad Shareholders may by ordinary resolution declare dividends but the definition used in the Companies Act 2006 theAct of matters amount of the dividend may not exceed the amount recommended constituting political donations, it is possible that normal business bythe Board.
The Directors are not recommending payment of a final activities, which might not be thought to be political expenditure in the dividend this year.
usual sense, could be caught.
Accordingly, authority is being sought as Transfer of shares a precaution to ensure that the Companys normal business activities There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the do not infringe the Act.
transfer of shares which are both governed by the general provisions In the US it is far more common for businesses to participate in ofthe Companys Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
thepolitical process through a variety of methods.
During the year TheDirectors are not aware of any agreements between holders of theGroups US businesses incurred political expenditure in the theCompanys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer USof$26,250 2014 15: $1,000 in the support of their business ofsecurities or on voting rights at any meeting of the Company.
TheGroup has fully complied with jurisdictional reporting Employee share plans ofthese contributions.
The Company operates a number of employee share plans details of No other political donations or expenditure was incurred by the which are set out in note 34 to the consolidated financial statements.
Company and its subsidiaries during 2015 16.
Kleinwort Benson Guernsey Trustees Limited, as trustee of the FirstGroup plc Employee Benefit Trust EBT, holds shares in the Employee involvement Company in trust in order to satisfy awards made to participants in the An informed and consultative approach to employee communication Companys LTIP, EABP, ESP and SAYE plan.
The EBT waives its rights istaken across the Group.
As well as more traditional forms of to vote and to dividends on the shares it holds which are unallocated.
communication, employees can also access online facilities.
The employee portal provides an opportunity for employees to share Under the rules of the FirstGroup plc Share Incentive Plan BAYE, information and work in collaboration with other Group employees employees buy shares and receive free matching shares in the onareas of mutual interest and benefit to the Group.
In order to preserve certain tax benefits these shares are management teams work to ensure that communication is cascaded held in a trust by Computershare for employees.
Whilst these shares face to face throughout their business areas and employees are are held in trust, the voting rights attached to them are exercised by the encouraged to discuss any issues with management at any time trustee, but only at the direction of the employees.
The trustee does not andevents, such as executive roadshows, are arranged periodically vote on the shares if no direction is given to it.
toallow employees the chance to feed back to senior management.
All of the Companys employee share plans contain provisions relating A significant proportion of the workforce belongs to trade unions, with to change of control.
On a change of control, options and awards our employees represented by approximately 32 different unions.
granted to employees may vest and become exercisable, subject to Themajority of our employees in North America, approximately 79% thesatisfaction of any applicable performance conditions at the time.
ofour First Bus employees and a significant proportion of our First Rail Powers of the Directors employees are represented by unions.
The Directors are responsible for the management of the business Throughout the Group, regular dialogue with employee representatives, ofthe Company and may exercise all powers of the Company subject such as trade unions, is maintained.
Each division has its own toapplicable legislation and regulation and the Companys Articles information and consultation arrangements and levels of employee ofAssociation.
involvement in the business differ.
Purchase of own shares As well as gathering feedback throughout the year through formal At the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2015 authority was andinformal channels, all employees are also given the opportunity granted for the Company to purchase up to 10% of its ordinary shares.
tomake their voice heard through regular employee surveys.
These During the year no ordinary shares were purchased.
Under the existing surveys at Group, divisional and local level provide a useful insight into authority the Company may purchase up to 120,400,000 ordinary what employees think about the Company.
The priorities identified by shares.
This authority remains in place until the Annual General Meeting employees help to shape the future employee strategy.
on 19 July 2016 when it is intended to seek a renewal.
Policies concerning disabled employees Political donations Full and fair consideration is given to applications for employment At the 2015 AGM, shareholders passed a resolution to authorise the bydisabled persons.
We are committed to supporting disabled Company and its subsidiaries to make political donations to political employees including employees who become disabled persons parties or independent election candidates, to other political duringtheir employment with regards to training, career development organisations, or to incur political expenditure as such terms are and promotion.
defined in sections 362 to 379 of the Companies Act 2006, in each case in amounts not exceeding 100,000 in aggregate.
As the authority granted will expire at the 2016 AGM, renewal of this authority will be sought at this years Annual General Meeting.
Further details are available in the Notice ofAnnual General Meeting.
It is not the policy 102 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance c Joint venture agreements Change of control significant agreements The Company has joint venture agreements with Keolis UK Limited a Financing agreements inrelation to the former TransPennine Express franchise and with The Group has a 800m multi-currency revolving credit and guarantee Danske Statsbaner Danish State Railways in relation to DSB First Aps facility between, amongst others, the Company and The Royal Bank of and DSB Sverige AB.
As is customary, these joint venture agreements Scotland plc dated 15 May 2014.
This refinanced the Groups existing include provisions addressing change of control.
The operations revolving credit and guarantee facility.
Following any change of control towhich each of these agreements apply have ceased to operate of the Company, individual lenders may negotiate with the Company during 2015 16 in March 2016 and December 2015, respectively, and with a view to resolving any concerns arising from such change of the agreements are referred to herefor completeness.
If the matter has not been resolved within 30 days an individual bank may cancel its commitment and the Company must repay the Financial risk management relevant proportion of any drawdown.
The Companys policies on financial risk management, including theCompanys exposure to liquidity risk, credit risk and certain The US$150m 4.26% notes due in three instalments of US$50m from market-based risks including foreign exchange rates, interest 2016 to 2017, the 250m 6.125% bonds due 2019, the 300m 8.125% ratesandfuel prices, can be found in note 24 to the consolidated bonds due 2018, the 350m 8.750% bonds due 2021, the 200m financialstatements.
6.875% bonds due 2024 and the 325m 5.250% bonds due 2022 issued by the Company may also be affected by a change of control Audit information ofthe Company.
A change of control in respect of the 250m 6.125% The Directors who held office at 14 June 2016 confirm that so far as bonds due 2019 may result in an increase of 1.5% per annum in the they each are aware, there is no relevant audit information being interest rate payable on those bonds.
However, the interest rate on the information needed by the auditor in connection with preparing their bonds will only be so increased if certain further thresholds in relation audit report, of which the Companys auditor is unaware, and each of tothe credit rating of the bonds are also met.
In respect of the 300m the Directors has taken all the steps that he orshe ought to have taken 8.125% bonds due 2018, the 350m 8.750% bonds due 2021, the as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant 200m 6.875% bonds due 2024 and the 325m 5.250% bonds due audit information and to establish that theCompanys auditor is aware 2022, upon a change of control of the Company, provided that certain of that information.
further thresholds in relation to the credit rating of the bonds are met, Auditor the bondholders have the option to require the Company to redeem the Having reviewed the independence, objectivity and performance bonds.
In respect of the US$150m 4.26% notes due from 2016 to 2017, oftheauditor, the Audit Committee has recommended to the upon a change of control, the Company must make an offer to Boardthatthe existing auditor, Deloitte, be re-appointed.
Ordinary noteholders to prepay the entire unpaid principal amount of the notes  Deloitte as auditor and authorising the held by each bondholder at par together with interest accrued thereon Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed at the 2016 but without any yield maintenance amount.
b First Rail Going concern The Groups franchised passenger rail operators, First TransPennine Whilst the Group is affected by macro-economic developments, it Express Limited and First Greater Western Limited, are each party hasa strong balanced portfolio of businesses with approximately toafranchise agreement with the Secretary of State for Transport.
halfofGroup revenues generated through contracts with government Thesefranchise agreements are subject to termination clauses which agencies and other large organisations in the UK and North America.
may apply on a change of control.
These operators and the Groups non-franchised railoperator, Hull Trains Company Limited, each hold While any changes in economic activity will impact First Bus and First railway licences as required by the Railways Act 1993 as amended : Rail passenger numbers this potential risk is reduced in First Bus by these licences may be revoked on three months notice if a change theability of the Group to modify services on relatively short notice.
In ofcontrol occurs without the approval of the Office of Rail and Road.
North America, the First Student and First Transit businesses are highly Allof these operators also require and hold track access agreements contracted and, whilst Greyhound is more susceptible to the economy, with Network Rail Infrastructure Limited under which they are permitted its costs are largely variable.
Failure by any of the operators to The Group has a diversified funding structure which is largely maintain its railway licence is a potential termination event under the represented by medium term unsecured committed bank facilities terms of the track access agreements.
The Groups railway operators andlong term unsecured bond debt.
The Group has a 800m also lease rolling stock from specialist rolling stock leasing companies committed revolving banking facility, which expires on 28 June 2019. such as Eversholt Rail Group, Porterbrook Leasing Company Limited and Angel Trains Limited.
A material number of the individual leasing The Groups management of exposure to financial risk, including agreements includechange of control provisions.
The Group is also liquidity, currency, interest rate and commodity risks, is disclosed in involved from time to time in bidding processes for UK rail franchises note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
and transport contracts further afield which customarily include change The Directors have carried out a detailed review of the Groups 2016 17 in circumstance provisions which would be triggered on a change of budget and medium term plans, with due regard to the risks and control and could result in termination or rejection from further uncertainties to which the Group is exposed of which the principal participation in the relevant competitions.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 103 Other statutory information continued items are set out on pages 37 to 40, the uncertain economic climate The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records and the impact that this could have on trading performance.
that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of Based on this review, the Directors believe that the Company and the the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible forthe foreseeable future which is for this purpose a period of at least forsafeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking 12 months from the date of approval of these financial statements.
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other Accordingly, the financial statements have been prepared on a going irregularities, and have adopted a control framework across the Group.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of Post-balance sheet events thecorporate and financial information included on the Companys Post-balance sheet events are set out in note 37 of the consolidated website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation financial statements.
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of other jurisdictions.
the annual report and the financial statements Responsibility statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Each Director confirms to the best of his or her knowledge that: Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: the Group financial statements in accordance with International the Strategic report and Governance section include a fair review of Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European the development and performance of the business and the position Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have chosen to prepare ofthe Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and UK Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 uncertainties that they face: and Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101 and applicable law.
the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial and understandable and provides the information necessary for statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of shareholders to assess the Companys and the Groups position the state ofaffairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the andperformance, business model and strategy.
In preparing the parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: The Strategic report comprising pages 2 to 46 and the Governance select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: section comprising pages 48 to 104, and including the sections of the Annual Report and Accounts referred to in these pages, have been make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: andprudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards, including FRS Robert Welch 101, have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed Company Secretary and explained in the financial statements: and 14 June 2016 395 King Street, Aberdeen AB24 5RP prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless itis inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue inbusiness.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information including accounting policies, in a manner thatprovides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions onthe entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a goingconcern.
104 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial statements Financial statements Consolidated income statement 106 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 107 Consolidated balance sheet 108 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 109 Consolidated cash flow statement 110 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 111 Independent auditors report 155 Group financial summary 159 Company balance sheet 160 Statement of changes in equity 161 Notes to the Company financial statements 162 Shareholder information 166 Financial calendar 167 Glossary 168 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 105
