Our markets Every week 1.5m people Congestion is expected to 1 move into urban areas cost the UK nearly 33bn 2 a year by 2030 Working with local and national authorities Because good transportation services deliver such a wide range of Transport links are critical social and economic benefits, many of our services are mandated toeconomic growth and orfinancially supported by the communities they serve.
Indeed, all ofour divisions either emerged from, or compete alongside, publicly forcommunities to flourish.
funded models of transport provision.
In all cases, private sector operators such as FirstGroup have been given the opportunity to Enhancing connectivity through efficient transportation links has always operate services commercially in order to increase competition been a critical enabler of economic growth and improving quality of life improving value for money and efficiency and bring innovation for people and communities.
People need to travel for a wide range andagility in an increasingly fast-moving and complex environment.
ofreasons business, education, healthcare, social and recreation Acrossthe Group a variety of funding and specification models exist, and across our five divisions, FirstGroup responds to the needs of our with varying degrees of reliance on local and national authorities.
customers for transport solutions that support the prosperity of their Offering value for money, ensuring we are good partners forour local economies and help their communities to flourish.
While each communities and listening to our customers are critical success ofourmarkets has some unique characteristics, several key themes factorsacross the Group.
areimportant to each of them.
Service standards and responding to complexity Urbanisation Customers requirements for safety, comfort and convenience continue The world is becoming increasingly urbanised and globalised.
The multiplication of potential transport modes and Thefalling cost and increasing efficiency of transport links have competition between operators continues to drive up quality and createdaglobal interconnected economy, even as more people performance standards throughout the industry.
Our customers andeconomic activity move into urban areas.
More than half of requirements are complex and constantly evolving, and responding globalGDP is already generated in the largest 600 cities, and totheir needs is critical.
Interconnectivity between different transport morethan half the worlds population today already live in urban areas modes is increasingly important, as is the provision of the real-time and bothtrends are set toincrease.
Despite ever more sophisticated information necessary to make best use of them.
Enhancing forms of long distance communication, the rapid rise of cities globally convenience through smarter ticketing an important focus for FirstBus isexpected to continue, given the importance of face-to-face this year, improving onboard amenities such as Wi-Fi and getting to interactions in increasingly knowledge-based economies.
Transport know customers needs better through customer relationship links within cities such asthose provided by First Transit and First Bus management techniques well advanced in First Rail and aparticular andbetween them suchas provided by Greyhound and First Rail focus of Greyhound this year provide asignificant opportunity to willcontinue to be animportant driver and beneficiary of these trends.
increase patronage across all our divisions.
Congestion and the environment Our geographic markets With 1.5 million people moving to urban areas each week worldwide, Our core markets in the UK and North America share several maintaining mobility within cities despite this increasing population demographic, social and political characteristics which make them density is a key priority, and it is clear that an approach based primarily attractive for transport operators.
Both are heavily and increasingly on the car is no longer sufficient.
Some estimates put the annual cost urbanised just over 80% of the population in the UK and North of lost productivity from traffic congestion in the hundreds of billions in 1 America live in urban areas today, increasing to nearly 90% by 2050. the US by the 2030s.
The cost is also counted in air quality degradation High and increasing proportions of both populations are either in and higher emissions.
It is clear that increasing useof public transport education or retirement age, demographic bands where use of our systems is vital to the continued prosperity of cities.
Whilst our services is proportionately higher just over 40% currently, rising to businesses can also be affected by congestion day-to-day, they clearly 3 more than 45% by 2050 in both markets.
Although car ownership form part of the long term solution by allowing travellers to leave their isrelatively high in both markets, national and local authorities cars behind.
We also strive to be at the forefront of technologies to areactively seeking to encourage greater use of alternatives.
minimise our own environmental footprint.
Bothmarkets also have long histories of transport deregulation Demographic change and social inclusion andoutsourcing, with mature business models and regulatory Transport solutions also need to take account of demographic frameworks that encourage partnering with the private sector for changes.
Many segments of our communities have always been more transport infrastructure and services.
reliant on mass transportation such as those in education, retired In the longer term, we believe there is significant opportunity globally orunable to drive themselves and with a rapidly ageing population forthe services we provide, and we are actively monitoring a range inmany parts of the world, this proportion is set to increase.
numbers of particularly young urban dwellers are also choosing not todrive at all, given the costs of buying and maintaining a car and 1 UN Population Division, World Urbanization Prospects 2014. theissues ofparking and sustainability.
While the digital economy is 2 Report by INRIX in collaboration with Centre for Economics and Business offering more opportunities to access transport as a service such as Research CEBR, 2013. car sharing and other applications, there is agrowing demographic 3 UN Population Division, World Population Prospects 2013. which is open to using our services provided we meet its needs.
26 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Approximate First Student share of outsourced market Approximate First Transit share of c. $30bn North American around 38% of total market transit market of which c. 30% is outsourced First Student 24% In-house 70% National Express 11% First Transit 5% Student Transportation of America 6% Other outsourced providers 25% Illinois Central 2% Other 57% either fixed or annually indexed pricing, meaning that private operators Our North American markets bear cost risk.
These contracts are typically three to five years in duration, after which they are competitively retendered.
In addition toschool districts outsourcing student transportation for the first time Puerto Rico and conversion, growth is driven by additional routes for a given school Puerto Rico and US Virgin Islands US Virgin Islands due to population growth or other factors organic growth, as well as inflation-related price indexation built into some contracts.
Competitors The private outsourced market is highly fragmented.
Only three Alaska companies, including First Student, operate more than 10,000 buses Alaska and together account for just over 40% of the outsourced market.
Only12 other operators run more than 1,000 buses.
The remaining halfof the outsourced contracts are operated by several thousand companies, often termed mom and pop operators.
These operators continue to be robust on pricing to retain contracts.
Share shift, or First Student winning contracts previously managed by other outsourced providers, First Transit together with acquisitions, provide additional avenues of growth.
Greyhound network Greyhound Express Market attractions Affiliated Greyhound carriers in Mexico Contracts with public sector customers, typically low creditrisk Typically high levels of contract retention First Student Security and safety track record often as important as price Established relationships with local communities a barrier to entry Fragmented marketplace long term acquisition opportunities.
First Student is the largest provider of student transportation in North America more than twice thesizeofthe next largest competitor.
First Transit Market review and trends School buses provide home to school transportation for millions of First Transit is one of the largest private sector students in the US and Canada.
There are around 14,000 school districts in North America, which deploy approximately 525,000 buses.
providers of public transit management and The total North American market is estimated to be worth around $25bn contracting in North America.
per annum, of which school districts directly operate approximately Market review and trends 62%, with 38% outsourced to private operators.
Charter services are The transit market is worth around $30bn per annum in North America, also operated, either for school customers separate from scheduled of which around 30% is outsourced.
The market includes the provision school runs or for other customers such as church and community of fixed route bus services approximately $20bn segment, of which groups or businesses.
more than 10% is outsourced, paratransit bus services approximately Long term demand for school transportation services is principally $5bn segment, of which three-quarters is outsourced, private shuttle driven by the size of the school-age population.
School districts receive services approximately $2bn segment, of which around 90% is their funding from state and local sources, including property tax outsourced and vehicle maintenance services approximately $3bn receipts, and their budgets for all expenditure, including transportation, segment, of which more than 30% is outsourced.
Private providers tend therefore to be linked to economic factors.
Other factors including manage, operate, maintain and organise transportation services under the propensity of school districts to outsource and changes in the local contracts which typically last for three to five years or longer.
criteria for service provision can also play a part in the addressable As populations age and urban congestion increases, the scope and market for private operators.
In the last three years the market has sophistication of municipal and other transportation services required stabilised with some positive but limited organic growth, following isrising, which enhances the attraction of bringing in private sector aperiod when the economic downturn put pressure on customer expertise.
Although North American state and local government budgets, which had led to organic retraction, price pressure and finances are improving, they continue to seek opportunities to increase atypicallevels of contract churn.
While school district budget pressures the cost effectiveness of their transportation spending, which supports have eased, high-quality, efficient outsourced providers continue to offer growth in outsourcing where private contractors canimprove efficiency an attractive value proposition to potential customers.
Overall, the shuttle segmentcontinues to grow, Customers with private companies, universities and airports seeking to offer School districts provide transportation for students depending on improved services to their own customers andemployees.
varying criteria determined at state level.
Contracts typically specify FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 27 Distribution of Greyhound passengers by mileage band Our markets continued 1-200 miles 48% 201-450 miles 35% 451-1,000 miles 12% 1,000 miles 5% also partners with Amtrak to offer customers a through ticket to their Customers final destination if not served by rail.
A wide range of customers contract out transportation services, including transit authorities, federal, state and local agencies, as well as Customers private institutions such as universities, hospitals and airports.
Vehicle North American intercity coach firms serve a wide customer base, fleet maintenance services include contracting for private and public many of whom prioritise value and whose primary purpose is to visit sector clients, including municipalities, and fire and police departments.
Direct point-to-point services such as Greyhound Express are encouraging a new, younger demographic, with increased Competitors urbanisation and congestion also beginning to have an impact on car First Transit has around 15% of the outsourced market in North ownership statistics.
Historically, customers typically bought walk-up America, which accounts for approximately 30% of the total market.
tickets on their day of travel, but new online and mobile services are Theoutsourced transit market is fragmented, though First Transit encouraging more advance booking.
hastwo large competitors, MV Transportation, Inc. and Transdev NorthAmerica.
The outsourced fleet maintenance market is highly Competitors competitive and our First Vehicle Services business is estimated to Intercity coach services compete with many other modes of midto beone of the largest providers, with Penske and Ryder being the main long-distance travel across North America, including budget airlines competitors.
A number of small and medium sized companies and the private car.
The intercity coach market is highly competitive in represent a significant proportion of the outsourced market.
The market dense travel corridors such as the US north east and north west, where continues to attract new entrants, though reputation and track record coach also competes with air and rail transportation.
remain important differentiators in the bidding process.
Market attractions Market attractions Private car use becoming less attractive, driven by urbanisation, Contracts mainly with public sector customers, low creditrisk congestion and costs of motoring Typically high levels of contract retention Opportunities to expand penetration and footprint in US and Mexico Low levels of capital investment required apart from in shuttle Under-utilised services may be part-funded by transport authorities Ageing population and congestion trends provide support Target demographic segments responsive to innovation through forcontinued growth through further outsourcing.
technology and value for money offering Package, charter and food service revenues offerdiversification.
Greyhound Our UK markets Greyhound is the only national operator of intercity Great Western Railway Hull Trains coach services in the US and Canada, serving48 US TransPennine Express States and ten Canadian Provinces and Territories.
First Bus operations Market review and trends Aberdeen The US intercity coach industry has grown overall since2006 reversing the declining trend of the previous 25 years.
Growth has been Stirling driven principally by improvements in the onboard experience and new GlasgowFalkirk Edinburgh or enhanced services, such as point-to-point express services on Galashiels highdensity routes.
The potential market size remains a significant opportunity, with 42m people considering coach travel every year, of whom a quarter currently use Greyhound.
Even regular coach users Belfast choose competing modes 75% of the time, but acombination of more destinations, tailored services and price has thepotential to grow York Bradford ridership and frequency of use.
Leeds Hull Dublin Manchester Shefeld Since the substantial and rapid fall in at-pump fuel prices for consumers Stoke-on-Trent in the final months of 2014, passenger demand has fallen as the cost of Birmingham Leicester Norwich other forms of transport have become more attractive compared with Worcester the coach.
The longer term impact on the intercity coach market Cork Ipswich Colchester growth trend will depend in part on future fuel price movements.
Swansea Chelmsford Cardiff Basildon Bristol Weston-super-Mare Slough As well as passenger revenues, income is generated from package Bath Taunton express services, charter and tour organisation and also catering outlets Southampton Portsmouth Weymouth in terminals.
Partnerships between Greyhound and independent bus Plymouth Truro lines interlining, extends the reach of the national network.
Greyhound Penzance 28 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Approximate First Bus share of UK market outside London Passenger revenue base of First Rail operations FirstGroup 20% Leisure 56% Others 80% Business 23% Commuter 21% First Bus First Rail First Bus is one of the largest bus operators in the UK, One of the UKs most experienced rail operators, with around a fifth of the market outside London.
carrying around 140m passengers across our two franchises and our open access operation.
Market review and trends Local bus services in the UK outside London have been deregulated Market review and trends since the 1980s, with most services provided by private operators, Passenger rail services are primarily provided by private train operating though a small number of local authority owned operators still exist.
companies through franchises awarded by the relevant authority, but Bus markets are local and services operate on a flexible model with may also be provided on an open access basis.
Operators are operators setting fares, frequencies and routes commercially and responsible for the day-to-day management and operation of rail operating socially necessary services under local authority contracts.
Many elements of the service provided to customers are Around 2.8bn passenger journeys are made on bus services outside mandated as part of the franchise contract and others are left to ofLondon, generating revenues of approximately 4.3bn a year.
Total franchised passenger revenues in the UK are more than 9bn per annum.
Rail tracks and infrastructure signalling Partnership with local authorities remains a core principle for both the and some major stations are owned and managed by Network Rail.
industry and central Government, to support service delivery and be Operators typically lease rolling stock from leasing companies.
acatalyst for improvements in innovation and investment.
The DfT promotes this agenda through initiatives including Better Bus Area Passenger numbers across the industry continue to increase year-ongrants and the Green Bus Fund.
Private operators are increasingly year, and recently reached a post-war high of 1.7bn.
The Government focused on improving the customer offering through measures such continues to invest in infrastructure and new rolling stock across the astailored local brands and routes, and increased convenience UK.
Closer working relationships between Network Rail, regulators through multi-operator ticketing and real-time passenger information.
andtrain operating companies continue to be positively encouraged byGovernment in order to facilitate these infrastructure upgrades and Local authorities currently have powers to regulate services in their innovations.
During the year the DfT has continued to progress its areathrough Quality Contracts if they demonstrate the existing model is competition timetable, with a number of third generation franchises failing to deliver for passengers.
Quality Contracts have not been being awarded.
implemented anywhere and a recent application on behalf of the Tyne & Wear authorities was unsuccessful.
The devolution agenda rolling out Customers across England is giving certain areas the opportunity to franchise bus Rail markets are generally categorised into three sectors: London and networks, replacing Quality Contracts.
The Bus Services Bill, which is south east commuter services: regional: and long distance.
In addition, currently passing through Parliament, will give new enabling powers for certain networks also offer sleeper services.
Parts of GWR fall into all franchising and set out criteria which an authority needs to meet, four categories, while TPE is mainly an intercity operation.
Our Hull though it also enhances the partnership model with local authorities Trains open access operation caters principally to long distance and that First Bus already supports.
Customers Competitors Bus market revenues principally comprise passenger ticket sales and The main competitor to rail in the UK is the private car.
We also face concessionary fare schemes reimbursements by local authorities for competition on some of our passenger flows from other rail services passengers entitled to free or reduced fares.
Significant proportions and, to a lesser extent, from long distance coach services and airlines.
ofcustomers use bus services for commuting to work or educational First Rail bids for franchises against other operators of current UK rail establishments for shopping and for leisure purposes.
Commercial franchises and public transport operators from other countries.
passenger revenues are typically linked to economic activity in a local Market attractions market.
Income is also generated through tendered services.
More than 9bn of long term contract-backed passenger revenue Competitors available through 19 major franchise opportunities, of which more The UK bus market outside London is deregulated and highly than half by revenue will be let before 2020 competitive with more than 1,000 bus operators: we face competition New franchises typically have significant revenue opportunity risk with in all markets in which we operate.
Through the year operators have some revenue protection, clear contingent capital requirements but both entered and left the market.
The main competitor is the private car.
low overall capital intensity Market attractions Regulated environment, including Government capped regulated Growth potential from strategies tailored to specific segments fareincreases Bus travel diversified by journey type Historically high levels of passenger numbers across the UK.
Opportunity in youth demographic, where car ownership is falling Using new technology to attract and retain custom.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 29
