Wolfhart Hauser N Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Chairman Appointed: 2009 and became Chief Executive Appointed: 1 December 2015 Appointed: 18 May 2015 and became Chairman in2010 Key areas of prior expertise: Finance, M&A on 16 July 2015 Key areas of prior expertise: Transportation, Skills and experience: He has strong financial Key areas of prior expertise: Governance, Strategy and operational expertise, including strategic and Strategy Skills and experience: He brings to the Board financial planning and control, as well as extensive Skills and experience: He brings to the Board a awealth of international transport management international experience of driving performance strong track record of driving profitable growth and experience gained over a number of years in the improvement and restructuring.
Former Group value creation in a large international organisation, sector.
Prior to joining the Company, he was Finance Director of Essentra plc, having previously as well as significant board experience in major UK Managing Director, London Underground, having been Director of Corporate Development as well as listed companies.
Wolfhart was CEO of Intertek previously been at Transport for London, and prior having held a number of senior finance roles.
His Group plc, the international quality and safety to which he was President and Chief Executive of early career was spent at Rank Group plc and services provider for ten years, before he retired Consolidated RailCorporation.
Other appointments: He is a Non-Executive Nationality: British Other appointments: Senior Independent Director Director of CSX Corporation, a rail freight of RELX PLC and RELX NV and a Non-Executive transportation company in North America.
Director of Associated British Foods plc.
Imelda Walsh Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: 2014 Appointed: 2012 Appointed: 2014 Key areas of prior expertise: Marketing, Key areas of prior expertise: Finance Key areas of prior expertise: Remuneration Strategy Skills and experience: He brings to the Board a Skills and experience: She brings considerable Skills and experience: He brings to the Board wealth of financial and risk experience and knowledge.
experience to the Board gained across a number awealth of experience gained across a number Brian has held executive board positions within a of sectors, as well as outstanding remuneration ofcustomer-focused businesses in the UK, Europe number of major organisations, most recently as Group practice skills.
Imelda was formerly a Nonand the US.
Drummond was formerly Chief Finance Director of Ladbrokes plc and previously as Executive Director and Chair of the Remuneration Executive of Dairy Crest Group plc, prior to which Group Finance Director and Deputy Chief Executive Committee of Sainsburys Bank plc and has held his career was spent mainly with Procter & Gamble, of Hilton Group.
A chartered accountant, he began senior executive roles at J Sainsbury plc, where Mars and PepsiCo.
He has also been Chairman his career at Price Waterhouse and went on to she was Group HR Director, Barclays Bank plc and a Non-Executive Director of Mitchells & perform senior finance roles at Geest, APV and andCoca-Cola & Schweppes Beverages Limited.
Butlersplc and a Non-Executive Director of Taylor Schlumberger.
He previously served as a Other appointments: Non-Executive Director Nelson Sofres PLC.
Non-Executive Director at Scottish & Newcastle plc, and Chair of the Remuneration Committees of Other appointments: Senior Independent Hays plc, Merlin Entertainment and Miller Group.
William Hill plc, Mitchells & Butlers plc and Non-Executive Director of WH Smith plc and a Other appointments: Chairman of Travelodge Mothercare plc.
Non-Executive Director of The Sage Group plc.
Hotels Limited and SoftCat plc.
Nationality: British Nationality: British Nationality: British 48 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 4.
Warwick Brady A Non-Executive Employee Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: 2012 Appointed: 2014 Key areas of prior expertise: Rail Industry, Key areas of prior expertise: Transportation Employee Relations Skills and experience: He brings to the Board Skills and experience: He has been a significant experience of the transport sector.
railwayman for 40 years and is currently employed Warwick has a strong track record of delivering as a train driver for First Greater Western Limited, restructuring, cost reduction and modernisation one of the Groups train operating companies.
As Chief Operating Officer at easyJet Mickbrings to the Board considerable knowledge plc since 2009, he is part of the management team of the attitudes and concerns of employees responsible for improving the airlines financial and andrepresents their views to the Board and operating performance.
His previous roles include itsCommittees.
Chief Executive of Indonesian Airline Mandala, Nationality: British Deputy Operations Director at Ryanair plc and Chief Operating Officer at Air Deccan.
Other appointments: Chief Operating Officer ofeasyJet plc.
Jim Winestock Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: 2012 Key areas of prior expertise: Distribution Skills and experience: He brings to the Board considerable operational experience gained within a large complex organisation, together with a track record of achievement.
Jim has served in a number of senior roles and was a member of the management committee during his career at Board Committees United Parcel Service, Inc. latterly as Senior Vice President and Director of US operations and global A Audit Committee security with responsibility for all US operations and R Remuneration Committee 360,000 employees.
N Other appointments: Non-Executive Director of Nomination Committee YRC Worldwide, Inc. a Fortune 500 company and B Board Safety Committee one of the largest transportation service providers Chair in the world, and also serves on the Board of two not-for-profit organisations in the US.
Nationality: American FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 49
