OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REPORT Report of the Management Engagement Committee Role of the Committee strength of these businesses and the resources and opportunities for The primary role of the Management Engagement Committee is F&C as part of BMO and their continued support for its investment to review the investment management agreement and monitor the trust business.
With regard to performance, while the shareholder performance of the Manager for the investment, secretarial, financial, return lagged the Benchmark over the year, shareholder returns have administration, marketing and support services that it provides outperformed the Market benchmark over longer time periods.
It also reviews the terms of the agreement Committee met in closed session following the presentations and including the level and structure of fees payable, the length of notice concluded that in their opinion the continuing appointment of FCIB period and best practice provisions generally.
All of the Committees as Manager on the terms agreed was in the interests of shareholders responsibilities have been carried out over the course of 2016 and as a whole.
The Board ratified this recommendation.
The Managers fee Composition of the Committee An important responsibility of the Committee is that relating to the All the Directors are members of the Committee.
Its terms of reference management fee.
The Manager receives an annual fee, which for the can be found on the website at www.
com year under review was equal to 0.365% of the market capitalisation of the Company.
The fee is calculated and paid monthly and is subject to Manager evaluation process a deduction for amounts earned from investments in other investment The Committee met once during the year and again in January vehicles managed by F&C.
The amount received was 9.5million 2017 for the purpose of the formal evaluation of the Managers 2015: 9.0 million.
Note 4 on the accounts provides detailed performance including the contribution from F&C more widely.
information in relation to the management fee.
Their performance is considered by the Board at every meeting, with a formal evaluation by the Committee each year.
For the purposes Whilst the funds held in the Global Multi-Manager portfolio levy of its ongoing monitoring, the Board receives detailed reports and management fees, no fees are paid to the Manager for the selection of views from the Fund Manager on investment policy, asset allocation, the funds.
gearing and risk, together with quarterly presentations on the F&C managed portfolio strategies.
Quarterly updates are received from Review of the Managers fee the US sub-managers.
The Board also receives comprehensive The fee paid to the Manager is reviewed by the Committee every performance measurement schedules, provided by Thomson three years and is next due for review in December 2018.
At the last Reuters Eikon and F&C.
These enable it to assess: the success review in December 2015, presentations were given by both F&C or failure of the management of the total portfolio against the and an independent consultant, which had provided an in-depth performance objectives set by the Board: the sources of positive analysis of fees prevailing in the market place and trends both and negative contribution to the portfolio in terms of gearing, within the investment trust industry and more widely.
The review asset allocation and stock selection: and the performance of each also considered the effect of the ad valorem structure and hence investment portfolio strategy against its local index, where applicable, the impact of exchange rate movements and share buybacks.
and the risk return characteristics of the portfolio.
Portfolio The findings of the independent consultant were that the existing performance information, which is relevant in monitoring F&C, the structure and fee level were both sensible and aligned in the key sub-managers and the Private Equity managers, is set out on pages areas.
Although market capitalisation as the basis for the fee 16 to 20. calculation was uncommon, this was now appearing more and more in new issues and the basis had worked well for Foreign & Colonial Manager reappointment in terms of its simplicity: clarity: discount tightening: and alignment.
The annual evaluation that took place in January 2017 included This was consistent with F&Cs own assessment.
In summary, presentations from the Fund Manager and F&Cs Head of Investment the Company was meeting the key criteria for an appropriate Trusts.
This focused primarily on the objectives set by the Board and management fee structure, which were regarded as: F&Cs contribution towards achieving those objectives particularly Competitive in regard to investment strategy and marketing.
As part of the Simple evaluation, BMOs Group Head, Asset Management, the CEO and Sufficiently incentivised CIO of BMO Global Asset Management and the Head of Distribution, BMO Global Asset Management presented to the Board on the Report and Accounts 2016 | 35 The Committee also took into consideration that the Company had was incurred indirectly through the funds.
Some of the funds have broadened its investment capabilities by allocating additional assets arrangements whereby these Private Equity managers share in the to F&Cs Multi-Manager team at no additional direct management profits once certain hurdle rates of return to investors have been cost as well as services from other areas within the business.
These arrangements are varied and complex, but are on also remained scope to reduce management costs from externally normal commercial terms within the private equity funds of funds managed assets by utilising existing resource within F&C under new industry.
Fees payable by the underlying funds are negotiated by arrangements for the management of private equity investments.
The arrangements also vary from fund to fund, but management fees of 2% per annum and a 20% carried The Committee had concluded that on the basis of the review there interest, once an agreed hurdle rate of return for investors has been was no immediate need for the Company to change the rate of the achieved, would be normal.
fee payable to the Manager but to continue to monitor developments and made a recommendation to the Board to that effect.
The Board Committee evaluation subsequently endorsed the Committees recommendation.
The activities of the Committee were considered as part of the Board appraisal process completed in accordance with standard Third Party Managers fees governance arrangements as summarised on page 33.
F&C incurs investment management fees from the sub-managers appointed to manage the North America portfolio.
The Company reimburses F&C for these fees, which in 2016 amounted to 2.7 million 2015: 2.4 million see note 4 on the accounts.
The fees paid to Pantheon and HarbourVest in respect of the Private Simon Fraser Equity funds of funds amounted to 4.6 million for 2016 2015: Management Engagement Committee Chairman 4.6 million of which 0.3 million was paid directly and 4.3 million 6 March 2017 36 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
