OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT Policies Policies Responsible ownership Investment policy statement The Board supports F&C in its belief that good governance creates value.
F&C takes a particular interest in corporate governance The Company invests globally.
Risk diversification is achieved through and sustainable business practices, and continues to work on geographic asset allocation and industry sector and stock selection across a systematically incorporating environmental, social and governance wide range of markets.
Within the general policy of maintaining a diversified factors into its investment processes.
This is based on the view that companies with strong management focus on these areas have the portfolio, there are no specific geographic or industry sector exposure limits for potential to reduce risks facing their business and deliver sustainable the publicly listed equities.
The Board has placed a limit of 5% of the value of performance over the longer term.
Engagement with companies the total portfolio on unlisted securities, at the time of acquisition and excluding on significant matters, so as to reduce risk, improve performance, private equity investments, and any unlisted investment requires specific Board encourage best practice and underpin long-term investor value forms approval.
Shareholder approval would be sought in the event that the Board an important part of F&Cs approach towards responsible investment.
considers that the long-term exposure to Private Equity investments should exceed a figure of 20%.
The Board periodically receives a report on instances where the Under the Companys articles of association, with limited exceptions, no single Manager has voted against the recommendation of an investee investment may be made by the Company which exceeds 10% of the value of company management on any resolution.
It also expects to be informed the total portfolio at the time of acquisition.
Under the Listing Rules, no more of any sensitive voting issues involving the Companys investments.
Information on F&Cs engagement and voting at company meetings and than 10% of the total assets may be invested in other listed closed-ended where to find their statement of compliance with The UK Stewardship investment companies, unless such investment companies have themselves Code can be found on page 29. published investment policies to invest no more than 15% of their total assets in other closed-ended investment companies, in which case the limit is 15%.
Dividend The Board has placed a limit of 5% of the value of the total portfolio on The Companys revenue account is managed with the objective of investment funds managed by F&C at the time of acquisition, and any such continuing its record of delivering a rising income stream in real terms investment requires specific Board approval.
Prudent use of revenue reserves established over Borrowings, which can be taken out either in Sterling or foreign currency, would many decades is made whenever necessary to help meet any revenue normally be expected to fall within a range of 020% of shareholders funds.
Dividends can also be paid from capital reserves although the Board has no current need or intention of doing so.
The Company will typically remain fully invested in equities, but is not prohibited from investing in other types of securities or assets.
Derivatives may In determining dividend payments, the Board takes account of timely be used for the purpose of income enhancement and portfolio management income forecasts, brought forward distributable reserves, prevailing covering tactical asset allocation and risk mitigation including protection against inflation rates, the Companys dividend payment record and currency risks within strict limits.
Corporation Tax rules governing investment trust status.
Liquidity is not considered an issue as the Company has sufficient liquid resources to fund any envisaged level of dividend payment.
Risks to Buybacks and share issues the dividend policy include: worldwide financial and political instability The Boards aspiration is to see Foreign & Colonials shares trading in leading to significant deterioration in the level of income received the market at or close to its net asset value per share.
Buying back by the Company: and unforeseen and significant changes to the shares at a discount to net asset value reduces discount volatility Companys regulatory environment.
and is accretive to shareholder returns.
The Board has set an average level of 7.5% in normal market conditions for the purpose of Gearing discount control.
This forms part of its progressive discount control Over many years the Company has used borrowings to enhance its policy and is kept under review.
In the event that the share price returns.
The Board has set a gearing range as explained opposite moves to a premium, the Board will utilise its shareholder authority to in the Investment policy statement.
The flexible structure created to sell shares held in treasury or to issue new shares.
manage borrowings is explained by the Fund Manager on page 19.
