Directors Simon Fraser Sir Roger Bone KCMG Chairman Senior Independent Director Appointed to the Board in September 2009, Appointed to the Board in March 2008.
Prior appointed Chairman in May 2010 and is to that he served as British Ambassador to Chairman of the Nomination Committee and Brazil from 1999 to 2004 and to Sweden the Management Engagement Committee.
He was an Assistant He is also chairman of the Investor Forum, an Under-Secretary of State in the Foreign investor led organisation established for the and Commonwealth Office between 1991 purpose of improving long-term returns from and 1995, head of the Economic Relations investment through collective shareholder Department there from 1989 to 1991 and engagement.
Most of his career was at Political Counsellor at the British Embassy Fidelity International, where he started as in Washington DC from 1985 to 1989.
He an analyst and spent a number of years in was a visiting fellow at Harvard University in Japan, latterly as Chief Investment Officer for 1984 85 and served as a private secretary the Asia Pacific region.
He returned to the to the Foreign Secretary between 1982 UK in 1999 to take up the position of Chief and 1984.
He was president of Boeing UK Investment Officer for Fidelity International, a from 2005 to 2014.
He was also one of the position he held until 2005.
Other positions Prime Ministers honorary ambassadors for included President of Fidelity Internationals British business from 2010 to 2015.
He is European and UK Institutional business and a non-executive director of ITM Power plc, latterly President of the Investment Solutions a designer and manufacturer of hydrogen Group.
He is also chairman of The Merchants energy systems for energy storage and Trust PLC and is a non-executive director of clean fuel production and is also chairman of Ashmore Group PLC and Fidelity European Over-c-ltd, a small high tech company in the Values PLC.
Shared directorships with other Directors: Shared directorships with other Directors: The Investor Forum with Nicholas Moakes None Sarah Arkle Stephen Burley Appointed to the Board in March 2011.
She Joined the Board in January 2008.
He was was Vice Chairman of Threadneedle where Head of Pensions Investments at Rio Tinto she was Chief Investment Officer for ten years from 1982 until his retirement in March until her retirement at the end of December 2007.
He is a former investment adviser 2010.
She was instrumental in establishing to University College London, the Central Threadneedles investment process and Board of Finance of the Church of England recruiting a number of the firms senior and, until 2010, the BAE Systems Pension fund managers.
He is a trustee of the Imperial War stockbroker WI Carr to become a Far East Graves Endowment Fund.
Equity Manager and subsequently became a Shared directorships with other Directors: Director at Allied Dunbar Asset Management, None which became part of Threadneedle in May 1994.
She is a non-executive director of Henderson Group PLC and JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC.
Shared directorships with other Directors: None 26 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REPORT Francesca Ecsery Edward Knapp Joined the Board on 1 August 2013.
Appointed to the Board in July 2016, Francesca has extensive expertise in Edward is an expert in operational marketing, with over 22 years of experience transformation, board advisory and in senior director roles, with both blue performance optimisation, currently as a chip and start-up companies.
She has Managing Director at HSBC, where he worked across a broad range of consumer is a Chief Operating Officer and Global industries and previously held the role of Head of Business Management within Global Business Development Director at the Technology function.
Prior to that, he Cheapflights Media.
She also held senior was a Chief Operating Officer and Head of executive roles with STA travel, the Thomas Business Management at Barclays Bank Cook Group and Thorn EMI plc and is within the Global Risk Function.
Until 2012 currently a non-executive director of Good he was at McKinsey & Company, providing Energy Group plc, Share Plc, Marshall Motor extensive board and executive-level advisory Holdings plc and VISTA Ltd. to clients worldwide, focusing on banking Shared directorships with other Directors: operations, strategy, value creation and risk None management and technology.
Shared directorships with other Directors: None Jeffrey Hewitt Chairman of the Audit Committee Appointed in September 2010 and as Nicholas Moakes Chairman of the Audit Committee in Appointed to the Board In March 2011.
He was the Group is a Managing Partner of the Investment Division at The Wellcome Trust and a director Finance Director of Electrocomponents plc from 1996 to 2005 and Deputy Chairman of the Investor Forum.
Prior to that, he was Asia Pacific investment team and Co-Head of the Finance Director of Unitech plc from Emerging Markets at BlackRock Investment 1991 to 1996.
He has 25 years he held directorships successively with experience of global equity markets and Carrington Viyella, Vantona Viyella and extensive experience of investing in private Coats Viyella where he was Group Strategy equity.
Prior to joining BlackRock in 1997 he Director.
He started his career with Arthur lived in Hong Kong for nine years, and is a Chinese speaker.
He started his career in the Andersen where he qualified as a chartered accountant, following which he spent Diplomatic Service, where he specialised in seven years with The Boston Consulting Hong Kong and China.
He is also a non-executive director Shared directorships with other Directors: of Cenkos Securities plc and chairman of The Investor Forum with Simon Fraser Electrocomponents Pension Trustees.
Shared directorships with other Directors: None Members of the Audit Committee Members of the Nomination Committee All the Directors are members of the Management Engagement Committee Report and Accounts 2016 | 27
