Directors Report The Directors submit the Report and Accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The Corporate Governance Statement: the Reports of the Management Engagement, Nomination and Audit Committees: and the Remuneration Report all form part of this Directors Report.
Statement regarding Report and Accounts Corporation Tax on any capital gains arising from the portfolio of The Directors consider that, following advice from the Audit investments, provided it complies at all times with section 1158 of the Committee, the Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, Corporation Tax Act 2010 section 1158.
Dividends received from balanced and understandable and provides the information investee companies domiciled outside the UK are subject to taxation necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and in those countries in accordance with relevant double taxation treaties.
performance, business model and strategy.
The Audit Committee Decreased in had reviewed the draft Report and Accounts for the purpose of this The Companys taxation policy is: to comply at all times with section the year under review assessment having also put in place an arms length process to 1158, such that it does not suffer UK taxation on capital gains: to provide additional comfort to the Directors in making this statement.
ensure that it submits correct taxation returns annually to HMRC and The outlook for the Company can be found on pages 8, 19 settles promptly any taxation due: and to ensure that it claims back and 20.
Principal Risks can be found on page 14 with further in a timely manner, where possible, all taxes suffered in excess of information in note 25 to the accounts.
There are no instances where taxation treaty rates on non-UK dividend receipts.
the Company is required to make disclosures in respect of Listing Rule 9.8.
The Company has received approval from HMRC as an investment trust under section 1158 and has since continued to comply with the Results and dividends eligibility conditions and ongoing requirements of that section.
The results for the year are set out in the attached accounts.
The three interim dividends totalling 7.15 pence per share, together with Accounting and going concern the final dividend of 2.70 pence per share, which will be paid on The Financial Statements, starting on page 53, comply with 2 May 2017 to shareholders registered on 31 March 2017 subject current UK Financial Reporting Standards, supplemented by the to approval at the AGM Resolution 4, will bring the total dividend Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of for the year to 9.85 pence per share.
This represents an increase of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts SORP.
2.6% over the comparable 9.6 pence per share paid in respect of The significant accounting policies of the Company are set out in the previous year.
The unqualified auditors opinion on the Financial Statements appears on page 46.
Shareholders will be Company status asked to approve the adoption of the Report and Accounts at the The Company is a public limited company and an investment AGM Resolution 1. company as defined by section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company is registered in England and Wales with As discussed in note 24 on the Accounts, the Directors believe that, company registration number 12901 and is subject to the UK in light of the controls and monitoring processes that are in place, Listing Authoritys Listing Rules, UK and European legislation and the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational regulations including company law, financial reporting standards, existence for at least twelve months from the date of approval of taxation law and its own articles of association.
In considering this, the Directors took into account the diversified portfolio of readily realisable securities Taxation which can be used to meet short term funding commitments, and As set out in note 7 on the Accounts, the Company is exempt from the ability of the Company to meet all of its liabilities and ongoing UK Corporation Tax on its worldwide dividend income and from UK expenses.
Accordingly, it is reasonable for the financial statements to 28 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REPORT continue to be prepared on a going concern basis.
The Companys Capital structure longer term viability is considered in the Ten Year Horizon At the AGM held on 26 April 2016, shareholders authorised the Board Statement on page 15. to buy back up to 14.99% of the Companys ordinary shares either to be held in treasury or to be cancelled.
A total of 12,400,207 shares Statement as to disclosure of information to the auditors were bought back all of which were placed in treasury.
The shares Each of the Directors confirms that, to the best of his or her bought back represented 2.2% of the shares in issue calculated knowledge and belief, there is no information relevant to the exclusive of any shares held in treasury at 31 December 2015.
This preparation of the Report and Accounts of which Ernst & Young LLP enhanced the net asset value per share by 0.9 pence.
The purchases EY or the auditors is unaware and he or she has taken all the were made at prices ranging between 397.95 pence and 543.67 steps a Director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be pence and the aggregate consideration paid for the shares, including aware of relevant audit information and to establish that EY is aware stamp duty and commissions, was 57,613,000.
As at 31 December of that information.
2016 there were 561,819,016 ordinary shares of 25 pence each ordinary shares in issue of which 15,246,154 were held in treasury.
Reappointment of auditors Therefore the total number of voting rights in the Company at that date EY have indicated their willingness to continue in office as auditors was 546,572,862.
Between the date of the year end and 1 March to the Company and a resolution proposing their reappointment and 2017 a total of 1,265,595 shares have been bought back leaving the authorising the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration for number of shares in issue at 561,819,016 of which the number of the ensuing year will be put to shareholders at the AGM Resolutions shares in treasury is 16,511,749.
Further information in relation to the reappointment can be found on page 43.
All ordinary shares rank equally for dividends and distributions and carry one vote each.
There are no restrictions concerning the transfer Voting policy on portfolio investments of securities in the Company, no special rights with regard to control The Manager, in the absence of explicit instructions from the Board, attached to securities, no agreements between holders of securities is empowered to exercise discretion in the use of the Companys regarding their transfer known to the Company and no agreement voting rights.
All shareholdings are voted at all listed company which the Company is party to that affects its control following a meetings worldwide where practicable in accordance with F&Cs takeover bid.
Details of the capital structure can be found in note own corporate governance policy, which is to seek to maximise 17 on the accounts.
The revenue profits of the Company including shareholder value by constructive use of votes at company meetings accumulated revenue reserves, together with the realised capital and by endeavouring to use its influence as an investor with a profits of the Company, are available for distribution by way of principled approach to corporate governance.
In 2016, F&C had dividends to the holders of the ordinary shares.
Upon a winding-up, engaged with 138 companies held by Foreign & Colonial over 25 after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the surplus assets would countries and had voted in respect of Foreign & Colonials holdings be distributed to shareholders pro rata to their holdings of ordinary at 383 company meetings on a range of issues.
Full details are set out in the Companys articles of association.
included the risks associated with corporate culture and business ethics, the alignment of pay with business strategy and risk, the Voting rights and proportional voting appropriateness of governance structure and effective carbon At 1 March 2017 the Companys 561,819,016 ordinary shares in management.
issue less the 16,511,749 shares held in treasury represented a total of 545,307,267 voting rights.
As at 31 December 2016 and F&Cs statement of compliance with The UK Stewardship since that date no notifications of significant voting rights have Code has been reviewed and endorsed by the Board, which been received under the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure encourages and supports F&C on its voting policy and Guidance and Transparency Rules.
its stance towards environmental, social and governance issues.
The statement is available on F&Cs website at Approximately 45% of the Companys share capital is held on http: www.
behalf of non-discretionary clients through the F&C savings plans.
For those planholders who do not return their voting directions, the Greenhouse gas emissions nominee company will vote their shares in proportion to those who All of the Companys activities are outsourced to third parties.
Implementation of this arrangement such it does not have any physical assets, property, employees or is subject to a minimum threshold of 5% of the shares held in the operations of its own and does not generate any greenhouse gas or savings plans being voted.
A maximum limit of 611,750 shares that other emissions.
any one individual investor can vote, being approximately 5% of the minimum threshold, also applies.
Any shares voted by an investor in Modern Slavery Act 2015 excess of the maximum limit remain valid, but do not form part of the As an investment vehicle the Company does not provide goods proportional voting basis.
Planholders have the right to exclude their or services in the normal course of business and does not have shares from the proportional voting arrangement.
Accordingly, the Directors consider that the Company is not required to make any statement under the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
Report and Accounts 2016 | 29 Borrowings The Company has granted a deed of indemnity to the Directors The Company has the flexibility to borrow over the longer term and in respect of liabilities that may attach to them in the capacity as to use short-term borrowings by way of loans and overdrafts, subject Directors of the Company.
This covers any liabilities that may arise to the limit set out in the Companys investment policy statement.
On to a third party for negligence, default or breach of trust or duty.
This deed of indemnity is a qualifying third-party provision as defined 1 June 2016 the Company issued fixed rate senior unsecured private placement notes in tranches of i 25m principal with a 12 year term by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 and has been in force and ii 50m principal with a 15 year term the Notes.
There is throughout the period under review and remains in place as at the also a fixed term seven year 50m borrowing with Royal Bank of date of this report.
It is available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the AGM.
The Scotland in the currency equivalent of 72m and this will mature in 2022.
A borrowing of 100m with JPMorgan Chase Bank in the Company also maintains directors and officers liability insurance.
currency equivalents of US$80m and 6,600m for a fixed term of seven years will mature in April 2019.
A 100m committed multiSafe custody of assets currency facility, with the option to request an additional commitment The Companys listed investments are held in safe custody by of 100m, is in place with Royal Bank of Scotland.
This will mature in JPMorgan Chase Bank the Custodian.
Operational matters September 2017 when its renewal will be considered by the Board.
with the Custodian are carried out on the Companys behalf by the There is also a multi-currency overdraft facility with JPMorgan Chase Manager via F&C in accordance with the provisions of the investment Bank and the Company also has a longstanding 575,000 4.25% management agreement.
The Custodian is paid a variable fee dependent on the number of trades transacted and location of the perpetual debenture stock.
Further reference is made on page 19 and in notes 13, 15 and 16 on the accounts.
100m committed multi-currency facility with Scotia Bank expired in December 2016.
Depositary JPMorgan Europe Limited the Depositary acts as the Companys Directors remuneration report Depositary in accordance with the Alternative Investment Fund The Directors Remuneration Report, which can be found on pages Managers Directive AIFMD.
The Depositarys responsibilities, which 38 to 39 provides detailed information on the remuneration are set out in an Investor Disclosure Document on the Companys arrangements for Directors of the Company.
Shareholders will be website, include: cash monitoring: ensuring the proper segregation and safe keeping of the Companys financial instruments that are held asked to approve the Directors remuneration policy at the forthcoming AGM, which has no material changes to that last approved by by the Custodian: and monitoring the Companys compliance with shareholders in 2014.
Remuneration is set at a level commensurate investment and leverage limits requirements.
The Depositary receives with the skills and experience necessary for the effective stewardship for its services a fee of one basis point per annum on the first 1 billion of the Companys net assets and 0.25 basis points per annum on net of the Company and the expected contribution of the Board as a whole in continuing to achieve the investment objective.
It is assets in excess of that amount, payable monthly in arrears.
intended that this policy will continue for the three year period ending at the AGM in 2020.
Shareholders will also be asked to approve the Although the Depositary has delegated the safekeeping of all assets Remuneration Report Resolutions 2 and 3. held within the Companys investment portfolio to the Custodian, in the event of loss of those assets that constitute financial instruments Director re-elections under the AIFMD, the Depositary will be obliged to return to The names of the Directors of the Company, along with their the Company financial instruments of an identical type, or the biographical details, are set out on pages 26 to 27 and are corresponding amount of money, unless it can demonstrate that the loss has arisen as a result of an external event beyond its reasonable incorporated into this report by reference.
All the Directors held office throughout the year under review with the exception of Mr Edward control, the consequences of which would have been unavoidable Knapp who was appointed to the Board on 25 July 2016.
Mr Knapp despite all reasonable efforts to the contrary.
will stand for election by shareholders at the AGM Resolution 5.
Management fees With the exception of Mr Stephen Burley, all the other Directors will stand for re-election by shareholders at the meeting in accordance Information on the management fees payable by the Company are set with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code out in the Report of the Management Engagement Committee.
The Nomination Committee has considered each Director and the Board has concurred with the Nomination AGM The AGM will be held at Merchant Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle Committees assessment that each Director is independent, continues to make a valuable and effective contribution and remains Street, London EC2 on Tuesday, 25 April 2017 at 12 noon.
The committed in the role.
Mr Burley will retire immediately following the Notice of Meeting appears on pages 81 to 84 and includes a meeting having served as a Director for over nine years.
The Fund Manager will give a presentation and there will be an opportunity to ask questions during the meeting.
Directors interests and indemnification Shareholders will be able to meet the Directors informally over There were no contracts of significance to which the Company was refreshments afterwards.
a party and in which a Director is, or was, materially interested during the year.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors concerning compensation for loss of office.
30 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REPORT Authority to allot shares and sell shares from treasury 15, see above and provides the Company with additional flexibility Resolutions 14 and 15 in the management of its capital base.
Such shares may be resold By law, directors are not permitted to allot new shares or to grant for cash but all rights attaching to them, including voting rights and rights over shares unless authorised to do so by shareholders.
any right to receive dividends are suspended whilst they are in the In addition, directors require specific authority from shareholders treasury.
If the Board exercises the authority conferred by Resolution before allotting new shares or granting rights over shares for cash 16, the Company will have the option of either holding in treasury or or selling shares out of treasury, without first offering them to existing of cancelling any of its shares purchased pursuant to this authority shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
and will decide at the time of purchase which option to pursue.
Purchases of ordinary shares under the authority will be financed Resolution 14 gives the Directors the necessary authority to allot out of realised revenue and or capital reserves and funded from the securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6.8m, 27.2m Companys own cash resources or, if appropriate, from short-term ordinary shares, being equivalent to approximately 5% of the borrowings.
The authority to purchase ordinary shares will continue Companys current issued share capital calculated exclusive of any until the AGM in 2018 or on 30 June 2018, whichever is the earlier.
shares being held by the Company in treasury as at 1 March 2017, The Board intends to seek a renewal of such authority at subsequent being the latest practicable date before the publication of the notice AGMs.
The authority and power expires at the conclusion of the AGM in 2018 or on 30 June 2018, whichever is the earlier.
Form of proxy for AGM voting If you are a registered shareholder you will find enclosed a form of Resolution 15 empowers the Directors to allot such securities for proxy for use at the AGM.
You will also have the option of lodging cash, other than to existing shareholders on a pro-rata basis and your proxy vote using the Internet.
For shares held through CREST, also to sell treasury shares without first offering them to existing proxy appointments may be submitted via the CREST proxy voting shareholders in proportion to their holdings up to an aggregate system.
Please either complete, sign and return the form of proxy in nominal amount also of 6.8m representing approximately 5% of the envelope provided as soon as possible in accordance with the the issued ordinary share capital of the Company at 1 March 2017 instructions or, alternatively, lodge your proxy vote via the Internet calculated exclusive of any shares held in treasury.
or the CREST proxy voting system, whether or not you intend to be present at the AGM.
This will not preclude you from attending and These authorities and powers provide the Directors with a degree of voting in person if you so wish.
flexibility to increase the assets of the Company by the issue of new shares or the sale of treasury shares, in accordance with the policies All proxy appointments should in any event be returned or lodged so set out on page 11 or should any other favourable opportunities as to be received not later than 48 hours before the time appointed arise to the advantage of shareholders.
The Directors anticipate that they will mainly use them to satisfy Form of direction and proportional voting demand from participants in the F&C Savings Plans when they If you are an investor in any of the F&C Savings Plans, you will have believe it is advantageous to such participants and the Companys received a form of direction for use at the AGM and you will also have shareholders to do so.
Under no circumstances would the Directors the option of lodging your voting directions using the Internet.
F&C use them to issue shares or sell treasury shares at a price which operates a proportional voting arrangement, which is explained on would result in a dilution of net asset value per ordinary share.
Authority for the Company to purchase its own shares All voting directions should be made as soon as possible in Resolution 16 accordance with the instructions on the form of direction and, in any Resolution 16 authorises the Company to purchase in the market event, not later than 12 noon on 18 April 2017, so that the nominee up to a maximum of 81,740,000 ordinary shares equivalent to company can submit a form of proxy before the 48 hour period begins.
approximately 14.99% of the issued share capital exclusive of treasury shares at a minimum price of 25 pence per share and a Voting recommendation maximum price per share of not more than 5% above the average Your Board considers that the resolutions to be proposed at the of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived AGM are in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
The from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five Board therefore recommends that shareholders vote in favour of business days immediately before the date of purchase, reflecting each resolution, as the Directors intend to do in respect of their own requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and the Listing Rules.
The Directors will continue to use this authority in accordance with the strategy set out on page 11.
Under the Companies Act 2006, the Company is allowed to hold its own shares in treasury By order of the Board, following a buyback, instead of having to cancel them.
This gives for and on behalf of the Company the ability to reissue treasury shares quickly and F&C Investment Business Limited cost-effectively including pursuant to the authority under Resolution Secretary 6 March 2017 Report and Accounts 2016 | 31
