Business Model Foreign & Colonials objective is to secure long-term growth in both capital and income for our shareholders.
In order to meet this objective the Board believes that equity exposure sourced from public and private markets is the strategic focus.
Appropriate use of gearing and effective control of costs support this focus.
The result is long-term shareholder out-performance.
Our Approach the Manager, which also acts as the Alternative Investment Fund Our approach is designed to provide shareholders with the long-term Manager.
The wholly non-executive Board comprises six male and investment performance benefits of concentrated individual investment two female Directors.
portfolio strategies alongside the diversification benefits of lower risk and volatility that derive from being managed as part of a larger combined Fund Management portfolio.
These distinct strategies are managed on both a global and As Fund Manager on behalf of F&C, Paul Niven is responsible for regional basis, without constraints to specific countries, continents, developing and implementing the investment strategy with the Board industries or sectors, to provide a breadth of sources of return.
and for the day-to-day management of the total portfolio covering the entire range of individual investment portfolio strategies.
The role We blend the expertise of our appointed Manager, F&C, with covers tactical decisions over the allocation of assets between the those of external fund managers to create a truly diversified different investment portfolio strategies as well as decisions over global investment strategy.
F&C has overall responsibility for the levels and timing of gearing within the prescribed range.
Paul Niven management of the Companys assets, asset allocation, gearing, is responsible for overall portfolio composition but delegates stock stock and sector selection and risk within policies set by the Board.
The underlying portfolio specialist management teams are responsible and accountable to him and ultimately to the Whilst a number of the individual portfolio strategies are managed Board for their investment performance.
directly by F&C, they have the flexibility to delegate to external third party managers.
The North America equity portfolios and the F&Cs fee as Manager is based on the market capitalisation of the Private Equity funds of funds portfolios are managed externally.
The Company, thus fully aligning their interests with shareholders through Global Multi-Manager portfolio comprises a wide range of externally share price performance.
The ancillary functions of administration, managed funds selected by F&Cs specialist multi-manager team.
secretarial, accounting and marketing services are also carried out by F&C.
While we invest mainly in the shares or equities of companies publicly listed on global stock markets, we retain complete Marketing investment flexibility.
We will invest in other types of securities or F&C promotes investment in the Companys shares, which are assets depending on the return prospects and in consideration of suitable for retail distribution in the UK as well as professionally implications for the broader portfolio.
advised private clients and institutional investors.
The Board works closely with F&C to ensure optimal delivery of the Companys The Board investment proposition through all available channels including the The Board is responsible for corporate strategy: corporate internet and social media.
The F&C Savings Plans remain a cost governance: risk and control assessment: the overall investment effective and flexible way to invest in the Company.
and dividend policies: setting limits on gearing and asset allocation: monitoring investment performance: and for approving marketing With approximately 90% of our shareholder register now in the budgets.
The Directors have considered their duties under section hands of retail investors, and savings or execution-only platforms 172 of the Companies Act 2006 in promoting the success of the representing an increasingly significant and growing element of the Company for the benefit of stakeholders who are, in the main, register, your Board remains focused on the effective promotion of our retail shareholders.
This includes duties towards responsible the Company.
ownership, which are explained on page 11.
An important responsibility is the formal annual evaluation and appointment of 10 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
