Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 56 Information Technology Technology and cybersecurity as a competitive advantage Technology has changed the way every business operates, including the mining industry.
Increased productivity, reduced costs, improved safety and enhanced decision-making are among the many benefits.
To secure a competitive advantage, we must continuously adapt and embrace innovation and secure our networks, systems and data.
Whilst cybersecurity has not risen to the level of a key risk, it continues to merit ongoing management oversight and review.
IT governance To better prepare and help guide the Group through a process of digital transformation, we have created an IT Governance Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, to steer discussions on innovation and performance at a strategic level, provide macro-level insights into technology for mining, map out technology strategy execution and oversee cybersecurity protocols.
The main responsibilities of this Committee are to: Review technology options for business process innovation.
Select the best technology, ensure alignment with business strategy and prioritise projects.
Strengthen cybersecurity framework and protocols.
Develop and oversee a technology implementation budget.
Cybersecurity We recognise the importance of confidentiality, continuity, integrity and security of our data and production systems.
A third party cybersecurity assessment in 2016 identified certain gaps and weaknesses that should be addressed, indicating the need for a formal cybersecurity strategy, now under development, with dedicated specialists being selected.
Our approach incorporates: i the US National Institute of Standards and Technology Cybersecurity Framework NIST CSF which provides a policy framework of computer security guidance for how private sector organisations can assess and improve their ability to prevent, detect and respond to cyber attacks: and ii Control Objectives for Information and Related Technologies COBIT, a framework created by ISACA, the international professional association for IT management and governance that provides an implementable set of controls over IT and organises them around a logical framework of IT-related processes and enablers.
At year end 2016, we estimated our NIST rating was 0.9 out of 4.0, compared to an Expected Industry Level rating of 2.7.
A work plan to achieve that rating is well underway and expected to be complete by 1Q 2018.
The following areas have already been addressed: Disaster recovery protocols: automated backups and alternate site creation for every data room in each business unit.
Hardening: secure access configurations to servers, databases and applications: next generation hardware and software: built-in security for all devices and systems.
Network access: automated access policy management.
Network perimeter security: hacker protection tools.
Our IT model To support the Groups value creation model, our IT efforts are focused on three main areas: Execution: technologies that can reduce costs and increase productivity and throughput.
Innovation: disruptive technologies and paradigm shifts.
Decision-making: data analytics and automatic insight generation.
We believe that employees are best equipped to identify opportunities for improvement within their function areas or business units.
initiative was created to foster ideas, innovation and communication about such opportunities: employees generated more than 120 ideas, and seven projects were ultimately selected by the IT Governance Committee for a five-year implementation roadmap 2014-2018.
These related to the basic capabilities of a mining operation such as personnel and equipment tracking, proximity-warning systems and ventilation on-demand: intelligent plants process automation and optimisation: intelligent maintenance predictive maintenance through big data analysis : and business intelligence:  data.
In 2016, the total investment in technology was US$16.1 million, of which US$7.8 million was related to these projects.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 57 Saucito control room December 2014 December 2017 1 Track Plus Manual and intuitive solution 100x100x100x100 100% of mine sites 100% of miners Tracking 100% of mining vehicles 100% of stopes 2 ProxAlarm Accident provoked by lack of precaution 100x100x100x100 100% of mine sites Prevention 100% of miners of collisions and run-overs 100% of mining vehicles 100% of stopes 3 Ventilation Plus Bad ventilation causes: Ventilation optimised all through the mine that also helps to: accidents Comply with NOM-023-STPS.
low productivity and Better quality of life.
4 Intelligent Plant Automated plants but not optimised: Automated and optimised plants: reduction no control of inherent variability of ore, of 5% in reagent consumption: increment causing loss of value.
of 3% in recovery and metallic content.
5 MineOps Optimiser Low productivity caused by late shift Real-time follow up on mining operations.
Optimising task assignment and achieving a 2-5% increase in productivity.
6 Smart Ops Manual processes for daily operations.
Real time monitoring and productive Based on multiple Excel sheets causing processes analysis.
Efficient multi-dimensional poor and late analysis.
analysis for on-time decision making.
7 One View Manual adjustments for the strategy One strategic dynamic and centralised operation.
Based on Excel and control scorecard.
Single version of batch processing.
