Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 22 Business Model and Strategy We seek to create sustained value for stakeholders across precious metal cycles, focusing on high potential silver and gold projects that can be developed into low cost, world-class mines.
Business model Gold and silver mining is the heart of our business model.
We generate revenue by selling the metals contained in the ore we extract and process.
We ensure the longevity of our business by creating and growing sustained and shared value for all stakeholders.
1 Operate Maximise the potential of existing operations while maintaining our position as a leading low 1 cost producer Operate Assets Develop 2 2 Deliver profitable growth by advancing Develop new projects towards commissioning, Projects while optimising cash flow and returns 3 3 Explore Explore Ensure business continuity and growth Prospects by replenishing depleted reserves and maintaining a robust growth pipeline Sustainability 4 4 Uphold our licence to operate Sustainability Licence to operate Experienced Strategic resources Financial strength Strategic management and Technology and relationships and control relationships skilled personnel Safeguard, deploy and invest in our strategic resources, and nurture and strengthen Risk Management Framework our strategic relationships Risk management framework Embed a culture of risk awareness through an effective risk governance structure FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 23 Precious metal value chain Our value creation strategy is intrinsically linked to the business model Fresnillo plc Exploration Development Mineral Smelting Brokers Buyers for mineral & construction extraction & & refining resources of new mines beneficiation Value creation Job creation Infrastructure Payment for Treatment and Dividends Tax revenue Knowledge goods and refining Wages and Education Capital gains GDP Increased services charges benefits healthcare contribution influence Support for Profit sharing Arts athletics local economy Professional Conservation development Quality of life Strategic relationships See pages 26-27 Employees Communities Suppliers Customers Shareholders Government Membership and Partners organisations Productivity Access Quality Timely intake Capital Concessions Best practices and payment Commitment Trust Fair prices Permits Increased Flexibility influence Respect Technical Access to support capital markets Stakeholder support Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 24 Business Model and Strategy continued Business Model Components 1.
Develop The extraction and beneficiation of ore from our operating mines.
The development and construction of new operating mines and facilities.
Strategic focus: Maximise the potential of existing operations.
Strategic focus: Deliver growth through development projects.
Priorities: Optimise capacity and recovery rates by Priorities: Adhere to strict delivery timelines and adjusting mining methods and beneficiation capex budgets.
processes: generate continuous improvements in productivity and cost controls: leverage expansion opportunities.
KPIs: Production by metal, cost per tonne by mine, KPIs: Project delivery against budget timeline.
productivity by mine ore milled or moved per person.
Competitive Competitive cost performance amongst our Competitive Stringent viability criteria, including rates advantages: industry peers, with AISC on a life of mine advantages: of return and high environmental and social basis significantly lower than current and impact standards: synergy potential amongst projected market prices for gold and silver.
our prospects and projects arising from our district consolidation strategy, that can reduce total capex requirements: in-house teams for engineering and construction.
Key assets Key assets Asset Type Main Metal Year In progress: San Julin Underground mine in the Annual production expected to Fresnillo district prospective San Julin district.
be 11.6 moz silver and 63.7 koz Fresnillo Underground Silver primary 1554 Phase I commissioned in 3Q16: gold in 2017.
Saucito Underground Silver primary 2011 Phase II expected 2Q17.
Cinega district Pyrites treatment plant Cinega Underground Gold Silver 1992 Facility to process historical and Annual production expected San Ramn Underground Gold Silver 2012 ongoing tailings from Fresnillo to average 3.5 moz silver and Cinega satellite and Saucito mines to increase 13,000 koz gold.
Herradura district metal recovery rates.
Herradura Open pit Gold 1997 1 Centauro extension Soledad-Dipolos Open pit Gold 2010 Natural evolution of the pit.
Life of mine at Herradura will Noche Buena Open pit Gold 2012 Project encompassing a be extended to 12 years with 1.
Operations at Soledad-Dipolos are currently suspended.
second line to the dynamic an average annual production leaching plant.
Key risks: Key risks: Impact of global macroeconomic developments Impact of global macroeconomic developments Access to land Access to land Potential actions by the government Potential actions by the government Security Security Public perception against mining Public perception against mining Union relations Projects performance risk Human Resources Union relations Human Resources Safety See pages 58-67 for a detailed review See pages 68-70 for a detailed review of our mining operations.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 25 3.
Sustainable development The search for ore deposits that expand our resource base and The responsible operation of our business.
Strategic focus: Extend the growth pipeline.
Strategic focus: Advance and enhance the sustainability of our business, today and for future generations.
Priorities: Allocate funding across metal price cycles: Priorities: Eliminate unsafe workplace conditions advance prospects and projects along the and behaviours: improve and maintain exploration pipeline, from early stage to the health of our people: minimise the drilling to advanced, as strict criteria are environmental impact of our activities: met: convert resources to reserves.
engage with and support the development of our communities: secure the talent pipeline and ensure a fair and ethical workplace.
KPIs: Total attributable resources by metal.
KPIs: Fatalities and injuries, emissions, water, community investment.
Competitive One of the largest concession holders in Competitive Deep understanding of home market advantages: Mexico: prospects must have a minimum advantages: culture and communities, enabling us potential of 100 moz of silver or 2 moz of to meet best practices domestically gold equivalent to advance: strict criteria and in line with international standards.
on ore grades, metallurgical recoveries and environmental impact.
Key assets Key pillars Asset Main Metal Health Safety Fresnillo district Juanicipio Silver Cinega district Environment Community relations Las Casas, Cebollitas Cluster Silver and gold Herradura district People Centauro Deep Gold Chihuahua greenfield Orisyvo Gold Other early stage projects and prospects, Mexico and Peru Key risks: Key risks: Impact of global macroeconomic developments Potential actions by the government Access to land Security Potential actions by the government Public perception against mining Security Safety Public perception against mining Environmental incidents Exploration Human Resources Human Resources Access to land See pages 71-75 for a detailed review See pages 76-99 for a detailed review of our exploration pipeline.
of our sustainability practices and performance.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 26 Business Model and Strategy continued Financial strength and control: Customers: Risk management Maintain strict control of cash, assets, Partner with refiners and smelters who costs and expenses to maintain a solid help maximise our revenue stream.
All the framework balance sheet and competitive position primary products originating from Group as a low cost producer: ensure sufficient mines in 2016 were sold to the Met-Mex The identification and mitigation of risks resources to finance growth and Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. refining and smelting that could affect the Companys ability guarantee operational continuity: facility in Torren, Coahuila Mexico to execute its strategy and deliver on its deliver shareholder returns.
under a series of supply agreements set commitments.
on an arms length basis and in line with international benchmarks.
The relationship Strategic focus: allows us to benefit from relatively Embed a culture of risk awareness with Strategic low transport costs associated with an effective risk governance structure.
our proximity to Met-Mex operations.
relationships The Group has sold to other refiners Priorities: and smelters in the past and may do Identify, assess, prioritise, mitigate and The key stakeholders for and with whom so in the future if conditions warrant.
monitor risk at all levels of the organisation.
Shareholders and note holders: Competitive advantages: Strategic focus: Balance returns with investment in Conservative approach towards risk Nurture and strengthen our strategic long-term growth.
Peoles holds 75% and comprehensive risk management relationships.
of the issued share capital of Fresnillo measures, support long-term value plc and has been the principal investor creation strategy.
Workforce, both contracted and in Group assets for over 50 years, as well unionised: See pages 42-53 for a detailed review as a significant supplier to and customer Provide a safe, equitable, fair and ethical of our risk management programme.
of the Company, as described above.
The remaining 25% of Fresnillo plc shares See pages 91-94 trade on the London and Mexican Stock Exchanges, and bondholders own US$800 Strategic resources Communities: million of Senior Secured Notes due 2023.
Invest directly and through partnerships The Group maintains a regular dialogue The key inputs required to sustain our in quality of life initiatives, with a focus on with its independent investors and note value creation model.
environment, education, health and social holders as described in the Corporate integration, entrepreneurship and social Governance Report.
See pages 124-125 Safeguard, deploy and invest in See pages 95-99 our strategic non-mineral resources Partners: human, technological, financial.
Enter into and execute mutually beneficial Suppliers: business agreements.
This includes the Experienced management and skilled Negotiate long-term purchase Groups 56% interest in Minera Juanicipio personnel: agreements to secure better pricing S. A. fide C. V. with MAG Silver Corporation Select, recruit, train, develop, compensate and ensure timely availability of key holding 44%: the agreement was entered and retain personnel with the requisite equipment, materials and services.
into for the development of the Juanicipio knowledge and experience to execute A key supplier is Servicios Administrativos concession.
We also partner with a number our strategy.
Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. SAPSA, a subsidiary of junior exploration companies to conduct of the Companys controlling shareholder, early stage prospecting.
B. fide C. V. Deploy systems and methods that Peoles, which is contracted to supply support exploration efforts, increase administrative services.
The relationship is productivity, reinforce sustainability, regulated by a Services Agreement NSA, enhance accountability and support or New Services Agreement, ensuring decision-making and financial planning that all services are delivered at arms processes.
Ensure the Groups networks, length and on normal commercial terms systems and data are secured in as per the Relationship Agreement accordance with best practices.
See pages 56-57 FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 27 Authorities and regulators: In Mexico and Latin America, secure mining concessions and adhere to the laws and regulations governing natural resources and mining companies: in Mexico and the United Kingdom, adhere to issuer requirements of the Mexico and London stock exchanges, as well as financial and regulatory oversight from securities regulators.
Membership organisations: Collaborate with peers to advocate for and advance initiatives that support shared strategic objectives.
We belong to a number of industry and trade groups: CAMIMEX, the Mexican Mining Chamber, which promotes sector agreements, advocates industry positions, and sets benchmarks for the mining sector: CESPEDES Sustainable Development Studies Commission for the Mexican Private Sector, part of the Mexican Business Coordinating Council, or CCE, which coordinates the private sector stance on key issues such as the transition towards a green economy and greenhouse gas mitigation efforts in the country: and the Mining Cluster for the State of Zacatecas, through which mining industry participants in Zacatecas state promote the development of economic, social and environmental best practices across the supply chain.
Beneficiation plants at San Julin Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 28 2016 Performance and 2017 Targets Fresnillo has a robust strategy to meet its corporate goals and capture the significant growth opportunities in the global precious metals industry.
Maximise the potential Deliver growth through of existing operations development projects Optimise capacity and recovery rates: generate continuous Adhere to strict delivery timelines and capex budgets.
improvements in productivity and cost controls: leverage expansion opportunities.
What we said we would do in 2016 What we said we would do in 2016 Fresnillo mine: Stabilise the rate of development at 4,500 San Julin: Commission leaching plant to process ore from metres per month, improve ore grade and production levels: the veins phase I in 2Q 2016, flotation plant to process advance engineering on the capacity optimisation project.
ore from the disseminated ore body phase II in 4Q 2016.
Produce 49-51 moz of silver, 775-790 koz of gold.
Pyrites plant: Complete engineering: equipment orders and construction on hold as per contingency plan.
Increase efficiency and control costs.
What we did in 2016 What we did in 2016 Development rate peaked at 4,520 metres per month at the Phase I of San Julin commissioned with slight delay: milling Fresnillo mine but averaged 3,929 metres per month on an capacity operating at 20% above nominal capacity.
Ore grade and production both improved while detailed Completed detailed engineering works for the Pyrites plant, engineering on the plant optimisation continued.
obtained environmental permits, commenced preparation Produced 50.3 moz of silver hitting our target and exceeding of the site and placed orders for major equipment.
our gold target by 22.8% producing 935.5 koz.
Cash costs and cost per tonne all reduced at every operating mine in the Group.
Our commitments and targets for 2017 Our commitments and targets for 2017 Produce between 58-61 moz of silver, 870-900 koz of gold.
San Julin: Commission flotation plant to process ore from the disseminated body phase II in 2Q 2017.
Fresnillo mine: Increase development rates to 4,800 metres per month by year end, with an expected 7-10% increase in silver Pyrites plant: Complete construction of leaching plant, advance production, while commencing work for the optimisation plant.
tailings flotation plant towards 1H 2018 completion.
Continue construction of the second line to the dynamic leaching plant at Herradura, expected to be commissioned in 2018.
For more on our performance For more on our performance See pages 30-33 See pages 34-35 FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 29 Extend the Advance and enhance the growth pipeline sustainability of our operations Allocate funding across metal price cycles: advance Prioritise workplace safety and health: minimise our prospects along the exploration pipeline, as strict environmental impact: engage with and develop our criteria are met: convert resources to reserves.
communities: secure the talent pipeline: ensure a fair and ethical workplace.
What we said we would do in 2016 What we said we would do in 2016 Deploy US$135-140 million in exploration investment.
Continue to strive for zero fatalities, continuous improvement in safety.
Ongoing exploration to convert resources into reserves at mines and at key projects.
Conclude advancement of HSECR system towards its 2016 targets.
What we did in 2016 What we did in 2016 Invested US$137.9 million in exploration.
Fell short of target with three contractor fatalities.
Exploration programme focused on increasing resources We achieved 100% maturity in our HSECR system.
Our commitments and targets for 2017 Our commitments and targets for 2017 Deploy US$160 million in exploration investment.
Intensify exploration to convert resources into reserves.
Implement the second phase of our ethics and integrity project to embed ethics in our organisational culture.
For more on our performance For more on our performance See pages 36-37 See pages 38-39
