Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 54 Viability Statement Scenario 3 In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Tailings dam breach at a mine Governance Code, and taking into account the Groups A tailings dam collapses and tailings current position and its principal risks for a period longer are released into the surrounding area, than the 12 months required by the going concern causing environmental damage.
A fund is created by the Company to be used statement, a team appointed by the Board prepared the to remediate and compensate for any viability assessment.
This team included two designated damages caused.
The investigation Directors, the CEO, the CFO, the COO, Head of Business into the causes of the event is drawn out and further time is needed for all Planning and Head of Risk, with the Audit Committee environmental permits to be reinstated.
being consulted throughout the process.
As a result, the mine remains closed throughout the viability assessment The Directors reviewed the viability period It was determined that none of the period.
Principal risk D and confirmed that a five-year period to individual risks would in isolation December 2021 remained suitable, in line compromise the Groups viability.
The with the nature of planning in the mining Directors therefore went on to group Scenario 4 industry and the Companys five-year principal risks into the following severe Flooding at a mine forecast period normally used to evaluate but plausible scenarios, in each case An unforeseen fault containing water liquidity and contingency plans which is determining the risk proximity how is cut into, with water then entering important given that Fresnillos business soon could the risk occur and velocity the mine in excess of pumping activities cover the full value chain from the speed with which the impact of capacity, thereby halting production.
It allows a risk will be felt : The ramp-up to pre-event production for modelling of capital expenditure and levels commences once management development programmes planned during determines that it is safe to do so.
the timeframe and reflecting cash flows Scenario 1 Singular event generated by the projects currently under Impact of global development.
Due to the long business macroeconomic developments cycles in the mining industry, the Directors Over a period of a year, precious metal Scenario 5 considered that a shorter time period prices fall and then remain at a low Action by the Government would be insufficient.
level for the following four years of at a mine the viability period varying between Explosives are stolen on site causing Reporting on the Companys viability US$1,108 1,171 per oz gold and US$15.4 authorities to suspend the explosives requires the Directors to consider those 18.0 per oz silver.
To create this permit at the mine.
Production is halted principal risks that could impair the impartial projection for the future low at the mine whilst an investigation solvency and liquidity of the Company.
metal price environment, an average into the matter is completed.
Once In order to determine those risks, the of the three lowest forecasts from permits have been restored, production Directors robustly assessed the Groupeach year of the assessment were ramps back up to pre-event levels.
wide principal risks and operation-specific used, based on consensus estimates Principal risk C risks by undertaking consultations with published by institutional financial Executive Management, mine managers analysts.
This low metal price and other personnel across the operations.
environment was deemed to be the Scenario 6 Through these conversations, the Directors most significant risk and pervasive Access to land at a mine also identified low probability, high loss across the Company.
Principal risk A Conflicts with local communities arise scenarios singular events with the resulting in the Company having to potential magnitude to severely impact cease operations, until negotiations Scenario 2 the solvency and or liquidity of Fresnillo.
can be finalised and the land can be Bench collapse at an open re-occupied.
Principal risk B pit mine For the purpose of assessing the Groups viability, the Directors identified that of A landslide occurs covering the lower the final principal risks detailed on page 43, pit of one of our mines.
Due to the Scenario 7 the following are the most important to the unexpected nature of the event, San Julin suspension due assessment of the viability of the Group: fatalities occur.
Production is gradually to Government actions ramped back up and re-established Three members of the local community A.
Impact of global macroeconomic to full capacity.
Singular event are poisoned due to a cyanide tank developments, specifically volatility rupturing.
The pressure mounted by in the prices of gold and silver over social activism resulted in the Mexican a period of time.
with no intention of re-installing them in C. Potential actions by the government the future.
This leads to the permanent which could include a delay in closure of the San Julin mine for the obtaining permits and or new duration of the viability period, while restrictive regulations.
mitigating actions can be established.
Principal risks C and D FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 55 The above scenarios are hypothetical previous year, positioned Fresnillo plc in mitigation and control measures that the and extremely severe for the purpose of a healthy financial situation.
In addition, Group has in place in case an event of such creating outcomes that have the ability current macroeconomic conditions, magnitude should occur.
These measures to threaten the viability of the Group: higher metal prices in scenario 1 and also include the briefing and convening however, multiple control measures are the overlaid scenarios, and a depreciated of the Board of Directors as necessary in place to prevent and mitigate any such exchange rate MXN USD enhance to respond to events as they develop.
In the case the cash balance position across the Dedicated personnel for managing media, of these scenarios arising, various options scenarios assessed.
engaging with authorities and other are available to the Company in order stakeholders are appointed at each level to maintain liquidity so as to continue in The lowest cash balance level was of the organisation depending on the operation.
When quantifying the expected identified in scenario 2 in combination magnitude of the crisis.
financial impact and remediation time with the low metal prices scenario: period for each of the risks on the notwithstanding, a positive cash balance Based on the results from this robust viability of the Group, management would be maintained in this scenario analysis, and having considered the performed benchmarking against its own throughout the viability period with a established controls for the risks and the experience and against publicly available minimum level of US$278 million during available mitigating actions, the Directors information on relevant similar incidents the third year 2019, thereby not requiring have a reasonable expectation that the in the mining industry.
any mitigating actions to be taken.
Group will be able to continue in operation Strong risk management and internal and meet its liabilities as they fall due over All scenarios were first evaluated using control systems are in place page 42 the five-year period of their detailed 1 average metal prices, and once the throughout the Group.
This longer-term assessment mitigation plans had been applied where internal control systems, the Directors process supports the Directors statements necessary, there was no threat to the monitor key variables that have the ability on both viability, as set out above, and viability of the Company.
To create a to impact the liquidity and solvency of going concern, made below.
more stringent test and further challenge the Group, and we are confident that 1.
Average metals price analysis derived from a range the resilience of the Group, all scenarios management is able to sufficiently mitigate of Financial Institutions as of December 2016. were then overlaid with scenario 1, low any situations as they might occur.
metal prices and then re-evaluated.
Certain actions for the reinforcement After these had been modelled, none of of controls and their monitoring that the scenarios foresee an extremely low were identified last year as a result of this or negative cash balance.
The strong cash assessment continue to be implemented to balance at the end of 2016 US$912 million further strengthen the control environment.
approximately 80% higher than the A Crisis Committee is part of the risk Going Concern Statement The Groups business activities, together oz and US$1,111 oz respectively throughout mining plans to concentrate on with the factors likely to affect its future this period, whilst maintaining current production with a higher margin in order development, performance and position budgeted expenditure while only to accelerate cash generation without are set out in the Strategic Review on considering projects approved by the affecting the integrity of the mine plans.
The financial position of the Executive Committee.
This resulted in Group, its cash flows and liquidity position our current cash balances reducing over After reviewing all of the above are described in the Financial Review time but maintaining ample liquidity considerations, the Directors have a on pages 100-111.
In addition, note 31 throughout the period.
reasonable expectation that management to the financial statements includes the have sufficient flexibility in adverse Groups objectives, policies and processes The Directors have further calculated circumstances to maintain adequate for managing its capital: its financial prices US$12.2 and US$841 for silver resources to continue in operational risk management objectives: details and gold, respectively, which should existence for the foreseeable future.
of its financial instruments and hedging they prevail to the end of 2018 would The Directors, therefore, continue to activities: and its exposures to credit risk result in cash balances decreasing adopt the going concern basis of and liquidity risk.
to minimal levels by the end of 2018, accounting in preparing the annual without applying mitigations.
In making their assessment of the Groups ability to manage its future Should metal prices remain below the If the necessity arose to employ any or all cash requirements, the Directors have stressed prices above for an extended of the above mitigations for an extended considered the Company and Group period, management have identified period of time, it may be that these could budgets and the cash flow forecast specific elements of capital and impact the Groups ability to achieve its for the period to 31 December 2018. exploration expenditures which could targets for production and or reserves In addition, they reviewed a more be deferred without adversely affecting by 2018. conservative cashflow scenario with production profiles throughout the period.
reduced silver and gold prices of US$15.6 Finally, management could amend the
