FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 157 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Fresnillo plc Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: Fresnillo plcs Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited Fresnillo plcs financial statements comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2016 Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2016 Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Company statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year Company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended then ended Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year Company statement of cash flows for the year then ended then ended Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 18 to the financial statements Related notes 1 to 31 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Overview of our audit approach Risks of material misstatement Recognition of related party transactions, including revenue recognition.
Valuation of the Silverstream contract.
Disclosures, provisions and asset recoverability arising from the El Bajo ejido litigation and land disputes.
Estimation of mineral reserves and resources.
Recoverability of investments in subsidiaries Parent Company only.
Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of five components, being the four operating mining units and the Parent Company.
These components accounted for: 100% of revenues: 104% of profit before tax excluding Silverstream revaluation effects: and, 82% of total assets.
In addition, we performed specified procedures on specific balances at a further five components.
These components accounted for: 100% of the Silverstream revaluation effects: Negative 4% of Profit before tax excluding Silverstream revaluation effects: and, 16% of total assets.
Materiality We assessed overall Group materiality to be US$29.2 million which represents 5% of profit before tax excluding Silverstream revaluation effects.
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 158 Independent Auditors Report continued to the Members of Fresnillo plc continued Area of audit risk Recognition of related party transactions, including revenue recognition u All of the Groups current year revenue from the sale of production, and a significant amount of its expenses incurred, arise from transactions with related parties.
These related parties are principally subsidiaries of the Groups direct parent, Industrias Peoles Peoles.
Principal transactions include the sale of production to the Met-Mex refinery, administrative services received and the Silverstream contract.
There is a risk that, if not at arms length or not reflecting the goods or services provided in the period, such transactions could be used to manipulate earnings or to distribute profits to the Groups parent.
There is also a risk that revenues are inappropriately recognised as a result of incorrect cut-off or inappropriate measurement of product sold.
Our judgement is that the level of risk in this area remains consistent with the prior year.
We have not made significant changes to our audit response Related party transactions are disclosed in note 27 to the compared to the prior year, other than extending the use of consolidated financial statements and Revenues in note 4. data analysis.
Our audit response Identification of related parties We evaluated the appropriateness of managements process for identifying, recording and and related party transactions reporting related party transactions.
We read contracts and agreements with related parties to understand the nature of the transactions.
Throughout the performance of our audit procedures, we remained alert for any related party transactions outside the normal course of business.
Revenue recognition On a sample basis we performed testing to verify physical deliveries of product in the year.
We performed revenue cut-off testing.
We evaluated the appropriateness of the accounting for embedded derivatives arising from the provisional pricing terms in sales contracts.
We obtained an understanding of the basis of the treatment and refining charges negotiated between the Group and Peoles for the current year, these being a deduction from revenues.
We compared actual revenues on a disaggregated basis to detailed expectations developed based on production in the year and market prices for relevant metals to identify and understand variances for further investigation.
Costs We utilised data analysis tools to interrogate entire data sets for potential related party transactions.
We compared actual results against detailed expectations of income statement line items impacted by related party transactions to corroborate that there was no evidence of manipulation.
Silverstream contract We tested a sample of cash receipts in respect of silver payable under the contract in the year.
The Silverstream contract is discussed separately below.
Accuracy of disclosures We verified that related party disclosures in the financial statements are consistent with the results of our audit procedures.
Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee Our procedures did not identify issues with the identification, recording or reporting of related party transactions.
We concluded that revenue recognition in the year is appropriate, including the treatment of related provisional pricing terms.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 159 Area of audit risk Valuation of the Silverstream contract n The valuation of the Silverstream contract, a derivative financial instrument, uses a discounted cash flow model.
Key assumptions are the estimation of the reserves and resources and the related production profile of the Sabinas mine owned and operated by Peoles, future silver prices and the discount rate applied.
These assumptions require management judgement and estimation.
The resulting valuation is sensitive to changes in these assumptions which may result in material revaluation effects in the financial statements.
In response to the impact that the increase in Sabinas reserves and Details of the revaluation of the Silverstream contract are disclosed resources had on the valuation in the current year, we increased the in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements.
extent of our procedures in this respect.
Our audit response Valuation model In conjunction with our valuation specialists, we evaluated the appropriateness of the valuation approach and related model used by the Company to determine the fair value of the Silverstream contract under accounting standards.
Reserves and resources We issued instructions to the auditor of Peoles to perform and report to us on the following and production profile procedures with respect to the Sabinas mine: of the Sabinas mine conducting walkthroughs to confirm our understanding of Peoles managements processes to estimate quantities of reserves and resources and to develop the Sabinas mine plan: testing of certain key Peoles controls which address the risks associated with the estimation of reserves and resources quantities and accuracy of the resulting mine plan: gaining an understanding of reasons for changes in estimates of reserves and resources in the year: assessing the professional competence, objectivity, and capabilities of Peoles internal specialists involved in the estimation of reserves and resources quantities: evaluating the reasonableness and appropriateness of inputs to the reserves and resources estimates and Sabinas mine plan as at 31 December 2016: and, verifying that the Sabinas mine plan appropriately incorporates the reserves and resources estimate.
We discussed the results of the above procedures and reviewed key working papers.
We interviewed the Sabinas mine geologist in order to understand the assumptions used in the estimation of reserves and resources and movements in the estimation in the year.
Key economic assumptions With assistance from our valuation specialists we corroborated key economic assumptions in in the valuation the valuation, including future silver prices, foreign exchange rates and the discount rate applied.
This included comparison to market data to consider the appropriateness of silver price and discount rate assumptions when considered together in the valuation model and analysis of the consistency of assumptions to other accounting estimates.
Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee The valuation model is consistent with that used in prior periods and we consider this appropriate for the nature of this long-term derivative contract.
We concluded that the valuation of the Silverstream contract is reasonable as at 31 December 2016 and that the related gain recognised in income was appropriate.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 160 Independent Auditors Report continued to the Members of Fresnillo plc continued Area of audit risk Disclosures, provisions and asset recoverability arising from the El Bajo ejido litigation and land disputes l The El Bajo litigation and land disputes may create uncertainty around the Groups ability to freely realise the carrying values of impacted assets in the Groups balance sheet and may give rise to further asset impairment.
Related assets are capitalised mining costs and inventory held in leaching pads at the impacted mine site.
The assessment of the recoverability of impacted assets and appropriate disclosure or provisions in the financial statements requires judgement about the future legal outcome of claims and land disputes and estimates of related financial impacts.
Our judgement is that there has been some reduction in the level of risk in this area as a result of rulings in favour of the Company.
This change in risk did not impact our audit response.
Contingencies in respect of the El Bajo ejido litigation and land disputes are disclosed in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
Our audit response Recoverability of assets We assessed managements conclusion that there is sufficient likelihood of future economic benefits flowing from the use of assets impacted by the El Bajo land disputes that continue to be carried on the Groups balance sheet.
We evaluated managements assessment of related indicators of impairment in respect of those assets.
Inventory valuation We assessed managements estimation of the recoverable value of inventory that is impacted by land disputes, including corroborating gold price assumptions to market data.
Future legal outcome of claims We evaluated managements assessment of the current status of the El Bajo ejido litigation and claims against the Group and considered whether there is a requirement for any provision or related disclosures under accounting standards.
We obtained independent legal confirmation letters from the Groups external lawyers advising on these issues, and assessed these for consistency with managements conclusions.
We assessed these lawyers as specialists engaged by management.
We assessed the Groups internal legal counsel as a management specialist.
Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee We concluded that, based on the facts and circumstances of the El Bajo ejido litigation and land disputes, managements assessment that no provision is required and that the impacted assets are recoverable at 31 December 2016 is appropriate.
The legal confirmations we received supported managements judgements in this area.
We consider that the disclosure in note 26 of related contingencies is also appropriate.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 161 Area of audit risk Estimation of mineral reserves and resources p The estimation of mineral reserves and resources quantities of the Groups mines requires significant judgement and estimation.
The Groups reserves and resources are audited by SRK Consulting SRK.
Reserves and resources, and related production profiles, are a key input to a number of areas impacting the financial statements, most significantly the recoverable value of mining assets and investments in subsidiaries Parent Company only, the calculation of depletion, depreciation and amortisation, and the assessment of going concern and viability.
Additionally, reported reserves and resources may impact investor valuations of the Group.
We have not made significant changes to our audit response The reserves and resources tables are presented on page 242, compared to the prior year.
after the Parent Company notes.
Our audit response Estimation process We walked through the process of estimation of the reserves and resources quantities.
We identified key controls in this process and obtained evidence of their implementation.
External specialists We assessed SRK as a specialist engaged by management.
Through discussions with SRK, we have gained an understanding of the scope of their work to verify that this was appropriate.
We read the report of the external specialist and gained an understanding of the changes in reserves and resources estimates in the year.
Use of reserves and resources in We tested that the audited reserves and resources estimates have been appropriately applied financial statement calculations to relevant areas of the Groups financial statements.
Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee We assessed SRK as an appropriate specialist engaged by management for the purposes of auditing the reserves and resources of the Group.
We confirmed that the audited reserves and resources estimates have been appropriately used in relevant financial statement calculations.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 162 Independent Auditors Report continued to the Members of Fresnillo plc continued Area of audit risk Recoverability of investments in subsidiaries Parent Company only s Investments in subsidiaries are more sensitive to changes in recoverable value than the Groups underlying mining assets because these investments were re-measured at fair value in 2008 when the Group was established ahead of the Initial Public Offering.
Managements assessment of the recoverable amount of investments in subsidiaries requires estimation and judgement around assumptions used.
The principal driver of recoverable value is the estimated value of underlying mining assets held by the Groups subsidiaries.
The key assumptions underpinning managements assessment of the recoverable amount of mining assets are reserves and resources and related production profiles, estimated future operating and capital expenditure, future commodity prices and exchange rates and the discount rates applied.
Changes to assumptions could lead to material changes in estimated recoverable amounts, resulting in either impairment or reversals of impairment taken in prior years.
Our judgement is tha t the level of risk in this area remains consistent with the prior year but is now principally relating to the reversal of impairment recognised in prior years rather than impairment as a result of strengthening metals prices.
We have not made significant changes to our audit response Managements assessment of the significant judgement and compared to the prior year.
estimation required is set out in note 2 c to the Parent Company financial statements and sensitivities to changes in price which may result in impairment are set out in note 6.
Our audit response Indicators of impairment and We have reviewed managements identification of indicators of impairment under accounting methodology used to estimate standards.
recoverable values We have assessed the methodology used by management to estimate the recoverable value of each investment for which an impairment test was performed to ensure that this is consistent with accounting standards.
This included the valuation of underlying mining assets.
We have assessed the valuation models used by management to estimate the recoverable value of each investment, in conjunction with any intra-Group balances.
Key internal assumptions used in We have verified reserves and resources quantities underpinning the mine plans by comparing managements estimate of the these to estimates audited by SRK, a specialist engaged by management.
recoverable values of mining assets We assessed the professional competence, objectivity and capabilities of SRK as a specialist engaged by management.
We agreed related production profiles to the current mine plans for each mine and considered their consistency with our understanding of future plans at the mines obtained through interviews with both operating and senior management.
We assessed operating and capital costs included in the cash flow forecasts for consistency with current operating costs and forecast mine production.
Key external assumptions used in Working with our valuation specialists we have assessed managements assumptions relating managements estimate of the to future metals prices and discount rates, comparing these to market data and also for recoverable values of mining assets consistency with other estimates used in the financial statements.
We have performed sensitivity analysis on managements calculated recoverable values for alternative assumptions around silver prices and the discount rate applied.
Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee We consider the approach to determining the recoverable value of each investment tested for impairment to be appropriate.
Our procedures confirmed that the reserves and resources and related production profiles are consistent with the estimates audited by SRK and respective mine plans.
Our procedures confirmed that the estimates of operating and capital costs are consistent with the production profiles of respective mines and related mine plans.
We concluded that the carrying values of investments in subsidiaries, after reversals of impairments as reflected in the Parent Company financial statements, are reasonable.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 163 Changes in our assessment of the risks of material misstatement as compared with those reported in the prior year are: In the prior year, our auditors report included a risk of material misstatement in relation to the recoverability of mining assets.
With the strengthening of gold and silver prices and the weakening of the Mexican peso reducing mining costs we do not consider this to be a risk of material misstatement in the current year for the Group financial statements.
The recoverable amount of investments in subsidiaries Parent Company only, remains a risk of material misstatement.
The recoverability of underlying mining assets is a key driver of related recoverable values so remains an area of audit focus in this context.
The scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile and the organisation of the Group and the effectiveness of Group-wide controls and other factors such as the results of the work of Internal Audit when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
We performed an audit of the complete financial information of five components 2015: five full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
These components are the four operating mining units in Mexico and the Parent Company.
We also performed specified audit procedures on specific account balances in a further five components 2015: five classified as specific scope components.
The procedures were on those account balances within those components which we deemed to be significant either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
These accounts included taxation, mine closure provisions, cash and cash equivalents and all balances relating to the Silverstream contract.
The reporting components where we performed audit procedures represented: Key Full scope Specific scope Specified procedures Other procedures 1 2 1 1 105 100 100 100 100 104 2 15 1 16 84 82 -4 -6 0 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Group revenue Silverstream revaluation e ect Groups profit before tax excluding Total assets Silverstream revaluation e ects The audit scope of components at which we have performed specified procedures 2015: Specific scope components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage reflected above.
The remaining components together represent an effect on the Groups Profit before tax excluding Silverstream revaluation effects of less than 1% 2015: 6 % and 2% of total assets 2015: 1%.
For these components, we performed other procedures, including analytical review and testing of consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement of the Group financial statements.
Changes from the prior year There were no significant changes in our scoping as compared to the prior year.
We have performed specified procedures in 2016 on the same five components that were classified as specific scope in 2015.
Related audit procedures at these components have not significantly changed.
Involvement with component teams All of the Groups significant operations are in Mexico and are audited by one local team under our direct supervision.
Work performed by Primary team One component team under our direct supervision Full scope components l llll Parent Company l Components on which specified audit llll Silverstream contract procedures are performed In respect of the valuation of the Silverstream contract, we perform primary procedures directly, the component team performs certain supporting procedures regarding cash receipts, and the auditor of Peoles provides support in respect of procedures on the estimation of reserve and resource quantities and the related mine plan at the Sabinas mine.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 164 Independent Auditors Report continued to the Members of Fresnillo plc continued The primary engagement team, including the Senior Statutory Auditor, visited Mexico five times during the audit, during both the planning and execution phases, with members of the team working with and supervising the component team in Mexico for a number of weeks.
These visits involved discussion and oversight of the component team audit approach, consideration of any accounting and auditing issues arising from their work, reviewing key audit working papers, meeting with management and attending closing meetings.
Senior members of the component team attended a Global Team Planning Event in the planning phase of the audit and the primary team interacted regularly with the local team between visits to Mexico as appropriate.
The primary engagement team is predominantly composed of Spanish speakers in order to further enhance our interactions with both the component team and management.
The primary team was responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
For certain procedures, in particular areas involving significant judgement and heightened audit risk, we performed work ourselves with support where required from the component team.
In other cases, we reviewed key working papers including, but not limited to, the risk areas described above.
The audit work at the ten components was executed at levels of performance materiality applicable to each individual component as allocated by the primary team and discussed below.
This involvement with the local component team in Mexico, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be US$29.2 million 2015: US$9.2 million, which is 5% 2015: 5% of profit before tax prior to Silverstream revaluation effects.
This is a consistent basis to 2015.
We believe that this measure of profit represents one of the principal considerations for members of the Group, particularly as the Silverstream revaluation effects are principally non-cash in nature.
US$ million 800 700 133.5 718.2 600 584.7 500 400 300 200 100 0 profit Silverstream Basis for before revaluation materiality tax e ect During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial planning materiality and updated its calculation for the actual financial results of the year.
This resulted in planning materiality increasing by US$3.3 million.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, it is our judgement that performance materiality is 75% 2015: 75% of our planning materiality, namely US$21.9 million 2015: US$6.9 million.
We based this judgement on factors including the past history of misstatements, our ability to assess the likelihood of misstatements and the effectiveness of the internal control environment.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
The performance materiality allocated to full-scope components in the current year is set out in the graph on page 165.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 165 Allocated performance materiality increased in respect of all components, reflecting the overall performance of the Group and the individual contributions of the components to that performance.
Performance materiality US$m Risks 6.9 Fresnillo group 21.9 u l n p 133.5 718.2 6.9 584.7 Fresnillo plc 18.6 u s 3.8 Penmont mining unit 14.3 u l p 4.5 Saucito mining unit 13.2 u p 3.1 Fresnillo mining unit 8.8 u p Key 1.0 2015 Clenega mining unit 5.5 u p 2016 The risk icons correspond to the risks set out above.
Audit procedures in respect of the recoverable amount of investments in subsidiaries are performed at the performance materiality of the standalone parent financial statements.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 5% of planning materiality, being US$1.5 million 2015: US$0.5 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the 2016 Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 156, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 112 to 155 in the 2016 Annual Report with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 166 Independent Auditors Report continued to the Members of Fresnillo plc continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We have no exceptions to report.
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the Annual Report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act 2006 reporting We have no exceptions to report.
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules review requirements We have no exceptions to report.
We are required to review: The Directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 55, and longer-term viability, set out on pages 54 and 55: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Statement on the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the entity IISAs UK and Ireland reporting We have nothing material to add We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw or to draw attention to.
attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Daniel Trotman Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 28 February 2017 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Fresnillo plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
