FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 19 Investment Case Our key competitive advantages Strong balance sheet position us to meet near-term Operational flexibility, investment across price cycles, shareholder returns commitments and drive longWith a healthy cash position and low leverage ratio, term value.
we can invest in profitable growth and optimise operations, while delivering solid returns to shareholders.
In 2016, capital expenditures totalled US$434.1 million, exploration US$121.2 million and we paid out US$88.2 million in dividends.
High quality assets Long-term visibility, long life returns We are amongst the largest concession holders in mineral-rich Mexico, holding approximately 1.8 million hectares of surface land, with a district consolidation strategy that allows us to leverage local knowledge and shared infrastructure.
Our portfolio of low cost gold and silver mines, high potential development projects and advanced exploration prospects contain over 2,171.5 moz of attributable silver resources and 38.4 moz of attributable gold resources.
Low cost and flexible operations Healthy margins, adaptability across price cycles Our high quality assets allow us to extract mineral profitably across metal price cycles.
Furthermore, we are able to tailor mine plans, leverage technology and share personnel, expertise and plant capacity within our districts to maximise the potential of each operation.
A focus on continuous improvement in productivity, efficiency and consumption of operating materials and energy combined with favourable exchange rates, helped reduce cost per tonne across all our mines in 2016.
Disciplined approach to development Long-term profitable growth Every development project must meet stringent viability criteria, including rates of return and high environmental and social impact standards.
Delivery timelines and budgets are calibrated to advance us towards production targets whilst adjusting for market conditions, with engineering and construction conducted by in-house teams.
We are on track to deliver phase II of the San Julin mine in 2017 and the new pyrites plant in 2018.
Sustainable business practices Environmental stewardship, social licence to operate, ethical culture To drive value for all our stakeholders and ensure operational continuity, we must understand and respect the needs of local communities: prioritise local goods, services and employees for our operations: ensure the safety and health of our people: and minimise our environmental footprint.
We invested over US$21.1 million in our HSECR initiatives in 2016, 10.7% higher than in 2015.
Dynamic Leaching Plant at Herradura
