Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 20 Market Overview Our strategy arises from the context of the silver and gold mining industry and the business environment in Mexico.
As a major silver and gold mining 2016 2015 2014 company, we are exposed to the market Peer group: primary silver producers production in moz dynamics common to the global precious Fresnillo plc 50 47 45 metals industry, while our people and operations, virtually all located in Mexico, Polymetal International plc 29 32 29 are exposed to country-specific factors Hochschild Mining plc 17 15 16 that affect our operations.
Hecla Mining Company 17 12 11 The precious metals market Coeur Mining, Inc. 15 16 17 Our top-line performance and that of Silver Standard Resources Inc. 10 10 9 our peers is driven by precious metals prices, which reflect traditional supply Silver Corp Metals Inc. 6 4 5 and demand dynamics that arise from the industrys production capacity in relation 2016 2015 2014 to consumption, which in turn is driven Peer group: global silver producers by-product & primary production in moz by market sentiment.
However, market sentiment has become significantly less Fresnillo plc 50 47 45 predictable in response to geopolitical KGHM Polska Miedz S. A.
38 41 40 and macroeconomic variables in recent Goldcorp Inc. 28 40 37 years, and rather notably so in 2016.
Pan American Silver Corp. 25 26 26 The two key political developments South32 Limited 21 22 N A in 2016 with potential to impact our Group were the UKs decision to exit BHP Billiton 13 11 34 the European Union, and the election of Donald Trump as president of the In gold, our peer group are medium-sized global gold miners with similar levels US, both of which resulted in strong, of annual production.
albeit dissimilar, reactions by equity markets and currency exchange rates.
2016 2015 2014 We do not believe that Brexit will have Peer group: medium-size gold producers production in koz a direct material impact on the Group, Agnico Eagle Mines Limited 1,663 1,671 1,429 given that our operations are in Mexico.
The effect of the new US administration, Randgold Resources Limited 1,253 1,211 1,147 while still difficult to predict until political, Fresnillo plc 935 762 596 economic and trade policies are fully implemented, has thus far only affected Polymetal International plc 890 861 945 us in terms of the reduction of the value OceanaGold Corporation 417 419 307 of the peso in relation to the US dollar.
Petropavlovsk plc 416 504 625 Fresnillo plc does not take a position Coeur Mining Inc. 358 328 249 on where prices, demand or market Hochschild Mining plc 246 166 101 sentiment are headed: however, we do monitor price movements and market dynamics, and take into consideration industry research and forecasts in order to support our financial projections and cash management strategies.
We use analyst consensus as the base case scenario for our internal projections, and conduct sensitivity analyses with floor and ceiling prices of between 10-20% above and below those consensus figures.
As a result, metals prices will continue to influence budget considerations in areas such as exploration and the timing of certain capital expenditures.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 21 Market size and position Key trends shaping the precious Mexico: Country challenges specific In silver, our peer group are other primary metals industry to Fresnillo plc silver miners although much of the global Our industry faces a number of underlying Securing land access and ownership.
silver production is derived as a by-product trends that impact competitiveness and Mining concessions in Mexico provide of gold, lead, zinc and copper mines.
As many of these coincide with rights to the mineral resources in the have long been the top global producer of our key risks, more detailed information subsoil, not the surface land, thus silver, both by-product and primary, and regarding the specific implications for concession holders must negotiate private aim to maintain our leadership position Fresnillo plc and our response and agreements with landowners.
mitigation efforts can be found on pages registration and enforcement of inherited 42-55. ownership rights for communal land has Benchmarking our performance led to renegotiation of land agreements in in the industry Capital remains constrained.
Although some cases, and to demands for increased To assess our competitiveness within prices for many metals improved in 2016, rent for land, water and occupancy rights.
our peer groups, we look primarily at the the cumulative effect of years of depressed following two factors, neither of which prices has put pressure on profits and Continued insecurity.
Some regions of the are influenced by market dynamics: balance sheets in recent years.
Process country, particularly in the states of Baja improvements, innovation, better resource California, Durango, Sinaloa, Guerrero, Average cash cost per metal: We track utilisation and lower energy costs have Chihuahua, Michoacn, Tamaulipas and all-in sustaining costs AISC in accordance helped cut costs and improve productivity, Nuevo Len, face unacceptably high rates with the guidelines issued by the World but many miners remain vulnerable of violent crime, primarily due to drug Gold Council, as a means to monitor in the current environment and have cartel activity.
Despite the escalation of current production costs and preparations insufficient cash reserves to sustain capital military engagement and law enforcement, for future production: however, we requirements and investments in growth.
also continue to use the traditional Traditional sources of external financing, 1 cash cost metric as we believe it is more including equity markets and institutional Corruption.
Mexico is ranked the representative of the production costs lenders, are seeking higher returns and 123rd of 176 countries on Transparency incurred during the period, eliminating premiums for their capital, even when Internationals 2016 Corruption Perceptions 2 distortions caused by non-recurring allocated to high quality mining companies.
Index, a composite index drawing on sustaining costs.
Our strategic objective corruption-related data from experts and is to remain in the lowest quartile of the Metal supply is limited, and ore grades are business.
Bribery is seen to be widespread cost curves, which we achieved at most declining.
No new major deposits have in the countrys judiciary and police, and in of our mines in 2016.
See pages 58-67. been identified in recent years, thus business registration processes, including mine lives will be reduced if volumes getting construction permits and licenses.
Quality and quantity of our mineral assets: are sustained at current operations.
Collusion between the police, judges and Cash costs provide a picture of a Miners will increasingly rely on lower criminal groups stems from complex companys current ability to extract grade deposits or those with more complex jurisdictions and cartel pressure, which its resources at a reasonable cost, but metallurgy, while the search for new contributes to the security problem long-term competitiveness is dependent deposits may take more time, be in less and results in impunity and weak law on the actual size of the resource base.
hospitable and secure areas, and lack the enforcement.
While attempted bribery, A strong indicator of future production is economies of scale that bigger and richer extortion, abuse of office, bribery of the ability to convert measured, indicated deposits would allow.
Taken together, foreign public officials and facilitation are and inferred resources into proven and exploration and exploitation will require criminalised under the Federal Penal Code probable reserves.
significantly more capital at a time when Cdigo Penal Federal, anti-corruption the industry is facing the aforementioned laws are almost never enforced.
See page We continuously invest in exploration capital constraints.
78 for the Fresnillo plc policy on Antiacross price cycles to expand and Bribery.
strengthen our asset base: as a result, Environmental and social costs of our total resources and reserves have maintaining mining operations have grown steadily since our IPO, and we have increased, and anti-mining activism a range of organic growth projects that continues to rise.
Resource nationalism extend across the prospecting, drilling in many mining jurisdictions has affected and resource definition stages.
See pages regulation and taxation, while pressure 71-75. from non-governmental organisations NGOs and communities, both organised and ad hoc, have led to work stoppages, project closures, and increased pressure for more tangible community benefits and shared value creation mechanisms.
We define cash cost as the total cash cost cost of sales plus treatment and refining charges, less depreciation, less revenues from by-products, divided by ounces of silver or gold sold.
