Executive Committee Ashley Almanza Martin Alvarez Jon Corner Chief Executive Officer Regional President, Latin America Regional President, Asia Pacific & Caribbean See page 58 for full biography Jon has extensive leadership experience Martin joined G4S as Regional President in both line and commercial functional Latam in 2013. roles across emerging market countries and regions.
Martin has extensive experience working and living throughout Latin America.
Martin joined Jon was appointed Regional President, Asia G4S from Dell, where he served eight years Pacific in October 2015.
Jon joined G4S in in regional roles, finishing as executive November 2012 as Regional Sales Director, director of multi-country Latin America and prior to taking on his current role, led MCLA, responsible for 38 countries, more the transformation of the commercial than US $1 billion in revenuePrior to Dell, function across the Asia Middle East Region.
Martin spent 10 years with DHL holding Prior to joining G4S, Jon was the executive various management and leadership roles vice president for Inchcape Shipping Tim Weller including Sr. Vice President, DHL Mexico and Services, a maritime services company with Chief Financial Officer Global Accounts Director.
Jon held senior line See page 59 for full biography Martin has an MBA from IESE in Barcelona and functional roles with Inchcape Shipping and a bachelors degree in International Trade Services over a 13 year period.
and Finance from Louisiana State University.
Claude Allain Mel Brooks John Kenning Regional President, Middle East & India Regional President, Africa Regional CEO, North America Claude joined G4S as Regional President Mel was appointed Regional President, John joined G4S in November 2014 as Middle East & India in January 2016.
Prior to joining G4S he was vice president Mels previous roles within G4S where as Prior to joining G4S, John was executive vice and general manager for Johnson Controls Group Strategy & Commercial Director president and president, commercial Middle-East & Africa and he had several and CEO for G4S India, where he led the business for OfficeMax where he led the general management positions in Southern transformation of the business, improving global, business-to-business division.
John Europe, Eastern-Europe and North America operations, customer service and sales.
was formerly president, North America and Middle-East.
Commercial for ADT Tyco Security Prior to joining G4S, Mel held a number of Services, where he led the transformation Claude brings a wealth of experience in senior line and functional roles in the of the business to a technology services service and technology industries, having defence and technology industries where he leader and the separation of the residential previously held senior business development was responsible for service line and and commercial security businesses in and general management roles in commercial strategies, technology North America.
development and leadership of a number of business unit turnaround programmes.
John is a board member for Miami Claude holds a bachelors degree in University Advisory Athletic Board and past Chemical and Physic Science from board member of the Make-a-Wish University of Rennes, a Master in Finance Foundation.
John holds a bachelors degree from ICG and also graduated from INSEAD.
in business from Miami University.
60 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Graham Levinsohn Sren Lundsberg-Nielsen Jesus Rosano Regional CEO, Europe Group General Counsel Group Strategy and Commercial Director Graham became Regional CEO of Europe Sren began his career as a lawyer in Jesus joined G4S in March 2014 as Regional in November 2013.
Graham has more than Denmark and since 1984 he has had a wide Business Development SVP.
20 years experience in the security industry, range of legal experience as general counsel In 2015 his responsibilities expanded to having joined Securicor Cash Services in for international groups in Denmark, chief operations officer Latin America and 1994 as general manager, marketing.
Belgium and the US before joining Group 4 he was appointed Group Strategy and Falck in 2001 as Group General Counsel.
Since then, Graham has held a number of Commercial Director in January 2016. commercial and line management positions Sren has been involved in a wide range of Jesus joined G4S from DHL, where he held in both the cash and security lines of the successful mergers and acquisitions during senior line, functional and regional roles in a business.
Graham was responsible for the his career, including the acquisition of number of markets in Latin America and creation of the UK cash centres outsourcing Wackenhut and the Group 4 Falck merger North America over an 11 year period.
business in 2001 and divisional managing with Securicor.
Before DHL, Jesus worked in strategy director for G4S Cash Services UK.
He Sren has overall responsibility for all internal consulting and investment banking.
Jesus became Group strategy and development and external legal services for G4S as well as holds a bachelors degree in Engineering and director in 2008 and joined the executive the Groups insurance programme.
Administration from ITESM committee in 2010.
Sren is non-executive director of Basico Graham is a fellow of the Chartered A S, a member of the Danish Bar and Law Institute of Marketing and a director of Society, a member of the advisory board of COESS and a member of the Ligue the Danish UK Chamber of Commerce and Internationale des Socits fide Surveillance.
author of the book Executive Management Contracts, published in Denmark.
Jenni Myles Peter Neden Debbie Walker Group HR Director Regional President, UK & Ireland Group Corporate Affairs Director Jenni became Group HR Director in 2015 Peter became Regional President of UK & Debbie is Group Corporate Affairs Director, and has extensive experience in employee Ireland in May 2014.
Peter was previously heading the corporate communications engagement, talent management and Regional managing director of G4S team which focuses on the Groups key organisational development.
Outsourcing Services for the UK & audiences media, government, employees Ireland region.
Debbie is also responsible Jenni joined G4S in 1998 and has held for the Groups CSR and human several senior HR roles at both a Group Previous roles included responsibility for the rights strategies.
As Director of Employee business development programme within Engagement & HR, Jenni led the Groups G4S in the UK and Africa regions, as well as Prior to the merger between Group 4 Falck employee engagement and labour relations a number of senior positions in both the and Securicor, Debbie held a number of strategy and held general HR responsibility commercial and government businesses senior marketing and communications roles for Africa, Asia, Middle East & Latin America.
within the Securicor group from 1993 As Chief HR Officer for the Americas to 2004.
Prior to the merger between Group 4 Falck region Jenni led the people and organisation and Securicor, Peter was Securicors strategy across 30 countries and over development director, having joined the 100,000 employees.
Peters early career Prior to joining G4S, Jenni held HR positions included a number of sales, marketing and in a variety of business sectors such as general management roles within Centrica.
Jenni is a Peter has a degree in economics from the Fellow of the Chartered Institute of University of Nottingham.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 61
