Strategic Report Governance Financial Information Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 75 Directors Report The directors present their Annual Report and audited financial There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Companys shares, statements for the Group for the year ended 30 June 2016. with the exceptions that certain shares held by the Galliford Try Employee Benefit Trust EBT are restricted for the duration of the Principal activities applicable performance periods under relevant Group share plans, Galliford Try is a housebuilding and construction group, primarily and directors and persons discharging managerial responsibilities operating in the UK.
Galliford Try plc, registered in England and Wales are periodically restricted in dealing in the Companys shares under with company number 00836539, is the Group Parent Company.
the Groups share dealing policy which reflects the requirements of More detailed information regarding the Groups activities during the the now superseded Model Code and the Market Abuse Regulation year under review, and its future prospects, is provided on pages 1 which came into effect on 3 July 2016.
The principal subsidiaries and joint ventures operating within the circumstances, the directors are permitted to decline to register Groups divisions are shown in notes 12 and 35 to the financial a transfer in accordance with the Companys articles of association.
There are no other limitations on holdings of securities, and no Strategic Report requirements to obtain the approval of the Company, or other holders The Group is required by section 414A of the Companies Act 2006 of securities in the Company, prior to the share transfer.
The Company to present a Strategic Report in the Annual Report.
This can be found is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may on pages 1 to 49. result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
The Strategic Report contains, where appropriate, an indication of There are no securities carrying specific rights with regard to control the directors view on likely future developments in the business of of the Company, with the exception that the EBT holds shares in the the Group.
Company in connection with Group share plans which have rights with regard to control of the Company that are not exercisable directly by The Corporate Governance Report on pages 52 to 61 is a statement the employee.
The EBT abstains from voting in respect of any shares for the purposes of Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2.
The EBT currently holds 0.65% of the issued share capital of The Annual Report and Financial Statements use financial and the Company for the purposes of satisfying employee share options non-financial KPIs wherever possible and appropriate.
Results, dividends and capital Articles of Association The profit for the year, net of tax, of 108.9 million is shown in the The Articles of Association, adopted in 2009 to reflect the Companies consolidated income statement on page 84.
The directors have Act 2006, set out the internal regulations of the Company, and define recommended a final dividend of 56 pence per share, which together various aspects of the Companys constitution including the rights with the interim dividend of 26 pence declared in February, results in of shareholders, procedures for the appointment and removal of a total dividend for the financial year of 82 pence.
The total dividend directors, and the conduct of both directors and general meetings.
for the financial year will distribute a total of 67.9 million.
Subject to In accordance with the Articles, directors can be appointed or approval by shareholders in general meeting, the final dividend will removed either by the Board or shareholders in general meeting.
be payable on 23 November 2016, to shareholders on the register Amendments to the Articles require the approval of shareholders in at close of business on 28 October 2016. general meeting expressly by way of special resolution.
Copies of Please refer to page 28 for an overview of the Groups capital structure the Articles are available by contacting the General Counsel and and funding.
Company Secretary at the registered office.
Share capital, authorities and restrictions Significant direct and indirect holdings The Company has one class of ordinary share capital, having a As at 14 September 2016, being the date of this Annual Report, the nominal value of 50 pence.
The ordinary shares rank pari passu in Company had been made aware, pursuant to the FCAs Disclosure respect of voting and participation and are listed for trading on the and Transparency Rules, of the following beneficial interests in 3% main market of the London Stock Exchange.
At 30 June 2016, the or more of the Companys ordinary share capital: Company had 82,872,012 ordinary shares in issue 2015: 82,289,865.
Shareholder Interest % capital The directors are authorised on an annual basis to issue shares, to Standard Life Investments 5,754,388 6.95 allot a limited number of shares in the Company for cash other than Brewin Dolphin Ltd 4,293,613 5.18 to existing shareholders, and to make market purchases of shares Aberforth Partners LLP 3,535,408 4.27 within prescribed limits.
The current authorities are set out in 2015 AGM notice.
Resolutions to be proposed at the 2016 AGM will renew There were no material changes in any of the significant holdings all three of the directors standing authorities relating to share capital, between the financial year end and the date of this Annual Report.
which are further explained in the Notice of AGM sent separately to shareholders.
Other than usual activity in connection with the Groups share plans, no shares have been issued or purchased by the Company under the relevant authorities either during the financial year or to the date of this Annual Report.
76 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Directors Report continued Change of control provisions Employees The only agreements likely to have a material impact on the Groups The Group is committed to employment policies, which follow best operations in the event of any change of control over the Group practice, based on equal opportunities for all employees, irrespective continue to relate to the Groups revolving credit facility and surety of sex, race, age, ethnicity, disability or marital status.
We value arrangements, details of which are set out in the notes to the everyone as an individual, recognising that everyone is different and Financial Statements.
has different needs at work.
We respect peoples differences and treat everyone with dignity and respect.
We aim to create a culture in All of the Groups share plans contain provisions relating to a change which everyone feels valued as an individual and is motivated to give of control.
The respective plan rules permit outstanding awards to vest their best in their jobs.
on a proportional basis and then become exercisable in the event of a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any applicable The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for performance conditions and the prior approval of the Remuneration employment from disabled persons, having regard to their particular Committee.
Other than in relation to share schemes as described aptitudes and abilities.
We carry out regular workplace assessments, above, the Group has not entered into any agreements with its and provide occupational health checks and advice to support directors or employees which provide for compensation in the event both employees and line managers.
Appropriate arrangements are of a takeover or change of control in the Group.
made for the continued training and employment, career development and promotion of disabled persons.
If members of staff become The agreements governing the Groups joint ventures all have disabled, the Group endeavours to continue employment, either in appropriate change of control provisions, none of which is material the same or alternative position, with appropriate retraining being in the context of the wider Group.
Board and directors interests and indemnities Employee engagement and consultation is encouraged through Summary biographies of the Board directors as at 30 June 2016 the use of regular informal discussions feedback, formal annual are on pages 50 and 51.
Peter Truscott was appointed as Chief appraisals, business unit staff forums, periodic employee surveys Executive on 1 October 2015 and Ken Gillespie stepped down from and the new 360 feedback programme mentioned on page 47. the Board on 31 July 2016.
Andrew Richards, who was not a member of the Board but was a member of the Executive Board, left the Further information on the Groups employees, employment practices Group in April 2016.
Greg Fitzgerald announced his retirement from and employee involvement is provided in the Strategic Report on the Board with effect from the conclusion of the 2016 AGM on pages 1 to 49 and the Remuneration Policy and Report on pages 62 11 November 2016. to 74.
Information on the Groups approach to environmental, social and community matters, including a consideration of the impact of There have been no other changes to the Board, either during or the Groups business on the environment, is provided in the Strategic since the financial year end.
With effect from 6 September 2016, each of Andrew Hammond Significant agreements Divisional Chairman West for Linden Homes, Tom Nicholson Except for the agreements underpinning the Groups revolving credit Divisional Chairman East for Linden Homes, and Stephen Teagle facility, there are no persons with which it has contractual or other Chief Executive, Partnerships and Regeneration joined the arrangements which are essential to its business.
Charitable and political donations The interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company For information regarding charitable donations made in time or are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 72, where materials please refer to the Strategic Report on page 49. details of executive directors service contracts and non-executive directors letters of appointment can also be found.
It is Group policy to avoid making political donations of any nature and accordingly none were made during the year.
The Group notes the The Company operates a formal ongoing procedure for the disclosure, wide application of Part 14 of the Companies Act 2006, but does not review and authorisation of directors actual and potential conflicts consider the housebuilding and construction industry bodies of which of interest, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In addition, it is a member to be political organisations for the purposes of the Act.
conflicts of interest are reviewed, and as necessary further authorised, by the Board on an annual basis.
Details of Directors and Officers Liability Insurance and qualifying third party indemnities are given on page 55 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 77 Emissions Independent auditor Details of the Groups carbon dioxide emissions for the financial Each of the directors at the date of approval of this Annual Report year have been included on page 48 and are included by reference confirms that: in this report.
5 so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information Creditor payment policy of which the auditor is unaware: and Group policy regarding creditor payment is to agree payment terms 5 the director has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken as contractually with suppliers and land vendors, ensure the relevant a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant terms of payment are included in contracts, and to abide by those audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is terms when satisfied that goods, services or assets have been aware of that information.
provided in accordance with the agreed contractual terms.
In November 2013, the Group became a signatory to the Prompt This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance Payment Code which contains, among other things, commitments with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. to pay suppliers within agreed contract terms.
A resolution is to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM for the Financial instruments re-appointment of  LLP as auditor of Further information regarding the Groups financial instruments the Company, at a rate of remuneration to be determined by the including interest rate hedges, related policies and a consideration Audit Committee.
of its liquidity and other financing risks can be found in the financial AGM review from page 26, and in note 25 to the financial statements.
The AGM will be held at the offices of Royal Bank of Scotland, Important developments since year end 3rd Floor Conference Centre, 250 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 4AA Other than changes to the market conditions, outlined in the Strategic on 11 November 2016 at 11.30 am.
The notice convening the Report, there have been no material events or developments affecting AGM, sent to shareholders separately, explains the items of the Company or any of its operating subsidiaries since 30 June 2016. business which are not of a routine nature.
Going concern Fair, balanced and understandable In accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on In accordance with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Going Concern and Liquidity published in 2009, the requirements of Code and as further described on pages 58 and 59, the Group has the UK Corporate Governance Code and Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3, the arrangements in place to ensure that the information presented in directors have conducted a rigorous and proportionate assessment this Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
The directors of the Groups ability to continue in existence for the foreseeable future.
consider, on the advice of the Audit Committee, that the Annual This has been reviewed during the financial year and the directors Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and have concluded that there are no material uncertainties that may cast provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the significant doubt on the Companys ability to continue as a going Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Furthermore, the Group has adequate resources and visibility Approval of Report as to its future workload, as explained in this Annual Report.
It is This Directors Report, the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 49 and therefore justified in using the going concern basis in preparing these the Corporate Governance and Directors Remuneration Reports financial statements.
on pages 52 to 74, were approved by the Board of directors on 14 September 2016.
For and on behalf of the Board Kevin Corbett General Counsel and Company Secretary 14 September 2016
