INTEGRATION INNOVATION INSIGHT Business model OUR BUSINESS MODEL DELIVERING SUSTAINABLE VALUE WHY CUSTOMERS CHOOSE G4S OUR CUSTOMER APPROACH The evolving security landscape continues to pose 4.
Manage greater and more divergent challenges for governments, G4S designs, builds and managesglobal security organisations and individuals across the world, supporting projected growth of the global security market by 5% to operations centres GSOC for customers, both on a standalone basis and as part of an integrated offering.
In addressing this demand, we aim to differentiate G4S by providing industry-leading The GSOC receives, analyses and responds to all the security intelligence and data for a customer.
solutions that are innovative, reliable and efficient and which protect, and add value to, our customers organisations.
Customers may outsource these activities to a G4S GSOC in order to obtain network benefits and access As the worlds leading integrated security company, G4S is our security expertise.
Knowledge gained through characterised by: managing GSOCs reinforces our ability to assess, design, build and integrate new solutions.
Global footprint G4S provides comprehensive Cash Solutionsservices We provide a broad range of products and services across encompassing key elements of the cash supply chain.
more than 90 countries and throughout seven major Our managed services typically combine software, regions.
This scope provides us with a strong understanding equipment and services in an integrated solution.
and clear visibility of how security trends are evolving across the world.
This insight is invaluable for positioning our solutions at the heart of customer needs.
Build and Integrate Deep understanding In some markets, we are seeing a move towards integratedsolutions where security or cash We support our knowledge of global security trends with management services are delivered under one a deep understanding of our customers unique needs.
G4S will continue to investin We have a strong heritage of more than 100 years in the building its capability and breadth in many of these security industry, helping to distinguish positively the G4S areas.
brand in our key markets around the world.
Our dedicated sector experts, involvement in industry bodies and academic institutions, strategic customer relationships and 2.
Design customer service feedback mean that we can tailor our We employ our growing resource and capability solutions to offer maximum value to our diverse set to design a solution to meet our customers of customers.
requirements, protecting and or adding value to their organisation.
Thismay involve a single service, bundled Security professionals and expertise services two or more services including facilities We recruit, screen and deploy over 150,000 new people services inselective markets or an integrated security each year.
We have over 585,000 employees whose solution from the G4S portfolio.
unique skills and shared values are focused on delivering high-quality service to our many thousands of customers.
Assess Technology hardware and software and We combine our understanding of our customers innovation business and objectives, with our security expertise to We continue to invest in technology to meet the growing assess thecustomers security risks and requirements.
demand for integrated security solutions which combine consultation, technology hardware and software, installation, staffing and maintenance and to drive the development of innovative new solutions for clients.
In order to grow our provision of security and related services, we use our unique industry and Customer service customer insight to deliver services that are Excellent customer service is one of our core values and innovative see page 22, efficient, effective and an area in which we continue to invest significantly.
In the integrated see page 24.
We do this in a stepwise past three years, we have focused in particular on our process: 1.
Build and Integrate capability, processes and performance measures to drive security solutions from our portfolio and 4.
growth, customer retention and customer satisfaction.
The Group has over 585,000 employees including 27,000 employees in portfolio businesses.
10 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 ADDING VALUE THROUGH INTEGRATION Strategic report VALUE CREATION AND PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT Customers Through understanding our customers needs we can offer them value-added, innovative, cost-effective security solutions and build enduring relationships ensuring we have a sustainable business model.
KPIs include customer and contract retention and customer satisfaction see page 20.
Global security Shareholders operations centre GSOC Our business model seeks to deliver sustainable, profitable growth for shareholders.
Since 2013 we have G4S Solutions increased continuing business sales by portfolio 15%, grown EPS by 45% and generated operating cash flow of 1.9 billion.
As a service company, the majority of our business has a relatively low level of capital intensity, but when capital investment is required in areas such as Cash Solutions, we have the financial discipline and processes in place to allocate capital in a disciplined manner.
Employees Our employees are critical to our service delivery and by engaging with Solutions design our employees fairly and ensuring they have the right training and skills to undertake their roles, we can attract and retain the right people.
We have a zero harm goal for the health and safety of our employees see page 14.
Suppliers We have a responsible procurement policy consistent with our business ethics policy see page 24.
All our Security and risk consulting suppliers must be respectful of human rights and respect established environmental standards.
Society As the worlds leading security company we believe that our 585,000 employees help to keep society safer.
Please see the 2016 CSR report for a more detailed discussion of G4Ss role in society.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 11
