John Connolly Non-executive director Chairman of the board Appointed June 2012 John Connolly has extensive experience working in a global business environment and in sectors with strategic relevance to the Group.
A chartered accountant, John spent his 1 2 career until May 2011 with global professional services firm Deloitte, was Global Chairman between 2007 and 2011 and, prior to that, Global Managing Director between 2003 and 2007.
He was Senior Partner and CEO of the UK Partnership from 1999 until his retirement from the firm.
Current external commitments: Chairman of Amec Foster Wheeler plc and director of a number of private companies.
3 4 Beyond commercial business roles, he is the chairman of the Great Ormond Street Hospital Charity board of trustees.
Ashley Almanza Chief executive officer Appointed May 2013 Ashley Almanza has extensive board and executive management experience in 5 6 complex international businesses.
He held a number of senior executive roles at BG Group from 1993 to 2012, including CFO from 2002 to 2011 and Executive Vice President from 2009 to 2012.
As Executive Vice President he was accountable for BG Groups UK, European and Central Asian businesses.
He was a non executive director of Schroder plc 2011 to 2016.
He holds an MBA from London Business School.
7 8 Current external commitments: Nonexecutive director of Noble Corporation.
Board member of the Ligue Internationale des Socits fide Surveillance.
John Daly Non-executive director Appointed June 2015 John Daly has significant executive management experience in major 9 10 international businesses with extensive knowledge of Asia and the Middle East.
Key to committee After an early career in sales and marketing membership with Schering-Plough, Pennwalt Corporation, Nomination Bristol-Myers Pharmaceuticals and Johnson CSR & Johnson, he joined British American Risk Tobacco BAT in 1994.
He held various Audit executive leadership positions at BAT over Remuneration the course of 20 years in Europe, the Committee chairman Middle East and Asia.
Most recent positions 58 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Governance at BAT were chief operating officer from 23 years where he gained extensive 6.
Paul Spence 2010 to 2014 and Regional Director for international experience and held a number Non-executive director Asia Pacific, based in Hong Kong from of senior positions, including vice-president 2004 to 2010. of BP Finance, CFO for the United States Appointed January 2013 and he also served as a business unit leader Paul Spence has in-depth knowledge of Current external commitments: Nonin Alaska.
outsourcing in both the public and private executive director of Britvic plc and sectors and extensive international Wolseley plc.
Current external commitments: Chief Financial experience in key developing countries such Officer of Tullow Oil plc.
as India, China and Brazil.
Winnie Kin Wah Fok A graduate of the Wharton School at the Non-executive director 9.
Barbara Thoralfsson University of Pennsylvania with a degree in Non-executive director Appointed October 2010 economics and decision sciences: served a Appointed July 2016 30-year career with Capgemini and its Winnie Fok has extensive international board and senior management experience predecessors.
Having started in the US and Barbara Thoralfsson has international become managing partner of mid-Atlantic with extensive knowledge of Asian markets executive and senior management and strong involvement in Scandinavia.
information and technology for Ernst & experience and strong knowledge of Young, he went on to gain significant North America, Latin America, Scandinavia An auditor by training, was involved in international experience for 16 years as and Asia.
management positions in finance, audit and managing partner of Ernst & Young corporate advisory work and a wide range After an early career in marketing, held Consulting Australia, CEO of Capgemini of roles in asset management firms investing senior management roles in the consumer Ernst & Young in Asia and CEO Capgemini with a focus in Asia.
Senior partner of EQT goods and telecommunications sectors Ernst & Young UK.
He then spent eight years and CEO of EQT Partners Asia Limited: including CEO of NetCom ASA, Norways serving on Capgeminis executive managing director of CEF New Asia second largest mobile network operator management committee during which time Partners Limited.
She holds an MBA his roles included deputy group CEO and in marketing and finance from Columbia Current external commitments: Senior CEO of Capgemini Global University in New York and a BA in Outsourcing Services.
advisor to Wallenberg Foundations AB: psychology from Duke University in non-executive director of Volvo Car Current external commitments: NonNorth Carolina.
Corporation: SEB AB and an investment executive director of Actual Experience plc.
committee member for the HOPU Current external commitments: NonInvestment Fund.
executive chair of ColArt Holdings Limited and Norfolier Greentec AS, non-executive 7.
Clare Spottiswoode Non-executive director director of Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget 5.
Steve Mogford SCA publ and Hilti AG.
Non-executive director Senior Appointed June 2010 independent director Clare Spottiswoode has considerable 10.
Tim Weller experience in the public sector, the energy Appointed May 2016 Chief financial officer markets and the financial services sector.
Steve Mogford has extensive experience of Appointed April 2013 as a non-executive delivery of complex programmes in the A mathematician and economist by training, director and chief financial officer since defence, infrastructure and utilities market.
worked for the UK Treasury, director October 2016.
general of Ofgas, the UK gas regulator: policyholder advocate for Norwich Unions Tim Weller brings significant experience After graduating in astrophysics, maths and with-profits policyholders at Aviva and a of the energy and utilities sectors.
An physics, served a 30-year career with British member of the Independent Commission accountant by training, he joined KPMG Aerospace, later BAE Systems, during which on Banking and the Future of in 1985, rising to partnership in 1997 time he held several senior management Banking Commission.
before joining Granada plc as director of positions before being appointed chief financial control.
Current external commitments: Chairman of operating officer, with particular responsibility for programmes, major Flow Group plc: non-executive director of Between 2002 and 2010, he gained Ilika plc, Partnership Assurance Group plc, projects and customer support, and a significant further experience in the energy member of the BAE Systems plc board.
He BW Offshore Limited and JRP Group plc as and utilities sectors holding CFO positions well as being a director of a number of was chief executive of SELEX Galileo, the with Innogy one of the UKs leading defence electronics company owned by private companies.
integrated energy companies at the time, Italian aerospace and defence organisation RWE Thames Water the worlds third Finmeccanica for four years prior to joining largest water and wastewater service 8.
Ian Springett United Utilities Group plc a UK based company and United Utilities Group PLC Non-executive director water and wastewater service company in a UK-based water and wastewater service 2011 as CEO.
He was CFO of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc between 2010 and Ian Springett has extensive international and Current external commitments: CEO of 2011 and CFO of Petrofac Limited the financial experience in the petroleum United Utilities Group PLC.
international oil and gas service provider industry.
A chartered accountant, having qualified Current external commitments: Nonwith Coopers & Lybrand in London.
Prior executive director of the Carbon Trust.
to joining Tullow Oil, Ian worked at BP for Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 59
