Our strategy STRATEGY AND PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW This section summarises how we have prioritised the key elements of the Groups transformation, focusing our resources and expertise in areas where we can achieve the best results for customers and sustainable growth and return for investors.
CUSTOMERS AND SERVICE EXCELLENCE See page 14 onwards for more detail and the progress in our key performance indicators.
KPI We build long-term customer relationships % based upon trust and understanding of our c. 90 Contract customers business and objectives CUSTOMERS AND retention in SERVICE EXCELLENCE Progress and performance 2016 In 2016, we retained around 90% of all existing contracts and won new work with existing or new customers with a total contract value of 2.5bn.
Most of the Groups businesses now use a standardised approach to measuring customer satisfaction using Net Promoter Score.
We continue to invest in new products and services and look for ways to improve productivitywithout affecting service.
Key risks Failure to understand customers changing needs or fall short of customer expectations.
See Principal risks: Major contracts and Growth strategy page 53 and 55 PEOPLE AND VALUES We recruit, develop and deploy the best KPI % people in our industry 7.1 Reduction in Progress and performance voluntary Our financial performance is underpinned by recruiting, employee developing and deploying the best people.
To do this we turnover in invest in building robust recruitment, screening, vetting 2016 Watch our 2016 results and 2017 outlook on-line and training processes to underpin our commitment to at: www.
com investors delivering consistent service excellence and high standards of ethical and legal compliance.
Since 2015, over 3,000 managers have completed H&S training modules.
Key risks The following pages highlight some of the Groups financial and non-financial KPIs and how they link to Our trained and skilled people are hired by competitors the Groups strategic priorities.
See pages 28 and 29 or other companies or do not behave in line with the Groups values.
KPI KPI Financial KPI Non-financial KPI See Principal risks: People page 53 12 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report KPI % 61.5 Increase in operating cash flow from continuing GROWTH AND INNOVATION businesses in 2016 KPI We design, market and deliver innovative, % industry-leading solutions that protect and add 36 value for our customers wherever they operate.
Increase in systems Progress and performance revenues from GROWTH AND INNOVATION continuing Over the past three years through our technology centres businesses of excellence we have invested in both the creation of new in 2016 products and services and upgraded existing services.
The benefits of this investment can be seen in increased sales of products and services such as Deposita, Retail Cash Solutions, Risk360and Symmetry Connect.
Key risks FINANCIAL AND COMMERCIAL DISCIPLINE Failure to market or deliver our services and technology effectively or fail to deliver adequate value for We manage risk effectively and ensure we have our customers.
profitable, cash-generative services See Principal risks: Growth strategy page 55 Progress and performance A key part of the transformation of G4S in recent years FINANCIAL DISCIPLINE has been as a result of greater financial discipline especially in the areas of capital investment, cash generation and working capital management.
Since 2013 we havebeen embedding a cash matters culture within the organisation see page 26 and improved operating cash flow from continuing businesses by 61.5% in 2016.
Our risk management programmes focus management attention on mitigating the critical risks within the business see page 51.
Portfolio management is also a key part of capital discipline and ensures focus and performance management for the Group.
We divested 12 businesses in 2016, bringing the total number of businesses sold or exited to 29 since 2013 with proceeds raised of over 345 million with agreement for a further 88 million in 2017.
OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE AND PRODUCTIVITY Key risks KPI We have secure, safe, reliable and efficient % Inefficient capital management and failure to comply operations 9.7 with Group risk management standards.
Increase in Progress and performance See Principal risks : Major contracts page 53 PBITA from OPERATIONAL Over the past three years we have invested in best-in-class continuing EXCELLENCE, H&S AND PRODUCTIVITY businesses in operating and safety standards and subject matter experts for operations, security and safety.
We have also invested in 2016 technology, IT and procurement and in business and process restructuring.
The benefits of this investment can be seen in the improvements in the Groups PBITA.
Key risks Failure to comply with our standards results in harm, loss of expertise and investment fails to deliver benefit.
See Principal risks: page 52 to 55 Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 13 Our strategy continued Embedding new values across the Group KPI % Following their launch early in 2016 we have started to PEOPLE AND VALUES 20 develop tools to raise awareness of the new values and Reduction in to realign our human resources HR processes and road-related systems with them.
Before doing so, we wanted to fatalities since ensure our employees were given the opportunity to 2013 provide feedback on what the values mean to them in their daily working lives.
We conducted over 50 focus groups in 34 countries to consult our employees face to face.
Their feedback was both heartfelt and helpful and we are incorporating it in the tools we develop includingvideo andon-line training for managers.
Scenario-based exercises are also being developed using challenging situations that employees may face in their normal working day.
These tools help to bring the values to life and help employees to understand and use appropriate behaviours and responses.
Health and safety The process of building capability to improve our management of health and safety H&S, eliminating fatal LIVING OUR VALUES incidents and potentially fatal risks continued during 2016: Improvement programmes targeting high-priority countries continued, with support and oversight provided by both Group and the regions.
Programmes were also introduced for specific risk areas, such as motorcycle safety.
H&S reviews were conducted in seven countries.
The Groups core H&S standards were revised in Jenni Myles 2016.
The implementation was supported by the introduction of formal guidance as well as training Group HR Director KPI for H&S practitioners across the Group.
Zero With over 585,000 people, G4S is one A further on-line training module was introduced Harm is our of the worlds largest private employers.
covering the minimum H&S requirements for G4S H&S goal Our employees touch the lives of others every businesses.
Since 2015 over 3,000 managers have day, providing crucial services to keep them completed on-line H&S training modules.
Our success is therefore All businesses completed H&S control self-assessments underpinned by the way we lead and engage based on the Groups core standards as part of the with our people, the way we work, and the Enterprise Risk Management ERM system.
Actionswere agreedto address any issues that arose.
Our values are embedded in the standards, policies and On-line incident management and action tracking was introduced in selected businesses.
This programme guidance which we set out to help employees will only continue in businesses where it can deliver a and managers perform.
To ensure we deliver tangible improvement to H&S performance.
long-term value we continuously review the As a direct result of sharply higher levels and greater health of the organisation in six critical areas: intensity of armed attacks on our employees, workOrganise is our organisation and related fatalities increased to 47 in 2016 from 46 in culture effective?
This is a tragic loss for their families, friends and colleagues and reminds us of the importance of our Acquire do we have the right people in efforts when it comes to H&S.
We are working closely the right places?
with peer companies and law enforcement agencies to mitigate these attacks.
The number of road traffic-related Protect do we prioritise the safety of our fatalities has decreased by 20% since 2013 when the employees and those in our care?
road safety programme was launched.
Develop do our employees have the All fatal and permanently disabling incidents are capability to deliver?
reported, investigated and followed up through a standardised process, led by the managing director of Engage are our employees committed to the business concerned with oversight from Group doing a good job?
Reward do our incentives support sustainable performance?
14 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report RESPONDING TO THE 2015 ENGAGEMENT SURVEY COLOMBIA HR core standards In the 2015 engagement survey in Colombia, our KPI colleagues expressed concern that they didnt have At the same time as the launch of the new values, an efficient mechanism to raise queries about payroll 3,000 the HR core standards, which every business must and other topics and when they did raise them they Managers comply with, were also revised.
Originally developed in were not receiving timely responses.
To address this, the completed H&S 2006, the updated standards are simpler and shorter, HR department developed an in-house tool, where our training since colleagues, wherever they are in Colombia, can raise any and align better with the current business and people 2015 concerns about their pay.
This has led to a reduction in risks.
HR leaders across the Group have undergone payroll queries through other channels like email, or on-line training to understand the updated standards.
Since their re-launch every business has completed a The concerns are answered within the following five self-assessment of compliance with the core standards working days, and on average about 160 payroll queries using our new enterprise risk management system.
The are raised through this new tool each month.
system provides a common platform for managing risk and streamlines the process for completion, monitoring and reporting compliance against the standards.
As with previous years, any gaps identified are followed up via both regional and Group HR teams and through business audits.
More on Risk and our ERM system can be found on page 51.
As well as investing time and effort in ensuring our existing operations are optimal, we are also developing a new standard IT system for our manned security operations, which will be pilotedin Ireland in 2017 and will streamline our processes and significantly improve access to data, reporting accuracy and timeliness.
Screening and vetting of our employees Several of the revised HR core standards with which processes.
Getting these processes right is vital to businesses have to comply relate to our screening ensure we safeguard our customers assets and our reputation as a trusted supplier.
Our screening processes have evolved over time.
Security regulations have OUR VALUES changed, new risks have emerged and access to different sources of screening data, such as social media have become available.
During 2016, we reviewed our We act with... screening policy and practices, particularly for high-risk Our values are the standards rolessuch as those requiringfirearms or working in INTEGRITY we set for ourselves and they AND RESPECT hostile environments.
This will lead to the development are reflected in the culture of our organisation through of a Group-wide training programme for HR and our behaviours and actions.
The new programme will be We are passionate about...
They help us to attract and mandatory and delivered online, supplementing existing retain employees, to win and training related to our HR core standards, regulatory keep important customers and SAFETY, SECURITY to obtain appropriate long-term and customer requirements.
AND SERVICE EXCELLENCE investment in the Group all of which contribute to our goal of Employee retention achieving sustainable We achieve this through... profitable growth.
High employee turnover is another people risk we seek to mitigate through the HR core standards.
It impacts INNOVATION AND TEAMWORK not only our ability to deliver excellent service but also the costs for doing so given the intensive recruitment, training and screening involved.
The causes and potential solutions for high turnover in our businesses are many assets.
We are passionate about and varied.
In 2016 we made it a priority for all Integrity and Respect delivering high levels of businesses but focused significant efforts on a small Our business activities and customer service.
relationships are built on trust, number where it was clear it madea material difference.
We deliver These businesses shared ideas and reported their Innovation on the promises we make and efforts quarterly.
Additionally, a toolkit for HR treat our colleagues, customers We invest in technology and best practitioners is being developed which provides and those in our care with the practice to continually improve guidance on how to analyse the root causes of utmost respect.
We challenge ourselves to find new ways of employee turnover as well as how to address them in helping our customers.
Safety, Security and Service a practical way.
The efforts and focus on retention have Excellence corresponded with a reduction in the percentage of Teamwork We work in a safe way and take voluntary turnover across the Group by 7.1% in 2016.
We work together as a team to great care to protect our The reduction was particularly noticeable in Africa, achieve the best results for our colleagues and customers from Latin America and the Middle East & India regions.
We are experts in security Everyone has a valid opinion and No doubt the economic uncertainty in some countries and use that knowledge to protect their contribution is valued.
our customers most valuable played a part in this change, but we believe the relentless attention the businesses paid to attrition has Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 15 Our strategy People and values continued been a positivefactor.
In 2017 we will continue our Employee gender diversity % focus on retention but also look for ways to strengthen our recruitment activities using a similar toolkit and 100 targeted approach.
70 86.9 87.8 80 Employee engagement The feedback from 449,000 employees who completed the employee engagement survey in 2015 provided 60 some ideas on how to reduce high labour turnover mentioned above.
We believe that motivated and 40 highly-engaged employees are more likely to work harder and stay longer so the survey is a critical 30 20 opportunity to assess levels of engagement and to find out what really matters to our employees.
We want to 13.1 12.2 0 know what they think of G4S as an employer and what they feel the Group needs to do more of, less of and Female Male differently in order to improve their working day.
During 2016 businesses have been implementing the action plans in response to feedback from the last survey.
Acase study illustrating this isshown on page 15.
Talent management The next engagement survey is being prepared for KPI distribution during 2017.
This time the questions will be Our diversity and inclusion strategy is integral to our 449,000 aligned to the new Group values as a way of further talent management.
We know that to be anorganisation Employees embedding them in our processes and gathering that can respond, reflect and connect effectively with responded to employee feedback on how well G4S lives up to these our customers, we need greater diversity in our an engagement values and what needs to change.
Access to the survey leadership and management populations as well as in survey in 2015 is being extended this year by wider use of mobile the front line.
We monitor diversity in the talent pipeline technology and an increase in the total number of and succession plans and review recruitment decisions languages available.
We look forward to reporting the where necessary.
In 2016 over 700 managers were included in our global talent review process.
Through this process there has Diversity and inclusion been a year-on-year increase in the number of people Our employee diversity is a source of competitive seen as having potential to progress to more senior advantage to G4S.
We believe it helps us innovate and roles, which is pleasing, as is the reduction in the stay ahead of the competition.
To harness our great percentage of external appointments made to senior diversity and enable all our employees to realise their roles from 31% to 24% in 2016. full potential, we encourage our businesses to create We continue to invest in developing the future leaders inclusive working environments.
Tools including on-line identified through the talent review process.
In 2016 a cultural awareness training and cultural calendars are total of 115 leaders participated in the Regional available to employees, and we encourage them to seek, Leadership Programme and in 2017 all regions will have acknowledge and value differences.
Robust policies are KPI at least one programme running.
We have up-skilled our % in place which make it clear that we do not tolerate any senior HR leaders to deliver the programme with 7.1 form of discrimination.
If employees believe they support from local management, which was always an Reduction in are unfairly treated we offer multiple channels for integral part of the programme design.
We are now in voluntary raising concerns, including our global reporting hotline, the second phase of this programme for those who employee Speak Out.
graduated in 2016, providing ongoing career coaching turnover % We review annually our global-diversity metrics and measuring the positive impact they are having on see above and take opportunities to reach out to their businesses.
under-represented groups through our recruitment at all levels.
While security continues to be seen as a less attractive career opportunity for women, we are making progress in other areas of diversity.
For example we continue to receive recognition for the employment opportunities offered to military and law enforcement veterans in North America.
16 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Board Senior management Total employees Strategic report PEOPLE AND VALUES: TEAMWORK Graham Levinsohn Regional CEO, Europe Brussels airport Following the horrific terrorist attack at Brussels airport in March 2016, the courage, selflessness and teamwork of our people played a vital role in providing first responder aid to many victims and in getting the operations at this important European aviation hub back to normal.
G4S provides over 1,000 security officers at Brussels airport covering passenger screening, hold baggage screening and access control.
Our teams also provide close support to hospitality and winter operations at the airport.
Following the terrorist attack at the airport on 22 March 2016, G4S was the sole company at the airport to secure all access locations and zones that then had to be rebuilt or restored.
With extra security measures required by the customer and in co-ordination with the police and government, G4S transferred more than 200 additional employees from other parts of the business in a short period of time.
Learning and development Employees by location as at 31 December 2016 % % We have established a learning and development centre 26 of excellence, working across regions, functions and Employees in cultures.
The centre will also ensure more sharing of North America learning resources and collaboration on new ones.
In are military and 2016 further on-line courses on health and safety and law enforcement firearms were added to those already available to all veterans G4S employees via our Learning Management System.
Additionally, a new portal has been made available which provides access to a wide range of personal development tools to help employees increase their capability in their existing roles and prepare them for their next career move.
Plans for 2017 include extending the resources available on the new career development Africa 22% portal, launching an updated induction training Asia Paci c 10% programme and refreshing the current competency Middle East & India 31% Latin America 12% framework to reflect the new values and the Europe 9% corresponding behaviours we want displayed.
North America 10% UK & Ireland 6% In the UK & Ireland we are aiming to offer up to 300 apprenticeships in 2017, which will assist our recruitment activities and provide development opportunities for existing employees.
Working alongside a number of other similar employers, we will be piloting some new nationally recognised standards for apprenticeships, including ones in custody and detention and security analysis.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 17 Our strategy People and values continued best candidates.
Our performance incentive schemes are Employee relations and freedom of association reviewed and refreshed annually so they align with the With 32% of our employees covered by the terms of a business priorities and the link between performance collective agreement, unions and representative forums and rewards is clear.
300 are important mechanisms for employee involvement and Apprenticeships help provide the organisation with vital feedback on Business ethics and anti-bribery and to be registered matters of importance to our employees.
Such corruption in the UK in agreements exist at a local, European and global level and 2017 we work hard to maintain constructive dialogue.
We Ethical conduct is not just a solution to the challenges of legal compliance, but a means of doing business which believe our Ethical Employment Partnership with UNI and the GMB remains a differentiator in the market, and provides customers, employees, partners and communities with the confidence that they are working offers an additional layer of review and escalation in the event that serious matters come to light which cannot with an ethical organisation.
Acting with integrity across the world is a key element of our business strategy and easily be resolved at a local level.
In 2016 we hosted a successful European Works Council EWC meeting in a positive differentiator with customers.
London, with employee representatives from over 20 Every year we review our business ethics policy to European businesses.
Following a review of the EWC ensure it reflects the current business and political Agreement we have agreed to some new principles environment and addresses any risks which may exist.
about our partnership way of working, including how we Implementation of the standards described in the policy seek to resolve disputes and to improve communication is the responsibility of local managers.
The effectiveness and consultation on transnational matters.
The regular of the implementation is subject to review through our EWC newsletter, introduced in 2016, has been well internal audit programmes and from investigations received and will be repeated in 2017. triggered by whistleblowers or colleagues raising concerns with their managers.
Compliance statements Pay and reward are now signed by the businesses and regions on a We invest time and money in benchmarking our pay quarterly basis.
and benefits to ensure the terms and conditions offered remain competitive and we can attract and retain the GROWTH AND INNOVATION: UK Thames Tideway integrated security solution to health and safety threats Thames Tideway is a 4.2bn sewer construction project to protect the tidal River Thames from pollution.
The construction will take seven years and under a 10 year contract, G4S has been fully integrated as a partner in the project and included in decision making for the security of the site.
The integrated offering for the Thames Tideway Tunnel includes mobile CCTV towers, a dedicated outsourced control room, biometrics, Risk 360 to manage incidents and H&S, high-definition CCTV cameras with video analytics and thermal cameras.
18 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report PEOPLE AND VALUES: SAFETY, SECURITY AND SERVICE EXCELLENCE Mozambique road safety, Africa G4S Africa regional president Mel Brooks said: During 2015, G4S Mozambique suffered 27 road traffic incidents, posing a serious risk to the safety of our employees.
In response, and to help achieve the organisations objective of zero harm, a new road safety action plan was implemented.
A new driver training and evaluation programme, covering theoretical and practical tests, has been rolled out this year, which is supported by a wide range of safety awareness booklets, posters and videos as well as regular toolbox talks.
The results have been positive, with a reduction of 51% in road traffic incidents during 2016.
During 2016, we completed the implementation of The framework has been embedded across the Group, Speak Out, an upgraded global whistleblowing system including processes for assessing the Groups human Speak and case management tool to enable us to capture rights risks in many areas such as bidding for major information on whistleblowing cases across the Group contracts, entering new markets and analysing the and to analyse trends and issues raised on a more environments in which we operate.
These practices are systematic basis.
Our ethics steering group works to driven by an annual assessment of human rights risks Out ensure the appropriate focus on whistleblowing and and a series of assessments and reviews in markets Whistleblowing ethical behaviour across the Group and makes sure that where risks exist.
system we are constantly challenging ourselves to meet the implementation Where risks or concerns are identified, action is taken to highest standards.
completed in make sure that we put in place processes to mitigate or 2016 From time to time, concerns about the conduct of our reduce any risk.
colleagues or our business partners are brought to our In some cases, this means that a business or operation attention.
We take all such concerns seriously and work can be scrutinised intensely by either G4S or with internal audit and external investigators to ensure independent experts.
all issues raised are addressed appropriately.
More detail on human rights risk assessment can be Human rights found in the risk management section and the CSR report.
Our human rights framework supports the continued development of an ethical and sustainable business model that encourages the improvement of standards, job creation, community support and broader beneficial impacts on societies throughout the world.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 19 Our strategy continued We have also invested in capturingglobal customer KPI opportunities which has delivered success with % CUSTOMERS AND customers such as global banks see page 49.
Our sales c. 90 pipeline and sales management has improved with the Customer SERVICE EXCELLENCE use of a mandatory sales management system, giving us retention better visibility and management ofour pipeline.
We continue to build and replenish the sales pipeline which, after taking into account continued strong conversion in 2016, had an annual contract value of 6.8 billion at the end of the year.
Importantly, were now getting better at qualifying our pipeline early, to ensure we focus our resources on the most promising opportunities.
As we get better at pipeline qualification we aim also to improveour win rate.
The pipeline is diversified by service, geography and customer segment.
With existing customers, wehave embarked on a Group-wide Net Promoter Score NPS survey exercise, following very successful regional tests started in North America and Latin America in 2015.
In2016 We build long-term customer over 21,000 surveys were conducted successfully in relationships based upon trust and more than 40 different languages and with a more than 10% improvement in scores compared with the understanding of our customers previous year.
All of our top 10 customers were business and objectives.
The surveys provided invaluable insight identifying Positive demand for security services correlations between the NPS and contract retention We believe that the long-term demand for our services and the ability to provide additional services to our remains positiveand we expect to grow by around 4% customers.
For 2017G4S will further double the to 6% per annum.
We continue to sustain contract numbers of surveys conducted applying automated retention rates of around 90%, have won substantial new survey tools.
The aim is that real-time responses from business and more than replenished our sales pipeline.
the relationship surveys allow for our teams to address concerns in the field within 48 hours as well as positive Investment in sales leadership and feedback to our high-performing employees.
account management Substantial new business won Over the last three and a half years we have invested Our investment in customers has resulted in substantial heavily in sales leadership, sales and service training, new business won see chart below.
customer relationships and account management.
Increasingly, our understanding of customer requirements provides us with opportunities to deploytechnology based solutions see page 22.
BUILD LONG-TERM RELATIONSHIPS New business won KPI Annual contract value bn 2.5bn Total contract 1.5 value of new business won in 1.2 0.6 0.6 2016 0.5 0.9 Jesus Rosano Group Strategy and Commercial Director 0.6 0.7 0.7 0.6 Net Promoter Score 0.3 Since January 2016, most businesses across the Group have been using Net Promoter Score NPS.
NPS provides a standardised approach to measuring 0.0 customer satisfaction and improving contract and H1 customer retention.
H2 20 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 2014 2015 2016 Strategic report CREATING VALUE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS Claude Allain Regional President Middle East and India Kuwait airport an Integrated Solution In collaboration with G4S Risk Consulting colleagues, we have reviewed and updated all aspects of security at Kuwait airport.
In 2016, G4S Risk Consulting was approached by Government of Kuwait to run a programme to review and update all aspects of security at Kuwait airport.
G4S Kuwait and Risk Consulting worked together to design a solution embedding risk consultants, security officers, International Civil Aviation Organization compliance audits covering technical, physical and procedural security measures and improving training, mentoring and supervision.
This integrated solution ensured that Kuwait airport became fully TSA-approved within three months thus expanding the number of international destinations it is able to service.
Large, diversi ed sales pipeline KPI EFFECTS-BASED SECURITY DESIGN Effects-Based Security Design EBSD EBSD is a planning methodology G4S has adapted 4.4bn from Effects-Based Operations EBO, a NATO tool.
It is an effects-based or output approach Leads and prospects unrisked which looks for the best mix of security measures to deliver a clients security needs.
EBSD minimises risk, optimises the effectiveness of limited resources and helps customers understand why resources are needed to mitigate risk and to achieve objectives.
1.3bn Our unique  G4S from Bidding 6.8bn competitors and has helped us to win contracts to Total annual deliver integrated solutions.
contract value 1.1bn Negotiation Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 21 Our strategy continued Secure Solutions KPI In our Secure Solutions business we continue to invest GROWTH AND 1.5bn in product and service innovation including the Revenue from development of: technology-enabled INNOVATION solutions Proprietary security systems such as Symmetry Connect access control systems see case study below Video and intelligent cameras Visitor management systems Global security intelligence systems such as GIS Software tools including incident management and travel advisory systems such as Risk360 and TravelAware see page 45 Following 36% growth in 2016, 13% of Group revenues from continuing businesses are from technology, software and systems.
We provide customers with a variety of options purchasing individual service lines, two or more services, through to integrated managed services whereby Since its formation in 2004, G4S has G4S manages all the risk assessment and security positioned itself as an integrated security requirements of a customer including their local security operation centres or global security operation centres company providing manpower and GSOCs.
In our Secure Solutions business, technologytechnology, systems and software.
Based enabled services now contribute over 1.5 billion in on our customer relationships and annual revenues.
Read more in our business model description on page 10. insight, our focus in recent years has been on investing in the development and marketing of new products and services to strengthen our service offering, to support growth and improve SECURITY EXPERTISE AND INTEGRITY margins over time.
Symmetry is Symmetry solution Increasingly, our bespoke offering for customers includes installed at all US Marine Corps bases Federal Trade Commission, in the US, Germany, South Korea, UK, technology in the form of systems and software.
In some Afghanistan and Japan.
It is also United States cases we own the equipment in our customers facilities installed at nearly 60 US Army bases, In October 2016, the Federal Trade but for larger customers we tend to sell direct and have eight US Navy bases and facilities, Commission FTC selected G4S a long-term management and maintenance contract.
numerous Air Force bases, US Army technology solution Symmetry Reserves and US Marine Corps Some of our services and technology solutions which Homeland Access Control system Reserves facilities across the US.
are gaining commercial momentum in key markets are for its 13 offices in Washington DC and the surrounding area.
highlighted here: Symmetry will assist the FTC in meeting mandatory, governmentThe Symmetry product platform wide standards for secure and reliable provides access control, intrusion forms of identification issued by the detection, video management, federal government and the Federal identity solutions and visitor Information Processing Standard management.
Symmetry is installed % of technology revenues by region Publication, which specifies stringent in all branches of the US Department identification requirements for of Defense DoD, along with federal employees and contractors.
Africa 8% Middle East & India 4% Asia Paci c 8% Latin America 4% Europe 28% North America 41% UK & Ireland 7% 22 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Through electronic payments and internet banking, Cash Solutions traditional bank branch usage has declined in some For our bank and retail customers we are looking at markets, resulting in bank branch closures.
However, innovative and efficient services.
For example: banks recognise the value of personal interaction We have seen strong growth in sales of Retail with customers and so in some markets G4S is Solutions and Deposita cash recycling systems in USA, launching a mobile banking service utilising the skills UK, Europe, Africa, Asia and the Middle East see and fleet of a traditional Cash in Transit business in a below.
We also offer a lower cost option to small more integrated way.
retailers for banking takings called Bank to You, a lower-cost cash transportation service for smaller retailers using lighter vehicle fleets.
EFFECTIVE AND EFFICIENT SOLUTIONS Staff optimisation with a multiple Philip Morris, Indonesia facility-based security programme customer understanding G4Ss integrated approach to these driving innovative solutions needs combines manned security, During 2016, G4S Indonesia won a new technology and software.
Our solution contract with Philip Morris, now its has delivered cost savings to our second largest.
Engagement with the customer and provides data-driven customers local management team assurance through our Secure360 established the need for: technology.
Secure360 is a tablet-based software programme developed by G4S Better reporting across the Jon Corner andused by our security officers, 122 locations Regional President Asia Pacific providing live communication feeds to Central understanding of the a national control room.
This provides security status of their estate real time intelligence and assurance and enhances response and compliance.
Afast and appropriate response toany security-breach event, requiring better intelligence INVESTING IN INNOVATION Reduced labour costs Retail cash automation The proprietary Retail Solutions products and services software automates the compilation CASH360 retail solutions has grown cash till floats and cash processing, strongly since it was launched in North thereby reducing the labour time on America in 2014 and total contract back-office activities and reducing revenue value now exceeds cash leakage.
Benefits from Retail Solutions to both Improved cash flow our bank and retail customers are John Kenning The retailer obtains same-day credit as follows: Regional CEO North America for the cash which significantly improves cash flow.
Our cloud-based cash management software platform Cash Manager, is integrated with the customers back office, point-of-sale and accounting programmes.
Reduced transportation costs A recycler allows cash to be recycled in the store, thereby eliminating and reducing cash transportation costs.
Reduced processing fees Reduced volume of cash deposits at bank vaults allows banks to reduce overall fees to their retail clients while improving the margins associated with depositary services.
Customers using G4S Retail Solutions have reported in store cash handling costs % reducing by 70%, shrinkage losses declining, greatly simplified operations, 70 better cash flow, improved management information and most importantly, time re-allocated to front line customerfacing services.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 23 Our strategy continued Efficient organisation design and Procurement management fide-layering OPERATIONAL A significant part of the Groups development 15 historically has been growth through bolt-on acquisitions.
EXCELLENCE AND Global deals In many cases, these acquisitions were not completely integrated with the rest of the Group.
With the Group PRODUCTIVITY offering a broad range of services in a large number of countries, this resulted in an inefficient organisational 150 design with many management layers being built up over Regional deals time leading to inefficiency and lack of accountability.
Our on-going organisation design work is seeking to develop efficient operational and management frameworks starting with a blank sheet of paper.
780 Country deals Procurement and property The Group procurement team has continued to implement a category focused, regionally deployed, % strategic sourcing programme in all regions of G4S 15 primarily focusing on our largest spend areas and Average savings geographies.
In 2017 the procurement team was delivered A significant portion of the gains we are nominated in the Procurement Transformation category in the World Procurement awards.
making in being more efficient has been reinvested in the business to increase The teams have focused on key spend areas, reducing and consolidating supplier numbers to simplify the our opportunities for growth as well as supply chain and implementing tools that improve drive further efficiency.
Globally the team has over 900 individual renegotiations and the results of the Our  programmes include: negotiations are being seen in all regions.
The team has Efficient organisational design saved an average of 20% of the addressed spend and in some cases savings in excess of 50% have been Management fide-layering achieved.
At the same time we have ensured that Lean operating processes supplier payment terms are renegotiated to align with Efficient reporting and assurance processes our cash flow expectations.
Upgraded IT systems In 2017 the focus will remain on renegotiating supplier Efficient procurement contracts across all the geographies and categories.
We are also focusing on demand management using Embedding better health and safety management newly-implemented tools for temporary and contingent The process of building capability to improve our labour and travel management, with on-line travel management of health and safety, eliminating fatal booking now utilised globally.
Other focus areas will be accidents and potentially fatal risks continued during in the Cash Solutions supply chain of consumables and 2016.
Please see page 14 for a detailed review.
machinery where we will build on the global contract we have entered into with a major supplier of Some of the key on-going initiatives for the other cash-counting machines and CIT vehicles.
operational efficiency programme are: PROGRAMME PROGRESS Programme Status Progress Safety performance KPI Foundation laid: building culture and performance Route planning and telematics Telematics installed in 4,400 vehicles since 2014 Route scheduling covers c. 9,000 vehicles Organisation efficiency and restructuring Operational restructuring fide-layering and globalising functions Procurement and property Annualised savings of 20m Reduced suppliers and demand Rationalising property KPI Direct labour efficiency Multi-year programme pilot in Ireland in H2 2017 Significant opportunity IT and lean process automation IT service management model Progressive, disciplined programme 24 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report LEAN PROCESS DESIGN Peter Neden Regional President UK & Ireland Business Process Efficiency A key enabler of efficient direct labour management is the deployment of lean order to cash process management enabled by the development and implementation of a standard IT system for our manned security operations which will be piloted in Ireland in 2017.
Automating our core processes will reduce the amount of time between doing the work for customers and billing for the services.
OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Vehicle fleet cost savings Procurement projects in 2016 included consolidating the UK vehicle fleet from 15 suppliers to one, delivering a 25% saving, the Continental European fleet from 72 suppliers to two delivering a 20% saving and the North America fleet from three suppliers to one delivering a 13% saving.
We are now working with these suppliers to identify further operational efficiencies that derive from working with a reduced supplier base.
We have also renegotiated fleet contracts in Africa and the Middle East delivering approximately 10% cost savings.
We have new vehicle rental agreements across Europe, UK, North America and Africa and are now reviewing the specification and supply of Cash in Transit armoured vehicles in all regions with a view to reducing supplier numbers and costs, with initial results in the UK delivering savings of over 20%.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 25 Our strategy continued KPI Operating cash flow Operating cash flow from continuing businesses in 2016 FINANCIAL AND was 638 million, up 61.5% from 395 million.
The operating cash flow conversion rate represented COMMERCIAL DISCIPLINE 141% of PBITA 2015: 103% as a result of improved working capital management which received relentless focus in 2016.
There was a working capital inflow of 87 million in 2016 compared with a 69 million outflow in 2015.
Receivables were held broadly flat despite the increased revenues.
Going forward while we will maintain our focus on working capital management, we expect our cash conversion rate to revert to the range of 100% to 125% which we have seen in previous years.
Improvements implemented include: Bid frameworks contract management Strengthening bid-evaluation frameworks to increase focus on frequency of invoicing and shorter payment terms.
FOCUS ON OPERATING CASH FLOW Reducing the time from event to billing Improving processes and automating event billing information such as hours worked, milestones met, collections and deliveries in the Cash Solutions business Centralising collection of billing events of global and strategic accounts in some countries Invoice automation, removing the delay and resource requirement associated with manual invoicing Tim Weller Group Chief Financial Officer Seeking to distribute invoices electronically, removing the delay and cost associated with postal distribution Driving improvement in operating cash flow has been at the heart of our financial and risk management activities in 2016 resulting in strong performance across the Group and operating cash flow from continuing businesses increasing by more than 60%.
Net debt: EBITDA KPI Revenue by customer type in 2016 % 5 4 3.4 3 3.0 2.8 2 1 NGOs Government Multi-lateral agencies 14% Public services 6% 0 Financial institutions 16% Private energy utilities 7% Transport & logistics 2% Ports & airports 3% Leisure & tourism 2% Despite an increase in Group net debt of 110 million Retail 11% arising from foreign exchange movements, net debt: Major corporates & industrials 33% Consumers 6% EBITDA improved to 2.8x 2015: 3.4x.
26 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 2014 2015 2016 L A V O R P P A D I B T N K E S I M R S O S C A D E S O I N S S B - N U S G T R A R A O A N I C C N T E G Strategic report Included challenging operating cash targets to reduce Strengthening collections performance the level of aged debt and accrued income which Changing incentive plans at management and branch totalled 406 million at December 2015 net of level with greater emphasis on cash flow allowance for doubtful debt and reduced to Improved management information to increase 376million at December 2016 accountability and drive behaviours Portfolio management Embedding weekly calls attended by finance and operations, to drive timely collections Portfolio management remains important for strategic focus, capital discipline and performance management.
Managing accounts payable Since 2013, the Group has divested 29 businesses realising proceeds of 345 million 2015: 281 million The Groups days payable outstanding of 35 days with agreement reached to sell G4S Israel for a further 2015: 31 is still shorter than days sales outstanding 88 million.
of 46 days 2015: 50 days, but the gap is reducing.
Thisshows that despite making progress the We have focused our activities and reduced the opportunity remains for further improvement underlying countries of operation from around 120 Ensuring that supply-side contracts are back-to-back to around 95.
The proceeds from these disposals have with customer contracts been re-invested in the organic growth and productivity programmes where we expect to see good returns Negotiating improved terms through procurement on our investment and in reducing the Groups on global and regional deals overall leverage.
Capital discipline We continue to keep our portfolio under review to All capital investment undergoes rigorous review to ensure that we are achieving the levels of return that ensure that the Groups return on investment hurdle we and our shareholders expect.
rates are met and all major capital investment projects Continued portfolio management is a good capital are approved by the appropriate authority in line with discipline.
It sharpens the Groups strategic focus, delegation limits.
ensuring we apply our resources to the best opportunities.
The programme also reduces the risk Changing behaviours profile of the Group because many of the businesses we To ensure the cash culture was embedded across the have sold were small but required a disproportionate Group, 2016 incentive plans: amount of management attention and exposed us to Placed an even greater weighting on operating cash significant reputational or operational risk.
generation and incentivised cash generation on a monthly basis across the year CONTRACT RISK MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE MODEL We have significantly strengthened the risk assessment process and systems around new contracts as detailed in the chart below: The board Risk Committee will Based on financial, legal, undertake a review of a major reputational and operational risk contract at each of its meetings.
Referred to the region, Group or board as appropriate for review and approval.
Internal audit conducts audits Bids customer value propositions, of selected contracts.
commercial terms and risk mitigation strategies are challenged.
Expected risk weighted return is assessed before approval is given or withheld.
Contracts subject to on-going Key contractual requirements and scrutiny at regional or Group risk mitigation strategies, based level based on commercial on complexity and risk profile scale and level of risk.
of mobilisation, are mapped to accountable contract managers.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 27 M C O O B I N L I T S R K E A S A T E I I C T R O T T N I D M R M A O O C B L A N R E T T I N D I U P A U O R G
