12 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Value creation: In the construction market We create value by carefully selecting the projects we take on and working closely with our clients and supply chain to deliver superior buildings and infrastructure that improve the built environment and create a positive legacy for the people they serve.
MANAGE RISK WORK WITH SUPPLY CHAIN From bid selection through Partner with suppliers to delivery to support delivery We look to manage risk at Our supply chain is critical every stage, from selecting for the safe, efficient and timely opportunities through to delivery of projects to our maintaining the finished asset.
We collaborate with We carefully assess and select our subcontractors and suppliers the projects we take on, while and keep them informed of our presence on numerous our pipeline of work, so that frameworks further reduces we can secure the supply chain our risk profile by allowing us required to deliver our projects.
to work collaboratively with Wherever practical, we prioritise clients, understand their needs the use of local suppliers.
and become experts in delivering Our Advantage through repeat projects for them.
Alignment initiative builds on this collaborative approach with selected supply chain partners.
Our approach helps to ensure service quality for clients and increases our efficiency.
See our Business review on p39 Strategic Report Governance Financial Information Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 13 DELIVER Complete projects to the highest standards We are recognised for the quality and safety of our project delivery and have won numerous industry awards.
We focus on quality from day one and increasingly use technology such as BIM Building Information Modelling to help us deliver superior buildings.
At the same time, we look to improve continuously through programmes such as Delivering Excellence, an internal initiative which helps us to hand over projects defect-free.
CLIENT & COMMUNITY FOCUS Become long-term partners of clients and communities We look to work with clients we can collaborate with and become their long-term partners.
Our approach to collaboration has been accredited to BS 11000, the recognised best practice standard.
We also endeavour to develop strong community relationships and look to ensure our teams reflect the diversity of their local communities.
This helps to make us welcomed locally and to work more effectively and seamlessly.
