10 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Value creation: In the housebuilding market We create value throughout the housing cycle by selecting the right land, good locations and designing high-quality homes to build sustainable communities.
We prioritise customer service by delivering The Linden Way.
INVEST Maintain landbank of prime plots in good locations Both Linden Homes and Partnerships maintain a substantial landbank, sufficient to meet our anticipated needs for the next three to four years.
We acquire prime sites with good transport links and local amenities, where we can create communities that people aspire to live in.
DESIGN AND PLANNING We are increasingly investing Unique elevations with in strategic land to generate standard floorplans a pipeline of high-quality sites that offer higher margins.
Partnerships also identifies We want our developments to sites which are then purchased complement their local areas directly by our registered provider and distinguish us from other clients, allowing us to develop the housebuilders, so we create project for them without having unique designs for the exteriors of to acquire the land ourselves.
Standardised interior layouts the Linden Homes Layouts help us to procure and build our homes as efficiently as possible, without compromising on design, and ensure our homes have good specifications.
Partnerships also uses these standard interior layouts.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 11 BUILD SALES & AFTERCARE Construct quality, Offer first-class service sustainable homes to customers We are renowned for the quality We think about our customers of our homes.
We work closely needs at every stage, from with our subcontractors to use before we buy land to our efficient and safe methods of aftersales service an approach construction, and with our that we call The Linden Way.
suppliers to source the most This programme shares best suitable materials.
By increasingly practice across Linden Homes standardising processes in both and sets out how we support our Linden Homes and Partnerships, customers at each step of their we increase our efficiency and purchasing journey.
Partnerships cut waste, which in turn also follows The Linden Way reduces the environmental within its mixed-tenure schemes.
Our Customer Charter describes As a responsible developer, our commitment to providing we also deliver well-designed a first-class service.
It also public spaces that support outlines to our customers exactly sustainable communities.
what they should expect from us, This can range from providing from accurate and up-to-date streetscapes that reduce the information to home warranties.
speed of vehicles to cycle routes, woodlands and play areas.
