Strategic Report Governance Financial Information Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 5 With the construction market beginning to grow and the Governments proposed new Q. Q. investment in infrastructure, our Construction business is also well placed to capitalise on Where do you think Galliford Try can How do you see Galliford Trys culture?
Having the right culture is absolutely critical I am also enthusiastic about the prospects A.
We need to make sure we are as efficient to achieving our strategy as a long-term for Linden Homes.
It has a great brand, and productive as we can be and there sustainable business.
It means everyone and is solidly positioned, with good locations is room for simplification in some areas.
understanding how we should work and the and well-designed homes.
We have the In Linden Homes, for example, we have behaviours we want to see.
I believe our opportunity to grow further geographically, worked hard to rationalise our operating values excellence, passion, integrity and as we increase our presence in the North processes, which will generate annualised collaboration are the foundation on which and the Midlands.
While we will continue savings of over 5 million from FY 2017. the business is built.
During the year, we to create developments that are designed relaunched our Code of Conduct, called We also have an opportunity to give each to complement their local areas, we are using Doing the Right Thing, which draws on these of our businesses more autonomy.
While our more standard floor plans and processes values and defines how we behave in the hybrid model means that we have businesses to increase profitability.
The Code is far more than a list that are countercyclical and fit well together, of policies: it gives our people the practical I want each business to be great in its own help they need to make the right decisions right, so they are the best they can be.
practice, this means refocusing the whole Q. of the centre on providing a strategic steer That is important as we give the businesses What do you see as the key risks while placing more responsibility into the more autonomy.
If you empower the right hands of those people closest to the front facing Galliford Try?
people, then you can release their can-do line, who have the detailed understanding attitude and entrepreneurial flair.
The biggest risk is the macro-economic required to make the right decisions.
This will combine that with clear standards of environment and the possibility of an also allow decisions to be made more quickly.
behaviour and our sound understanding economic downturn.
We have to manage The businesses should then be supported of risk, and make sure we reward people that risk and part of that is building a longer by appropriate pooled resources in central for success.
We have been doing that functions such as HR and health, safety and successfully and Linden had sales carried There are also other areas that I would like sustainability or outsourced resources, which forward of 380 million at the year end.
I strongly believe that productivity are designed to fit the businesses needs.
is a key driver in running a successful The result of the recent EU referendum business over the longer term.
For the sectors does have the potential to distort some of in which we operate, this more often than our markets, although the fundamentals not manifests itself in the simplicity and remain favourable.
While this is certainly not Q. effectiveness of our processes: keeping it an inevitable outcome, we must be mindful What excites you most about the simple and avoiding too many tangents is key.
of the potential risks and plan for the Groups future for Galliford Try?
Read our Chief Executives review on p24 A.
The most exciting thing for me is the In Construction, the availability of skilled potential to be a major participant in an people concerns me.
The skills shortage area with huge opportunities, namely the has eased but it can have a significant affordable homes and regeneration sector.
impact on our supply chain and costs.
I am excited by the prospect of rolling that out, achieving scale and being a sector leader.
The capital requirements are much lighter than developing housing for private sale, in part because the contracting side is cash generative it is a hybrid within a hybrid.
The demand from clients is also less susceptible to cyclical changes.
Our Partnerships and Regeneration business has a real advantage in having both extensive contracting and developer skills.
