Strategic report UK infrastructure market UK Infrastructure assets involving private sector investment typically generate revenues from long-term, public-sector backed contracts.
Social and economic infrastructure Social housing The payment of such a fee is typically not dependent on the level of use of The UK Government first introduced Housing associations, or registered the infrastructure asset, but on PFI structures in the mid-1990s as the providers of social housing, are whether the asset is available for use.
primary method of procurement for independent bodies established for the As such, PFI and PF2 structures social infrastructure projects.
Over purpose of providing low-cost social create long dated and predictable 60 billion of predominantly hospitals housing for people in housing need on cash flows payable by central or local and schools were developed using a not-for-profit basis.
private sector capital under PFI associations are regulated in England structures, with a new, if similar, by the Homes and Communities Renewable energy infrastructure model being introduced in 2012 in the Agency and are classed by the Office In an effort to increase the proportion form of PFI and PF2 structures which for National Statistics as Public of energy produced in the UK from involve a private sector consortium Non-Financial Corporations.
There renewable resources like sunlight, entering into a contract with a central are now c. 1,775 English housing wind and wood, the UK introduced a or local government entity e. g. a local associations that provide a wide range variety of incentives to stimulate authority in the case of a school or an of housing, some managing large private sector investment in renewable NHS Trust in the case of a hospital to estates of housing for families, energy infrastructure.
The subsidies design, finance, build and operate an while others provide supported such as the FiT, RHI and ROCs are infrastructure asset.
The contract accommodation through specialist typically payable over a 20 year period term is typically between 25 and 30 projects for people with mental or to owners of eligible renewable energy years.
During the operational phase of physical disabilities.
The vast majority projects for the generation of energy the contract, the public sector entity of the income of housing associations using renewable sources.
As such, pays a predetermined fee for the use arises from the payments of rent by renewable energy projects that receive of the asset that is operated by the local authorities in the form of housing subsidy payments generate long dated private sector consortium.
Housing associations typically and predictable cash flows that are either own the properties within their either implicitly or explicitly supported portfolios or enter into long-term by the UK Government.
typically 20 to 50 year fully repairing GCP Infrastructure Investments Limited  12 Introduction Strategic report Governance Financial statements and insuring leases from private by infrastructure assets, they are Loan documentation ensures key sector landlords in order to access generally most efficiently financed by structural benefits for the lenders, suitable properties.
Such loans are made including tight control of project cash to a single purpose, ring-fenced flows and assets, high transparency Longdated infrastructure debt finance company that owns the underlying and an exposure limited solely to an Given the high capital cost and asset as shown below.
identified asset with pre-defined risks.
long-dated cash flows generated Typical infrastructure project structure Equity Senior Subordinated owner lender lender UK infrastructure assets involving private sector investment are often constructed and to a greater or Senior debt lesser extent maintained by a private sector entity or consortium Equity Subordinated debt acting through a single purpose company known as the project Public sector company.
Such companies typically Project backed Project company agreement counterparty generate their primary source of revenue from long-term contracts with public sector or public sector O&M Construction contract contract backed counterparties and are thus generally considered to be relatively dependable and predictable.
The project company also enters into various contracts in order to deliver, O&M Building company contractor inter alia, the construction and operations and maintenance of the project.
Illustrative priority of payments with typical infrastructure O&M project structure company Total revenues, often contracted to rise in line with RPI or another inflation index, will typically be used Senior to service in order of priority the lender 1st 2nd cost of operating and or maintaining the asset to the required standard, Public sector senior debt, subordinated debt Project backed Project company agreement counterparty if any, and finally to provide a return to the equity holders.
4th 3rd Subordinated lender Equity provider GCP Infrastructure Investments Limited  13
