Strategic report Strategic overview To provide shareholders with regular, sustained, long-term distributions and to preserve the capital value of its investment assets over the long term.
Investment objectives and policies Similarly, it is the intention of the The Company receives debt service Directors that the assets of the payments in accordance with the The Companys investment objectives Company are as far as is reasonable terms of its investments.
The debt are to provide its shareholders with in the context of a UK infrastructure service payments, comprising interest regular, sustained, longterm portfolio appropriately diversified by and principal payments are covered distributions and to preserve the asset type e. g. PFI healthcare, PFI by expected cash flows generated by capital value of its investment assets education, solar power, social the underlying infrastructure over the long term, by generating housing, biomass etc.
and by revenue project company.
exposure to subordinated PFI debt source e. g. NHS Trusts, local and or similar assets.
The objective of the Company is to authorities, FiT, ROCs etc.
generate a diversified portfolio of The Company makes investments in subordinated debt infrastructure Nonfinancial objectives of the Company subordinated debt instruments issued assets and related and or similar by infrastructure project companies, The key nonfinancial objectives of the assets and to maintain its portfolio so their owners or their lenders, and Company are: that not more than 10% in value of the assets with a similar economic effect.
to maintain strong relationships Companys total assets from time to The Company may also acquire with all key stakeholders of the time consist of securities or loans or acquire interests in the senior Company, including shareholders relating to any one individual debt of infrastructure project and borrowers: and infrastructure asset having regard to companies, or their owners.
to develop and increase the the risks relating to any cross default understanding of the investment or cross collateralisation provisions.
strategy of the Company and This objective is subject to the infrastructure as an Company having a sufficient level of investment class.
investment capital from time to time, the ability of the Company to invest its cash in suitable investments and is subject to the investment restrictions described in the investment strategy.
GCP Infrastructure Investments Limited  08 Introduction Strategic report Governance Financial statements Key policies Investment strategy As at 30 September 2016, the Company does not have any exposure The Company achieves its investment Distribution to projects purely in the regulated objectives primarily by seeking The Company aims to provide its utilities sector or projects with exposure to debt both senior and shareholders with regular, sustained, demandbased concessions.
subordinated secured against UK longterm distributions.
The Companys exposure to projects infrastructure projects with the Capital raising and financing that have not yet completed following characteristics: The Company may seek to raise construction with reference to total predetermined, very longterm, additional capital from time to time to portfolio value at 30 September 2016 public sector backed revenues: the extent that the Directors and the was 10.1%.
Approximately 6% of the Investment Adviser believe the no construction or property risk: debt service payable to the Company is Company will be able to make suitable and expected to be serviced by cash flows investments.
This will enable the arising from the sale of electricity.
contracts where payments do not Company to achieve greater depend on the level of use of the There is no, and it is not anticipated diversification of risk and to benefit project assets.
that there will be any, outright from economies of scale in relation to property exposure of the Company In accordance with the Companys the operational costs of the Company.
except potentially as prospectus, investments as described Leverage and gearing additional security.
above must make up a minimum of The Company intends to make prudent 75% of the Companys total assets.
use of leverage to finance the The Company may also consider, in acquisition of investments and respect of up to an absolute maximum enhance returns to investors.
of 25% of its total assets at the time the relevant investment is made, Structural gearing of investments is taking exposure to: permitted up to a maximum of 20% of the Companys net asset value projects that have not yet immediately following drawdown completed construction: of the relevant debt.
projects in the regulated utilities Conflicts of interest sector: and The Company has given its consent for projects with demand based the Investment Adviser to act as the concessions i. e. where the investment manager to GCP Asset payments received depend on the Backed Income Fund Limited level of use of the project assets or formerly Project Finance Investments which have private sector Limited, a closedended investment sponsored concessions, to the company listed on the London Stock extent that the Investment Adviser Exchanges Main Market.
GCP Asset considers that there is a reasonable Backed Income Fund Limited is level of certainty in relation to: focused predominantly on debt the likely level of demand: and investments secured against physical assets and or contracted cash flows.
the stability of the resulting revenue.
The Company has given its consent on the basis that where the Investment Adviser identifies an investment which, in its opinion acting reasonably and in good faith, falls within the Companys remit, the Company will have a right of first refusal ROFR.
GCP Infrastructure Investments Limited  09 Strategic report Strategic overview continued Delivery of investment objectives through implementation of investment strategy Investment objective Implementation of investment strategy PFI, social housing and renewable energy cash flows Dividend The Companys distributions are dependent primarily on the longterm cash flows generated by projects in the PFI, social housing and renewable energy sectors that are income backed by the UK public sector, unitary charge payments in PFI transactions, lease payments in social housing deals and subsidy payments in renewable energy projects.
To provide shareholders Availabilitybased cash flows with regular, sustainable longterm dividends The Companys investments are typically secured against cash flows that are not dependent on the level of use of the underlying infrastructure asset, meaning that if the project is operating as expected, future cash flows are predictable and dependable.
Investment in debt The Company only invests in debt.
In all investments, there is equity that takes the first loss position in the event of project cash flow interruption or underperformance.
Debt returns, by their nature, are more predictable than equity returns.
Careful management of costs The Board pays careful attention to the management of costs associated with running the Company and follows comprehensive corporate governance procedures.
Careful management of capital raising spending The Company raises capital on a highly conservative basis only when it has a clear view of a robust pipeline of highly advanced investment opportunities.
Delivery of investment objective The Company has maintained or progressively increased its dividend for every period since inception and has paid or declared a dividend of 7.6 pence for the previous four financial years.
7.6p 54.4m Dividends paid in 2015 16 Profit for the year Exposure limits Diversification The investments of the Company are, as far as is reasonable in the context of a UK infrastructure portfolio, appropriately diversified by underlying project, borrower, To create a diversified facilities manager, asset type e. g. PFI healthcare, PFI education, solar power, portfolio of debt secured social housing, biomass etc.
and by revenue source e. g. NHS Trusts, local authorities, against UK infrastructure FiT, ROCs etc.
projects Synergy with existing portfolio New investments are evaluated to ensure their addition would add balance and diversification to the existing portfolio of the Company with regards to credit risk, asset sector, investment term and income return.
Regular monitoring The exposures within the Companys investment portfolio are constantly monitored to ensure any concentration of risk falls within acceptable parameters.
Delivery of investment objective During the year, the Company has increased the number of investments in its portfolio from 40 to 43.
The investment portfolio is exposed to a wide variety of sectors in terms of project type and source of underlying cash flow.
1 43 11.5% Number of investments Size of largest investment GCP Infrastructure Investments Limited  10 Introduction Strategic report Governance Financial statements Investment objective Implementation of investment strategy Inflation protection Capital Wherever possible, the Company invests in projects with sufficient inflation linkage in the underlying cash flows to enable the Companys debt investments to be structured preservation with inflation protection characteristics.
This protects the capital value of the investments in the event of high inflation.
To preserve the capital value Underlying project dependability of its investment assets over the long term The Company invests primarily in debt secured against projects that are relatively simple in terms of construction, operation, maintenance and technology, have competent and financially stable facilities managers and good operational histories.
Extensive due diligence Where appropriate, the Investment Adviser will complement its analysis through the use of professional third party advisers, including technical advisers, financial and legal advisers and valuation and insurance experts.
These advisers are engaged to conduct due diligence that is intended to provide an additional and independent review of key aspects and risks of a project, providing comfort as to the level of risk mitigation and the projects ongoing performance.
Investment in debt The capital value of the Companys investments is insulated from underlying project underperformance by the equity finance that always ranks below such debt investments.
Return premium over longterm interest rates The valuations of the Companys investments take into account, inter alia, longterm interest rates.
The Companys investments yield significant premiums to such rates as swaps and gilts and as such create a buffer in the event of longdated rate rises.
Delivery of investment objective The valuation of the Companys investments is in excess of the principal value outstanding.
The increase in valuation has resulted in a NAV per share of 109.67 pence.
The ordinary shares have always traded at a premium to their net asset value.
109.67p 131.60p NAV per share Share price as at 30 September 2016 1.
The size of the largest investment is calculated by reference to the percentage of total assets.
The Cardale PFI loan is secured on a crosscollateralised basis against 14 separate operational PFI projects, with no exposure to any individual project being in excess of 10% of the total portfolio.
