Governance Board of Directors Ian Reeves CBE, CCMI, FCInstCES, FRSA, FINSTD Clive Spears ACIB, MCISI David Pirouet FCA Chairman 72 Deputy Chairman 63 Audit Committee Chairman 62 Ian Reeves CBE, a UK resident, is an Clive Spears, a Jersey resident, is a career David Pirouet, a Jersey resident, is a qualified entrepreneur, international businessman and qualified corporate banker, with 32 years accountant.
He was an audit and assurance adviser.
He is Senior Partner of Synaps experience with the Royal Bank of Scotland partner for 20 years with PwC until he retired Partners LLP and visiting Professor of Group of which the last 18 years were spent in in June 2009.
He specialised in the financial Infrastructure Investment and Construction at Jersey until retirement in 2003.
Relevant services sector, in particular in the Manchester Business School, The University of experience has spanned corporate finance, alternative investment management area.
He was made a Commander of treasury products, global custody and trust and Since retiring from PwC, Mr Pirouet serves the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire fund administration.
Additional experience in on the board of another listed company, the CBE in 2003 for his services to business and audit and compliance has also accrued during AIM listed Ludgate Environmental Fund charity.
Ian has served as a Director since the period.
Clive serves on the board of an AIM Limited and on various privately held 15 June 2010. listed company, EPE Special Opportunities plc investment entities.
David has served and on the board of a main market listed as a Director since 15 June 2010. investment trust: Invesco Perpetual Enhanced Income Fund Ltd. Clive has served as a Director since 7 February 2014.
Julia Chapman Paul fide Gruchy Michael Gray FCIBS Nonexecutive Director 51 Nonexecutive Director 44 Nonexecutive Director 50 Julia Chapman, a Jersey resident, is a solicitor Paul fide Gruchy, a UK resident since August Michael Gray is a Jersey resident, a qualified qualified in England & Wales and Jersey with 2016, is a qualified Jersey Advocate with corporate banker and corporate treasurer.
over 25 years experience in the investment 20 years experience in financial services law.
Michael was most recently the Regional fund and capital markets sector.
Having trained For the last nine years he has been Head of Managing Director, Corporate Banking for with Simmons & Simmons in London, Julia Legal for BNP Paribas in the UK offshore area.
RBS International, based in Jersey but with moved to Jersey to work for Mourant du Feu & He has extensive experience in the financial responsibility for The Royal Bank of Jeune now Mourant Ozannes and became a services sector, in particular in the area of Scotlands Corporate Banking Business in partner in 1999.
Julia was then appointed offshore funds.
He has held senior positions at the Crown Dependencies and British general counsel to Mourant International the Jersey Economic Development Department Overseas Territories.
In a career spanning Finance Administration the firms fund where he was the Director responsible for 31 years with The Royal Bank of Scotland administration division with responsibility for finance industry development and the Jersey Group plc, Michael has undertaken a variety legal, risk and compliance oversight of Financial Services Commission the regulator of roles including that of an auditor for four thirdparty administration services to of the Company.
Paul is a graduate of Queens years and has extensive general alternative investment funds.
Paul has served as a management and lending experience across serves on the board of a main market listed Director since 7 February 2014. a number of industries.
Michael was company, Henderson Far East Income Limited.
appointed as a Director on 1 October 2015.
Julia was appointed as a Director on 1 October 2015.
