Introduction Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors report The Directors are pleased to present set out in the statement of changes in Details as to the Directors terms of their Annual report and the audited equity on page 58 and in note 17. appointment can be found in the financial statements for the year ended corporate governance statement on At 30 September 2016, the Companys 30 September 2016.
The corporate pages 36 to 41 and the remuneration issued share capital comprised governance statement set out on pages report on pages 46 to 48.
660,025,921 ordinary shares of 0.01, 36 to 41 forms part of this report.
none of which were held in treasury.
Directors interests Principal activity and business review At general meetings of the Company, At the year end, Paul fide Gruchy had a every holder shall have one vote in The strategic report has been holding of 453,825 ordinary shares in respect of every ordinary share.
prepared by the Directors and should the Company.
Clive Spears had a be read in conjunction with the holding of 25,000 ordinary shares in Significant voting rights Chairmans statement and forms part the Company.
As at 30 September 2016, the of the Annual report to shareholders.
Company had received notification of None of the Directors or any persons Greenhouse gas emissions reporting the following disclosable interests in connected with them have had a the voting rights of the Company: material interest in the Companys The Company funds renewable energy transactions or agreements during projects which seek to reduce the % of total Shares voting the year.
United Kingdoms greenhouse gas Name held rights emissions.
The Company has no None of the Directors or the Chairman Rathbone employees or property, and it does not sit on the Boards of any other Investment purchase electricity, heat, steam or Companies managed by the Management 39,571,190 6.00 cooling for its own use.
Investment Adviser and do not have Investec Wealth any close family ties with any of the The Company outsources all services & Management 38,631,742 5.85 Companys advisers.
on a fee basis, and, as such it is not Insight Investment practical to attempt to measure or The Board has not delegated any of Management 38,274,939 5.80 quantify emissions in respect of any its decisionmaking powers to the Tredje AP Fonden 37,750,000 5.72 outsourced energy use.
Investment Adviser other than in BMO Global Asset relation to the administration of the Dividends Management 33,718,823 5.11 SPVs and also in respect of holdings The Directors have announced a fourth in the portfolio.
The Company has Brewin Dolphin 33,193,735 5.03 interim dividend of 1.9 pence per delegated the exercise of its voting ordinary share which was paid Close Asset rights to the Investment Adviser, who on 25 November 2016 to Management 31,931,606 4.84 has the discretion to manage the ordinary shareholders on West Yorkshire assets in accordance with the the register on 21 October 2016.
Pension Fund 26,344,860 3.99 Companys investment objective The Company offered a scrip dividend Quilter Cheviot and policy.
alternative under which shareholders Investment There are no agreements between the elected to receive new ordinary shares Management 24,666,885 3.74 Company and its Directors concerning in lieu of the cash dividend.
The price compensation for loss of office.
The following changes have been of a new ordinary share to be issued notified to the Company between under the scrip dividend alternative Directors and officers liability 30 September 2016 and the date of was calculated by taking the average insurance and indemnity agreements this report: of the Companys closing middle The Company has purchased insurance % of total market quotations of an ordinary to cover Directors and officers liability, Shares voting share for the five consecutive dealing as permitted by the Law.
Name held rights days commencing on the exdividend Close Asset Key service providers date of 20 October 2016.
A circular and Management 33,085,066 5.01 Investment Adviser form of election was sent to Gravis Capital Partners LLP is the shareholders on 31 October 2016.
The table of significant shareholders Investment Adviser and AIFM to the Share capital disclosed above forms part of note Company.
The Investment Adviser was 2.3 b in the financial statements.
During the year, the Company incorporated in England and Wales on issued 83,544,335 ordinary shares of 14 October 2007 under the Limited Directors 1.0 pence.
Details of the movements Liability Partnership Act 2000 The Directors in office as at in share capital during the year are registered number OC332060 and 30 September 2016 are listed is authorised and regulated by the on page 34.
GCP Infrastructure Investments Limited  49 Governance Directors report continued Key service providers continued Investment Adviser provides advisory Limited, a fund for which the Investment Adviser continued services relating to the Companys Investment Manager is Gravis Capital assets on a daytoday basis in Partners LLP, which is also the Financial Conduct Authority accordance with the investment Investment Adviser to the Company.
registration number 487393. objectives and policies agreed by the The Directors further note that the The partners of the Investment Company and under the overall GCP Asset Backed Income Fund Adviser formed Gravis Capital supervision and direction of the Board Limited will seek to make investments Partners LLP in May 2008 with a view of Directors.
in a portfolio of project finance loans to developing a specialist across multiple sectors.
Under its infrastructure advisory boutique.
This The Investment Advisory Agreement Investment Advisory Agreement, the business model was amended in July was amended in January 2014 to Companys prior consent is required 2009 to focus specifically on fund reflect a change in methodology for for the Investment Adviser to act as management, principally in the area of the calculation of fees and the the adviser, manager or sponsor of UK infrastructure.
provision of AIFM services to the any fund or entity that may invest in Company.
An increase in the fees The Investment Adviser provides assets within the scope of the payable for the provision of AIFM advice to the Directors of the Company Companys investments or engage in services was agreed by the Board in to enable them to make informed any activity which may compete in the October 2014.
AIFM services provided decisions for the Companys funding same or substantially similar by the Investment Adviser to the requirements including advice and investment area as the Company.
Company are as follows: assistance in any equity further fund The Company has given its consent for raising process and also borrowing monitoring of investment policy, the Investment Adviser to act as the gearing requirements.
The terms of investment strategies and investment manager of the GCP Asset appointment of the Investment Adviser performance: Backed Income Fund Limited, on the and its fees payable are explained in risk management: basis that the Investment Adviser has note 20. agreed with the Company that where it liquidity risk and leverage The Investment Adviser also provides identifies an investment which, in its management: advice, which enables the Directors of opinion acting reasonably and in good ensuring the valuation of the the Company to identify potential faith, falls within the Companys remit, Companys assets is performed investments, monitor the performance the Company will have ROFR.
with due impartiality and with due of existing assets and the financial and The Directors believe that the skill, care and diligence: infrastructure markets generally.
Companys investment objectives, and The partners of the Investment ensuring marketing safeguards are the pipeline of opportunities available Adviser have a long track record of in place: to it, will not be adversely affected, and working within the UK infrastructure identification and management of that the ROFR Agreement protects the market, particularly with regard to conflicts of interest: and Companys interests in the event of debt advisory work.
The Investment Advisory supervision of service providers.
The partners of the Investment Agreement continues to contain other The Investment Advisory Agreement Adviser have advised extensively on clauses specifying minimum time was further amended and restated in debt structures in a wide variety of commitments from key Investment November 2015 in order to ensure that infrastructure sectors, including a Adviser personnel and general the key person provisions of that wide variety of renewable energy provisions for dealing with conflicts agreement remain up to date.
Under sectors, healthcare, education, court of interest.
the terms of the Investment Advisory buildings, specialised offices, Administrator and Company Secretary Agreement, the notice period of the registered social landlord termination of the appointment of the Fund accounting administration accommodation and transport.
Investment Adviser by the Company is services and company secretarial They have primarily advised project twelve months.
The remuneration of services are provided to the Company companies or their owners.
the Investment Adviser is set out in by Capita Financial Administrators The personnel primarily responsible note 20 to the financial statements.
Jersey Limited pursuant to an for delivering investment advice to the Agreement dated 31 January 2014.
The Company has noted the Company on behalf of the Investment The fee for the provision of these publication of a prospectus on Adviser are detailed on page 35. services during the year was 582,000 29 September 2015 by the GCP Asset 2015: 531,000.
The Agreement The Company is party to an Investment Backed Income Fund Limited with Capita Financial Administrators Advisory Agreement under which the formerly Project Finance Investments GCP Infrastructure Investments Limited  50 Introduction Strategic report Governance Financial statements Jersey Limited continues until Share repurchases the Directors to determine its terminated by either party on giving not remuneration will be proposed at the No shares have been bought back in less than six months written notice.
The latest authority to purchase ordinary shares for Depositary Financial risk management cancellation was granted to the Depositary services are provided to the Information about the Companys Directors on 12 February 2016 and Company by Capita Trust Company financial risk management objectives expires on the date of the next Annual Jersey Limited pursuant to an is set out in note 19 of the financial General Meeting.
The Directors are agreement dated 21 July 2014. statements.
proposing that their authority to buy The fee for the provision of these Nonmainstream pooled investments back shares be renewed at the services during the year was 198,000 The Board notes the rules of the UK forthcoming Annual General Meeting 2015: 170,000.
The agreement with Financial Conduct Authority on the on 10 February 2017.
Capita Trust Company Jersey promotion of nonmainstream pooled Limited continues until terminated Treasury shares investments, effective from 1 January by either party on giving not less than The Law allows companies to hold 2014.
The Board confirms that it six months written notice.
shares acquired by market purchase conducts the Companys affairs, and as treasury shares, rather than having Registrar intends to continue to conduct its to cancel the shares.
Up to 10% of the Registrar services are provided to the affairs, so that the Companys shares issued shares may be held in treasury Company by Capita Registrars will be excluded securities under the and may be subsequently cancelled or Jersey Limited pursuant to an Financial Conduct Authoritys new sold for cash in the market.
This gives agreement dated 28 June 2010. rules.
This is on the basis that the the Company the ability to reissue The fee for the provision of these Company, which is resident outside the shares quickly and cost efficiently, services during the year was 125,000 EEA, would qualify for the approval as thereby improving liquidity and 2015: 75,000.
The agreement with an investment trust by the providing the Company with additional Capita Registrars Jersey Limited Commissioners for HM Revenue and flexibility in the management of its continues until terminated by either Customs under Sections 1158 and 1159 capital base.
party on giving not less than six of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 Disclosure of information to the Auditor months written notice.
if resident and listed in the United Kingdom.
Therefore, the Each of the persons who is a Director The Directors undertake an annual Companys shares will not amount at the date of approval of this annual review of the effectiveness of all to nonmainstream pooled report confirms that: thirdparty service providers.
Accordingly, promotion of Following this review, it is the so far as they are aware, there is no the Companys shares will not be Directors opinion that the continuing relevant audit information of which subject to the Financial Conduct appointment of the Investment the Companys Auditor is unaware: Authoritys restriction on the promotion Adviser, the Administrator and the and of nonmainstream pooled investments.
Company Secretary, the Depositary they have taken all the steps that and the Registrar, is in the best Requirements of the Listing Rules they ought to have taken as a interests of the Company and its Listing Rule 9.8.
4 requires the Director in order to make shareholders.
Company to include specified themselves aware of any relevant information in a single identifiable Political donations audit information and to establish section of the Annual Report or a that the Companys Auditor is The Company made no donations to cross reference table indication where aware of that information.
political parties or organisations the information is set out.
The during the year and no political External audit Directors confirm that there are no expenditure was incurred.
Following an external audit tender disclosures required in relation to Annual general meetings process in October 2015, the Board Listing Rule 9.8.
The Companys Annual report and recommended that KPMG be By order of the Board financial statements for the year appointed as Auditor and a resolution ended 30 September 2016 will be to appoint them was approved at the tabled for approval at the Companys Annual General Meeting in February 2017 Annual General Meeting.
KPMG has expressed its Mr David Pirouet FCA Annual General Meeting will be held willingness to continue in office Director on 10 February 2017 at 12 Castle as an Auditor of the Company and 13 December 2016 Street, St Helier, Jersey JE2 3RT.
resolutions for its appointment and for GCP Infrastructure Investments Limited  51
