Introduction Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Investment Adviser Stephen Ellis Rollo Wright Nick Parker Partner Partner Partner Stephen Ellis has overall responsibility for the Rollo Wright is responsible for asset Nick Parker is responsible for asset sourcing provision of investment advice to the Company.
He is also responsible for and acquisition, and the negotiation and monitoring and reporting on the ongoing documentation of the Companys financing Stephen graduated from Oxford University in performance of the Company.
1980 and after a short service commission with the British Army he spent a 16 year career in Rollo graduated with a degree in Mathematics Nick holds a degree in Economics from investment banking, principally in taxbased from Oxford University before qualifying as a Cambridge University.
After ten years in finance, securitisation and debt origination.
chartered accountant with Arthur Andersen.
investment banking, focused on rate Stephen formed the Investment Adviser in 2008 He moved to the capital markets division of structured products and assetbacked after five years as a Director at DTZ Corporate Commerzbank Securities where he focused on securities, he became a Director of Finance, where he had responsibility for all UK the origination of panEuropean corporate Structured Finance at DTZ where he advised infrastructure financing, in particular in the debt, specifically convertible bonds.
He joined on the financing of longdated cash flows healthcare and education sectors.
the structured finance team at DTZ Corporate underlying property and infrastructure Finance in 2004 and specialised in advising on assets, particularly in respect of their the sale and financing of healthcare and documentation and hedging.
education projects, as well as the structuring of residential propertybacked transactions.
Ronan Kierans Dion Di Miceli Ben Perkins Partner Head of Investment Companies Analyst Ronan Kierans is responsible for asset Dion Di Miceli has responsibility for liaising Ben Perkins is responsible for asset sourcing sourcing and acquisition.
His role involves with the client boards, investors and advisers and acquisitions, and the reporting and identifying suitable assets, and carrying out and leading product development alongside monitoring of the ongoing performance of and reporting on acquisition due diligence, the fund managers.
A member of the the Company.
including financial modelling and insurance, Chartered Institute for Securities & Ben graduated from Warwick University with legal and built asset due diligence.
Investment since 2005, Dion qualified as a a degree in Mechanical Engineering.
He then Chartered Accountant with Arthur Anderson Ronan qualified as a chartered accountant with spent five years at John Laing where he was LLP in 2002 and subsequently spent four KPMG Dublin and subsequently worked in involved in originating and monitoring a years in the Investment Funds practice at corporate finance with KPMG and DTZ variety of infrastructure assets, whilst also Ernst & Young LLP.
He joined the Investment Corporate Finance.
At KPMG, Ronan worked on obtaining the CFA qualification.
He then Companies team at Cenkos Securities plc in a number of corporate tax and M&A moved to Hadrians Wall Capital, specialising 2007 where, as senior corporate adviser, he transactions.
During his time at DTZ Corporate in infrastructure debt structuring, before worked with investment company boards and Finance, Ronan worked in the fund structuring joining the Investment Adviser in 2013. their managers advising on and structuring a team, specialising in the structuring of, and board range of transactions covering IPOs, asset acquisition for, European property funds.
secondary issuance, mergers and corporate In 2007, Ronan moved to the Infrastructure reconstructions.
Dion joined the Investment team at DTZ, where he primarily worked on Adviser in February 2016. healthcare projects.
