Divisional review continued GKN POWDER METALLURGY A solid year GKN Powder Metallurgy What we do comprises two operations.
Products GKN Sinter Metals is the worlds Sintered components for automotive engines and transmissions, as well as leading manufacturer of precision pumps, bodies, chassis and compressors.
automotive components as well Sintered bearings and filters.
as components for industrial and consumer applications.
Hoeganaes Metal injection moulded components.
is one of the worlds largest Metal powders.
manufacturers of metal powder, Soft magnetic components for use in the essential raw material for electric motors.
Sintered components for numerous Peter Oberparleiter industrial applications.
Chief Executive, GKN Powder Metallurgy Divisional performance against Group strategy Strategic objective Progress Leading in our Global leader in sintered components.
chosen markets Worlds number two manufacturer of metal powder.
Leveraging New joint venture to produce automotive grade a strong global metal powder in China.
presence New joint venture with TLS Technik to manufacture titanium powder for AM applications in North America.
Differentiating Increased success for Design for Powder Sustaining ourselves through Metallurgy through a unique combination of above market technology materials and process.
growth Continued to develop technically enhanced powders.
Ramping up production of differential gears.
Launch of aluminium lightweight planetary carrier for American OEM.
Driving Global compaction press standard rolled out operational and implemented.
excellence My Quality programme implemented globally.
30 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Sales by customer GKN Powder Metallurgy Ford 9% GM Group 8% 6,900 people Schae er 5% Fiat Chrysler 4% Other 58% Hilite 4% 33 manufacturing locations ZF Group 4% Linamar 3% Borg Warner 3% 9 countries Bosch 2% Highlights of the year Sales by GKN Sinter Metals and Hoeganaes GKN Sinter Metals Hoeganaes 158m Organic sales growth of 1%, before the pass-through sales by region of lower raw material surcharges.
Hoeganaes Trading margin of 11.7% 2015: 12.0%, excluding Rest of world 93m Americas 433m the 3 million restructuring charge, reflecting a powder investment in China and a weaker North America.
Strong focus on technology and 200 million Europe 348m annualised new and replacement business won.
Divisional performance Sales by product type Change % Hoeganaes Sintered components 2016 2015 Headline Organic Metal powder 158m Hoeganaes Sales m 1,032 906 14 Trading profit m 118 109 8 3 Industrial 129m Automotive 745m Trading margin % 11.4 12.0 Return on average invested capital % 21.0 22.3 Financial information on this page is presented on a management basis.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 31 Divisional review continued Key strategic activities The organic reduction in trading profit To support the achievement of the Groups was 4 million, including a 3 million five strategic objectives, GKN Powder restructuring charge as part of the GroupMetallurgy is focusing on the following areas: wide programme.
There was a 2 million reduction from start-up losses as a result Developing Design for Powder Metallurgy of the investment being made in the new applications to meet the rapidly developing powder business acquired in China and requirements for high-efficiency engines, the gain from currency translation was advanced transmission applications, 15 million.
weight reduction and evolving emissions standards.
The divisional trading margin was 11.4%, or 11.7% excluding the restructuring charge Expanding the business in high-growth 2015: 12.0%, reflecting the investment in markets, supporting customers globally.
China and tougher market conditions in the Enhancing performance of metal powders.
Return on average invested capital was 21.0% 2015: 22.3%.
Developing the complete value chain for Metal Additive Manufacturing.
During the year, GKN Powder Metallurgy achieved a number of important milestones, which included: Performance winning around 200 million of annualised Organic sales were flat, after the 11 million sales in new and replacement business: pass-through to customers of lower steel prices and other surcharges.
There was the commencement of production of a 114 million 13% benefit from currency high quality automotive grade powders translation and a 12 million increase due in China for the Asian market: to the acquisition of a majority share of forming a new joint venture business to a powder manufacturer in China.
manufacture titanium powders in North Underlying growth before raw material America for additive manufacturing AM pass-through was 1%, lower than global applications: and light vehicle production which was up 5%, installation in Radevormwald, Germany due to under-representation in the strong of the first multi powder bed AM machine China market.
Underlying sales growth above in the automotive industry to enable the market was achieved in China, Europe series production of designed for and Brazil but sales in North America fell AM precision parts for engines and slightly due to weaker demand from the transmissions and supporting the divisions largest automotive customer.
In 2016, GKN Sinter Metals commenced production at its new Danyang plant and Hoeganaes began production of high-quality automotive grade powders in China for the Asian market.
32 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
