STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GKN DRIVELINE Moving forward As a global business serving What we do the worlds leading vehicle Products manufacturers, GKN Driveline Constant velocity jointed systems including CV joints and sideshafts.
develops, manufactures and supplies an extensive range of All-wheel drive AWD systems including propshafts, couplings, power transfer automotive driveline products and units, rear drive modules and a range systems, for use in everything from of differentials and torque management the smallest ultra-low-cost cars to technologies.
the most sophisticated premium eDrive systems including electric axles vehicles that demand complex and transmissions.
Phil Swash Chief Executive, GKN Driveline Divisional performance against Group strategy Strategic objective Progress Leading in our Number one in driveline and AWD markets.
chosen markets Around 1 billion new and replacement business won in sideshafts and all-wheel drive products in 2016.
Leveraging a Completion of a state-of-the-art research and strong global development facility in Shanghai, plus localisation presence of key AWD programmes in China.
Ramping up of our new AWD plant in Thailand and expanded facilities in Turkey, China and the US, plus development of new facilities in Poland and Mexico.
Differentiating AWD platform partner with Volvo on the all-new Sustaining ourselves through XC90, including both the conventional and plug-in above market technology hybrid variants.
growth Unveiled new eTwinster, which brings true torque vectoring capabilities to electric and hybrid vehicles for the first time.
Developed the new benchmark in constant velocity joint technology, the VL3, which debuted on the BMW 7 Series.
Driving Driveline Excellence System provides a foundation operational of standard work adopted across the business to excellence ensure consistency and clarity.
Industry 4.0 pilots and projects to identify and realise potential benefits.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 27 Divisional review continued Sales by customer GKN Driveline Fiat Chrysler 13% 28,100 people Other 25% VW Group 12% Geely Group 4% 49 manufacturing locations Ford 11% BMW Group 4% Tata Group 5% GM Group 10% 23 countries Toyota Group 7% Renault Nissan 9% Highlights of the year Sales by product group type eDrive systems 1% Organic sales growth of 6%, ahead of global auto production, helped by our broad geographic footprint Transaxle solutions 6% and increased content per vehicle.
Trading margin lower due to restructuring charge and excess launch costs.
AWD systems 32% CVJ systems 61% Around 1 billion of annualised new and replacement business won.
Divisional performance Sales by region of origin Change % India 2% Other 6% 2016 2015 Headline Organic South America 3% Sales m 4,216 3,548 19 6 Japan 7% Trading profit m 323 290 11 2 Europe 37% China 12% Trading margin % 7.7 8.2 Return on average invested capital % 19.2 19.5 North America 33% Financial information on this page is presented on a management basis.
28 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Key strategic activities The organic reduction in trading profit During the year, around 1 billion of To support the achievement of the Groups was 5 million after incurring 10 million annualised sales in new and replacement five strategic objectives, GKN Driveline is of restructuring charges and the positive business was secured and a number of focusing on the following areas: impact of currency translation on trading important milestones achieved, including: profit was 38 million.
GKN Drivelines Providing innovative driveline technologies the selection by BMW to supply its eAxle trading margin was 7.7%, or 7.9% excluding across all-wheel drive, eDrive and constant on the BMW 2 Series Active Tourer 225xe the restructuring charge 2015: 8.2%.
velocity joints to support the global trend and the plug-in hybrid version of the Return on average invested capital was for more fuel-efficient vehicles.
Increasing business in high growth regions.
being named as an Automotive News 2017 In terms of profitability, European plants PACE Award finalist for its innovative Serving the needs of strategic customers were running at very high capacity utilisation electric driveline technology.
PACE judges through a market-leading global footprint.
with a strong conversion on the additional have selected the co-axial electric axle sales.
In China, margin reduced slightly, with eAxle system that debuted on the the benefits from increased production being Performance acclaimed Volvo XC90 T8 Twin Engine offset by continued investment in the new plug-in hybrid as one of the finalists in Organic sales increased by 242 million 6% technology centre and engineering, 2017.
The technology also launched on compared with global light vehicle production particularly to support AWD growth.
The the Volvo S90 and will feature on other which was up 5%.
The beneficial effect from Americas operations were impacted by lower manufacturers vehicles: and currency translation was 426 million.
demand in Brazil and around 25 million of Constant Velocity Jointed CVJ Systems additional launch costs on a new global AWD adding five new AWD production lines accounted for 61% of sales and non-CVJ programme.
These launch problems have across two facilities in Shanghai to support sales were 39%.
now largely been addressed with production growing levels of business.
The technology GKN Drivelines market outperformance was developed provides an excellent platform for mainly in Europe reflecting recent market continued success in AWD and investment share gains and strong sales to Fiat Chrysler, has continued in eDrive, with new contracts Volvo and Daimler and in North America won.
The results also included some benefit reflecting strong recent AWD programme from claims against a number of suppliers for gains slightly offset by lower light truck anti-competitive behaviour.
It is anticipated platform exposure.
GKN Driveline performed that further income may be recognised in slightly below the market in China due to 2017 as other cases are settled.
its lower exposure to domestic producers and smaller vehicles, and negative pricing To provide better strategic and customer although new launches for AWD vehicles alignment, GKN Driveline reorganised from were positive and should enhance three regions into two global product lines performance in 2017.
CVJ and AWD eDrive which also provides a more efficient, leaner organisation.
Employees at GKN Driveline in Koping, Sweden, making a final visual inspection of a power transfer unit for the Fiat 500X.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 29
