Overview aerospace market AEROSPACE As demand for global air travel continues to rise, aircraft manufacturers compete to introduce lighter, quieter and greener technologies.
4 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 2016 market trends Commercial aircraft deliveries by region 2016 Continued strong growth of 6.3% in passenger air travel.
Asia Pacific 44% Europe 24% Freight air transport returned to growth in 2016 2.6%.
North America 15% A record number of commercial aircraft were delivered Africa Middle East 11% with Asia Pacific the leading region.
South America 6% Commercial aircraft market remained strong: Source: Airbus and Boeing deliveries 2016.
Single aisle orders remained high, with delivery rates continuing to increase.
Lower order intake for wide body aircraft.
Overall backlog of eight years at current production rates.
12,589 Military aircraft market was down 2% in 2016 Airbus and Boeing but production rates began to recover in the second commercial backlog half driven by F-35.
1,436 Commercial aircraft delivered in 2016 Source: Teal.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 5 Overview aerospace market continued GKNs technology, growing global footprint and strong customer relationships are helping shape the aircraft of the future.
We work with our global customers on the next generation of aircraft TECHNOLOGY PARTNERSHIP DRIVES AIRCRAFT ELECTRIFICATION GKN Aerospace is partnering with industry leaders to explore the future of electrification in aviation.
The partnership will initially focus on the More Electric Aircraft MEA concept, where aircraft systems increasingly use electrical power sources.
The trend is driven by the need to optimise aircraft performance, reduce emissions, and by the increased passenger demand for energy and connectivity in-flight.
com our expertise in advanced technologies provides opportunities in growing markets CONTRACT WINS DRIVE ASIA GROWTH GKN Aerospace secured milestone contracts in Asia during 2016, as we continued to expand into the regions fast-growing aerospace market.
Significant engine systems contracts have been secured in China, South Korea and Japan, enhancing our market penetration and key customer relationships across Asia.
The Asia Pacific region is growing rapidly and is predicted to account for around 40% of the worlds total aircraft market over the next two decades.
com 6 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION our technology is helping the global aerospace industry meet environmental challenges LIGHTWEIGHT TECHNOLOGY ENABLES GREENER AIRCRAFT GKN Aerospace manufactures the complete Gulfstream G650 empennage with a thermoplastic rudder and elevator, reducing the weight of the components by 25% compared to traditional materials.
The use of thermoplastic composites in primary structures of the aircraft is a trend that unlocks significant improvements in terms of aircraft weight, fuel consumption, total life-cycle costs, maintainability and recyclability.
com and we are well positioned to succeed in the future.
OUTLOOK Commercial aircraft production is expected to grow on average by 2.5% until 2020, driven by the current record order backlogs held 1 by OEMs.
Airbus and Boeing forecast a global demand of between 37,710 and 39,620 large commercial aircraft over the next 20 years.
The Asian commercial fleet is 1 expected to triple in size by 2035.
The military market is expected to return to growth in 2017 driven by 1 demand from the US and Asia.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 7
