STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Annual general meeting Restrictions on the transfer of securities The annual general meeting AGM of the Company will be held at While the Board has the power under the articles of association to 2.00pm on Thursday 4 May 2017 at 195 Piccadilly, London W1J 9LN.
refuse to register a transfer of shares, there are no restrictions on the The notice of meeting, which includes the business to be transacted transfer of shares.
at the meeting, is included within the AGM circular.
The circular Under the Companys articles, the Directors have power to suspend also contains an explanation of all the resolutions to be considered voting rights and the right to receive dividends in respect of shares in at the AGM.
circumstances where the holder of those shares fails to comply with a notice issued under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Dividend Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 5.9 pence per ordinary share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2016, payable to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 7 April 2017.
Substantial shareholders This, together with the interim dividend of 2.95 pence paid in 1 As at 31 December 2016, the Company had been notified of the September 2016, brings the total dividend for the year to 8.85 pence.
following holdings of voting rights in its shares under Rule 5 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the Financial Issued share capital Conduct Authority: % of At 31 December 2016, the issued share capital of the Company voting consisted of 1,726,103,630 ordinary shares of 10 pence each 2015: Shareholder Nature of interest rights 1,726,103,630 shares, of which 11,629,654 shares 0.7% were held BlackRock, Inc.
During the year, a total Qualifying financial instruments 0.07 of 539,274 ordinary shares were transferred out of treasury in Contracts for difference 0.66 connection with the exercise of awards by participants under the Total 5.80 Companys share incentive schemes 2015: 5,628,988 shares.
2 Vulcan Value Partners, LLC Indirect 5.20 The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Total 5.20 In addition, GKN has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary Receipt ADR programme for which the Bank of New York Mellon 1 See footnote on page 109.
2 The Company was notified that Vulcan exercises voting rights over 3.57% of the shares in acts as Depositary.
The ADRs trade in the US over-the-counter issue.
The remaining 1.63% of voting rights held by Vulcan are not exercised by them but are market where each ADR represents one GKN ordinary share.
held on behalf of their managed accounts.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares Relations with other capital providers Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends when The Board recognises the contribution made by other providers declared, to receive the Companys annual report, to attend and of capital to the Group and welcomes the views of such providers speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and in relation to the Groups approach to corporate governance.
On a show of hands at a meeting of GKN, every member present holding ordinary shares has one vote.
On a poll taken at a meeting, every member present and entitled to vote has one vote in respect of each ordinary share held by him or her.
In the case of joint shareholders, only the vote of the senior joint holder who votes and any proxy duly authorised by him or her may be counted.
Shares held in treasury carry no voting rights.
GKN operates an employee share option plan trust the Trust to satisfy the vesting and exercise of awards of ordinary shares made under the Groups share-based incentive arrangements.
The trustee of the Trust does not exercise any voting rights in respect of shares held by the Trust.
Once the shares are transferred from the Trust to share scheme participants, the participants are entitled to exercise the voting rights attaching to those shares.
A dividend waiver operates in respect of shares held by the Trust pursuant to the provisions of the Trust deed.
Full details of the rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares are contained in the articles of association.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 107 Additional information continued Directors The Directors who served during the financial year were as follows: Position as at Service in the year ended Name 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 Mike Turner Chairman Served throughout the year Nigel Stein Chief Executive Served throughout the year Kevin Cummings Chief Executive GKN Aerospace Appointed 8 January 2016 Angus Cockburn Independent non-executive Director Served throughout the year Tufan Erginbilgic Independent non-executive Director Served throughout the year Shonaid Jemmett-Page Independent non-executive Director Served throughout the year Richard Parry-Jones Senior Independent Director Served throughout the year Phil Swash Chief Executive GKN Driveline Appointed 8 January 2016 Anne Stevens Independent non-executive Director Appointed 1 July 2016 Adam Walker Group Finance Director Served throughout the year Membership of the Board and biographical details of the Directors Directors indemnities in office at the date of this report are shown on pages 60 and 61.
Pursuant to the articles of association, the Company has executed Further details relating to Board and Committee composition are a deed poll of indemnity for the benefit of the Directors of the disclosed in the corporate governance statement.
Company and persons who were Directors of the Company in Following her appointment to the Board in July 2016 and in respect of costs of defending claims against them and third-party accordance with the Companys articles of association, Anne Stevens liabilities.
These provisions, deemed to be qualifying third-party will retire and offer herself for election at the 2017 AGM.
All other indemnity provisions pursuant to section 234 of the Companies Act Directors in office will retire and offer themselves for re-election at 2006, were in force during the year ended 31 December 2016 and the 2017 AGM in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The indemnity provision in the Companys articles of association also extends to provide a limited indemnity in respect of The articles of association provide that a Director may be appointed liabilities incurred as a director, secretary or officer of an associated by an ordinary resolution of shareholders or by the existing Directors, company of the Company.
either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director.
Further information on GKNs internal procedures for the appointment of Directors is A copy of the deed poll of indemnity is available for inspection at the given in the corporate governance statement.
Companys registered office during normal business hours and will be available for inspection at the Companys AGM.
The executive Directors serve under contracts that are terminable with 12 months notice from the Company and six months notice The Company has also arranged appropriate insurance cover for legal from the executive Director.
The non-executive Directors serve action taken against its Directors and officers.
under letters of appointment and do not have service contracts with the Company.
Conflicts of interest Copies of the service contracts of the executive Directors and the Under the Companies Act 2006, Directors must avoid situations letters of appointment of the non-executive Directors are available where they have, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal conflicts or possibly may conflict with the Companys interests.
business hours and will be available for inspection at the As permitted by the Act, the Companys articles of association enable Companys AGM.
Directors to authorise actual and potential conflicts of interest.
The Directors remuneration report, which includes the Directors Formal procedures for the notification and authorisation of such interests in GKN shares, is set out on pages 81 to 106. conflicts are in place.
These procedures enable non-conflicted Directors to impose limits or conditions when giving or reviewing Directors powers authorisation and require the Board to review the register of Directors conflicts annually and on an ad hoc basis when necessary.
The Board of Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company Any potential conflicts of interest are considered by the Board prior subject to the provisions of relevant legislation, the Companys to the appointments of new Directors.
articles of association and any directions given by the Company in general meeting.
The powers of the Directors include those in relation to the issue and buyback of shares.
Articles of association At the 2016 AGM, the Directors were authorised to exercise the The Companys articles of association can only be amended by powers of the Company to purchase up to 171,402,286 of its special resolution of the shareholders.
GKNs current articles are ordinary shares.
No shares were purchased under this authority available on our website at www.
The Directors were also authorised to allot shares in the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 57,134,095.
These authorities will remain valid until the 2017 AGM or 5 August 2017, if earlier.
Resolutions to renew these authorities will be proposed at the 2017 AGM.
108 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Change of control Research and development As at 31 December 2016, the Companys subsidiary, GKN Holdings Group subsidiaries undertake research and development work in plc, had agreements with 14 banks for 15 bilateral banking facilities support of their principal manufacturing activities.
Further details totalling 800 million, and a 48 million loan facility with the of the Groups research and development activities can be found European Investment Bank.
Each of these agreements provides that, throughout the strategic report.
on a change of control of GKN plc, the respective bank can give notice to GKN Holdings plc to repay all outstanding amounts under the Financial instruments relevant facility.
Details of the Groups use of financial instruments can be found The Company has in issue 450 million fixed rate notes paying in Note 19 to the financial statements.
5.375% semi-annual interest and maturing on 19 September 2022 under a euro medium-term note programme established by GKN Holdings plc the Notes.
Pursuant to the terms attaching to the Strategic report Notes, a holder of the Notes has the option to require GKN Holdings As permitted by section 414C of the Companies Act 2006, certain plc to redeem or at GKN Holdings plcs option purchase the holders information required to be included in the Directors report has been Notes at their principal amount if there is a change of control of the included in the strategic report.
Specifically, this relates to information Company and either i the Notes are unrated or do not carry an on the likely future developments of the business of the Group, the investment grade credit rating from at least two ratings agencies: Companys business model and strategy, risk management and the or ii if the Notes carry an investment grade credit rating from at disclosure of greenhouse gas emissions for which the Company least two ratings agencies, the Notes are downgraded to a nonis responsible.
investment grade rating or that rating is withdrawn within 90 days of the change of control and such downgrade or withdrawal is cited by the ratings agencies as being the result of the change of control.
Disclosures required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4R Companies in GKN Aerospace are party to long-term supply contracts Information relating to the waiver of dividends can be found on with customers which are original equipment manufacturers of page 107.
There are no other disclosures to be made under the aircraft and aero engines.
Certain of these contracts contain provisions above Listing Rule.
which would entitle the customer to terminate the contract in the event of a change of control of the Company, where such change Auditors and disclosure of information of control conflicts with the interests of the customer.
Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Companies in GKN Driveline are party to supply contracts with Directors report confirms that, so far as he she is aware, there is customers which are original equipment manufacturers of motor no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are vehicles.
Certain of these contracts contain provisions which would unaware.
Each Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to entitle the customer to terminate the contract in the event of a change have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of of control of the Company.
any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys All the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to auditors are aware of that information.
Outstanding options and awards normally vest The strategic report comprising the inside front cover and pages and become exercisable on a change of control subject to the 1 to 59, and this Directors report comprising pages 60 to 110, satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
which together form the management report as required under the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules 4.1.
8R, have been Payments to suppliers approved by the Board and are signed on its behalf by It is Group policy to abide by the payment terms agreed with suppliers, provided that the supplier has performed its obligations under the contract.
Branches GKN, through various subsidiaries, has established branches in Kerry Watson a number of different countries in which the business operates.
Company Secretary 27 February 2017 Donations In accordance with the Groups policy, no political donations were 1 As at 1 March 2017, the Company had not been advised of any further changes or additions to the interests notified under Rule 5 of the Disclosure Rules and made and no political expenditure was incurred during 2016.
Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority as set out on page 107.
During 2016, the Groups US aerospace business operated a political action committee PAC which was funded entirely by employees and their spouses.
No funds were provided to the PAC by GKN and any administrative services provided to the PAC by the US aerospace business were fully charged to and paid for by the PAC.
The Company does not therefore consider these to be political donations.
Employee contributions were entirely voluntary and no pressure was placed on employees to participate.
Under US law, an employee-funded PAC must bear the name of the employing company.
The PAC was terminated in June 2016 due to its low level of activity.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 109
