OUR STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK We aim to create long-term, sustainable shareholder value through the delivery of strong financial returns.
Our five strategic objectives We aim to succeed in the long term by being selective and the best at what we do.
Within our chosen markets we focus our Leading in our activities and work in partnership with our customers to deliver chosen markets the most innovative and high quality products and systems.
As an international business, we serve our customers through a global footprint of manufacturing sites.
By further developing Sustaining above our geographic spread, we will continue to expand into growing Leveraging a strong markets and build long-lasting and mutually beneficial customer market growth global presence relationships that increase our market share.
We believe that growth, at a manageable rate, is We deliver innovative technologies that help our customers stay essential to the creation of ahead in their markets and enable us to maintain our competitive shareholder value.
Market edge, ensuring we remain leaders in higher-value markets.
leadership, global presence, Differentiating We work with our customers to develop new technologies, innovative technology and ourselves through driven by global trends such as fuel efficiency, the low-carbon operational excellence technology agenda, electrification, urbanisation and population growth.
combine to help deliver growth above our markets.
We have a strong culture of safety and operational excellence and, through continuous improvement processes, we focus on delivering exceptional quality and customer service.
At the same time, we Driving operational aim to be an employer of choice with a high performance culture, excellence motivated people and outstanding leaders.
Delivering strong financial returns Growth above To deliver sustainable shareholder value through increasing market earnings and dividends, our financial goals are based on a balanced approach between sales growth, margin and return on invested capital ROIC.
Delivering strong financial returns Trading ROIC 20% margin 8-10% Increasing cash ow, EPS and dividends 14 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
