BOARD OF DIRECTORS Mike Turner CBE 68 N Nigel Stein 61 E Angus Cockburn 53 A R N Chairman Chief Executive Independent non-executive Director Appointed to the Board in September 2009 Appointed to the Board in August 2001.
Appointed to the Board in January 2013. and became Chairman in May 2012.
Experience Joined GKN in 1994 and held Experience Currently Chief Financial Officer Experience Has extensive experience of the a range of commercial, general management of Serco Group plc.
He joined Serco in October aerospace industry having worked for BAE and finance roles, including Group Finance 2014 from Aggreko plc where he held the role Systems plc for over 40 years, including as its Director and Chief Executive Automotive, before of Chief Financial Officer for 14 years and was Chief Executive from 2002 to 2008.
Former becoming Chief Executive in January 2012.
Prior latterly Interim Chief Executive.
Prior to this he President of the Aerospace & Defence Industries to GKN, he gained experience in the commercial was Managing Director of Pringle Scotland, Association of Europe.
Fellow of the Royal vehicle and manufacturing sector and held a division of Dawson International plc.
senior financial positions with Laird Group plc held a number of roles at PepsiCo Inc and was and Hestair Duple Ltd.
Member of the Institute latterly Regional Finance Director for Central External appointments Chairman of Babcock of Chartered Accountants of Scotland and Europe.
Former non-executive director of International Group PLC and non-executive former non-executive director of Wolseley plc.
Howden Joinery Group plc and former director of Lazard Ltd.
Member of the UK chairman of the Group of Scottish Finance Governments Apprenticeship Ambassadors External appointments Non-executive Directors.
He is also an Honorary Professor Network.
director of Inchcape plc and chairman of the at the University of Edinburgh.
Kevin Cummings 54 E Tufan Erginbilgic 57 A R N Shonaid Jemmett-Page 56 A R N Chief Executive GKN Aerospace Independent non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director Appointed to the Board in January 2016.
Appointed to the Board in May 2011.
Appointed to the Board in June 2010.
Experience Joined GKN in 2008 as Chief Experience Currently Chief Executive, Experience Former Chief Operating Officer Executive Officer GKN Aerostructures North Downstream for BP plc with specific of CDC Group plc, the UK Governments America.
Appointed Chief Executive GKN responsibility for the Fuels, Lubricants and development finance institution.
Joined CDC Aerospace in January 2014 and has been Petrochemicals businesses.
He joined BP in 1997 from Unilever, where for eight years she was a member of the GKN Executive Committee and has held a number of senior marketing and Senior Vice-President Finance and Information, since October 2014.
He has held various operational roles, including Chief of Staff to the Home and Personal Care, originally in Asia and leadership roles in programme management, Group Chief Executive, Chief Operating Officer later for the group as a whole.
Her early career strategic planning, engineering and business of the Fuels business and Chief Executive of the was spent at KPMG, latterly as a partner.
Former development: prior to joining GKN he was Castrol Lubricants business.
His early career non-executive director of Havelock Europa, Executive Vice President & General Manager was spent at Mobil Oil.
Close Brothers Group plc and APR Energy plc.
Launch Systems at Alliant Techsystems.
External appointments Director of the External appointments Independent Turkish-British Chamber of Commerce non-executive director of MS Amlin plc, and Industry.
Greencoat UK Wind plc and Caledonia Investments plc.
Non-executive chairman of Origo Partners plc.
60 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Richard Parry-Jones CBE 65 A R N Anne Stevens 69 A R N Senior Independent Director Independent non-executive Director Appointed to the Board in March 2008 and Appointed to the Board in July 2016. as Senior Independent Director in May 2012.
Experience Has extensive experience across Experience Has extensive experience of the both the automotive and aerospace industries.
automotive industry having previously worked Former chairman, Chief Executive Officer and for the Ford Motor Company for 38 years, President of Carpenter Technology Corp. latterly as Group Vice-President Global Product Prior to this, Anne undertook a number of roles Development and Group Chief Technical Officer.
during a 16-year career at Ford Motor Company Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering, where she was latterly Chief Operating Officer the Institution of Mechanical Engineers and the for the Americas.
Her early career was spent Royal Society of Statistical Science.
Former at Exxon Corporation where she held roles in non-executive chairman of Network Rail Ltd, engineering, product development and sales Kelda Eurobond Co Ltd and Yorkshire Water and marketing.
Services Ltd. Former chairman of the Welsh External appointments Non-executive Assembly Government Ministerial Advisory director of Anglo American plc, Lockheed Martin Group and the UKs Automotive Council.
Corporation and XL Group plc.
Phil Swash 53 E Adam Walker 49 E Kerry Watson Chief Executive GKN Driveline Group Finance Director Company Secretary Appointed to the Board in January 2016.
Appointed to the Board in January 2014.
Appointed Company Secretary in May 2016.
Experience Joined GKN in 2007 as Chief Experience Became Group Finance Director Experience Joined GKN in 2004 and was Executive Officer GKN Aerospace Europe.
in February 2014 and from September 2015 to appointed Deputy Company Secretary and Head Appointed Chief Executive GKN Driveline in December 2016 held the additional role of Chief of Secretariat in 2012.
A member of the Institute September 2015.
Member of the GKN Executive Executive GKN Land Systems.
Former Finance of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Prior to his Director of Informa plc from 2008 to 2013 and current role, Phil was Chief Executive of GKN operationally responsible for the Events Division Land Systems.
Has held a number of from 2012 until leaving the group.
Prior to this operational roles at BAE Systems and Airbus he was Group Finance Director at National where, prior to joining GKN, he was responsible Express Group plc from 2003 to 2008.
His early for the wing production of all Airbus aircraft.
career was spent at Touche Ross, NatWest Markets and, latterly, Arthur Andersen where A Member of Audit & Risk Committee External appointments Vice-President of he held a number of senior finance positions.
CLEPA the European Association of Automotive R Member of Remuneration Committee Suppliers, Fellow of the Institution of External appointments Non-executive N Member of Nominations Committee Engineering and Technology, and Honorary director of Kier Group plc.
Fellow of Liverpool John Moores University.
E Member of Executive Committee GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 61
