STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION OUR BUSINESS MODEL Our key resources and advanced engineering value chain enable us to deliver returns for all our stakeholders.
Key resources How we add value Industry Global footprint A skilled and Designing Winning new Delivering quality know-how committed innovative business products Manufacturing workforce products The ability to identify operations in more Product differentiation Our global footprint future technology than 30 countries and strong customer helps deliver safe, 58,200 employees Our investment requirements keeping us close relationships are key high quality products, around the world.
in technology, and deliver marketto our international to our success.
Our assured through combined with an leading solutions.
customers and giving focus on the voice robust quality understanding of Culture us flexibility to respond of the customer and management market trends and A unique culture quickly to their needs.
measuring our systems and our Engineering customers needs, that helps us performance helps people, to the right enables us to capability succeed.
A strong to maintain these place at the right time.
Customer maintain competitive Investing in ethos of safety relationships.
relationships advantage through technology and first and doing the market-leading Sourcing Our largest customers developing and right thing.
Applying Lean materials and are key aerospace and maintaining manufacturing components automotive OEMs.
We partner with them We employ We leverage our on major programmes efficient, cost buying power and Supply chain to deliver key effective processes geographic footprint A flexible and components and this to add value and to maintain a reliable well-developed gives us valuable reduce waste in our and cost effective global supply chain.
insight into market manufacturing chain.
Value created For our For our shareholders environment For our We aim to Our products are In our customers create long-term designed to be lighter communities shareholder value and more efficient, We deliver leadingAround the world, through growing helping our customers edge technology that For our For our our sites and profits and dividends.
reduce the impact of helps our customers employees suppliers employees support See page 16 their end products on stay ahead in their communities We are committed We support our the environment.
through fundraising, to helping all our global supply chain We continuously See pages 6 and 7 volunteering and employees reach through growing improve our and 10 and 11 working with young their potential, our business manufacturing people to inspire the thereby maintaining opportunities.
processes to reduce next generation a skilled and engaged See page 57 our environmental of engineers.
See page 59 See pages 52 to 55 See page 58 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 15
