86 Other Statutory Disclosures Details of the Companys employee share schemes are set out in note 28.
In connection Directors with these schemes, the Genus plc Employee Benefit Trust holds shares in the Company The Directors and the dates of their from time to time and abstains from voting in respect of any such shares.
respective appointments are listed on pages 46 and 47.
For additional information on capital risk management including financial instruments, see note 24.
Equal Opportunities Employees withDisabilities Authority to Acquire the Companys OwnShares Genus values diversity and aims to No shares were bought back by the Company, under the authority of the shareholders make best use of everyones skills and resolutions of 19 November 2015, in the period since 20 November 2015 and up to the abilities.
We are therefore committed date of this report.
to equal opportunities at every stage of our employees careers.
Our policy on Substantial Shareholdings employees with disabilities is to fully and As at 1 September 2016, we were aware of the following material interests in the fairly consider people with disabilities for Companys ordinary shares: all vacancies.
We interview and recruit people with disabilities and endeavour Fund manager Shareholding % to retain employees if they become disabled while they work for us.
Where Landsdowne Partners 5,988,888 9.82 possible, we will retrain employees who Baillie Gifford & Co 4,437,236 7.27 become disabled and adjust their working Columbia Threadneedle Investments 3,298,406 5.41 environment, so they can maximise NFU Mutual Investment Mgrs 2,935,122 4.81 theirpotential.
Allianz Global Investors 2,378,251 3.90 Legal & General Investment Mgt 2,211,141 3.62 Political Contributions Norges Bank Investment Mgt 2,048,785 3.36 The Group does not make political M&G Investment Mgt 1,901,531 3.12 contributions.
Dividend There have been no material changes in shareholding since 30 June 2016.
The Board is recommending to shareholders a final dividend of 14.7 No other person has notified an interest in the Companys ordinary shares, which is pence per ordinary share, resulting in a required to be disclosed to us.
total dividend for the year of 21.4 pence per ordinary share, an increase of 10% Going Concern and Long-Term genetic lag of approximately three years for the year.
It is proposed that the final ViabilityStatement between the porcine nucleus herds dividend will be paid on 2 December 2016 After making enquiries, the Directors and customers production systems.
to shareholders on the register at the close have a reasonable expectation that In addition, the nature of the principal of business on 18 November 2016. the Group has adequate resources risks and uncertainties affecting Genus to continue its operational existence including the agricultural markets Capital Structure for the foreseeable future and for a in which it operates were taken into Note 29 gives details of the Companys period of at least 12 months from account in determining the three year issued share capital and any movements the date of this report.
The Directors have considered in the issued share capital during the year.
the Directors continue to adopt and Genuss current financial position, its In accordance with the Companys current consider appropriate the going concern planned capital expenditure as well as Articles of Association, the Company is basis in preparing the Annual Report the financing facilities available to the restricted to issuing up to a maximum of andAccounts.
They also assessed the potential 75,989,400 ordinary shares.
Consistent impact, in severe but plausible scenarios, with current company law and standard During the year we agreed new fiveof the principal risks and uncertainties, practice for listed companies, under the year borrowing facilities on improved set out on pages 18 to 19, and in new Articles of Association proposed to be terms.
At 30 June 2016 the Group had particular the impacts of biosecurity, adopted at the 2016 AGM, this restriction net debt of 89.7m 2015: 71.8m and market down-turn, continuity of supply would be removed and, if the new Articles had substantial headroom of 49.8m and the recent court case regarding are adopted, the Directors powers to under the renewed facilities of 169.7m, our GSS technology.
The assessment allot shares will be limited to the amount took into account the likely degree of which run to February 2021.
The Groups set out in the resolution proposed at the effectiveness of current and available financial position remains strong.
AGM, that is 4,073,315.80 representing mitigating actions.
two-thirds of the Companys current In addition, in accordance with provision issued share capital.
Based on this assessment, the Directors C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision of the Code, have a reasonable expectation that the Directors have assessed the viability The Company has one class of ordinary the Group will be able to continue in of the Group over a three-year period share.
All issued shares are fully paid and operation and meet its liabilities as they to June 2019.
This period is deemed each share has the right to one vote at the fall due over the period to June 2019. appropriate given the visibility the Companys general meetings.
There are Company has to its product development no specific restrictions either on the size pipeline, for example, as a result of the of a holding or on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by our Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 87 Provision of Information to the Companys Auditor Each of the Directors at the date of approval of this Annual Report confirms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 Companies Act 2006.
Appointment of Auditor Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution to reappoint it will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Directors Indemnities The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors which were made during the year andremain in force at the date of this report.
Requirements of the Listing Rules Details of the Companys long-term incentive schemes can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 62 to 85.
Dan Hartley Group General Counsel and CompanySecretary 7 September 2016 Genus plc Annual Report 2016
