28 Genus PIC Strategic Progress Genus PIC We have continued to grow our porcine business by We have strengthened our accelerating increases in genetic gain and providing world-class products and services.
In parallel, we have foundations for long-term strengthened our foundations for long-term success byharnessing leading-edge technologies.
During the success by harnessing leadingyear, we made the following progress against our edge technologies.
strategic objectives: Increasing Genetic Control and Product Differentiation Harnessed genomics to accelerate genetic gain and completed assimilation of genes from Gntiporc into our genetic improvement programme.
Streamlined our range of Camborough gilts and elite terminal boars, to help provide a clear and consistent product offering.
Worked with R&D colleagues on technologies that could aid development of new proprietary products: examples include our ground-breaking work to develop pigs resistant to Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome Virus PRRSv, undertaken incollaboration with the University of Missouri.
Bill Christianson Chief Operating Officer, Genus PIC Targeting Key Markets and Segments Strengthened relationship with large accounts: weare currently doing business with more than 60%ofthe globally largest accounts.
Standardised processes and ways of working, such asa global approach to key account management.
Explored new ways of working with smaller customers, to help meet their needs effectively and efficiently.
Achieved particular success in Europe following our restructuring in 2013, with growth of 22%.
Continued to build relationships with key industry stakeholders, including holding our latest global symposium in May 2016: this was attended by around 300 customers, helping us to strengthen existing contacts, make new connections and associate PIC with the latest thinking.
Sharing in the Value Delivered Ran more product validation trials in more regions than ever before, consistently demonstrating the value of our products and enabling us to strengthen our pricing-for-value strategy in several markets.
Continued to transition to a royalty pricing model in regions where this is relatively new, with volume increases of 8% in Europe, 16% in Latin America and 6% in Asia, resulting in 76% of our global business utilising the royalty model.
Priorities for FY17 Continue to pursue our global strategy, tailored as needed for local markets.
Integrate our Asian porcine operations into our global structure, to help deliver a consistent customer experience worldwide.
Significantly expand our global supply chain.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 29 Operating Review Genus PIC Constant Actual currency currency 2016 2015 Movement Movement m m % % Revenue 176.5 175.5 1 2 Adjusted operating profit exc JV 64.2 57.2 12 9 Adjusted operating profit inc JV 68.7 61.9 11 9 Adjusted operating margin exc JV 36.4% 32.6% 3.8pts 3.7pts Corn Key Markets Pork Key Markets per tonne per kg 3.0 300 250 2.5 200 2.0 150 1.5 100 1.0 50 0 0.5 Aug 13 Aug 14 Aug 15 Aug 16 Aug 13 Aug 14 Aug 15 Aug 16 US Brazil EU China Russia US Brazil EU China Market Overall, market conditions are mixed heading into FY17.
Market conditions for Genuss porcine customers were challenging Chinawillcontinue to be a driving force globally and exporting in most regions over the past year.
High output, along with nations will rely on their consumption to bolster production geopolitical instability in Brazil, Russia and the EU, significantly andfinancial performance.
affected profitability across the animal protein value chain.
Globalmeat price indices for pork reached a 12-year low.
Performance During 2015 16, Genus PIC performed strongly.
Adjusted operating North American producers maintained a positive net return for profits including joint ventures were 68.7m, up 9% in constant the fiscal year, despite these challenging macroeconomic factors.
currency, and margins expanded by 4% to 36%.
Volumes grew by A strong export programme, coupled with relatively low cost of 2%, with all regions contributing strong growth in royalty volumes.
production, delivered an estimated average of 5 profit per head Revenue was 2% lower, primarily due to lower sales of up-front to producers in the United States.
Additionally, farm debt ratios in animals.
However, strategically important royalty revenues rose the US were low which continued to support expansion in 2015 16. by 13% in constant currency.
The outlook for prices in North America is challenging in the near term, but a 6% forecast increase in slaughter capacity in the US In North America, profits were up 8% in constant currency, on during 2017 is providing some optimism to the industry.
This will volume growth of 3%.
Strong customer uptake of high genetic support overall demand, along with an expected 5% increase merit boars through the CBV plus and CBV max pricing structures, inexports.
in addition to high health in customer herds, contributed to royalty growth of 9%.
A number of customers expanded their In Europe, the porcine industry suffered from increased herds, which contributed to high breeding stock sales volumes.
This led to oversupply and pork prices declining around 9% compared with the previous year, leaving Latin American profits improved 12% in constant currency, prices about 20% below the average for the last five years and on 3% volume increases, helped by a strong operating profit resulting in producers making significant losses.
The outlook performance in Mexico, up 29%.
In Brazil, the PIC Agroceres joint for producers is a bit more encouraging, as prices have recently venture also performed well, with a 23% increase in constant started to rise and some herd contraction has taken place.
It is currency operating profit, but the rest of the region declined also anticipated that exports to China should remain stable.
dueto lower animal shipments to Venezuela, where customers access to foreign currency was curtailed.
In Latin America, disease and economic volatility continue to challenge producers profitability.
In Mexico, porcine epidemic In Europe, volumes were slightly down, with an 8% increase in diarrhoea virus PEDv and PRRSv have affected supply and royalty volumes and a 14% decline in up-front volumes, in line contributed to higher pig prices.
The political turmoil and recession with the strategic direction of the business.
Revenue declined by in Brazil have hampered the otherwise promising performance 9% due to the lower up-front sales but operating profit increased of the Latin America pig industry.
Even so, Brazil was the fourth 22% in constant currency.
The strategic repositioning of the largest pork producer in 2015 16 and continues to be a major PIC Europe business over the last few years, to focus on royalty participant in the global market.
Firm exports to Russia and business with larger producers, is starting to show benefits despite China, in conjunction with strong domestic demand, has Brazil on the tough trading environment in the European pig industry.
track to increase pork production 3% by the end of the calendar year, in spite of elevated input costs.
Despite these challenges, Overall, PICs successful execution of its strategy has enabled LatinAmerica remains a growth market.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 30 Genus ABS Strategic Progress Genus ABS Despite difficult conditions in the global dairy market, Despite difficult conditions in ABShas continued to evolve a broader and increasingly differentiated range of solutions to help dairy andbeef theglobal dairy market, ABS has customers Profit from Genetic Progress.
During theyear, we made the following progress against our strategic objectives, continued to evolve a broader whilst also implementing a number of short-term, profitand increasingly differentiated focused initiatives to counter the marketheadwinds: range of solutions Increasing Genetic Control and Product Differentiation Expanded our elite dairy female programme with 20% of our new bulls sourced from it in 2016.
In September 2016 we formed fide Novo Genetics in partnership with the USs leading independent Holstein breeder.
Strengthened our beef nucleus herd, which is expected to deliver 900 bulls to our PowerLine beef bull programme by 2019.
Launched proprietary indices to help customers identify dairy sires with offspring more resistant to diseases after giving birth, resulting in price and volume increases for high health status bulls.
Harnessed IVBs IVF technology to expand our genetic improvement solutions and launched new Saskia Korink Romani direct transfer frozen embryos in Brazil combining Chief Operating Officer, Genus ABS elite female and male genetics.
Supplied IVF services to a major US dairy customer.
Prepared to launch our proprietary Genus Sexed Semen technology in key markets.
Targeting Key Markets and Segments Embedded customer segmentation in our dairy business and created a distinct customer experience for different segments.
Upgraded our proprietary Genetic Management System GMS 2.0, enabling advanced customisation and incorporation of genomic data.
Established IVBs operations with new laboratories in the US and Mexico, and expanded operations inMozambique.
Delivered efficiency savings by reducing sales and service staff in Europe and reduced distribution costs.
Sharing in the Value Delivered Implemented a new pricing-to-value strategy in the US and UK, based on an ABS Value Index.
Demonstrated and captured a share of the value of higher fertility genetics with customers in Brazil.
Increased prices in Latin America by over 20% to counter the impact of exchange rate devaluations.
Priorities for FY17 Drive profit recovery through focus on value and costinitiatives.
Accelerate delivery of differentiated genetics produced internally through fide Novo partnership.
Harness new technologies and roll out our proprietary GSS, to build business with new and existing customers.
Continue to grow IVB with large enterprise customers and distribute frozen direct transfer embryos to medium size customers.
Focus on the exciting opportunities in beef, by establishing a global team to help us evolve proprietary products, continue developing our Genus plc technology and enhance differentiation.
Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 31 Operating Review Genus ABS Constant Actual currency currency 2016 2015 Movement Movement m m % % Revenue 158.7 167.8 5 3 Adjusted operating profit 19.5 24.0 19 16 Adjusted operating profit inc non-controlling interest 18.2 23.5 23 21 Adjusted operating margin 12.3% 14.3% 2.0 pts 1.8 pts Dairy Key Markets Beef Key Markets Pence per litre Live cattle per kg 50 2.5 45 2.0 40 35 1.5 30 1.0 25 20 0.5 15 10 0 Aug 13 Aug 14 Aug 15 Aug 16 Aug 13 Aug 14 Aug 15 Aug 16 US Brazil EU China Russia India US Brazil Market volume decrease and a 3% decline in revenues.
Excluding IVB, Conditions in the dairy and beef markets affect our customers Genus ABSs revenues were 9% lower.
Europe, and to a lesser profitability and in turn their willingness, at least in the short term, extent North America, were key contributors to the lower results.
Inresponse to the challenging conditions, ABS took robust actions to reduce costs, particularly in Europe, and to raise prices, especially During the year, milk prices remained depressed across major in Latin America to counteract the significant currency depreciation markets, with further declines in the US and Europe.
Global beef volumes and revenues increased in the year.
milk production growth in key regions such as EMEA and continued weak import demand from markets such as Russia, In North America, profits decreased by 8% in constant currency, China and the Middle East led to prices of the main dairy driven by a 9% conventional dairy volume decrease, although commodities being between 20% and 50% below their three-year this was partially offset by increased sorted semen volumes up averages.
It looks likely that prices will not improve sustainably 14%, a higher blend and strong cost management.
Beef had until early 2017. another strong year, with volumes up 1% over the record prior year, including the continued increased use of beef semen in dairycows.
In Europe, the continuing trade ban imposed by Russia and weak exports to China, following previous stockpiling, were exacerbated In Europe, profits decreased by 16% in constant currency.
The by a supply increase as quotas were lifted and mild weather severe weakness in the dairy market drove significant volume helped production.
In the US, demand has remained solid and decreases in the UK, France and the European distributor business.
milk production growth has slowed, but higher milk imports However, beef volumes increased by 13% as customers sought have affected the supply demand equation.
However, lower feed to trim dairy herd sizes by producing beef cross-bred offspring for costs have reduced the impact on operating margins compared slaughter.
A strong focus on cost reduction, including reducing with the rest of the globe.
In Brazil, the deepening economic employee numbers and improving service margins, also helped recession has led to a further deterioration in dairy demand and to mitigate profit pressures in the second half, even as the market a fall in farm-gate prices of 18% in real terms, resulting in the prices fell further.
first contraction in milk production since 1993.
Meanwhile, the In Latin America, profits were up 20% in constant currency, Argentina dairy industry has been badly affected by some of the despite volumes declining 10% in tough dairy markets, worst flooding in over a decade.
exacerbated by drought in Brazil and flooding in Argentina.
In Beef prices in the US were volatile, with a downward trend in actual currencies, profits reduced as a result of the significant the first half of 2015 16 and a return towards normal levels by devaluations across the region.
In response, Genus ABS took the the end of the year.
In Brazil, cattle prices remained stable in lead in increasing selling prices in key markets such as Brazil, the worsening economy, helped by a combination of female Argentina and Mexico and by June, prices were on average retention, which has reduced finished cattle going to market, 24% higher.
Our ongoing efforts to manage local supply chain and higher exports with the opening of the US as an export costs and operating expenses have also been beneficial.
Beef destination and the devaluation of the Brazilian Real.
The outlook performed solidly, given the adverse conditions in Brazil and for global beef prices is broadly stable.
Performance IVB made a strong contribution to the full year results and Adjusted operating profits for Genus ABS fell by 16% in constant exceeded our expectations, delivering revenues of 9.3m and currency 21% after minority interest, on the back of a 9% total operating profit of 2.3m in its first full year of ownership.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 32 Genus Asia Strategic Progress Genus Asia During the year, we made the following progress against We made significant strategic our strategic objectives: progress with tailoring our global Increasing Genetic Control and Product porcine and bovine business Differentiation Strengthened relationships and expanded our share models to help us grasp Asias of business with large integrated pork producers in exciting opportunities for longChina, Russia and the Philippines.
Resumed imports of our latest proprietary genetics term growth, while further to Russia and populated two new contracted nucleus facilities in the Philippines.
Completed and populated our bull stud in India, a joint venture with BG Chitale, increasing the availability of differentiated elite genetics in the worlds largest dairy market, and made our first export from the new facility.
Reached a historic agreement with the Indian government to import live bulls from the US with theimport successfully completed in August 2016.
Seven of our animals ranked in the top ten Holstein bulls on the Australian national index, following genomic testing.
Jerry Thompson Chief Operating Officer, Genus Asia Targeting Key Markets and Segments Continued to move from owned facilities to contracted porcine production in China, establishing a nucleus partnership for 5,000 sows with Shennong.
Significantly grew our business in Vietnam, through our partnership with GreenFeed.
Continued to develop direct relationships with largemilk producers in India and grew our distribution network.
Increased our focus on key accounts and distribution partnerships in other bovine markets.
Sharing in the Value Delivered Invested in product validation trials, to demonstrate the superior performance of PICs products.
Extended our use of the porcine royalty model, including three further contracts in China.
Maintained our bovine pricing-to-value strategy inIndia, reflecting our higher quality genetics.
Rolled out value-selling training to our bovine andporcine teams across the region.
Priorities for FY17 Integrate our Asian porcine and bovine operations into the global PIC and ABS businesses, to support the established strategy for each species and help deliver a consistent and compelling customer experience across the world.
Continue to tailor each strategy for the needs of our Asian markets, to help deliver long-term success.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 33 Operating Review Genus Asia Constant Actual currency currency 2016 2015 Movement Movement m m % % Revenue 45.1 41.4 9 10 Adjusted operating profit exc JV 11.3 5.7 98 98 Adjusted operating profit inc JV 13.1 5.5 138 138 Adjusted operating margin inc JV 29.0% 13.3% 15.7pts 15.6pts China Pork Producer profitability 1.2 3.0 1.0 2.6 0.8 2.2 0.6 0.4 1.8 0.2 1.4 0 1.0 -0.2 -0.4 0.6 Aug 13 Feb 14 Aug 14 Feb 15 Aug 15 Feb 16 Aug 16 n profit Liveweight price n Loss Market In Russia, we increased profits by 75% in constant currency Conditions for our porcine business improved significantly from through growth in key accounts, following the re-starting of the previous year.
In particular, we saw a recovery within China, imports to the country.
This was also aided by more than doubling the worlds largest porcine market, following two years of losses our sire-line pricing, to reflect the value delivered by our highin the industry.
Rising demand, coupled with limited supplies quality genetics.
In contrast, profit in the Philippines fell by 9%, following reductions in the countrys sow herd, placed a premium mainly due to lower up-front margins during the transition to on available animals and pushed up prices to record highs.
In Vietnam, where we operate in partnership with GreenFeed, In parallel, the market within Russia rebounded as the country profits rose by 92%.
We also renewed our porcine franchises reopened its borders to imports of pigs from North America in Australia and Korea on improved terms, increasing sireandthe EU.
Demand for pork also remained high in our other line pricing significantly in the process, and we signed a new target markets.
In contrast, conditions for our bovine business were challenging.
Across the region, we continued to expand the use of our royalty Dairy prices remained low, reflecting the global picture.
Milk prices model, which provides extra revenue streams and additional fell in Australia and are likely to reduce the number of cows and resilience in the event of a fall in demand for new breeding farms within the country.
Low prices within China continue to drive animals.
Royalty revenues across the region rose by 32%.
consolidation of the countrys dairy industry.
Although prices in India remained stable, the country experienced a majordrought Bovine which affected production and demand.
Despite difficult market conditions, bovine volumes rose by 2% and operating profits by 8%.
In China, we further strengthened Performance our relationships with key distributors and in Russia, performance 2016 was a year of significantly improved performance, increasing improved following the refocusing of the business in the prior year.
operating profit by 138%, with tailwinds from the revitalisation of porcine markets in China and Russia.
The performance, however, We continued to build our business in India and strengthened our also shows that the business has benefited from the strategic capabilities in the country with the beginning of operations at our decisions and investments made in recent years and the tailoring new Brahma stud, a joint venture with BG Chitale see case study of our business model to the needs of each market.
Porcine Our Australian business increased operating profit, aided by Overall results were significantly higher than for the preceding innovative promotions to mitigate the impact of falling milk prices.
Volumes rose by 19%, leading to increases of 22% in revenue Operating profit fell in Japan, however, influenced by fewer top and over 300% in operating profit including joint ventures in bulls in local rankings and the strength of the US Dollar.
We also invested in skills and structure to drive performance Operating profits in China rose by over 6m, as prices increased and of our bovine business, including appointing our first Regional demand for breeding animals grew.
Our business also continued to Director for bovine.
reap the benefits of our move away from owned farms to a more contracted production model, which is helping us reduce farming exposure and commodity price risk.
During the year, we signed further multiplication and royalty-based contracts with major producers, as summarised in the case study on page 24.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 profit Loss per kg Price per kg 34 Genus R&D Strategic Progress Genus R&D During the year, we made significant progress on several Our R&D programme delivers fronts, with potentially major benefits for animal wellbeing, customer productivity and the sustainability of increased genetic control and protein production.
differentiated products for Genomic Selection customers, by applying Accelerated genetic gain for porcine customers by harnessing genomics and integrated Gntiporcs pioneering technologies.
genes into our genetic improvement programme.
Expanded our elite dairy female programme from which we sourced 20% of our new Holstein bulls in the US in 2016.
In September 2016, we entered into partnership with the USs leading independent Holstein breeder thereby significantly increasing ourability to produce bulls internally.
Strengthened our beef nucleus herd, which is expected to deliver 900 bulls to our Powerline programme by 2019.
Introduced TransitionRight indices, enabling customers to identify dairy sires that produce daughters more resilient to health problems aftergiving birth.
Dr Jonathan Lightner Chief Scientific Officer and Head Gene Editing ofGenus R&D Demonstrated the potential benefits of this pioneering technology for animals, customers andconsumers, during a transformative year.
Secured an exclusive global licence to the IP involved in our ground-breaking work with the University of Missouri, which used gene editing to develop the first pigs resistant to PRRSv.
Agreed an exclusive licence and collaboration with Caribou Biosciences, giving us access to its market-leading and proprietary CRISPR-Cas9 gene editing technology and know-how, which will help us accelerate our work on PRRSv and explore other applications.
Secured an exclusive global licence from the Washington State University to gene editing worktargeting BRD.
Gender Skew Continued to invest in our proprietary GSS technology, thoroughly testing it to ensure it can deliver the highest calibre product on a global and commercial scale, with field trials resulting inthousands of successful pregnancies.
Pursued our legal case with ST.
Priorities for FY17 Continue to develop proprietary indices, built around traits of economic importance to customers.
Continue to work with the Roslin Institute on genotype by sequencing, which has the potential tobe the next leap in genomic science.
Harness our collaboration with Caribou Biosciences and strengthen internal skills, to help build a gene editing trait development capability.
Prioritise the successful launch and roll-out of GSS.
Develop our elite dairy female programme and ability toproduce bulls internally, working closely with our new partner.
Develop relationships with regulatory authorities to facilitate the future approval of gene edited products.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 35 Operating Review Genus R&D Constant Actual currency currency 2016 2015 Movement Movement m m % % Research 8.0 4.6 74 67 Porcine product development 13.5 11.6 16 12 Bovine product development 12.9 12.4 4 Net expenditure in R&D 34.4 28.6 20 16 Performance Our investment in R&D for the year increased by 16% in constant currency and capital spending also increased.
This reflected our investments in gene editing capabilities and licensing, genome science, advancing our GSS initiative, and furthering our computational capabilities in bovine and beef product development.
In porcine product development, increases in global volume and related dissemination costs, along with lower slaughter prices and higher product validation costs, drove the year over year increase.
In September 2016, we also formed a new strategic partnership fide Novo Genetics with the worlds leading independent Holstein breeder, strengthening our ability toproduce our own elite bulls.
in technology improvements to the current GSS system, which included new detection approaches with the promise of further As in previous years, our research focused on genomic evaluation, improvements in fertility.
We also continue to build our internal gender skew and animal health and welfare.
Research expenditure capabilities in intellectual property development, regulatory increased by 67% this year, in part due to significant advancements affairs and research strategy.
in gene editing and our partnerships with the University of Missouri and Caribou Biosciences, as well as related legal expenses and Bovine product development expenditure was unchanged in capability building.
We also invested in core informatics capabilities constant currency.
We invested in both dairy and beef in our and expanded research efforts in a number of promising areas.
internal heifer nucleus breeding programmes, and in genetic services resources to develop proprietary breeding indices and In genomic evaluation, we continued to explore the frontiers of predictive genomic mating, to deliver higher genetic control and genomic information and its use in animal genetic improvement.
We also made several key dairy bull acquisitions to We are actively exploring genotype by sequencing approaches strengthen our global line up.
Depreciation of dairy bulls increased that could be applied across our animal systems.
We successfully year over year, reflecting the continued rising cost of competitive initiated our multi-year collaboration with the Roslin institute, bulls in the genomic era, however progeny testing costs and exploring genotype by sequencing opportunities in our PIC management overheads were reduced.
This project is partially funded by a grant from the UKgovernment.
Porcine product development expenditure increased by 12%, driven in large part by a decline in slaughter by-product revenues In gender skew, where costs were largely capitalised, we from our nucleus herds resulting from lower pork prices, partially completed additional testing of our commercial scale capabilities.
offset by lower feed prices, and by the non-recurrence of a We completed final commercial performance tests of our GSS Canadian government support payment in FY15.
We also increased technology, refined our manufacturing processes and initiated the investment in growing the breadth and depth of our genomic production and inventory of units for commercial sale, pending testing of animals and continued to expand our global product the outcome of our Court proceedings.
We also invested validation programme.
