STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GKN LAND SYSTEMS A year of change The GKN Land Systems division 2016 was an extremely busy year at GKN Land Systems.
Our principal end markets, combined businesses that supply agriculture, construction and mining, power management products remained in decline particularly in North and services, designing and America.
This resulted in organic sales manufacturing products and decline in 2016 of 8%.
Nevertheless, because we took action in 2015 and services for the agricultural, remained close to our cost base throughout construction and utility vehicle the year we increased our underlying profits markets, and key industrial and improved our trading profit margin segments, offering integrated before restructuring costs to 4.5%.
powertrain solutions and In the first half of the year, a full strategic complete in-service support.
review of the division was conducted including Adam Walker competitor analysis, technical capability, end Chief Executive, GKN Land Systems market positioning and geographic coverage.
Divisional performance against Group strategy Strategic objective Progress Leading in our Maintained strong market positions in wheels chosen markets and shafts.
Secured numerous customer awards, including platinum status with Caterpillar in North America.
Leveraging Divested industrial portfolio and reorganised a strong global business to be focused on wheels and shafts presence customers.
Strengthened footprint in China acquired 100% of Huading wheels joint venture, creating Lianyungang, and invested to improve capability in shafts in Taicang.
Sustaining above market Differentiating Launched complete series of inverted slip ourselves through driveshafts.
growth technology Launched Agmaster range of shafts with Chinese manufacturing capacity.
Profi-Grip developed to increase wheel rim stiffnesses, reducing wheel slippage.
Heat Impact Forming HIF production launched at Nagbol, Denmark.
Driving Improved all key metrics on quality, delivery and operational responsiveness over 2015 levels.
excellence Delivered productivity savings in tough market environment.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 33 Divisional review continued Sales by customer Highlights of the year John Deere 8% Case New Holland 7% Organic sales down 8% due to challenging Tata Group 4% agricultural and construction equipment markets Claas 4% and the ending of two chassis contracts.
Caterpillar 3% Trading margin of 4.5% 2015: 3.5%, excluding Agco 2% Other 68% the 14 million restructuring charge.
JCB 2% Stromag sale completed on 30 December 2016.
Agritalia Carraro 1% Toyota Group 1% Divisional performance Sales by market Change % Construction and mining 81m 2016 2015 Headline Organic Sales m 704 693 2 8 Trading profit m 18 24 25 38 Automotive 144m Agriculture 313m Trading margin % 2.6 3.5 Return on average invested capital % 7.0 7.1 Industrial 166m Sales by region of origin Rest of world 27m Americas 134m Europe 543m Financial information on this page is presented on a management basis.
34 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION This concluded that to be more effective GKN WHEELS & STRUCTURES in these challenging markets we needed to be closer to our end customers and to focus our engineering capability around our core GKN Wheels & Structures is the worlds GKN Wheels & Structures products.
As a result, we eliminated the leading manufacturer of off-highway divisional structure and focused our wheels for the global mining, construction, 1,500 employees operations around our three principal product industrial and agricultural industries and areas Wheels & Structures, Shafts & Services a specialist in the design, manufacture, 7 manufacturing locations and industrial products which removed supply and test of advanced structures a significant layer of management.
The cost and chassis systems for automotive and 5 countries of the restructuring was 14 million.
resulted in a lot of change and disruption for the executive team and in some cases senior people with a long service history at GKN leaving the Group.
As announced on 21 October 2016, our industrial products business was sold to Altra Motion Industrial.
The disposal completed on 30 December 2016.
I would like to thank everyone, not least those who transferred to Altra, for the professionalism shown during the final few months of the year and for the hard work and dedication shown during their time at GKN Land Systems.
Our remaining operations Wheels & Structures and Shafts & Services will continue to operate under new management teams in 2017 with an increased focus on their end markets, customers and engineering, and product management initiatives.
The results of Wheels & Structures will be reported within our Other Businesses segment and Shafts & Services within GKN Driveline.
GKN SHAFTS & SERVICES 2016 performance GKN Shafts & Services is a global GKN Shafts & Services The organic decrease in sales was 65 million supplier of power management 8% and the beneficial impact from currency products and services.
Of the organic reduction, 17 million relates to two chassis 9 manufacturing locations contracts which ended during the first and 28 service sites third quarters of 2016 respectively.
These contracts will have a further year-on-year 16 countries negative impact of 24 million in 2017.
Management trading profit was 18 million after including a 14 million restructuring charge and a 5 million benefit from currency translation.
Trading margin was 2.6% 2015: 3.5% or 4.5% excluding the restructuring charge.
Return on average invested capital was 7.0% 2015: 7.1%.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 35
