12 Our Business Model Genus uses genome science to produce more efficient pigs and cattle for farmers.
We deliver these animals into our customers herds as efficiently as possible and we link the amount we charge our customers to the benefits our superior animals deliver for them.
Our Core Our Business Strengths Model Genetically elite animals Produce differentiated products We own genetically elite pork, beef and Our customers want higher performing animals that dairybreeding herds, and also have strategic require less feed to grow, are more resistant to disease partnerships with third-party bovine breeders.
and produce higher quality protein.
We produce animals with desirable characteristics by continuously selecting the highest performing animals in our herds and throughout Leading technology and know-how our supply chain to breed superior generations using our We have a team of over 90 PhD scientists technology and know-how, in a continuous cycle.
in-house, and collaborative relationships with leading research institutions.
We also Distribute genetics quickly and efficiently have cutting-edge technologies that enable to our customers us to skew the chances of getting male or female offspring, produce embryos and To give our customers the number of elite pigs they editanimalsgenes.
need, we deliver live animals and semen to third-party multipliers or our customers, who then multiply our pigs Global supply chain and distribution over four generations to deliver slaughter pigs.
Ourglobal supply chain and distribution quickly gets our latest We produce bovine semen from our facilities genetics to customers.
across four continents, and sell it through our own staff and independent third-party We distribute bovine genetics as semen, embryos and live resellers.
We also produce embryos in the US animals.
We produce and process these in strategically and Latin America.
In porcine, we genetically located studs and laboratories, both owned and third manage herds in over 40 countries.
More than party, and sell them directly in 21 countries, and through 95% of these herds are third-party owned, distributors in approximately 50 countries.
We offer sexed reducing our farming and commodity risk.
bovine genetics, as well as elite frozen embryos.
Strong customer base To maximise our products performance in customer herds, In bovine, we serve over 40,000 customers our global technical service teams advise on nutrition, globally, including some of the worlds leading reproduction, health and other areas.
In porcine, we serve over 60% of the worlds leading pork producers, and engage most of them in multi-year supply agreements.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 13 Delivering For Our Stakeholders Share in the value created Customers We price our products to reflect the value they deliver Our genetically superior animals help our customers for our customers.
to produce better quality and quantity of meat or milk at lower cost.
Our bovine genetics sold as semen are valued using both public and, increasingly, proprietary economic Consumers and communities indices, which capture a weighted basket of desirable Our animals help to reduce the volume of feed characteristics.
Embryos are priced based on the and water required to produce meat and milk.
This genetic merit of both parents, determined through lessens our customers environmental impact and theirrespective index rankings.
increases the availability of safe, affordable animal protein for all.
Our porcine genetics are measured through our indices aimed at customer profitability, and are primarily sold Our people on multi-year pricing models, with an upfront payment equal to the cost of production and a deferred royalty Genus employees have the opportunity to develop linked to the volume of pigs produced.
This creates themselves and harness cutting edge science to customer loyalty and aligns our interests with theirs.
deliver value for our customers, whilst benefiting communities, animal welfare and the environment.
Investors As we share in the value that our products deliver to customers, we deliver attractive returns to ourinvestors.
