137 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information 2017 Remuneration policy summary Remuneration policy review Our first Remuneration policy was approved by our shareholders In addition, changes to the policy have been made to: at our AGM on 7 May 2014.
As required under the regulations, Further align remuneration arrangements across the senior layers shareholders are being asked to approve a new Remuneration policy of the organisation: at our AGM on 4 May 2017 which it is intended will apply for the Deliver an appropriately competitive package to attract, retain and next three financial years.
motivate executive talent: and During 2016, the Committee reviewed the Remuneration policy to Simplify pay arrangements.
ensure that the Policy continues to: The Committee consulted with our largest shareholders in respect of Be aligned with best practice: the proposed changes and took shareholders feedback into account Create shareholder value: and when nalising the revised Remuneration policy.
The table below Drive the success of the company and the delivery of its provides an overview of the main changes that are proposed in business strategy.
respect of the Remuneration policy.
The full Remuneration policy that shareholders are asked to approve is set out on pages 138 to 146.
Remuneration element Proposed changes to policy Rationale for the change Mandatory deferral of Annual bonus Increased from 25% to 50% of any bonus Alignment with shareholders: earned.
Further aligns executives with the long-term interests of shareholders.
Simplication of the Annual bonus Simplify and align structure for all Executive Simplication: Directors.
Consistent approach for all Executive Directors, that can be clearly communicated.
Reduce the level of pay-out for threshold performance to nil.
Pay for performance: Ensures that higher levels of bonus pay-out are only received for significant performance.
Annual bonus and Performance Share Plan Provide additional exibility for the Committee Flexibility: PSP performance measures to determine the performance measures used In the context of the appointment of the new on an annual basis during the three year life CEO, it is considered appropriate to provide of the Remuneration policy.
sufficient exibility to ensure performance metrics chosen over the next three years will The Committee would consult with remain aligned with the key financial and shareholders prior to changing the strategic objectives of the company.
LTI opportunities The matching element of the DABP has been Simplication: removed.
Going forward, the PSP will be the only long-term incentive plan that is used.
The maximum LTI opportunity for the CEO Reduction in maximum opportunity: will be reduced from 700% to 650% of Total LTI opportunity for all Executive Directors salary.
In 2017, the award to the CEO will be below the maximum opportunity 550% of salary Share Ownership Requirements SOR Formally include the shareholding guidelines Alignment with shareholders: as part of the Remuneration policy.
To provide further alignment with shareholders.
Increased SOR for CEO to 6.5x salary.
