108 GSK Annual Report 2016 Corporate Governance continued Corporate Responsibility Committee Report Dear Shareholder Lynn Elsenhans The Committee acts as custodian of the policies and practices Corporate Responsibility that define and safeguard the reputation of the company and as Committee Chairman Chair of the Committee I continue, together with my fellow Committee members, to challenge and shape the companys responsible business agenda.
The Committee members bring a wide range of experience and insight from across different sectors to provide oversight of the companys responsible business opportunities and risks.
During the year, long serving Committee members Dr Stephanie Burns Role and Dr Daniel Podolsky stood down from the Committee when they The Committee reviews: retired from the Board in May.
Hans Wijers, who had served on the Committee for three years, also stood down at the same time when external issues that have the potential for serious impact he retired from the Board.
We have greatly appreciated the upon GSKs business knowledge and insights they have brought to the work of the reputation management Committee in that time.
annual governance oversight of GSKs responsible business commitments We are pleased to welcome Professor Sir Roy Anderson, Dr Jesse Goodman and Dr Vivienne Cox as new members of the Membership Committee.
Roy and Jesse, as world-renowned medical scientists Committee members Committee member since and researchers, have helped to maintain a continuity of scientific Lynn Elsenhans 1 October 2012 advice to the Committees deliberations, while Vivienne brings a Chairman deep knowledge of sustainable business practices developed over Professor Sir Roy Anderson 1 May 2016 many years of service, predominantly in the energy and natural Dr Vivienne Cox 1 July 2016 resources sectors.
Dr Jesse Goodman 1 May 2016 The work of the Committee has this year again focused on issues Dr Stephanie Burns 6 December 2007 until 5 May 2016 that are material to GSKs mission, strategy and values.
Our Dr Daniel Podolsky 1 July 2006 until 5 May 2016 discussions have included exploring how the company seeks to Hans Wijers 10 October 2013 until 5 May 2016 balance the need for a return on investment in innovation with the need to price its products appropriately to drive access for a broad See page 88 for Committee member attendance levels.
In addition, we have considered the many ways in which GSK seeks to operate with transparency and integrity The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee and from its approach to R&D, to its commercial selling model and attends all meetings.
Other attendees at Committee meetings relationships with third parties.
may include: Regular Attends as This year we have continued to enjoy positive engagement with Attendee attendee required investors on our Responsible Business approach and performance, Chief Executive officer with a particular focus on how these are integrated into the Groups Company Chairman business model and strategy to help enhance investment value, create business opportunities and mitigate risk, as well as create Chairman, Global Vaccines broader social and environmental value.
General Counsel Head of Communications & Government Affairs Head of Pharmaceuticals Lynn Elsenhans Head of Pharmaceuticals R&D Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman Head of Human Resources 13 March 2017 Head of External & Market Communication Head of Global Corporate Responsibility Other Executives Independent external corporate responsibility adviser To augment our engagement with stakeholder opinion, in May 2013, Sophia Tickell was appointed as an independent external adviser to the Committee, a position that she had previously held from March 2009 to July 2011.
Ms Tickell has extensive experience in the pharmaceuticals industry in improving health systems productivity, sustainability in energy supply and distribution, climate change policy and short-termism in financial markets.
She is the co-founder and Director of Meteos, from where she directs the Pharma Futures Series, which aims to align better societal and shareholder value.
She holds a number of other board and advisory roles.
Ms Tickell attended meetings of the Committee and provided independent advice and guidance on corporate and social responsibility matters to both the Chairman and the CEO.
109 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Corporate Responsibility Committee Report continued Main responsibilities Our people: Enabling our people to thrive and develop as The Committee has a rolling agenda and receives reports from individuals to deliver our mission.
members of the CET and senior managers to ensure that progress in Our planet: Growing our business while reducing our meeting our Responsible Business Commitments within four areas of environmental impact across the value chain.
focus is reviewed on an annual basis: In addition, at each meeting the Committee considers possible Health for all: innovating to address currently unmet health needs: emerging issues that may have a bearing on the companys improving access to our products, irrespective of where people reputation and interaction with its stakeholders.
The Committee live or their ability to pay: and controlling or eliminating diseases also reviews and approves the Responsible Business Supplement affecting the worlds most vulnerable people.
which is available for reference on www.
Our behaviour: Putting the interests of patients and consumers first, driven by our values in everything we do and backed by robust policies and strong compliance processes.
Work of the Committee during 2016 During 2016, the Committee focused primarily on the matters set out below: Areas of Committee focus Items discussed Health for all Flexible and open R&D approach for diseases of the developing world and other areas of great medical need, such as antibiotics and dementia GSKs approach to pricing, in particular how to balance returns for investment in innovation alongside the need to support access to medicines Vaccines strategy to support global public health priorities, including pricing models, Malaria vaccine and Ebola response Our behaviour Changes to how GSK engages with healthcare professionals Global incentive compensation program and selling competency model Further embedding values-based decision making in the organisation, including training and compliance Progress on work to align third parties with GSKs standards and expectations Conduct and public disclosure of clinical research, transparency of detailed data behind trial results and patient safety Replacement, renement and reduction in use of animals in research and development Our people Organisational change and employee relations Inclusion and diversity Leadership, development and approach to performance management Employee health, safety and wellbeing Insights from the staff survey Our planet Environmental performance across carbon, water and waste impacts Committee evaluation The Committees annual evaluation was internally facilitated by the Company Secretary, and supplemented by a questionnaire circulated to Committee members and the Committees adviser on behalf of the Committee Chairman.
It was concluded that the Committee continued to operate effectively.
In terms of enhancements to the Committees deliberations the following points were agreed: The Committees programme and meeting agendas would be devised to ensure additional time to allow fuller discussion of issues.
Consideration would be given to monitor the Groups CR work using a scorecard approach.
Directors Our Directors powers are determined by UK legislation and our A Director may cease to be a Director if he or she: Articles of Association, which contain rules about the appointment becomes bankrupt and replacement of Directors.
They provide that Directors may be ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies Act or appointed by an ordinary resolution of the members or by a resolution the Articles of the Directors, provided that, in the latter instance, a Director appointed in this way retires at the first AGM following his or her suffers mental or physical ill health and the Board resolves appointment.
that he or she shall cease to be a Director Our Articles also provide that Directors should normally be subject has missed Directors meetings for a continuous period of six to re-election at the AGM at intervals of three years or annually if they months without permission and the Board resolves that he or have held ofce for a continuous period of nine years or more.
she shall cease to be a Director However, the Board agreed in 2011 that all Directors who wish to is prohibited from being a Director by law continue as members of the Board should seek re-election annually in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
resigns, or offers to resign and the Board accepts that offer is required to resign by the Board.
110 GSK Annual Report 2016 Corporate Governance continued Directors continued Directors conicts of interest Directors Report All Directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a For the purposes of the UK Companies Act 2006, the Directors situation in which they have, or could have, a direct or indirect conict Report of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31 December of interest or possible conict with the company.
Our Articles provide 2016 comprises pages 79 to 110 of the Corporate Governance a general power for the Board to authorise such conicts.
Report, the Directors statements of responsibilities on pages 148 and 232 and pages 253 to 282 of Investor Information.
The The Nominations Committee has been authorised by the Board Strategic report sets out those matters required to be disclosed to grant and regularly review any potential or actual conict in the Directors Report which are considered to be of strategic authorisations, which are recorded by the Company Secretary importance to the company, as follows: and noted by the Board.
Directors are not counted in the quorum for the authorisation of their own actual or potential conicts.
risk management objectives and policies pages 18, 19 and 77 to 78 On an ongoing basis, the Directors are responsible for informing the Company Secretary of any new actual or potential conicts that likely future developments of the company throughout the may arise or if there are any changes in circumstances that may Strategic report affect an authorisation previously given.
Even when provided with research and development activities pages 20 to 39 authorisation, a Director is not absolved from his or her statutory duty diversity and inclusion page 49 to promote the success of the company.
If an actual conict arises post-authorisation, the Board may choose to exclude the Director provision of information to, and consultation with, employees from receipt of the relevant information and participation in the page 48 debate, or suspend the Director from the Board, or, as a last resort, carbon emissions page 50 require the Director to resign.
The following information is also incorporated into the The Nominations Committee reviewed the register of potential Directors Report: conict authorisations in January 2017 and reported to the Board that the conicts had been appropriately authorised and that the Location in Annual Report process for authorisation continues to operate effectively.
Except Interest capitalised Financial statements, as described in Note 35 to the financial statements, Related party Notes 17 and 19 transactions, during or at the end of the financial year no Director Publication of unaudited financial information Group financial review, page 52 or Person Closely Associated had any material interest in any Details of any long-term incentive schemes Remuneration report contract of signicance with a Group company.
Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable Independent advice Waiver of future emoluments by a Director Not applicable The company has an agreed procedure for Directors to take Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable independent legal and or financial advice at the companys expense Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable where they deem it necessary.
by any unlisted major subsidiary undertaking indemnification of Directors Parent company participation in a placing Not applicable Qualifying third party indemnity provisions as dened in the by a listed subsidiary Companies Act 2006 are in force for the benefit of Directors and Provision of services by a controlling Not applicable former Directors who held ofce during 2016 and up to the signing shareholder of the Annual Report.
Shareholder waiver of dividends Financial statements, Notes 15 and 43 Change of control and essential contracts We do not have contracts or other arrangements which individually Shareholder waiver of future dividends Financial statements, Notes 15 and 43 are fundamental to the ability of the business to operate effectively, nor is the company party to any material agreements that would take Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable effect, be altered, or terminate upon a change of control following The Directors Report has been drawn up and presented in a takeover bid.
We do not have agreements with any Director that accordance with and in reliance upon English company law and would provide compensation for loss of ofce or employment the liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report shall resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the companys be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
share plans may cause options and awards granted under such The Directors Report was approved by the Board of Directors on plans to vest on a takeover.
Details of the termination provisions in 13 March 2017 and signed on its behalf by: the companys framework for contracts for Executive Directors are given in the full version of the companys 2014 Remuneration policy report which is available at www.
com in the Investors section.
Philip Hampton Chairman 13 March 2017 111 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Remuneration In this section Chairmans annual statement 112 Annual report on remuneration 115 2017 Remuneration policy summary 137 2017 Remuneration policy report 138
