06 GSK Annual Report 2016 Our integrated approach By understanding our operating environment and having a clear strategy, against which we measure performance and manage risks, we deliver long-term value for shareholders and society.
The market in which we operate Our business model We operate in a growing marketplace and our strategy R&D underpins our three businesses and we prioritise our investments is designed to respond to the challenges and opportunities to where we see the most potential to develop innovative products for in our sector.
Demographic R&D Pharmaceuticals change Changing political Vaccines landscape Consumer Increasing payer Healthcare emphasis on cost, value and access Commercialisation Manufacturing and distribution Increased expectations of businesses Technological and scientific advances Read more on page 8 Read more on page 12 07 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information A clear strategy for growth How we measure success How we manage risks Our strategic priorities provide a framework We assess our performance against We manage a number of current and to create long-term value for shareholders a set of financial and non-financial emerging risks.
Below, our Principal Risks and society.
measures, many of which form the are mapped against the primary strategic basis of our executive remuneration.
priority they are most likely to impact.
Turnover growth Intellectual property Grow Growth of earnings per share Commercialisation Grow a balanced business and product portfolio, centred on our three global businesses.
New Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines Product quality product performance Deliver Research practices Supply continuity and crisis management Deliver more products of value to offer improved treatment for patients, consumers and healthcare providers.
Operating profit and margin Financial control and reporting Simplify Free cash ow Information protection Dividends declared Simplify the way we operate to reduce Net debt complexity, increase efficiency and free up resources to reinvest in the business or return to shareholders, wherever we see the most attractive returns.
Access to Medicine Index Patient safety Responsible business Dow Jones Sustainability Index Anti-bribery and Corruption Environment, Health and Safety Being a responsible business, and Sustainability as how we deliver success is as important as the results we achieve.
Read more on page 14 Read more on page 16 Read more on page 18
