20 GSK Annual Report 2016 As a leader in respiratory, GSK has been at the forefront of research in this area for over 45 years.
Pharmaceuticals Our Pharmaceuticals business discovers, develops and commercialises medicines to treat a broad range of the worlds most common acute and chronic diseases.
21 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Grow Deliver Simplify Responsible business 16.1bn 3 34.1% 6 2016 Pharmaceutical There were three lings Operating profit margin We have launched our reported sales were up with regulators in 2016 in 2016 was 34.1%, last six new products in a 14% AER and 3% CER for Closed Triple, 3.7 percentage points the US priced similar to 4% pro-forma CER.
Benlysta subcutaneous higher than in 2015 and or below those we aim Sales of new products and sirukumab.
1.2 percentage points higher to replace.
were 24% of on a CER pro-forma basis.
Footnote a We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to report the performance of our business, as described on page 57, including core results, free cash ow and CER and pro-forma growth rates.
Non-IFRS measures may be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for or superior to, information presented in accordance with IFRS.
22 GSK Annual Report 2016 Pharmaceuticals HIV Overview Our global HIV business is managed We improve healthcare Our Pharmaceuticals business has a through ViiV Healthcare, a company portfolio of innovative and established by preventing disease, 78.3% owned by GSK, with Pzer and medicines across a broad range of therapy Shionogi the other shareholders.
areas, including respiratory and HIV, in treating illness and which we are global leaders, as well as ViiV Healthcare is growing rapidly, and seeking long-lasting immuno-inammation, anti-infectives, accounts for over 20% of Pharmaceutical urology and rare diseases.
This was led by strong demand for solutions for chronic quarter of Pharmaceutical sales come from Tivicay dolutegravir, an innovative integrase and acute conditions products launched over the past four years.
strand transfer inhibitor, and Triumeq, a single-pill treatment combining dolutegravir, Respiratory including rare diseases.
We have the industrys broadest range of inhaled respiratory products.
Our respiratory Specialty products portfolio is the largest contributor to Our Specialty products portfolio includes Pharmaceutical sales and our expectation medicines such as Benlysta, a treatment is that by 2020, nine products will account for lupus disease, and Tanzeum Eperzan, for approximately 90% of respiratory sales, for Type 2 diabetes.
Classic and Established products In the past four years, we have launched Our Classic and Established products a new generation of respiratory products include over 400 post-patent medicines including Nucala mepolizumab and our in the areas of anti-infectives, allergy, Ellipta portfolio.
neurosciences, dermatology, respiratory and urology.
Many of these medicines continue to be the top-selling brand in their therapy area.
These products are an important part of our emerging markets business, where we sell 47% more volume than our nearest competitor.
A leader in respiratory As a leader in respiratory, GSK has been at the forefront of research in this area for over 45 years.
Today we have over 13,500 patients in clinical This will ensure patients get the full studies investigating chronic obstructive benets, in one inhalation, from all their pulmonary disease COPD in almost 40 treatments.
Research shows that patients countries.
We believe that insights from this taking the medicine experienced improved research, alongside our early phase scientific lung function, a higher quality of life and discovery, will help us meet patient needs fewer exacerbations compared to a leading well into the future.
Our new generation of inhaled respiratory Looking beyond inhaled medicines, we medicines are clear evidence of the benets are now tackling the areas of highest of our research.
This range including unmet need in respiratory diseases.
Anoro Ellipta, the worlds leading long-acting In 2015 we launched Nucala, our first muscarinic antagonist long-acting beta-agonist injectable biologic treatment for severe against COPD by value is giving physicians eosinophilic asthma.
Study results showed the unprecedented choice to provide the right that, for patients using Nucala, the risk of treatment to the right patient.
experiencing an asthma attack requiring emergency hospital care was half that This year, we led for regulatory approval of those receiving the current standard for our Closed Triple therapy in the US and of care.
If approved, this will be the first COPD treatment to combine three vital once-daily treatments in a single inhaler.
23 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information 2016 performance summary In Europe, Pharmaceutical reported sales Grow Reported Pharmaceutical sales were declined 8% 5% pro-forma.
Respiratory 16,104 million, up 14% at actual rates sales declined by 10%, reecting the Sales of our Respiratory and 3% CER.
Adjusting for the disposal ongoing transition to the new Respiratory of the Oncology business to Novartis in portfolio and generic competition to products returned to 2015, pro-forma turnover was up 4% CER.
This was partly offset by growth growth of 2% in 2016. in the new Respiratory products, which Performance reected a return to growth recorded sales of 225 million.
Established of the respiratory business, which grew 2%.
products were down 4% to 513 million.
Sales of new Respiratory products launched International sales were 4,976 million, over the last four years, including our Ellipta down 5% 4% pro-forma.
Sales in Emerging based products Breo, Anoro, Arnuity and Markets were impacted by the decline in the Incruse as well as biologic Nucala, more China business, primarily as a result of the than doubled to 1,052 million.
HIV sales ongoing reshaping programme and broader increased 37% to 3,556 million, with the Healthcare reforms, including price US up 46%.
This was driven primarily by reductions.
strong performances from both Triumeq and Tivicay, with sales of 1,735 million Worldwide HIV sales increased 37% to and 953 million.
3,556 million, with the US up 46%, Sales of new Pharmaceutical products Europe up 29% and International up 21%.
were 3,861 million and now account This growth was primarily driven by strong for 24% of total Pharmaceutical sales.
performance from Triumeq and Tivicay.
US Pharmaceutical sales were 4,705 In 2016, we continued to implement our new million and declined 1% on a reported basis commercial model.
We stopped payments All growth rates are at CER, a up 1% pro-forma.
Respiratory sales grew to HCPs to speak on our behalf in January non-IFRS measure as described 7%, and sales of new Respiratory products and continued our drive to recruit HCPs on page 57, unless otherwise stated.
were 654 million, exceeding the decline as internal medical experts.
continued to roll out digital tools to further our medical education efforts.
Following medical product information sessions with GSK experts in over 60 countries, 92% of more than 42,000 HCPs agreed that the interaction helped them make a more informed decision benefiting patient care.
Around 79% rated their experience as superior to similar interactions with other pharmaceutical companies.
We are working hard in early stage research to nd a cure for HIV AIDS We have formed a unique partnership to accelerate the search for an HIV cure.
More than 36 million men, women and children This partnership is recruiting top talent around the world live with HIV.
As a leading from around the world and redening the research-based pharmaceutical and healthcare traditional way of conducting research company, we have a legacy of success in in HIV AIDS.
One of the approaches being developing treatments for HIV.
investigated is known as shock and kill which seeks to reveal the hidden virus GSK has a strong pipeline of new medicines that persists in people with HIV infection and our HIV scientists continue to work despite successful drug therapy, and towards the goal of one day nding a cure augment the patients immune system for the HIV AIDS epidemic.
to clear these last traces of the virus and We continue to invest in the HIV Cure Center infected cells.
and Qura Therapeutics, our unique jointownership collaboration created in 2015 with The University of North Carolina UNC-Chapel Hill, with a single focus on nding a cure for HIV AIDS.
24 GSK Annual Report 2016 Pharmaceuticals continued Our Pharmaceuticals R&D organisation Our HIV pipeline contains a number of Deliver drives discovery and development in several promising medicines and regimens, with areas of research, including respiratory, HIV, innovative formulations, mode of action and In 2016, we achieved infectious diseases, immuno-inammation, delivery methods.
We announced positive oncology and rare diseases.
results from two phase III studies evaluating accelerated ling for the a two-drug regimen combining dolutegravir 2016 progress first once-daily Closed Triple and rilpivirine Edurant, a Janssen medicine.
We continued to see progress across all By breaking the mould of conventional therapy for COPD, received stages of our R&D pipeline.
In respiratory, three-drug treatments, this therapy could approval in Europe for our we led our once-daily Closed Triple therapy reduce and streamline HIV medication in for COPD for regulatory approval in both first gene therapy medicine the future.
Europe and the US, bringing forward and obtained positive data to We have three further HIV programmes our original US ling date by 18 months.
in phase III: a new attachment inhibitor: We also announced positive results from support a new single tablet another two-drug regimen, combining the pioneering COPD Salford Lung Study.
dolutegravir and lamivudine: and The study showed that, compared to those cabotegravir, a once-monthly injectable receiving usual standard of care, COPD patients using Relvar Breo Ellipta achieved therapy, which combined with long-acting a superior reduction in exacerbations rilpivirine could also make HIV treatment in an everyday clinical practice setting.
simpler and easier to adhere to.
In addition, we announced the start of a phase III study We also strengthened the prospects for to evaluate long-acting cabotegravir as an our next wave of respiratory medicines injection every two months, for prevention with the in-licensing of a novel anti-IL33R in men who have sex with men at risk of HIV antibody for severe asthma, and new data infection.
We also completed the acquisitions supporting the progression of a potential of the BMS HIV pipeline and discovery oral treatment, danirixin, into phase IIb teams and programmes, which have now clinical development for potential use in been fully integrated into ViiV Healthcares treating patients with COPD.
Timeline and development stages for a pharmaceutical product industry average Drug Pre-clinical Clinical trials Licensing approval discovery testing Phase I Phase II Phase III 5-10,000 candidates Medicine available 10-20 for patients 1 medicine candidates 5-10 2-5 1-2 candidates candidates candidates 4.5 years 5.5 years 7 years 8.5 years 11 years 12.5 years Source: ABPI 25 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information We continued to strengthen our emerging We also received positive phase II data for immuno-inammation portfolio, with our first-in-class antibacterial gepotidacin, in regulatory lings in Europe and the US: treating gonorrhoea, for which the US Food 20-30 a subcutaneous formulation of Benlysta, and Drug Administration FDA has granted our treatment for systemic lupus disease fast-track status on the basis of the serious assets with data expected currently available as an IV formulation: and unmet need for new medicines in this area.
by end of 2018 sirukumab, an investigational IL-6 treatment In oncology, we have 11 assets in clinical for rheumatoid arthritis which we are development and have seen encouraging co-developing with Janssen.
If approved, developments in our core areas of immunoboth treatments will be self-administered oncology, cell therapy and epigenetics.
at home, making them a convenient During the year, the FDA granted treatment option for patients.
breakthrough therapy status to the afnity enhanced T-cell therapy, which targets the In 2016, we also gained approval of antigen NY-ESO in synovial cancer that Strimvelis, the first corrective gene therapy we are developing with Adaptimmune.
for children suffering from the very rare disease ADA-SCID adenosine deaminase During 2016, we terminated the development severe combined immunodeciency of Iosmapimod for COPD following analysis see case study below.
of phase II results, and halted development We started several phase II studies of the HIV maturation inhibitor 3532795 in including: one to evaluate an anti-GM-CSF favour of other maturation inhibitors in our anti-granulocyte macrophage colonypipeline that may have a better prole.
stimulating factor monoclonal antibody for 2017 2018 milestones inammatory hand osteoarthritis: the other The coming two years will be significant assessing an oral RIP1 kinase inhibitor, for for the pharmaceutical pipeline, marking rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis patients.
the start of another intense period of R&D activity for the company, as we expect important data on between 20 and 30 assets in areas including HIV, respiratory, immuno-inammation and oncology.
Approval of GSKs first gene therapy opens new chapter in treatment of rare diseases The application of groundbreaking technology has resulted in the worlds first corrective gene therapy for children.
The European Commissions approval of Working together, we took an experimental Strimvelis, a one-time treatment for ADA-SCID medicine procedure and developed adenosine deaminase severe combined rigorous manufacturing and quality control immunodeciency is the first authorisation of systems to ensure it could be evaluated a corrective stem cell gene therapy for children by regulators.
and a major milestone in our commitment to A 100% survival rate three years after developing innovative transformative medicines.
treatment was observed for all children ADA-SCID, which is caused by a faulty gene in the pivotal study.
Every child receiving inherited from both parents, affects around Strimvelis who contributed to the marketing authorisation data package is 15 newborns in Europe each year.
A child born with ADA-SCID does not have a healthy, alive today.
Patients referred for treatment will receive the gene therapy at Ospedale fully-functioning immune system and, as a consequence, is unable to ght off everyday San Raffaele.
The treatment involves correcting We hope Strimvelis will be the first of this often fatal disorder using the patients a number of innovative gene therapy own cells.
medicines that we will bring to patients The development of Strimvelis follows a over the next few years.
collaboration between GSK and the original Two further programmes using the same Italian developers, the San Raffaele Telethon platform, in metachromatic leukodystropy Institute for Gene Therapy in Milan, Italy.
and Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome, are both in clinical trials.
26 GSK Annual Report 2016 Pharmaceuticals continued Pharmaceuticals R&D approach As a treatment advances, Medicines Deliver continued We focus our investment on areas where Development Teams of multi-disciplinary we believe there are the most attractive specialists ensure its progress from opportunities, having considered patient investigational medicine and later stage need, market opportunity and scientific development to ling with regulators and understanding.
We concentrate on ongoing evidence generation.
mechanisms that might slow down or Strategic issues and overall budget reverse the course of diseases and present management are overseen by the R&D opportunities to achieve remission or cure.
Robust governance boards manage investment, technical, Our early research efforts centre on around scientific and commercial decisions 1,500 30 discovery performance units.
nimble units have their own budgets and Our range of partners includes project accountability, so are different from Collaboration with external partners academic institutions, public-private the traditional hierarchical R&D model.
is an important part of our approach.
partnerships, and pharmaceutical and They help us to maintain exibility, create We partner with more than 1,500 biotechnology companies agility, and enable us to focus on the organisations around the world, including most promising early opportunities.
academic institutions, public-private partnerships, and other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies.
Collaborating with the Francis Crick Institute GSK joins forces with world-leading biomedical research centre.
A landmark collaboration between GSK development of novel approaches to and the Francis Crick Institute aims to achieve problems.
By pooling our knowledge and new breakthroughs in understanding and resources we hope the collaboration will treating diseases.
ultimately improve the success rate for discovering new medicines.
The open innovation collaboration combines our pharmaceutical R&D expertise with the In the spirit of open innovation, research Cricks deep knowledge of disease biology.
findings from the collaboration will be shared externally, via joint publication in Our mutual aim is to explore new avenues of peer-reviewed journals.
This will enable medical research and drug discovery across important discoveries to be applied across a range of diseases.
The collaboration takes the research community, maximising the a LinkLabs approach to working, with teams potential to progress scientific understanding of scientists from each organisation working and accelerate the development of side-by-side in integrated teams at the treatments for patients.
Cricks world-leading centre of biomedical research in the heart of London and GSKs The Francis Crick Institute is a charity funded global R&D hub in Stevenage.
GSK and the by the Medical Research Council, Cancer Crick believe this uid interchange of skills Research UK, the Wellcome Trust, University and ideas benets both sides, introducing College London, Imperial College London new ways of working and stimulating the and Kings College London.
27 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information In 2016, we continued to reshape our Our enterprise resource planning ERP Simplify Pharmaceuticals business and reduce system is enabling better sharing of data complexity in our supply chain while to improve planning capabilities.
By the end Our supply chain maintaining our commitment to quality.
of 2016, the system was live in 10 of our 40 Pharmaceuticals manufacturing sites.
transformation programme Cost savings generated in the Pharmaceutical business have contributed Committed to quality has delivered significant We are committed to meeting the highest to the delivery of 3 billion of annual savings reductions in manufacturing standards through stringent quality control including 0.2 billion of currency benefit and quality assurance processes.
Our costs and streamlined our for the Group by the end of 2016.
Operating medicines and vaccines are manufactured profit margin for Pharmaceuticals was external supply network.
according to current Good Manufacturing 34.1%, 3.7 percentage points higher on a Practice cGMP regulations, and our CER basis than in 2015 and 1.2 percentage internal quality management system.
points higher on a pro-forma CER basis.
In 2016, our Pharmaceutical manufacturing In 2016, we completed our three-year sites had 66 regulatory inspections: transformation programme to move six had findings which we are resolving.
to an end-to-end supply chain.
This has In July, we received a Warning Letter from delivered improvements in customer service, the US Food and Drug Administration FDA quality and productivity which, combined relating to an inspection carried out 12 with simplication of our portfolio, has months earlier at GSKs Worthing, UK, delivered a significant reduction in primary manufacturing site.
We responded manufacturing costs and streamlined our promptly to the FDA to address the points external supply network by more than 40%.
raised and advised them of a programme As part of our commitment to creating of work which is now well advanced.
a world-class supply chain, in 2016 we agreed a five-year global logistics contract with an international freight company.
This contract has been a key enabler to reduce our site costs in the year.
Leading the ght against antimicrobial resistance Responsible We demonstrated our continuing commitment to tackling business antimicrobial resistance by signing up to a landmark industry roadmap.
Resistance to antibiotics is becoming a major Our most advanced asset in the public health crisis, with 700,000 people antibiotics pipeline is gepotidacin, dying every year from drug resistant infections.
which we developed in collaboration The roadmap commits us, and other with the US governments Biomedical participating pharmaceutical companies, Advanced Research Development to achieving four significant targets by 2020.
Gepotidacin is These include reducing the environmental now moving towards phase III studies, impact of antibiotics production and ensuring following positive phase II results in 2016. they are only used by patients who need them.
The global health threat of antimicrobial The roadmap builds on our January 2016 resistance requires a multi-stakeholder commitment to the Davos Declaration to response, as seen in the industry combat antibiotic resistance.
collaboration beyond last years roadmap We have been active in discovering and and our work with BARDA.
We also developing antibiotics for more than 70 years.
partner with other governments and Today, our pharmaceuticals focus is on companies to progress research and developing new antibiotics and we have an development into new antibiotics.
active pipeline of new medicines.
In addition, We are a member of the Innovative our Vaccines business researches and Medicines Initiatives NewDrugs4BadBugs, and are a long-term partner of the develops new vaccines to prevent bacterial infections, so saving lives and reducing Defence Threat Reduction Agency.
