28 GSK Annual Report 2016 Following impressive clinical trial results, we have led our candidate shingles vaccine with regulators in the US, Canada and Europe.
Vaccines We have the broadest vaccines portfolio of any company, with vaccines for people of all ages from babies and adolescents to adults and older people.
29 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Grow Deliver Simplify Responsible business 4.6bn 14 30% Vaccines sales were up In 2016, we led our Operating profit margin We are working with a 26% AER and 14% CER candidate shingles was 31.7% in 2016, 5.3 partners to help the world 12% pro-forma CER in vaccine, Shingrix, percentage points higher be better prepared for 2016 with growth across and have 14 candidate than in 2015 and 7.6 global health epidemics.
the US, Europe and vaccines in our pipeline percentage points higher International markets.
Footnote a We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to report the performance of our business, as described on page 57, including core results, free cash ow and CER and pro-forma growth rates.
Non-IFRS measures may be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for or superior to, information presented in accordance with IFRS.
30 GSK Annual Report 2016 Vaccines Our Vaccines business has a portfolio Behind our commercial portfolio is our of 41 paediatric, adolescent, adult, older robust research pipeline, which reects Our Vaccines business is people and travel vaccines that offer our expertise in virology and bacterial one of the largest in the protection against 22 different diseases.
infection, and across different technological These include Bexsero, our meningitis B platforms.
We have more than 2,000 world, delivering over vaccine: Menveo for meningitis A, C, W and scientists dedicated to discovering and Y: Flu: Hepatitis: Synorix for pneumococcal developing vaccines across our three two million doses of disease: Rotarix for rotavirus gastroenteritis: global R&D centres in the US and Europe.
vaccines per day to and vaccines against diphtheria, tetanus and As well as our internal research, we have whooping cough, namely, Infanrix Pediarix more than 180 R&D partnerships with people in over 160 and Boostrix.
external scientists and leading academic countries.
Demand for vaccines continues to increase To help more people benefit from as the worlds population grows and vaccine protection, we use a tiered changes.
To meet this demand, we must pricing approach, based on nations deliver reliable, high quality vaccines and gross national income per head and push the boundaries of science and technology to develop innovative vaccines.
We are also one of the largest contributors to Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, a public-private partnership that aims to improve access to vaccines in developing countries.
Candidate shingles vaccine led Following impressive clinical trial results, we have led our candidate shingles vaccine Shingrix with regulators in the US, Canada and Europe.
We are seeking approval for Shingrix, our This is the first time such high efcacy has candidate vaccine, for use in preventing been demonstrated in a candidate vaccine shingles a common but potentially serious for older people, whose weakened immune condition and its complications in people systems often leave them more susceptible over 50.
Shingles sufferers develop a painful to disease.
There is a possibility therefore itchy rash, with up to 30% also getting that the technology it is based on may postherpetic neuralgia PHN, an intense open up effective treatments for other pain that can last for at least three months.
More than one in three people over 50 In 2017, we expect the results of clinical are likely to have shingles in their lifetime.
studies with Shingrix both in people at Individuals with compromised immune high risk of shingles, due to the weakening systems, such as cancer patients undergoing of their immune systems, and in patients chemotherapy, are especially susceptible.
revaccinated with our candidate vaccine who have previously received the existing A study published in 2016 found Shingrix had vaccine.
90% efcacy for people over 70, maintained for up to four years, while earlier research showed 97% efcacy in those over 50.
31 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information 2016 performance summary Sales in International markets grew 10% Grow Vaccines sales grew 26% at actual rates, 8% pro-forma, with growth primarily 14% CER and 12% pro-forma CER to driven by Synorix, due to market expansion Vaccines sales grew 14% 4,592 million during 2016.
Performance in Asia and certain African countries.
was driven by sales of new products Menveo sales also contributed to growth on a reported basis 12% including meningitis vaccines Bexsero and driven by a significant tender award in pro-forma to 4.6 billion, Menveo which contributed 592 million.
Vaccine sales increased in There was also strong demand for Fluarix Brazil due to strong demand for Bexsero, from strong performance Flulaval which had sales of 414 million.
from our meningitis and US sales grew 13% 12% pro-forma with u vaccines.
Bexsero, Menveo and Boostrix all seeing market and share growth while Infanrix and Pediarix both benefited from competitor supply issues in the market.
In Europe, sales grew 18% 16% pro-forma, driven primarily by Bexsero sales through the UK Governments immunisation programme All growth rates are at CER, a and in private market channels in several non-IFRS measure as described other countries.
Boostrix sales in Europe on page 57, unless otherwise stated.
benefited from higher demand and competitor supply issues.
UK infants benefit from meningitis B vaccine The number of cases of meningitis B reported in the UK fell signicantly aer babies were vaccinated with our Bexsero meningococcal vaccine.
The UK became the first country in the world Invasive meningococcal B disease is to introduce a national infant immunisation the leading cause of meningitis in the programme against meningitis B in late 2015, industrialised world.
It develops rapidly, with children being vaccinated at two and typically among previously healthy children four months and receiving a booster at and adolescents.
About one in ten of one-year-old.
those who contract the disease die, with a further 20% suffering a major physical Just ten months after the programme was or neurological disability, such as limb or launched, Public Health England PHE hearing loss.
gures showed 83% percent effectiveness of Bexsero against meningitis B. Bexsero is the only meningococcal B vaccine licensed in Europe.
In the past two years, the numbers of doses of Bexsero produced has grown from two million to a cumulative total of ten million.
32 GSK Annual Report 2016 Vaccines continued Our Vaccines R&D work focuses on Following the positive scientific opinion Deliver discovering and developing vaccines to from European regulators for our infant help protect people against a broad range malaria vaccine Mosquirix, the World Health Our broad pipeline of diseases and conditions across all age Organization will start pilot implementation groups.
We have a pipeline of 14 candidate of the vaccine in three sub-Saharan Africa includes vaccines targeting vaccines in early, mid and late stage countries in 2018.
With our partners at the shingles, meningitis, respiratory development against a range of diseases.
non-profit organisation PATH, we will donate doses of Mosquirix for the pilots.
syncytial virus, group B In 2016, we received regulatory approval In a bid to assist with the Zika virus, we are streptococcus, and a new to expand the indication for FluLaval in the evaluating a new vaccine technology known US to cover infants from six months of age, vaccine concept for COPD.
as SAM self-amplifying mRNA, with the rather than from three years.
We obtained National Institutes of Health.
We believe approval in Europe for a label update for this technology may potentially induce Boostrix and Boostrix Polio with human protective immunity against Zika.
safety data to support use in pregnant women.
We also launched our Hiberix Investment and governance vaccine in the US.
Our priorities are meeting patient needs In 2016, we led for regulatory approval and addressing global health challenges in North America and Europe for our for which no vaccines yet exist, or where candidate vaccine for the prevention of significant improvements could be made.
See case Our vaccine R&D investment in 2016 was study on page 30.
In 2017, we plan to le 597 million, up 2% from 525 million for its use in Japan.
We have a number of promising earlier In R&D, we complemented our existing assets in our pipeline.
For example, the global hubs, in Siena, Italy and Wavre, candidate vaccines in phase II, are for Belgium, with the opening of a third centre, meningococcal A, B, C, W, Y, respiratory in Rockville, Maryland, close to our major syncytial virus RSV, group B streptococcus US public health stakeholders.
Our three and exacerbations in chronic obstructive global centres each have their own area of pulmonary disease COPD.
expertise in vaccine discovery and specic assets in development while also benefiting from scientific exchange between the three world-class teams.
Vaccines research development cycle industry average Identify Produce Pre-clinical Phase I Phase II Proof of Phase III File Registration antigens antigens testing concept post marketing surveillance Research including immunology Pre-clinical development Clinical development including post-marketing surveillance Transfer process to manufacturing 1-10 years 2-3 years 2-4 years 1 year 33 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information In 2016, we continued to further simplify Committed to quality Simplify our operating model, strengthen our The discovery and development of new manufacturing network, and reduce vaccines is a complex process.
Our vaccines We have continued to supply costs.
are manufactured to the highest quality standards, according to current Good simplify our operating model During the year, we completed the majority Manufacturing Practice cGMP regulations.
of the Novartis Vaccines business integration.
In 2016, we had 45 regulatory inspections Cost savings generated in the Vaccines and thirty-eight had minor or no findings.
business have contributed to the delivery In all cases, we worked with regulators of 3 billion of annual savings for the Group to address their observations.
by the end of 2016 including 0.2 billion currency benefit.
These savings, combined with strong sales growth, delivered improved operating leverage and a profit margin of 31.7%.
This was 5.3 percentage points higher than in 2015 and 7.6 percentage points higher on a pro-forma CER basis.
Investing in our supply chain We have 16 vaccine manufacturing sites in 11 countries.
This international presence enables us to manufacture our vaccines with greater capacity, efficiency and exibility.
We aim to keep critical production steps in-house wherever possible, and during the year we invested in new production facilities at our Marburg site in Germany.
This will enable us to produce all of the active components of our Bexsero vaccine in-house, and adds a new mumps production line for our combined measles, mumps, rubella and varicella vaccine.
Preparing for public health emergencies Responsible GSK is committed to helping whenever we can when business public health crises occur.
When Ebola broke out in West Africa, we with targeted pathogens selected and accelerated the development of our candidate prioritised with guidance from independent Ebola vaccine and, following the outbreak experts.
It would have dedicated and of Zika, we employed our novel technology permanent R&D and pilot production platforms to start a vaccine discovery facilities, and the capacity to respond programme with the US National Institutes rapidly to future global health emergencies.
The BPO would operate on a no-profit, However, responding after a life-threatening no-loss basis, with funding from both governments and non-governmental disease surfaces is not enough.
Vaccine research and discovery is a lengthy process, organisations.
To have the We also strongly support the Coalition for best chance to save lives, the global community Epidemic Preparedness Innovations CEPI has to prepare itself in advance.
and its focus on vaccines development as For this reason, we are proposing to create a a solution to protecting against infectious dedicated and permanent biopreparedness disease outbreaks.
We stand ready to organisation BPO at our Global Vaccines partner with CEPI to advance epidemic R&D Centre in Rockville.
would design, develop and manufacture new vaccines against potential public health threats,
