107 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Corporate Governance continued Financial statements Investor information Relations with shareholders Engagement activities We work to engage effectively with shareholders through our regular communications, the AGM and other investor relations activities.
Governance and remuneration meetings We announce our financial results on a quarterly basis.
The annual A cornerstone of our investor calendar is the annual meetings results are included in our Annual Report.
All shareholders receive that we hold with our top 30 shareholders, key investment an Annual Summary which advises them that our Annual Report and industry bodies and inuential proxy advisory rms to discuss Notice of our Annual General Meeting are available on our website.
corporate governance and remuneration matters.
These During the year, Sir Andrew Witty and Simon Dingemans gave sessions in December 2016, which were attended by the presentations to institutional investors, analysts and the media Chairman, our SID, and our Committee Chairs, covered on the full year results, which are also available via webcast and a broad range of governance issues and were held morning teleconference.
After the first, second and third quarter results, and afternoon to allow UK and overseas investors a we hold webcast teleconferences for the same audience.
convenient opportunity to participate in the discussions.
Our results are available on our website.
Philip Hampton, the Chairman, shared updates on key areas Our Investor Relations IR department, with ofces in London and of focus for the Board including: Philadelphia, acts as a focal point for communications with investors.
oversight of managements execution of strategy and The CEO, CFO and the Chairman maintain an active dialogue with performance: institutional shareholders on performance, plans and objectives through a programme of regular meetings.
During the year they held R&D delivery and the assessment of the pipeline: over 24 individual meetings with investors and they have also hosted CEO and executive team succession, including CEO approximately 13 group meetings with investors and potential transition activities: and investors.
the wider evolution and refreshment of the Board.
The Company Secretary acts as a focal point for communications on corporate governance matters.
We also have a small central Urs Rohner, our Remuneration Committee Chairman, took Corporate Responsibility CR team which coordinates strategy, the opportunity to discuss progress with the Remuneration policy development and reporting specifically with respect to CR Committees review of executive remuneration ahead of matters.
Meanwhile, the IR department communicates with socially our Remuneration policy vote at our AGM in May 2017. responsible investors and other stakeholders.
In addition, Judy Lewent, who chairs our Audit & Risk Committee, and Lynn Elsenhans, who chairs our Corporate The Chairman also meets regularly with institutional shareholders to Responsibility Committee, provided an overview of the work hear their views and discuss issues of mutual importance, and of their respective committees.
communicates their views to the other members of the Board.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director SID and all the Finally, Vindi Banga, our SID, provided his insights and Non-Executive Directors are available to meet with shareholders.
perspectives into the Boards culture and dynamics, together with his impressions of GSKs senior team, its people and businesses.
Listening to the views of our shareholders and receiving their feedback at and after these sessions held in the run up to the corporate reporting and AGM season helps us to shape key areas of our corporate governance and remuneration disclosures.
Annual General Meeting All shareholders are invited to attend our Annual General Meeting which this year, like last, will be held in May at the QEII Centre, London.
It provides an opportunity to put questions to our Board and the Chairmen of each of our Board Committees during the formal AGM proceedings, while providing shareholders the chance to meet informally with our Board directors who will make themselves available before and after the meeting.
