34 GSK Annual Report 2016 Consumer Healthcare Our Consumer Healthcare business develops and markets products in Wellness, Oral health, Nutrition and Skin health.
Our portfolio includes some of the worlds most trusted and best-selling brands, such as Sensodyne, Voltaren and Panadol.
35 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information A migraine is more than just a headache.
Excedrin is helping people in the US manage their symptoms.
Grow Deliver Simplify Responsible business 7.2bn 13% 15.5% Sales increased 19% of sales in 2016 were Operating profit margin Our Panadol power brand a AER and 9% CER 5% from product innovations was 15.5% in 2016, 4.2 is helping raise awareness pro-forma CER in 2016, launched over past percentage points higher of dengue fever.
with growth broadly three years.
than in 2015 and 3.7 balanced across the percentage points higher US, Europe and on a CER pro-forma basis.
Footnote a We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to report the performance of our business, as described on page 57, including core results, free cash ow and CER and pro-forma growth rates.
Non-IFRS measures may be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for or superior to, information presented in accordance with IFRS.
36 GSK Annual Report 2016 Consumer Healthcare Our Consumer Healthcare business is Nutrition split almost equally between over-theOur Nutrition business includes Horlicks, Our Consumer Healthcare counter OTC medicines and fast moving the long established wheat, milk and malted business is a worldconsumer goods FMCG, across our four barley drink.
categories of Wellness, Oral health, Nutrition leading over-the-counter Skin health and Skin health.
We are in the top three, by sales, globally and consumer healthcare Wellness in medicated skin health which treats We are the global leader in Wellness, which such conditions as cold sores and dry products company.
is our largest category, and number one in and sensitive skin.
Our Abreva and Zovirax brands hold leading positions in some 36 countries by retail sales.
We have leading of the worlds largest markets.
global positions in respiratory, cold and u, nasal decongestants, allergy, smoking Power brands cessation, and pain management, where We prioritise seven global power brands we have two of the top four brands, Panadol Otrivin, Panadol, parodontax, Poligrip, and Voltaren.
Sensodyne, Therau and Voltaren and Oral health 12 regional core brands, including Flonase, We are a top three company, globally, Horlicks and Tums.
These brands, including by sales in toothpaste and the number Physiogel, benefit from our broad one in specialist oral health, globally and geographic footprint and a combined focus in 50 countries, with leading positions in on scientific expertise and consumer insight.
sensitivity, acid erosion, denture care and gum health.
In 2016, Sensodyne became our first 1 billion consumer healthcare Represents the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture brand, making it the third-largest product with Novartis together with the GSK Consumer Healthcare listed businesses in India and Nigeria.
by sales in the whole GSK portfolio.
Managing migraine symptoms Excedrin brought home the painful reality of migraines with a recent virtual reality campaign.
The four worked with VR experts to create Excedrin, one of the top over the counter brands in sales in the US, launched a the visual effects they experience during attacks, including blurred vision, ashes, virtual reality VR campaign to correct misunderstandings of migraines.
The object auras, room spinning and partial blindness.
campaign, which included multi-channel media activity, an expert celebrity panel The campaign made an enormous impact discussion and a high prole New York event, on social media, with over 17 million views was launched in March 2016.
Product sales and almost 500,000 engagements, such rose 15% during the campaign and have as shares of the lm, comments and shown double digit growth over the year.
Excedrin created the campaign after its customer insight research showed that 88% of sufferers felt misunderstood.
The documentary-style lm featured a migraine simulator, developed with the help of four migraine sufferers.
37 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information 2016 performance summary In Europe, sales grew 12% to 2,191 million Grow Consumer Healthcare sales grew 19% 4% pro-forma.
Good momentum across at actual rates, 9% CER and 5% on a Germany, Scandinavia and Italy was partly Strong growth in our pro-forma basis to 7,193 million.
offset by the impact of challenging economic conditions in the Commonwealth of Oral health and Wellness On a category basis there was growth Independent States.
Voltaren grew in in Wellness 15%, Oral health 8% and power brands helped double-digits as a result of the continued Skin health 4%.
This was partly offset success of the 12-hour variant, while in Consumer Healthcare by Nutrition which declined 8%.
Oral health, Sensodyne and the Gum health to a 9% increase in reported At a brand level, Sensodyne, Panadol portfolio also recorded strong growth.
sales 5% pro-forma, and Otrivin performed strongly.
Sales In International markets, sales grew 8% of Sensodyne reached 1 billion for the to 7.2 billion.
Sales from innovation within the was impacted by the sale of the Nigerian last three years represented 13% of sales, beverages business on 30 September with a particular contribution from Flonase, 2016 and the effective cessation of which was switched to OTC in Q1 2015. trade in Venezuela at the end of 2015.
Other notable launches in 2016 included Demonetisation implemented in India Sensodyne True White and Excedrin in November also impacted the Indian Gel-tabs in the US.
Sales in Middle East, Latin Growth was broadly balanced across our America and China grew particularly three global geographies.
US sales grew strongly as a result of better pricing and 9% to 1,761 million 5% pro-forma driven new product introductions.
primarily by Sensodyne delivering doubledigit growth following the launch of True All growth rates are at CER, a White combined with strong momentum non-IFRS measure as described on from Pronamel.
Within Wellness, Flonase page 57, unless otherwise stated.
OTC grew strongly in the first half following line extensions.
New over-the-counter launch extends Flonase brand We continue to see success in switching products from prescription-only to over-the-counter.
In 2016 the FDA approved Flonase Sensimist The new product acts on multiple Allergy Relief for seasonal and perennial inammatory substances and has additional allergies.
This builds on our success in features such as being suitable for children moving products from prescription-only as young as two years old, being scent and to over-the-counter OTC in the USA.
alcohol-free, and causing little or no drip The product was launched in February 2017, while it is being applied.
in time for the allergy season.
In making the By bringing Sensimist under the Flonase product available OTC, we are meeting Allergy Relief umbrella, we aim to build consumer demand for greater control on Flonases market success.
The product was formerly available only on prescription as Veramyst.
In managing the switch to OTC, we drew on the regulatory insights of our Pharmaceuticals business which helped us navigate through the highly regulated pharmaceutical environment.
38 GSK Annual Report 2016 Consumer Healthcare continued The success of our Consumer Healthcare We continue to see success in moving Deliver business is built on our ability to understand products from prescription-only to overcustomer needs and meet them with effective the-counter, with the approval and launch Our success in delivering products from our strong research pipeline.
of Flonase Sensimist Allergy Relief in the In 2016, we refocused our investment in US in 2017.
See case study on page 37. consumer-driven, science-led innovation to ensure we achieve a high return Understanding consumers everyday innovation enabled us to and delivered 30 new-to-market product healthcare needs, views and product launches.
During 2016, 13% of our sales generate our best-ever sales preferences is an integral part of our new were generated from innovations launched product development process.
As digital from recent launches.
over the past three years our highest technology becomes central to all our lives, level ever.
we are exploring ways both internally and in discussion with external entrepreneurs In 2016, R&D investment in Consumer and inventors of harnessing digital Healthcare was 243 million 2015 capability to improve consumer health.
We prioritise investment We continued to invest in state-of-the-art on our power and core brands, with our digital and real life innovation by opening 13 % strategic focus now on fewer but bigger innovations.
In 2016, examples included new US shopper and sensory labs.
of our sales were generated from Sensodyne True White, Excedrin Gel-tabs, See case study below.
innovations launched over the past a new Eno ajwain herb avour variant in In 2016, we strengthened our commitment three years India and Otrivin Oxy which was launched to R&D in India, building headcount to a record six months from conception.
200 people a significant increase versus both legacy organisations.
Our increased focus on innovation in this area is already paying off, with seven market-first innovations launched in the region over the course of the year.
Two of our six R&D hubs are now based in emerging markets, a region that represents over a third of our business.
The science of consumer insight Our new innovation labs in the US increased our ability to understand and deliver unmet consumer needs.
Following the success of our UK innovation A shopper science facility that enables labs we launched three labs based at our us to work with our retail partners on the new US Consumer Healthcare HQ in Warren.
best way to present products in store.
They enable us to integrate customer insights Together, the labs are enabling us to into all stages of product development, from discover fresh insights and develop the original inception of an idea to an items tailor-made products to meet the needs positioning on the store shelf.
They include: of our consumers and retailers.
This helps An R&D suite combining exible work us to meet our ambition of becoming first spaces with rapid prototyping capabilities: choice for shoppers and customers.
allowing us to move swiftly from concept to manufacture, whether of tablets, liquids, powders or creams.
Consumer sensory capabilities to assess how people use products.
It includes simulated environments where our products are often found, for example, the bathroom, doctors consulting room, a shop and pharmacy.
39 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information During 2016, we completed the majority In 2016, unied branding was rolled Simplify of the integration enabling us to increase out to all integrated sites and more than our emphasis on core innovation and to 10,000 artwork changes were delivered.
We continued to further deliver stronger growth from our brands.
Our streamlining efforts also involved Incremental annual cost savings in 2016 simplify and streamline our 59 markets moving to standardised helped to increase the operating profit platforms over the course of the year, Consumer Healthcare business margin by 4.2 percentage points to 15.5%.
and we are on track to deliver against This was 3.4 percentage points higher than and increased our operating our synergy targets.
in 2015 on a CER basis and 3.7 percentage profit margin.
Committed to quality points higher on a CER pro-forma basis.
Our Consumer Healthcare products We remain on track to deliver the annual cost are manufactured to the highest quality savings anticipated, and to deliver our target standards, according to current Good operating margin of at least 20% by 2020.
Our consolidation activities over the year In 2016, we had 56 regulatory inspections, resulted in a reduction of costs and all with satisfactory outcomes.
We established common distribution routes and shared enterprise resource planning platforms, enabling access to data across the organisation and more informed decision making.
Helping communities to better identify, prevent and treat dengue fever Responsible A GSK-led health campaign encouraged better understanding business of how to manage the disease.
Mosquito-borne dengue fever causes It included 48 train the trainer sessions, to refresh physicians and pharmacists around 400 million infections and 20,000 deaths each year.
It is endemic in more than knowledge of the virus: the recruitment of 21,000 voluntary dengue warriors 100 countries, particularly across the South East Asia and Western Pacic regions.
to spread the word about prevention and treatment: and the distribution of dengue Paracetamol, in Panadol, can help treat proficiency kits to healthcare professionals.
some of the symptoms of dengue fever, so GSK Consumer Healthcare launched Assisted by wide media coverage, the Allied Against Dengue campaign the campaigns impact was dramatic.
in 2016 in Malaysia, Indonesia and the In Malaysia, after three years of rising Philippines.
It brought together GSK and mortality rates, the campaign contributed our Panadol power brand with doctors, towards the number of deaths falling pharmacy chains, governments and by 39%.
The campaign also helped increase our The campaign has helped educate regional Consumer Healthcare product seven million people about the disease.
In the Philippines alone, net sales increased by 48% in Q3 2016, versus the same period in 2015
