12 GSK Annual Report 2016 R&D underpins our three businesses and we prioritise our investments to where we see the most potential to develop innovative products for unmet medical needs.
The market in which Our business model we operate Our resources How we create value Strong R&D Across three worldinnovation... leading businesses... People and culture Almost 100,000 employees bring expertise and our values to everything they do.
R&D Pharmaceuticals Financial capital Earnings, cash ow and access to capital markets allow us to invest in our business.
Vaccines Collaborations and partnerships 1,500 R&D partnerships and Consumer collaborations with academic institutions, biotechs, NGOs and Healthcare other companies bring important insights to our innovation.
Suppliers Suppliers provide essential services and materials.
Reinvestment 13 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information A clear strategy for growth How we measure success How we manage risks The value we create With an ecient global operating model... For shareholders 99 % 12% We aim to deliver sustainable 2016 total 2016 core earnings growth a EPS growth EPS growth Dividends 80p Primarily reecting comparison with 9.2bn profit in 2015 from disposal of marketed Oncology assets 2016 dividend Manufacturing For patients and consumers 833m Increased access to quality products which enable people to do more, doses of vaccines produced in 2016 feel better and live longer Commercialisation For society and distribution 0.9bn Healthier communities 2016 tax charge Economic contribution through jobs and taxation 210m donated to local communities through product donations, time and cash For employees An environment where they feel valued 75 countries As part of the global roll-out, 100,000 employees and family members in 75 countries now have access to our ground-breaking preventive healthcare programme Footnote a We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to report the performance of our business, as described on page 57, including core results, free cash ow and CER and pro-forma growth rates.
Non-IFRS measures may be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for or superior to, information presented in accordance with IFRS.
