148 GSK Annual Report 2016 Directors statement of responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Strategic report and risk sections of the Annual Report, which the Remuneration report and the Group financial statements represent the management report, include a fair review of the in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial uncertainties that it faces.
statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance Disclosure of information to auditors with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted The Directors in ofce at the date of this Annual Report have each by the European Union.
In preparing the Group financial statements, confirmed that: the Directors have also elected to comply with IFRS as issued by the so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Under company of which the companys auditors are unaware: and law the Directors must not approve the Group financial statements he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit of affairs of the Group and its profit or loss for that period.
information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are of that information.
required to: This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance select suitable accounting policies and then apply them with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. consistently: Going concern basis make judgements and accounting estimates that are Pages 53 to 78 contain information on the performance of the reasonable and prudent: Group, its financial position, cash ows, net debt position and state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRS as borrowing facilities.
Further information, including Treasury risk adopted by the European Union and IFRS as issued by the IASB, management policies, exposures to market and credit risk and subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the hedging activities, is given in Note 42 to the financial statements, Group financial statements: and Financial instruments and related disclosures.
Having assessed the principal risks and other matters considered in connection with the prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless viability statement, the Directors considered it appropriate to adopt it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Internal control records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys The Board, through the Audit & Risk Committee, has reviewed the transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time assessment of risks and the internal control framework that operates the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that in GSK and has considered the effectiveness of the system of the Group financial statements and the Remuneration report comply internal control in operation in the Group for the year covered by with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
this Annual Report and up to the date of its approval by the Board They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group of Directors.
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The UK Corporate Governance Code The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the principles The Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December and complies with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 2016, comprising principal statements and supporting notes, Code maintained by the Financial Reporting Council, as described in are set out in Financial statements on pages 158 to 231 of this the Corporate Governance section on pages 80 to 110.
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the Group further considers that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, financial statements are set out in the Independent Auditors report balanced and understandable, and provides the information on pages 149 to 157. necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and The Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December performance, business model and strategy.
2016 are included in the Annual Report, which is published in As required by the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules, printed form and made available on our website.
The Directors are the auditors have considered the Directors statement of compliance responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report in relation to those points of the UK Corporate Governance Code on our website in accordance with UK legislation governing the which are specified for their review.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
Access to the website is available from outside the UK, where comparable Annual Report legislation may be different.
The Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2016, comprising the Report of the Directors, the Remuneration report, Each of the current Directors, whose names and functions are listed the Financial statements and additional information for investors, has in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report 2016 been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS Philip Hampton Chairman as issued by the IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and 13 March 2017
