Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Directors report For the year ended 31 December 2016 Introduction Health, safety, environment & communities HSEC This Annual Report is presented by the Directors on the affairs An overview of health, safety and environmental of Glencore plc the Company and its subsidiaries the performance and community participation is provided in Group or Glencore, together with the financial statements the Sustainable Development section of the Strategic report.
and auditors report, for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The work of the HSEC Board committee is contained in the The Directors report includes details of the business, the Corporate Governance report.
development of the Group and likely future developments as set Taxation policy out in the Strategic Report, which together forms the management report for the purposes of the UK Financial During 2016 we published our first payments to Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rule DTR Governments report http: www.
The notice concerning forward-looking statements is set sustainability doc sd reports GLEN-Payments-toout at the end of the Annual Report.
pdf which we shall issue annually.
may also include references to the Group or part of the Group.
As well as disclosing the payments made by the Group on a country-by-country and project-by-project basis, the report Corporate structure sets out the Company's approach to tax and transparency.
Glencore plc is a public company limited by shares, Exploration and research and development incorporated in Jersey and domiciled in Baar, Switzerland.
Its shares are listed on the London, Johannesburg and Hong The Group business units carry out exploration and Kong Stock Exchanges.
research and development activities that are necessary to support and expand their operations.
Financial results and distributions The Groups financial results are set out in the financial Employee policies and involvement statements section of this Annual Report.
Glencore operates an equal opportunities policy that aims to treat individuals fairly and not to discriminate on the basis No distribution was declared or paid during the 2016 of sex, race, ethnic origin, disability or on any other basis.
Applications for employment and promotion are fully The Board is recommending two distributions totalling considered on their merits, and employees are given US$0.07 per share in respect of the 2016 financial year appropriate training and equal opportunities for career expected to be approximately $996 million in aggregate.
It is proposed that these be payable in equal tranches of Where disability occurs during employment, the Group US$0.035 on 31 May and 26 September this year on the seeks to accommodate that disability where reasonably terms to be set out in, and subject to the passing of, a possible, including with appropriate training.
resolution to be put to shareholders at the Companys AGM on 24 May 2017.
The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees which is reflected in the principles of its Code Review of business, future developments and post of Conduct and its related guidance, which requires regular, balance sheet events open, fair and respectful communication, zero tolerance for A review of the business and the future developments of the human rights violations, fair remuneration and, above all, a Group is presented in the Strategic Report.
A description of acquisitions, disposals, and material Employee communication is mainly provided by the changes to Group companies undertaken during the year, is Groups intranet and corporate website.
A range of included in the Financial review and in note 23 to the information is made available to employees including all financial statements.
policies applicable to them as well as information on the Groups financial performance and the main drivers of its Financial instruments business.
Employee consultation depends upon the type and location of operation or office.
Descriptions of the use of financial instruments and financial risk management objectives and policies, including Directors conflicts of interest hedging activities and exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk are included in notes 24 and Under Jersey law and the Companys Articles of Association 25 to the financial statements.
which mirror section 175 of the UK Companies Act 2006, a Director must avoid a situation in which the Director has, or Corporate governance can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company.
A report on corporate governance and compliance with the The duty is not infringed if the matter has been authorised UK Corporate Governance Code is set out in the Corporate by the Directors.
Under the Articles, the Board has the Governance report and forms part of this report by reference.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 109 Governance Directors report For the year ended 31 December 2016 power to authorise potential or actual conflict situations.
Share capital and shareholder rights The Board maintains effective procedures to enable the As at 1 March 2017, the issued ordinary share capital of the Directors to notify the Company of any actual or potential Company was $145,862,001 represented by 14,586,200,066 conflict situations and for those situations to be reviewed ordinary shares of $0.01 each, of which 191,459,158 shares are and, if appropriate, to be authorised by the Board.
Directors held in treasury and 144,418,070 shares are held by Group conflict situations are reviewed annually.
A register of employee benefit trusts.
Major interests in shares Directors liabilities and indemnities As at 1 March 2017 Glencore had been notified of the The Company has granted third party indemnities to each following interests representing 3% or more of the issued of its Directors against any liability that attaches to them in ordinary share capital of the Company: defending proceedings brought against them, to the extent Percentage of permitted by Jersey Law.
In addition, Directors and Officers Number of Total Voting Name of holder shares Rights of the Company and its subsidiaries are covered by directors Qatar Holding 1,221,497,099 8.49 & officers liability insurance.
Ivan Glasenberg 1,211,957,850 8.42 Directors and Officers BlackRock Inc 820,422,580 5.70 Harris Associates 503,985,535 3.50 The names of the Companys Directors and Officers who Daniel Mat 454,136,143 3.15 were in office at the end of 2016, together with their biographical details and other information, are shown on Aristotelis Mistakidis 450,175,134 3.13 pages 81 to 83.
Norges Bank 436,312,499 3.03 Directors interests Share capital Details of interests in the ordinary shares of the Company of The rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, those Directors who held office during 2016 are given below: being the only share class of the Company, are set out in the Percentage of Companys Articles of Association the Articles, which Number of TotalVoting Name GlencoreShares Rights can be found at www.
Subject to Jersey law, Executive Directors any share may be issued with or have attached to it such preferred, deferred or other special rights and restrictions as Ivan Glasenberg 1,211,957,850 8.42 the Company may by special resolution decide or, if no such Non-Executive Directors resolution is in effect, or so far as the resolution does not Peter Coates 1,585,150 1 0.01 make specific provision, as the Board may decide.
Anthony Hayward 244,907 0.00 Leonhard Fischer No such resolution is currently in effect.
Subject to the William Macaulay 200,000 0.00 recommendation of the Board, holders of ordinary shares may receive a dividend.
On liquidation, holders of ordinary Peter Grauer 129,792 0.00 shares may share in the assets of the Company.
Holders of John Mack 750,000 0.00 ordinary shares are also entitled to receive the Companys Patrice Merrin 43,997 0.00 Annual Report and Accounts or a summarised version and, 1 Peter Coates also has 206,172 options over shares arising from his prior employment subject to certain thresholds being met, may requisition the with Xstrata which are not included in the above table.
Board to convene a general meeting GM or the proposal of No Director has any other interest in the share capital of the resolutions at AGMs.
None of the ordinary shares carry any Company whether pursuant to any share plan or otherwise.
special rights with regard to control of the Company.
No changes in Directors interests of those in office at the Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak date of this report have occurred between 31 December 2016 at GMs of the Company and to appoint one or more proxies and 1 March 2017. or, if the holder of shares is a corporation, a corporate representative.
On a show of hands, each holder of ordinary Mr Glasenberg executed a Lock-Up Deed in 2011, pursuant shares who being an individual is present in person or to which he agreed, subject to certain customary exceptions, being a corporation is present by a duly appointed that during the period from 24 May 2011 to 24 May 2016 he corporate representative, not being himself a member, shall would not dispose of a certain percentage of the ordinary have one vote and on a poll, every holder of ordinary shares shares held by him at 24 May 2011.
These disposal present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every restrictions have now expired entirely.
share of which he is the holder.
Electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting instructions must be received not later than 48 hours before a GM.
A holder of ordinary shares 110 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information can lose the entitlement to vote at GMs where that holder and increase, consolidate, sub-divide and cancel shares in has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to accordance with its Articles and Jersey law.
provide the Company with information concerning interests held in those shares.
Except as 1 set out above and 2 Purchase of own shares permitted under applicable statutes, there are no limitations At the end of the year, the Directors had authority, under a on voting rights of holders of a given percentage, number of shareholders resolution passed on 19 May 2016, to purchase votes or deadlines for exercising voting rights.
through the market up to 10% of the Companys issued ordinary shares.
No purchase was made by the Company The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a during 2016.
The Directors will seek a similar authority at certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that the the Companys AGM to be held in 2017. refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the Company from taking place on an open and proper basis or where the Going concern Company has a lien over that share.
The Directors may also The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share unless the position and borrowing facilities are set out in the Strategic instrument of transfer is: i lodged, duly stamped if Report.
Furthermore, notes 24 and 25 to the financial necessary, at the registered office of the Company or any statements includes the Groups objectives and policies for other place as the Board may decide accompanied by the managing its capital, its financial risk management certificate for the share s to be transferred and or such objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require as activities and its exposure to credit and liquidity risk.
proof of title: or ii in respect of only one class of shares.
Significant financing activities that took place during the Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using year are detailed in the Financial review section.
CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a transfer of The results of the Group, principally pertaining to its an uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations industrial asset base, are exposed to fluctuations in both governing the operation of CREST.
commodity prices and currency exchange rates whereas The Directors may decide to suspend the registration of theperformance of marketing activities is primarily transfers, for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register of physical volume driven with commodity price risk shareholders.
The Directors cannot suspend the registration substantially hedged.
of transfers of any uncertificated shares without obtaining The Directors have a reasonable expectation, having made consent from CREST.
appropriate enquiries that the Group has adequate resources There are no other restrictions on the transfer of ordinary to continue its operational existence for the foreseeable future.
shares in the Company except: 1 certain restrictions may For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors have example insider trading laws : 2 pursuant to the Companys made this assessment after consideration of the Groups share dealing code whereby the Directors and certain budgeted cash flows and related assumptions including employees of the Company require approval to deal in the appropriate stress testing of the identified uncertainties Companys shares: and 3 where a shareholder with at least a being primarily commodity prices and currency exchange 0.25% interest in the Companys issued share capital has been rates, assessment of asset disposal initiatives and undrawn served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the credit facilities, monitoring of debt maturities, and after Company with information concerning interests in those review of the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal shares.
There are no agreements between holders of ordinary Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting 2014 as shares that are known to the Company which may result in published by the UK Financial Reporting Council.
restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Longer-term viability The rules for appointment and replacement of the Directors are set out in the Articles.
Directors can be appointed by the In accordance with paragraph C2.2 of the Code, the Company by ordinary resolution at a GM or by the Board Directors have assessed the prospects of the Groups upon the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
viability over a longer period than the 12 months required The Company can remove a Director from office, including by the going concern assessment above.
The Board has by passing an ordinary resolution or by notice being given assessed the viability of the Group over a four-year period.
by all the other Directors.
The Company may amend its This period is consistent with the Groups established Articles by special resolution approved at a GM.
annual business planning and forecasting processes and cycle which is subject to review and approval each year by The powers of the Directors are set out in the Articles and the Board.
The four-year plan considers Glencores EBITDA, provide that the Board may exercise all the powers of the Capital Expenditure, Funds From Operations FFO and Company including to borrow money.
The Company may Net Debt, and the key financial ratios of Net Debt to EBITDA by ordinary resolution authorise the Board to issue shares, and FFO to Net Debt over the forecasted years and Glencore Annual Report 2016 111 Governance Directors report For the year ended 31 December 2016 incorporates stress tests to simulate the potential impacts of Companys financial position, financial performance and cash exposure to the Groups principal risks and uncertainties as flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects set out on pages 36 to 44.
These scenarios included: of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, a prolonged downturn in the price and demand of liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International commodities most impacting Glencores operations: Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the foreign exchange movements to which the Group is preparation and presentation of financial statements.
exposed as a result of its global operations: and In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be consideration of the potential impact of adverse achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, movements in macro-economic assumptions and their the Directors are also required to: effect on certain key financial KPIs and ratios which could increase the Groups access to or cost of funding.
properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a The scenarios were assessed taking into account current risk manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and appetite and any mitigating actions Glencore could take, as understandable information: required, in response to the potential realisation of any of the stressed scenarios.
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable Based on the results of the related analysis, the Directors users to understand the impact of particular transactions, have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to other events and conditions on the entitys financial continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due position and financial performance: and over the four-year period of this assessment.
They also make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue believe that the review period of four years is appropriate as a going concern.
having regard to the Group's business model, strategy, principal risks and uncertainties, and viability.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Auditors the financial position of the Company and enable them to Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval ensure that the financial statements comply with the of this Annual Report confirms that: Companies Jersey Law 1991.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for a so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of information of which the Companys auditors are fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible unaware: and for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and b the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have financial information included on the Companys website.
taken as a director in order to make himself aware of Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and any relevant audit information and to establish that the dissemination of financial statements may differ from Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual John Burton Report and financial statements in accordance with Company Secretary applicable law and regulations.
1 March 2017 Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted for use in the European Union together IFRS.
The financial statements are required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991. International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the 112 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Information required by Listing Rule LR 9.8.
4C In compliance with UK Listing Rule 9.8.
4C the Company discloses the following information: Listing Rule Information required Relevant disclosure 9.8.
4 1 Interest capitalised by the Group See note 7 to the financial statements 9.8.
4 2 Unaudited financial information as required LR 9.2.
18 See Chief Executive Officers review 9.8.
4 5 Director waivers of emoluments See Directors remuneration report 9.8.
4 6 Director waivers of future emoluments See Directors remuneration report 9.8.
4 12 Waivers of dividends See note 16 to the financial statements 9.8.
4 13 Waivers of future dividends See note 16 to the financial statements 9.8.
4 14 Agreement with a controlling shareholder LR 9.2.
2A Not applicable There are no disclosures to be made in respect of the other numbered parts of LR 9.8.
Confirmation of Directors responsibilities The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2016 were approved on the date We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: below by the Board of Directors.
the consolidated financial statements, prepared in Signed on behalf of the Board: accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations as adopted by the European Union, International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and the Companies Jersey Law 1991, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and loss of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation Anthony Hayward Ivan Glasenberg taken as a whole: Chairman Chief Executive Officer the management report, which is incorporated in the 1 March 2017 Strategic Report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face: and the Annual Report and consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair and balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the performance, strategy and business model of the Company.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 113 Financial statements Our robust financial performance during 2016 reflects the quality of our industrial asset portfolio and the resilience of our large scale diversified marketing business.
IVAN GLASENBERG Chief Executive Officer see page 04 116 Independent Auditors Report 126 Consolidated statement of income loss 127 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income loss 128 Consolidated statement of financial position 129 Consolidated statement of cash flows 131 Consolidated statement of changes of equity 132 Notes to the financial statements 114 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Glencore Annual Report 2016 115
