Strategic report Positioned for the future In response to some market concerns over our leverage, we The progressive delivery of our various debt reduction have positively repositioned our capital structure and measures as well as higher commodity prices over the optimised our asset portfolio to maximise cash flows while period have supported an increase of over 200% in the targeting a strong BBB Baa investment grade balance sheet.
Our robust programme of actions, announced in September 2015, to reduce debt and address market concerns has delivered a $14.0 billion reduction in Net debt and $14.7 billion reduction in Net funding over the past 18 months.
24 April Issued a 5-year US CHF250 million bond 365.6 6 April 7 September Announced sale of 40% stake $10.2 billion debt reduction in our Agriculture business $26 programme: announced toCanada Pension Plan Investment Board for a US consideration of $2.5 billion 9 October 292.2 500,000 tonnes reduction of contained zinc 10 February metal mine production across operations in Australia, South America & Kazakhstan Streaming agreement with Franco-Nevada 148.3p Corporation raising $500 million 93.1p 17 February 3 November Early refinancing of $8.45 billion revolving Streaming agreement credit facility reached with Silver Wheaton Corp raising $900 million 2015 Sep Oct Nov Dec 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr Strengthening our balance sheet Asset divestment and streaming We recognise that when prices are low, During the second half of 2015, it became proceeds of $6.3 billion greater value can be generated by apparent that financial markets were curtailing production and preserving Curtailment of the Katanga and Mopani concerned about Glencores debt levels and reserves until conditions improve.
copper assets pending long-term our ability to sustain an investment grade transformation via operational In September 2015, we announced the credit rating.
Following dramatic upgrades suspension of production at our Katanga movements in our share price during and Mopani assets in Africa to implement September, we rapidly put in place a Temporary suspension of around transformational upgrade projects that comprehensive programme of actions to 500,000 tonnes of zinc mine capacity to will significantly lower the cost reduce our debt, restructure preserve the value of our resources in of production.
underperforming assets and preserve the the ground.
A month later, we reduced zinc volumes Preserving operational value by around 500,000 tonnes of contained This programme culminated in a series of With our unique position at every stage of zinc across our operations in Australia, actions which included: the commodities value chain, from South America & Kazakhstan, preserving extraction through to marketing and $2.5 billion share placement the value of our reserves in the ground, at logistics, our wide-reaching market a time of low zinc and lead prices, which The suspension of 2015 final dividend knowledge means we are well placed to did not correctly value the scarce nature of and 2016 interim dividend $2.4 billion see physical commodity movements and to these resources.
These latent tonnes will understand their impacts on supply be restarted when commodity price Renewed focus on working demand fundamentals.
As such, we take a conditions support value creation.
capital efficiency highly disciplined approach to supply.
Based on data from S&P GSCI Spot Index 06 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Action taken Commodity prices Share price p Net debt $ bn Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Dividend policy and reinvestment In December 2016, we announced the reinstatement of component reflecting the resilience, predictability and distributions to shareholders.
Initially, Glencore will return stability of marketing cash flows and a variable element, $1 billion to shareholders in two equal tranches in 2017. representing a minimum payment of 25% of free cash flows This will be paid in May and September 2017. from our industrial assets.
In 2018, a new distribution policy will apply with respect to 2017 actual cash flows, subject to Board and shareholder approval.
This will compromise of a fixed $1 billion 20 October US Agreed to sell GRail coal 399.2 US haulage business to Genesee 370.1 & Wyoming Australia for $900 million 277.35p 9 June Announced sale of 9.99% stake in our Agriculture business to British Columbia Investment Management Corporation for a consideration of $625 million 1 December $24 Sales of GRail and interests in Glencore Agriculture close 6 September 152.85p Issued a 7-year Euro 1,000 million bond 24 August $16 Joint venture streaming agreement reached with Evolution Mining raising $670 million May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2017 Unlocking value through asset sales Creating long-run sustainable returns We have strong supply positions in midto A significant part of our debt reduction Our proactive actions over the past late-cycle commodities, including copper, programme was achieved through asset 18 months have repositioned our capital cobalt, nickel, zinc and thermal coal, as divestments.
This included the sale of structure and demonstrated our well as significant operational leverage to non-core gold and silver by-products at a commitment to a strong BBB Baa improving fundamentals in our key number of our copper mines as well as the investment grade rating.
We now target commodities with substantial volumes of introduction of strategic partners into our maximum through the cycle Net debt low-cost latent capacity that can restart agriculture business through the sale of a Adjusted EBITDA leverage of 2x a when we believe conditions are right.
c. 50% stake to Canada Pension Plan structure that engenders less risk for the The right combination of commodities to Investment Board and British Columbia business, additional balance sheet feed the changing needs of maturing Investment Management Corporation.
flexibility and overall greater stability of economies, combined with our highly distributions to shareholders.
Cash flows from these assets were resilient marking business underpins our monetised at a blended unlevered real Our business is well-capitalised, requiring ability to generate healthy, long-run after tax IRR of around 5%.
modest capital expenditure going sustainable returns for shareholders.
Over $38 billion has been spent on the combined Glencore Xstrata asset base since 2009 and the heavy capital expenditure programme is now largely complete.
A total capital expenditure of around $4 billion per annum including around $3 billion of sustaining capital expenditure is now being guided to over the next three to five years.
