Strategic report Delivering on our commitments to climate change We recognise the science of global climate change as laid out by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC.
We believe this, along with COP21 and public sentiment, will continue to drive a greater number of decisions, policy developments and programmes to restrict greenhouse gas emissions GHG.
For a number of years, we have engaged with stakeholders Portfolio resilience IEA scenarios specifically interested in climate change, on its potential We continually test the resilience of our asset portfolio impact on our business and the contributions that Glencore against carbon scenarios, as well as the financial exposures can make towards a lower carbon economy.
At our 2016 each scenario could potentially place on our business.
Annual General Meeting, a special resolution proposed by Our carbon assumptions are based on the current the Aiming for A coalition of shareholders, was passed.
International Energy Agency World Energy Outlook We welcome the opportunity to provide an update on the scenarios and supplemented by local carbon prices and reporting requirements associated with this resolution.
During 2016, we established a cross-functional working Low carbon R&D and investment strategies group to support the delivery of our climate change commitments, as well as supporting our ongoing We are working to mitigate the physical impacts of climate identification, mitigation and management of related risks change where we can and take resource efficiency into and exploiting of business opportunities.
The working account when making operational decisions.
Wherever we group is led by our Chairman and includes heads of operate, we seek to optimise our energy and carbon footprint.
departments and senior representatives of key functions.
Throughout our business we are sharing knowledge on how It is currently developing a comprehensive risk assessment to identify and implement projects to reduce emissions.
process and proactively seeking opportunities to reduce our Our broad range of products will be required as the global GHG emissions footprint.
Progress on the steps the working economy continues to grow, as countries develop and for the group is taking is regularly reported to the Board.
transition to a lower emissions economy.
Copper, aluminium and steel are required for renewables-based Emissions management power stations as well as energy-efficient infrastructure and We take energy and carbon costs, regulations and emission the electrification of the transport sector.
Nickel and cobalt volumes into consideration as part of our business planning are required for energy storage and likely to play an and investment decision processes.
Our business proactively important role in the growth of electro-mobility.
works to understand and manage our footprint, and Fossil fuels remain a key input for industrial sectors and a continues to invest in solutions to use energy more critical source of safe, reliable and secure energy, when coupled efficiently and reduce emissions from the production and with carbon capture and storage technologies, fossil fuels can end use of our products.
Our assets incorporate energy continue to play a significant role in the global energy mix.
savings and emission reduction opportunities into their ongoing business planning processes as part of our overall KPIs and executive incentives efforts to reduce Glencores GHG footprint.
Key performance indicators relating to climate change are We are determining how a meaningful internal carbon being developed for operational management, who are best target might be applied across our business.
This target will placed to implement changes to our energy-use and take into account the diversity of our production processes emissions profiles.
We are using internal operational-level energy and emission forecasts, produced Public policy positions by all of our assets, to establish a 2020 GHG profile that will We believe that the corporate sector has an important role to underpin strategic programmes to support an improved play in the process of developing climate change policy, and management of our GHG footprint and to identify emission can make a valuable contribution towards the development reduction opportunities Group-wide.
of effective, efficient and equitable climate change policy.
Across Glencore we use renewable energy sources whenever We actively engage in public policy discussions with a range feasible.
Around 19% of the energy used by our assets of stakeholders on issues related to energy, carbon and comes from renewable sources.
This includes electricity climate change.
We also have a range of technical experts generated by Glencore facilities and renewable energy who are able to assist policymakers in the development of procured from local or regional grid suppliers.
complex regulations through governmental technical working groups.
30 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Commodities of today and tomorrow: coal Under every policy scenario, demand for coal will be sustained by the building of low-cost, coal-fired electricity generation in developing economies, underpinning the consumption of 120 to 140 billion tonnes of coal between 2013 and 2030.
Low emission technologies can ensure that fossil fuels can play a significant role in reducing global emissions while continuing to play a vital role in delivering secure and reliable energy for industry and households.
Future global energy demand growth will require all Investment in high efficiency low-emission HELE technologies, fuel sources including carbon capture and storage CCS will be critical for reducing the cost of achieving the 2C climate change goal given Our coal business has attracted particular interest in the context its broad applicability to electricity generation, synthetic fuel of climate change.
We are progressively integrating climate production, industrial processes, and bioenergy.
change challenges and opportunities into business planning andrisk management frameworks.
We expect our coal business Our coal business has established a wholly owned, non-profit toremain viable and do not believe our coal assets will subsidiary called Carbon Transport and Storage Company CTSCo become stranded.
which is leading a CCS Project in Australia.
The Project has been established to demonstrate the technical viability, integration and Under the key energy outlooks, global energy demand will safe operation of CCS in the Surat Basin in Australia.
require coal, oil and gas to contribute around 70% of required energy in 2030, even with a $100 price on carbon.
Some of our customers use our coal to feed highly efficient power The International Energy Agencys modelling of the plants ultra-super critical units that can produce emissions that commitments made as part the 2015 Paris agreements shows that are up to 40% lower than average coal plants.
absolute demand for coal will continue to grow.
Global primary energy demand requires all fuel sources under the IEAs New Policy scenario: 2030 25% 28.6% 23% 6% 3% 10.6% 4% 2013 29% 31% 21% 5% 3% 10% 1% Coal Oil Gas Nuclear Hydro Bio-Energy Renewables Future global primary energy demand under various scenarios: 2030 450 Scenario 20.7Btce 18.3% 26.8% 23.1% 8.5% 3.4% 13.3% 6.5% 2030 New Policy 23.1Btce 25% 28.6% 22.8% 6.2% 10.6% 4% 2.9% 2013 actual 19.3Btce 29% 31% 21% 5% 10% 2% 1.2% Coal Oil Gas Nuclear Hydro Bio-Energy Renewables Source: IEA WEO 2016 Btce: billion tonnes of coal equivalent: standardised coal quantity using coal with energy content of 7000kcal kg or 29.31 GJ t converted to metric tonnes based on global average coal energy of 4850kcal kg NAR.
In addition to reporting on our progress in our Annual Measuring our performance Report, we have produced the publication Climate change We have a standardised approach to capturing data and considerations for our business, which provides a detailed reporting on emissions and we openly and transparently overview of the activities we are undertaking to better disclose our carbon and energy footprint.
Our emissions understand the impact of climate change on our business.
profile varies across our different business units, reflecting This publication will be updated during 2017 to report on the diversity of our business.
We are working on the progress we have made.
determining how an internal carbon target might be effectively applied across our business.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 31 Strategic report Delivering on our commitments to climate change Commodities of today and tomorrow: nickel and cobalt Car makers are investing in technology that is required to electrify vehicles in order to achieve regulatory emissions targets.
A number of large car manufacturers have recently announced new electric car models, reflecting the anticipated demand from the general public, supported by government subsidies and investment in charging infrastructure.
The transition to electric vehicles has been underpinned by developments in battery storage.
Battery use has expanded from small-scale, suitable for consumer products, to larger, more Demand for nickel and cobalt driven by powerful batteries that can be used as energy storage systems.
electricvehicles Battery chemistry that relies on nickel and cobalt compounds is The electric vehicle revolution is driving increasing battery emerging as the technology of choice.
demand and, inturn, additional demand for nickel and cobalt, Increasing public acceptance is fuelling the demand for both two of Glencores core commodities.
electric vehicles and the batteries used to power them.
Glencore is a leading producer and marketer of nickel and cobalt, The International Energy Agency recognises that reaching 2020 key commodities in climate change solutions.
We produce some deployment targets for electric vehicles requires a sizeable of the worlds purest nickel and cobalt and are one of the largest growth of the electric car stock globally and meeting the 2030 recyclers and processors of nickel and cobalt-bearing materials decarbonisation and sustainability goals across all scenarios including batteries.
requires a major deployment of electric cars in the 2020s.
Deployment scenarios for the stock of electric cars to 2030 Electric cars in the vehicle stock millions Historical IEA 2DS Paris Declaration IEA 4DS EVI 2020 target Cumulative country targets 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 2010 2015 2020 2025 2030 2C Scenario: 4C Scenario.
Source: IEA analysis based on IEA 2016, UNFCCC 2015b, the EVI 2020 target and the country targets assessment.
In line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, we divide carbon In 2016, we emitted 12.7 million tonnes CO of Scope 2 2 emissions reporting into three different scopes.
We measure location-based indirect emissions, which applied the grid both the direct and indirect emissions generated by the emission factor to all our purchased electricity, regardless of operational activities, entities and facilities in which we specific renewable electricity contracts.
This was a year-onhave a controlling stake.
year decrease of 14%, primarily due to the closure of our US alumina operations.
During 2016, we emitted 22.9 million tonnes CO e of Scope 1 2 direct emissions, a slight decrease on 2015.
This figure Our Scope 3 emissions, which include those from a broad includes emissions from fuels consumed and the reductants range of sources, including usage of our products, are used in our metallurgical smelters.
It also includes CO e of reported in our sustainability report.
2 methane and CO emissions from our coal seam emissions, 2 which are around 38% of our Scope 1 emissions.
32 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information to calculate and our financial results are impacted by Total greenhouse gas emissions Million tonnes CO commodity prices and foreign exchange rates, which are 2 outside of our control.
In addition, due to the nature of Scope 1 Scope 2 location-based Total theexploration, development and the production cycle, 22.9 ourCO emissions do not necessarily correlate to our 2 12.7 2016 employee head count.
35.6 23.0 We publicly report to the CDP Climate Change programme.
2015 14.8 37.8 The score that Glencore receives from CDP Carbon has 21.8 improved year-on-year as a result of improvements in our 2014 14.7 reporting disclosure and clearer linking of climate change 36.5 to our business strategy.
Further information on our approach to climate change is We do not currently provide normalised figures for our CO 2 available in our sustainability report and Climate change emissions nor ratios of CO to production, financial results 2 considerations for our business, both are available on or employee head count, as we do not believe that reporting our website: a normalised figure meaningfully contributes to an understanding of our performance.
The scope and diversity www.
com sustainability our-progress reports of our products make a single production figure impossible Ferroalloys improving energy efficiency, reducing emissions In 2007 Phase 1 and in 2014 Phase 2 were commissioned at Lion smelter, costing a total of ZAR6.6 billion and resulting in Glencores largest proprietary Premus smelter, with 720,000tpa ferrochrome capacity.
Premus is designed to reduce electrical energy consumption by using waste gas and heat.
Its improved efficiency delivers substantial financial benefits over existing technologies.
Lions specific energy consumption Scope 2 emissions is 28% less than the South African average smelters energy consumption.
The South African government has ratified the COP21 Paris In 2012, the Tswelopele Pelletiser at the Rustenburg Smelter was agreement, which requires sizeable reductions in its greenhouse completed at a cost of ZAR800 million, to replace the pellets gas GHG emissions, as well as committing to transition to a that the smelter received from the Bokomaso facility.
The government is proposing a tax on carbon as The utilisation of pellets improved the energy efficiency Scope one of the instruments in helping South Africa meet its 2 emissions of these smelters by 10.4% in 2016 compared international commitments to reduce GHG emissions.
Our ferroalloys business is mainly located in South Africa, where During 2017, we will be piloting co-generation technology at the cost of its production of ferrochrome is heavily exposed to our Boshoek smelter.
This technology generates electricity from energy prices and security.
A carbon tax will further increase the the carbon monoxide to carbon dioxide combustion heat, which cost of production and potentially lead to the closure of some of is currently a waste emission.
If successful in terms of South Africas marginal ferrochrome producers, resulting in operational and financial viability, the co-generation major job losses.
technology will initially reduce Boshoeks Scope 2 emissions by 8%.
In addition, the capacity at the Boshoek smelter could be To address this challenge, we have been improving energy doubled and the technology could also be considered for the efficiency through a range of initiatives, identifying alternative Lion and Lydenburg smelters.
energy supplies and developing energy-efficient technologies, such as our proprietary Premus technology.
In total, the initiatives implemented by our ferroalloys business have improved energy efficiency and Scope 2 emissions at our Over a number of years, our ferroalloys business has been smelters by 26% in 2016 compared to 2003. planning and implementing new technology to address the challenges of rising energy costs and stricter Going forward, our ferroalloys business cost of production and emissions regulations: greenhouse gas emissions will be highly connected to the energy generation options that are implemented by the South African In 2007, we commissioned the Bokamoso Pelletiser at the governments Integrated Resource Plan IRP 201030.
The IRP Wonderkop smelter at a cost of ZAR800 million, improving the provides scenarios for forecasting future energy demand and energy efficiency Scope 2 emissions of these smelters by 12.6% identifies the required increases in national energy generation.
The IRP considers the impact on emissions from installing different energy generation options that include, amongst others, fossil fuel, solar, wind and nuclear.
