Strategic report Who we are Highly diversified Global footprint 90 90 commodities offices 3 155,000 business segments people Active at every High-quality, Strong stage of the low-cost assets entrepreneurial commodity chain culture: employees to maximise value empowered to make decisions We are a global diversified natural We are one of the worlds largest diversified, resource company, producing and vertically integrated producers, processors marketing more than 90 commodities.
We are uniquely diversified in terms and marketers of natural commodities.
Together with our consumers and We market and deliver physical commodities suppliers, we benefit from having sourced from our own production and third scaleand diversity at every stage of thecommodity chain, from extraction party producers to our highly diversified to delivery.
As both a producer and customer base that includes consumers from marketer of commodities, we can benefit from the full range of arbitrage the automotive, steel, powergeneration, oil opportunities and value-added margin and food processing industries.
present throughout our commodity supply chains.
Our portfolio of industrial assets comprises around 150 facilities: mining and metallurgical, oil production 08 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Unique market insight Breadth of scale 50 4,000 countries employees in marketing 40 150 years experience sites Long-term Marketing Maximum relationships with business less flexibility and broad base of correlated to economies suppliers commodity prices of scale and customers andagricultural.
These mainly generally makes our earnings less strong market position and penetration high-quality, low-cost assets generate volatile than commodity businesses for the commodities we handle.
cash even during periods of weakness based solely on production.
Our strong entrepreneurial culture for particular commodities, industries, Our marketing business focuses on hasbeen central to our success.
Our industrial maximising returns across our entire This isunderpinned by the fact that asset base enhances the quality and supply chain, in addition to management and employees own scale of our marketing activities, minimising costs and maximising around one-third of our shares, offering our customers greater choice.
aligning our workforces interests We have over 40 years of experience withthose of external shareholders We create value from: our economies inmarketing commodities.
This has toalevel that is unique among major of scale: our extensive global third allowed us to develop and build resource companies.
party supply base: our logistics, risk expertise in the commodities we management and working capital dealwith, and to cultivate long-term financing capabilities.
relationships with our broad, international supplier and customer Our global presence underpins our base.
Our marketing business tends to extensive market insight, business be less correlated to commodity prices optionality, large customer base, and than our industrial business, which Glencore Annual Report 2016 09
