Strategic report Our strategy Our main strategic objective is to sustainably grow total shareholder returns while maintaining a strong investment grade rating and actingas a responsible operator.
To achieve this ambition, we are focusing on three strategic imperatives: to fully integrate sustainability throughout our business: to maintain a robust and flexible balance sheet: and to focus on cost controls and operational efficiencies throughout our entire business.
These three strategic imperatives are supported by our highly entrepreneurial culture that underpins Glencores opportunistic approach to doing business within clearly defined financial criteria.
From an operational level through to our senior management team, ouremployees are empowered to evaluate opportunities and make decisions while taking responsibility for their actions.
This approach allows our managers to be flexible and rapid in their response to changing situations while risk is mitigated by a comprehensive framework of controls.
Our entrepreneurial culture is underpinned by ahigh level of ownership by management and employees, which is unique amongst the major resource companies.
Strategic priority Integration of sustainability throughout our business Strategic priority Maintain a robust and flexible balance sheet Strategic priority Focus on cost control and operational efficiencies 16 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Strategic priority Integration of sustainability throughout our business Strategic objectives: We believe that by being a better operator with a reputation for doing things the right way, we will be seen by our stakeholders asa partner of choice.
We are achieving this through taking an approach of continuous improvement.
This approach is delivered through our health and safety programmes, advancing our environmental performance, respecting human rights and by developing, maintaining and strengthening our relationships with allof our stakeholders.
Key performance indicators: Principal risks and uncertainties: see page 35 Health, safety and environment, includingpotential catastrophes Safe and healthy workplace TRIFR Environmental performance water withdrawn, Emissions and climate change greenhouse gas GHG emissions, meeting our Community relations commitments on climate change Skills availability and retention Long-term value for communities community investment spend Key highlights in 2016 Priorities going forward Continued to progress our SafeWork programme, We will continue to implement activities that further aninitiative that focuses on eliminating fatalities and integrate sustainability throughout our business to serious injuries.
Sadly, we failed to meet our target of supportour commitment to continuously improve our zerofatalities in 2016: 16 people died at our operations standards ofhealth, safety, environmental and community during the year performance.
We are committed to operating transparently, responsibly and meeting or exceeding Improved our total recordable injury rate by 7%.
Our lost applicable laws orexternal requirements.
time injury frequency rate increased by 4% Completed the revision of our health strategy and distributed its supporting materials.
Developed and implemented leading and lagging KPIs Rolled out throughout the Group our strategic water management framework Published Climate change considerations for our business: identified a range of climate change scenarios and assessed their implications on our portfolio: responded tothe requirements of the Aiming for A resolution Implemented a strategic framework to enhance our contribution to socio-economic benefits at all assets Glencore Annual Report 2016 17 Strategic report Our strategy Strategic priority Maintain a robust and flexible balance sheet Strategic objectives: We recognise that a robust and sufficiently flexible balance sheet contributes to the delivery of sustainable, long-term shareholder returns and ensures that Glencore is well placed to withstand the cyclical nature of the natural resource industry.
We aim to increase returns on capital and cash flows while targeting a maximum two times Net debt to Adjusted EBITDA ratio throughout the cycle.
We aim to only deploy capital when strict and clearly defined financial criteria, relating to returns and payback, canbe met.
Key performance indicators: Principal risks and uncertainties: see page 34 Reductions in commodity prices Returns to shareholders Funds from operations, Fluctuations in supply or demand for commodities Netfunding and debt Fluctuations in currency exchange rates Value for our shareholders Adjusted EBIT EBITDA, Liquidity risk Net income attributable to equity holders Counterparty credit and performance Key highlights in 2016 Priorities going forward Completed the debt reduction programme: at year-end, We are committed to maintaining our balance sheet net funding and net debt were $32.6 billion and strength to ensure it is capable of supporting growth and $15.5billion respectively shareholder returns regardless of the commodity price environment.
We will preserve a robust capital structure Disposed $6.2 billion of assets and business portfolio that reflects our commitment to Issued $1.3 billion of bonds and repurchased $2.6 billion targeting, receiving and maintaining a strong BBB Baa of bonds with maturities mainly in 2018 to 2020, thus investment grade rating.
In this regard, we will manage capping post-2017 maturities at c. $3 billion in any one the business to a net debt to EBITDA ratio of no greater year down from c. $45 billion than two times throughout the cycle.
Meaningfully and proactively repositioned Glencores capital structure and credit profile through delivery of the debt reduction programme Credit rating reaffirmed as Baa3 stable by Moodys andBBBpositive outlook by Standard & Poors Undertook an early refinancing of the short-term trancheof the revolving credit facility, securing greater than 24months liquidity from such time 18 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Strategic priority Focus on cost control and operational efficiencies Strategic objectives: Our major industrial assets are mainly long-life and low-cost, reflecting our substantial investment into existing assets as well as our appetite, capabilities and belief in some commodities and geographies where our peers are not materially present.
Our industrial assets provide aconsistent source of volumes for our marketing operations, which are supplemented by third party production.
Our marketing activities use their scale and capabilities to extract additional margin throughout our business model and provide a superior service to our customers and a reliable supply of quality product.
We seek to increase the value of our business by improving the competitiveness of our assets through an ongoing focus on cost management and logistical capabilities, including operating safety and efficiently.
We take a disciplined approach towards all of ourassets and will divest when another operator places greater value on them, or curtail production in response to oversupply when it makes sense to do so.
Key performance indicators: Principal risks and uncertainties: see page 34 Geopolitical risk Returns to shareholders Funds from operations, Laws, enforcement, permits and licences to operate Netfunding and debt Sourcing, freight, storage, infrastructure and logistics Value for our shareholders Adjusted EBIT EBITDA, Development and operating risks and hazards Net income attributable to equity holders Cost control Key highlights in 2016 Priorities going forward Achieved $2.8 billion Adjusted EBIT across our Our industrial activities will continue to focus on marketing business, underlining its resilience to the controlling costs and generating sustainable operating commodity cycle andcapital efficiencies.
Our marketing business supports the creation of incremental value through critical mass, Achieved significant reductions to operating costs at our blending, storage and geographical arbitrage.
key industrial assets through efficiencies and savings as Our marketing activities priorities are to maximise the well as favourable foreign exchange movements and returns and cash flows from the pool of allocated capital, by-product credits which, in turn, supports the strengthening of our balance Continued our disciplined approach to supply, sheet.
Our presence at every stage of the value chain maintaining production curtailments: volumes will be means that Glencore is uniquely positioned to leverage restarted at the right time and price ourscale and diversity.
