S S L T C A U Y R D E O G R N P I R L M Strategic report Our business model Integrating sustainability Strategic imperatives: Maintaining a robust and flexible balance sheet throughout our business Inputs: Assets and natural resources: Our people and partners: We wholly-own or have a significant ownership in our assets, We have worked to cultivate and establish long-term relationships inwhich we make long-term investments with a broad range of suppliers and customers across diverse industries and geographies We prioritise being a competitive, low-cost producer Our highly skilled and professional workforce of around 155,000 Our resources and reserves are overall long-life and of high employees and contractors is located across six continents quality, enhancing the scale and value of our marketing business see page 213 We interact with a large number and range of stakeholders aroundthe world.
We are committed to building transparent We are a disciplined producer, aligning supply to demand andconstructive relationships with our partners to deliver sustainable, long-term benefits to all our stakeholders EXPLORATION, ACQUISITION EXTRACTION & & DEVELOPMENT PRODUCTION 1 2 Our focus on brownfield sites and We mine and beneficiate minerals across a What we do: exploration close to existing assets range of commodities, mining techniques lowers our risk profile and lets us use andcountries, for processing or refining existing infrastructure, realise atour own facilities, or for sale.
Resource extraction and production involves We evaluate each industrial investment long-term commitments and exposure to opportunity on a standalone basis and risks relating to commodity prices, project on its potential to strengthen our development, changes in sovereign legislation marketing activities or existing and community acceptance.
Earning and maintaining our licence to This approach allows us to build on operate from our host governments and local oureconomies of scale, our familiarity communities is integral to developing and with individual political and cultural maintaining our assets.
landscapes, and our understanding ofcommodity dynamics.
See our Sustainable development Outputs: Sustainable business sectiononpage 20 Our people: Our people: Our people: Environment Community & Safety Health Workforce human rights Principal risks and uncertainties: Total recordable injury frequency rate TRIFR | Water withdrawn | Greenhouse gas GHG emissions KPIs: Community investment spend 12 Glencore Annual Report 2016 A R & E U T S L N L U C A E I T R E G A M S T C S U E D I T O I D R O P M Y Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information See page 16 for more information Focusing on cost control and operating efficiencies on our strategy Financial discipline: Unique market knowledge: We deploy capital in a disciplined manner that creates value for Our scale and global reach give us valuable insight into market allour stakeholders.
We have a long track record of value creation flows and access to real-time information across economic cycles Our long experience has allowed us to build extensive market Our hedging strategies protect us against price risks and ensure knowledge and insight, as well as full logistics capabilities that our marketing profitability is primarily determined by As an integrated commodity producer and marketer, we are volume-driven activities and value-added services rather than uniquely positioned to generate value at every stage of the absolute price commodity chain MARKETING THIRD PARTY PROCESSING & BLENDING & LOGISTICS & REFINEMENT OPTIMISATION DELIVERY 3 4 5 Our presence at every stage of the commodity Our logistics assets allow us to handle large Our expertise and technological advancement in processing and refining mean we can chain allows us to offer a wide range of volumes of commodities, both to fulfil our product specifications, resulting in a obligations and to take advantage of demand optimise our end products to suit a wider customer base.
Our smelting and refining facilities provide Our ability to blend and optimise both our We have a worldwide network of storage volumes that are handled by our own and third party products helps us to andlogistics assets in key strategic locations, marketing teams.
meet our customers specific requirements.
including metal warehouses accredited by theLME and numerous oil and grain Our ownership of processing and refining Working with third party suppliers gives storage facilities.
assets increases our flexibility and optionality usbetter oversight of the total supply status and provides security of supply as well as for specific commodities: we have valuable Our many value-added services make us a valuable market knowledge.
market and local knowledge to better preferred counterparty for customers without understand the supply-demand balance.
such capabilities, as well as strengthening We purchase and process additional products long-term relationships.
from smaller operators that do not benefit from our economies of scale.
Financial performance See our Financial review on page 45 Returns for Value for our shareholders stakeholders See page 36 for more information on risks and uncertainties Adjusted EBIT EBITDA | Funds from operations FFO | Net funding | Net debt FFO to Net debt | Net income attributable to equity holders Glencore Annual Report 2016 13 M A O D C Y R R U E O V E N I Strategic report Our marketing business We are an established physical marketer of commodities.
Over the past40 years, we have built a strong reputation as a reliable, timely supplier of quality products.
Our presence on the ground gives us unique, extensive market knowledge and insight, as well as trusted relationships with our partners and customers.
In addition, we have developed the logistics capabilities to generate value-added margins and are well positioned to seek arbitrage opportunities throughout oursupply chain.
Our marketing activities involve the Less vulnerability to physical movement of commodities, commodity prices and both those extracted by our industrial volatility Unique market business and those purchased from knowledge: global office Our marketing business is third party suppliers.
We supply these countercyclical from a cash flow network and logistics to where they are in most demand.
perspective, as its funding We generate earnings as a fee-like storage infrastructure requirements are highly linked to income from physical asset handling commodity prices.
The business and arbitrage, as well as blending and requires less working capital during optimisation opportunities.
periods of falling prices, which helps Our market insight, extensive logistics mitigate the generally negative effects network and storage facilities of lower prices on our industrial assets.
Fee-like income from differentiate us from businesses based handling of physical Virtually all our marketed volumes are solely on commodity production.
As a hedged or pre-sold to minimise price commodities and result, in addition to minimising costs exposure.
Our use of hedging arbitrage opportunities and maximising operational efficiency, instruments results in profitability we can also focus on maximising the being overwhelmingly determined by fee-like returns we make from the volume activity and associated entire marketing process.
value-added supply chain margins, Our integrated marketing and and other marketing conditions, rather industrial businesses work side by side Established third party than by the absolute flat price itself.
to give us a presence across the entire supply and global supply chain, delivering a unique Risk management customer base knowledge of market dynamics and We have developed a comprehensive helping us to fully understand the risk management system over our needs of our customers.
40years of business, supported by robust procedures, to monitor our marketing activities.
Price exposure minimised: marketed volumes hedged or pre-sold 14 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information The arbitrage strategies we implement to generate additional returns vary from commodity to commodity.
The main opportunities are: Geographic Product Time arbitrage arbitrage arbitrage Disparity Disparity Disparity Different prices for the same Pricing differences between Different prices for a product in different geographic blends, grades or types of commodity depending on regions, taking into account commodity, taking into account whether delivery is immediate transportation and transaction processing and substitution costs.
or at a future date, taking into costs.
account storage and financing Execution costs.
Execution Ensure optionality with Execution Leverage global relationships commodity supply contracts, and production, processing and andlook to lock-in profitable Book carry trades that logistical capabilities to source price differentials through benefitfrom competitive product in one location and blending, processing or sources of storage, insurance deliver in another.
We mitigate the credit risks Our extensive internal compliance arbitrage opportunities include associated with our marketing policies and procedures, as well as freight and product quality.
activities, including those within third party screening, seek to ensure Arbitrage activity generates supplier and customer agreements, that we comply with all applicable additional value through sourcing, through the extensive application sanctions, laws and regulations.
transporting, blending, storing or ofmeasures including credit otherwise processing commodities.
insurance, letters of credit, security Arbitrage opportunities arrangements and bank or Many of the physical commodity corporate guarantees.
markets in which we operate are Our teams manage Glencores market fragmented or periodically volatile.
exposure by reducing price risks This can result in arbitrage: price arising from timing differences discrepancies between the prices between the purchase and sale of forthe same commodities in commodities to acceptably low levels.
Other factors with Glencore Annual Report 2016 15
