Str Strategic repor ategic report t Go Gov ver ernance finance Financial statements Financial statements Shareholder inf Shareholder infor ormation mation Our strategy and key performance indicators As a Group we have four strategic areas that we focus on: society: customers: our people: and finance.
Our vision Our strategy A world where every journey is taken care of describes our vision, Our Group strategy is to generate value for our investors, and our aspirations, at the highest level.
We believe that how by building a sustainable business that meets the needs of we behave will benefit all our stakeholders, and help us grow our customers and communities.
This strategy is underpinned and build a business for the long term.
Our strategic priorities Society Customers Our people Finance To run our companies in a To provide high quality, To be a leading employer To run our business with safe, socially and locally focused passenger in the transport sector.
strong financial discipline environmentally transport services.
to deliver sustainable Our people are our most responsible manner.
Meeting the needs of our valuable and important asset.
We believe a sustainable public customers is vital to the Without them our buses and Our aim is to deliver transport network is essential success of the Group.
trains cannot create value.
It is shareholder value through a to the future of any society Providing reliable, value for our teams across the Group combination of earnings and as a leading provider of money passenger transport that keep the business moving growth, strong cash generation passenger transport services, encourages more passengers and are the face of Go-Ahead.
and balance sheet management, sustainability is integral to the to use our services and leaves Investing in and developing our supplemented by value adding way we run our business.
us well placed to tender for people enables them to fulfil growth opportunities.
We Ensuring the safety of our contracts with our transport their potential and assists them have a steadfast commitment passengers and our people is authority customers.
Our in carrying out their jobs to to operating with strong an absolute priority for us.
We devolved structure ensures the best of their ability, thereby financial discipline and a are also committed to making strong localised expertise, improving the customer conservative view to risk.
The a contribution to the focuses on the needs of the experience.
Effective leadership strength of our balance sheet communities in which we local customer and gives us development and succession allows us to pursue operate and wider society.
the ability to respond quickly planning are essential to opportunities, adding value to Reducing the environmental to changing conditions in local sustainable success for the the Group and making impact of our operations while markets.
Good customer Group and a diverse attractive returns to providing a greener alternative service is at the heart of workforce further shareholders.
to the private car contributes everything we do and we are enhances this.
to the governments committed to delivering high environmental targets.
The levels of customer satisfaction economic contribution from across the board.
Go-Ahead helps support economic recovery and longer term prosperity.
More information on page 24 More information on page 28 More information on page 32 More information on page 36 Measuring our performance Directors remuneration policy The key performance indicators KPIs presented in this report are the The directors remuneration policy is designed to reflect the Groups measures we use in the business to assess the Groups performance against performance, with elements of remuneration linked to our strategic our strategic objectives.
These measures are currently under review to priorities, particularly health and safety, customer satisfaction, and operating ensure we are focusing on the right areas of performance.
The 2020 targets use 2014 performance as a baseline for measurement.
Read more about our sustainability Read our full directors remuneration materiality review on page 25 report on page 84 The Go-Ahead Gr The Go-Ahead Group plc I oup plc I www www.
com 23 23 Society Focused on sustainability 24 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information For Go-Ahead sustainability means operating our business in a way that ensures it is viable for the long term.
Our shareholders expect us to make good decisions to contribute to the long term sustainability of the organisation.
To continue to demonstrate to our Of the 30 or more issues reviewed during the reputation.
In instances such as this we focus on stakeholders both internal and external - that process these particular issues are ones working constructively with industry partners we are a responsible, forward-looking identified as both key to the business and highly such as Network Rail to minimise the impact of organisation, we have conducted a materiality important to our stakeholders.
any disruption on our passengers.
It is here that review to ensure we meet our stakeholders focusing and prioritising strong engagement expectations now and in the future.
with our stakeholders is key to maintaining Sustainable reputation good relationships and enabling effective Go-Aheads reputation is based on how we In collaboration with colleagues and key communication with colleagues, customers, conduct ourselves, and how we are viewed to external stakeholders such as the DfT, TfL, the local authorities, industry bodies and the media.
be responding to issues of concern to our financial community and passenger groups, we Together with the DfT and Network Rail we stakeholders and issues in the public interest.
have sought to find out the issues which are have agreed joint narratives to explain the Building the trust and understanding of considered significant, relevant and material to multi-faceted nature of the rail industry, stakeholders is very important.
We engage both the business and stakeholders.
This robust positively promoting its often unreported actively with them to ensure they have an materiality assessment has been based on successes and actively engaging with appreciation of the issues affecting our business gathering a range of internal and external commentators and critics.
and have the opportunity to discuss them perspectives to determine Go-Aheads most openly with us.
The exercise, which included a The industrial relations issues at rail operating benchmark mapping against peers and company GTR over the summer of 2016 have Despite fewer passengers travelling by train than competitors, has identified issues that impact on diminished its reputation and put the Group in bus in the UK on a daily basis, rail services have the business and are also important to the public eye, increasing our reputational risk.
a higher public profile in the media - and the stakeholders, and prioritises those that are Our focus will be to continue to modernise the scrutiny on London commuter services rated highly against both criteria.
franchise while embedding the right culture and operated by the Group give significantly greater values throughout the company and working to opportunities for reputational risk and In the coming year we will be developing new increase employee engagement, repair contribute to a more challenging operating non-financial key performance indicators for relationships to ensure all our people are environment.
In a highly regulated marketplace these issues and aligning them to our new vision customer focused and delivering a sustained such as the rail franchises there are industry and values.
The new KPIs will be strategic, good service for passengers.
issues impacting on service delivery that are measurable and impactful challenging us to outside the direct control of our operating improve our performance and demonstrate our companies and this increases the risk to our commitment to stakeholders.
Materiality matrix Corporate governance Public policy Customer satisfaction Issues that are key to our Safety and security passengers, business and important to employees and contractors stakeholders.
Impacts on local communities Regulatory compliance Accessibility affordability Greener travel carbon emissions Technology and innovation Employee engagement Waste Water Supply chain High Importance to stakeholders The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
com 25 High Impact on the business Our strategy and key performance indicators continued Society To run our companies in a safe, socially and environmentally responsible manner.
SPADs per million miles RIDDOR accidents per 100 employees Bus accidents per million miles What does it mean?
Across the rail industry train What does it mean?
RIDDOR reporting of What does it mean?
We monitor the number of operating companies report signals passed at injuries, diseases and dangerous occurrences bus accidents which result in a notification to a danger SPAD.
A SPAD could be a precursor to regulations is a statutory requirement for all claims handler for every million miles we operate, a catastrophic accident and every SPAD is treated companies and relates to any work place incident including cases where we are not at fault.
Many SPADs happen each that results in any absence from work for over Why is it important?
It helps us to measure year and most have little or no potential to cause seven days or any legally reportable incident to against our commitment to provide a safe and harm and are the result of minor misjudgements the Health and Safety Executive.
positive travel experience for our bus passengers of braking distance.
All SPADs are given a risk Why is it important?
It helps us to measure and minimise risk to the general public.
Good ranking which considers the actual and possible against our commitment to provide a safe performance in this area can also reduce cost consequences of each incident.
working environment for our employees.
through lower insurance claim costs.
It helps us to measure Risks Failing to provide a safe working Risks Our objective to run our companies in a against our commitment to provide a safe rail environment for our people goes against our safe manner would be impacted by poor passenger service.
objective to be the employer of choice in the performance against this KPI.
Risks associated with Risks Poor performance in this metric could sector.
Poor performance could lead to issues this include reputational risk and higher insurance impact on operational performance, resulting in a around employee relations, including satisfaction claim costs.
poor safety record and reputation.
and productivity, and could also increase 2016 performance The number of bus accidents employers liability insurance claim costs.
2016 performance The number of SPADs per per million miles decreased by 2.35% to 37.3. million miles has decreased by nearly 10.4% to 2016 performance The number of RIDDOR Overall, we have achieved an improvement of 0.69.
Overall, we have achieved an improvement accidents per 100 employees reduced by 11.43% 34.65% against our original 2007 08 baseline.
of 44.35% against our original 2007 08 baseline.
Overall, we have achieved an Bus accidents have reduced since 2011 as a result improvement of 68.69% against our original This result should be viewed in the context of of action we have taken, despite an increase in 2007 08 baseline, exceeding our 2015 many years of improvement in this metric across accidents where we are not at fault.
Performance is tracked against a very heavily in training, monitor driving behaviour and good baseline performance.
We have tight We take our responsibility for the safety of our encourage our drivers to improve their standards controls around safety and high standards of people very seriously and ensure our employees of driving through a range of initiatives across the driver training which minimise the likelihood of have the necessary equipment and training to do division.
We have improved end to end processes SPADs occurring.
We also work closely with their jobs properly and safely.
During the year, we in place from accident prevention to claims Network Rail to minimise the risk of SPADs and continued to invest in staff training and upgrades management.
We investigate every accident actively encourage accurate and timely reporting to our facilities to ensure a safe working and encourage accurate and timely reporting of incidents.
We investigate every of incidents.
accident and encourage accurate and timely Due to the nature of these occurrences and high 2020 target To maintain low levels of bus reporting of incidents.
sensitivity to data changes, relative performance accidents per million miles, delivering can fluctuate from one year to the next.
2020 target To maintain low levels of RIDDOR continuous improvement.
accidents per 100 employees, delivering 2020 target To maintain low levels of SPADs per continuous improvement.
million miles, delivering continuous improvement.
SPADs per million miles Riddor accidents per Bus accidents per million miles 100 employees 0.8 0.80 1.2 40 0.77 38.2 37.8 37.3 0.72 0.7 0.69 1.01 31.5 0.6 0.9 30 0.58 27.0 0.5 0.76 0.72 0.70 0.62 0.4 0.6 20 0.3 0.2 0.3 10 0.1 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 26 26 The Go-Ahead Gr The Go-Ahead Group plc I oup plc I Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 Str Strategic repor ategic report t Go Gov ver ernance finance Financial statements Financial statements Shareholder inf Shareholder infor ormation mation Carbon emissions per Greenhouse gas emissions passenger journey We report on greenhouse gas GHG emissions in accordance with the GHG Protocol What does it mean?
We monitor all of the Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and the UK governments Environmental energy used within our operations and calculate Reporting Guidance methodologies together with the emissions conversion factors from DEFRA our CO emissions resulting from this energy use 2 DECC GHG conversion factors for Company Reporting 2015.
In line with this guidance, we have by using the appropriate CO conversion factor.
2 reported the emissions sources that are required.
These sources fall within businesses included in We divide our CO emissions by the number of 2 our consolidated financial statements.
passenger journeys made to establish CO per 2 passenger journey and we use this metric to Emissions are expressed in terms of equivalent carbon dioxide CO e. Our relative performance 2 measure our performance.
metric is kilogrammes of CO e emissions per passenger journey.
It helps us to measure Overall, CO emissions in absolute terms have increased as a result of business acquisitions but 2 against our commitment to improve energy CO emissions per passenger journey have decreased largely due to improved efficiency in the 2 efficiency while contributing to governments and use of traction electricity.
local authorities carbon reduction targets and Emissions from air conditioning equipment in our premises and vehicles are not included in this analysis due providing a greener way for our passengers to to the difficulty in obtaining this data.
These emissions account for less than 0.5% of our total GHG travel.
Good performance in this area also emissions and are therefore not considered material reduces cost through fuel efficiency.
2015 16 2014 15 Risks Our objective to run our companies in an CO e tonnes CO e tonnes environmentally responsible manner would be 2 2 Scope 1 000 000 impacted by poor performance against this KPI.
Passenger journeys m 1,297.23 1,241.20 Poor performance could result in reputational risk Gas buses kwhs m 6.3 6.9 1.3 for the Group and higher costs.
Gas premises kwhs m 51.0 9.4 54.5 10 2016 performance The year on year rate in this Bus diesel 10% bio-diesel blend ltrs m 130.3 340.2 127.6 329.8 metric has improved by 2.34% and we continue Rail diesel ltrs m 18.6 55.1 18.4 53.5 to make progress towards our 10% reduction Scope 2 target by 2018.
1 Traction electricity kwhs m 1,368.9 564.1 1,169.3 540.4 2018 target To reduce like for like carbon Site electricity kwhs m 104.8 43.2 100.3 39.4 emissions per passenger journey by 10% on a Electric buses kwhs m 0.07 0.03 n a n a 2014 15 baseline.
This is a challenging target as we have already made significant improvements in Scope 3 this area.
Carbon emissions per passenger journey Electricity transmission and distribution have reduced 16.11% on a like for like basis from losses within the grid 54.9 44.6 our original 2007 08 baseline.
Traction electricity consumption data relates to the period from 1 April 2015 to 31 March 2016.
This Carbon emissions per provides the most accurate figure for consumption.
The biogenic content of bio-diesel is considered outside scope as there is no conversion factor for our baseline year.
Emissions from this source are reported for 2015 16 but are excluded from the calculation of our relative performance metric as comparative data is not available.
We define our organisational reporting 1.0 boundary by applying the financial control approach with a materiality threshold set at 5%.
0.97 0.85 0.84 0.83 0.82 0.82 0.8 2015 16 2014 15 Kgs CO per passenger journey 0.82 0.84 2 0.6 Kgs CO per passenger journey only includes scopes 1-3 CO. 2 2 0.4 0.2 For more information, historical data can be found online at www.
com sustainability 08 12 13 14 15 16 The Go-Ahead Gr The Go-Ahead Group plc I oup plc I www www.
com 27 27 Customers Focused on customer experience 28 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information With the help of passengers and colleagues, we have created comprehensive maps of our customers bus and rail journeys from the very start to the very end of their journey.
Walking in our customers shoes, we have dementia and responding appropriately, it is of elderly people - have used the Dementia identified where we can improve the experience increasingly important to offer a personal Friend training along with other accessibility they have of our services.
We have detailed service that suits the needs of the individual.
Practical ways to assist action plans to deliver enhancements across: passengers with hidden disabilities, such as the We are investing in technology, and through our introduction of helping hand cards at many of planning and researching journey options industry groups, working with information our operating companies, enables us to provide technology companies to build a substantial buying tickets a more personal service.
The Samaritans work portfolio of innovative transport apps.
Providing with our train companies to promote mental boarding the bus or train information at peoples fingertips helps people health and wellbeing and also, as part of their getting help from our staff or through make decisions about their journeys from start safeguarding programme, to assist identifying information channels to finish.
We know every minute counts for young people who may be vulnerable many of our customers, and providing people completing the onward journey and at risk.
with the best information is essential to contacting customer services, clearing delay building trust.
All our trains are wholly accessible for users of repay or locating lost property wheelchairs, but there is still some way to go Our new vision helps the Group to create an before most stations have step-free access as Improving accessibility aspirational version of what the future will be many stations were built at a time when An important element of public transport is like for customers: the ideal customer step-free accessibility was not a consideration.
Whether experience where every journey is taken care However, many of the barriers to increasing customers are using wheelchairs or mobility of.
Our commercial bus companies work hard accessibility of our bus and train services are scooters, have difficulty walking, are pregnant or to attract and retain customers and we are not physical ones, and can be overcome with travelling with young children, or have learning proud that for another year we have achieved increased employee awareness and training.
difficulties or mental health issues all our bus leading national ratings of 89% customer and rail companies strive to make their services satisfaction in the national bus passenger survey.
as accessible as possible to everyone.
Features that many of our services outside London have, such as onboard Wifi, USB phone We invest approximately up to 70m per charging points, and new way-finding apps all annum in new buses and this year all vehicles 89% assist to increase satisfaction.
As expectations acquired have audible announcements and Joint highest increase we need to be agile and find new ways electronic visual signage AV onboard, also we passenger satisfaction to take care of every aspect of journeys and have made a commitment that future purchases score of the large deliver even better experiences.
Our bus companies have transport signed up to the RNIB charter, using the Stop We also appreciate that every customer is groups in the UK for Me, Speak to Me training material to help unique, so has different needs and expectations, drivers appreciate some of the experiences and increasing personalisation is key to people problems blind and partially sighted people face.
Whether it is an app remembering a passengers home station, a We continue to deepen our peoples customer service system automatically understanding of the issues facing customer calculating a refund that is due, or a bus driver with dementia and - particularly in the coastal recognising the signs that a customer may have areas we serve which have higher percentages The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
com 29 Our strategy and key performance indicators continued Customers To provide high quality, locally focused passenger transport services.
Like for like passenger volume growth Customer satisfaction Regional bus punctuality What does it mean?
We measure the number of What does it mean?
Customer satisfaction is What does it mean?
The punctuality of our passenger journeys taken on our regional bus and measured by the independent passenger regional bus operations is measured as the rail services compared with the previous year.
Surveys are percentage of buses which arrive at their stop is measured on a like for like basis, adjusting for conducted twice a year for our rail franchises and between one minute before and five minutes acquisitions, new franchises and the effect of annually for our regional bus operations.
Our after their scheduled time.
Therefore, the higher rd the 53 week.
primary customer in London bus is TfL.
We the percentage the better.
measure satisfaction by performance against TfL As we are contracted on the basis of mileage in Why is it important?
Service punctuality is performance targets, such as excess waiting time.
our London bus division, we do not measure important to our passengers and is key to helping passenger numbers.
Providing high quality service us grow passenger numbers.
is a strategic priority for the Group and Why is it important?
We track this metric closely Risks Punctuality is a key driver of customer monitoring customer satisfaction is a key measure as performance against our rail franchise bid satisfaction.
If our customers are not satisfied with of our performance.
Identifying potential issues assumptions and progress towards our bus the service they receive they may switch to other allows us to take action to improve our services.
operating profit targets are significantly impacted operators or other modes of transport.
There is a by passenger volumes.
Risks If customers are not satisfied with the direct correlation between journey times service they receive, they may switch to other lengthening and fewer passengers travelling.
Risks Decreasing volumes could be an indication operators or other modes of transport.
The of performance issues within our operations or 2016 performance 86.2% of our regional bus satisfaction figures receive media attention and changes in economic or market conditions, all of services ran on time.
This is in line with last years our reputation can be harmed if these are low.
which could impact on the Groups overall performance, lower than previous years due to Our rail franchise contracts have satisfaction performance.
congestion and roadworks in some of our targets and our operating companies could face operating areas preventing punctual 2016 performance In regional bus, like for like penalties if the targets are not achieved.
volumes remained steady with ongoing weakness 2016 performance In bus, we achieved the joint in the north east economy and redevelopment 2020 target Achieve regional bus punctuality of highest passenger satisfaction score of the large roadworks around Oxford.
This decline follows over 95% in line with industry targets.
transport groups in the UK at 89%.
many years of consistent growth, against a The Impact of Congestion on Bus Passengers report backdrop of declining volumes in the wider UK Rail scores declined a percentage point to 75.3% Greener Journeys, 2016 bus industry, outside London.
This growth has as a result of significant disruption for both been supported by our geographical focus in Southeastern and GTR franchises, primarily due more economically resilient areas and our to the 6.5bn government funded Thameslink approach to marketing our high quality services.
Programme upgrade and resulting lack of resilience in the network.
London Midland, which In rail, we continued to deliver consistent growth is not impacted by significant infrastructure work, throughout the challenging economic period from achieved 85.8%.
The average score for train 2008 and this has continued in the year, with like operators in London and the south east is 80%.
2020 target To maintain our sector-leading bus We have made improvements over a period of passenger satisfaction scores and improve on time including sales channels, off-peak services levels of customer satisfaction in the rail division, and marketing.
bringing them in line with the industry average for 2020 target To maintain growth at broadly similar the London and south east network.
levels to those consistently delivered in recent years.
Like for like passenger Customer satisfaction % Regional bus punctuality % volume growth % Regional bus Rail Regional bus Rail 5 100 100 4.8 92 91.2 90.0 90.0 90 90 90 89 86.9 86.2 4 3.9 83 80 80 78 77 76 75 3.1 3 2.8 60 60 2.1 2 2.0 1.9 1.1 1 40 40 0.0 0 20 20 -1 1.4 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 30 30 The Go-Ahead Gr The Go-Ahead Group plc I oup plc I Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 Str Strategic repor ategic report t Go Gov ver ernance finance Financial statements Financial statements Shareholder inf Shareholder infor ormation mation London bus punctuality Rail punctuality Key drivers of satisfaction What does it mean?
The punctuality of London What does it mean?
The punctuality of our rail Research strongly demonstrates that what bus operations is measured by excess waiting operations is measured on the basis of the DfTs bus and rail passengers want first and time.
This is the time passengers have to wait for Public Performance Measure PPM on a moving foremost is a punctual, reliable service that a bus above the average scheduled waiting time.
PPM is the percentage of offers value for money.
A reliable network is The lower the excess waiting time, the better trains that arrive at their final destination within fundamental to both bus and train services the performance.
five minutes of their scheduled arrival time.
Service punctuality is Why is it important?
Service punctuality is important to the passengers we carry on behalf important to our passengers.
It is the strongest Over the past year roadworks in places of TfL.
We earn extra revenue through Quality indicator of passenger satisfaction with the service such as London and Oxford have caused Incentive Contract QIC bonus payments if we and is fundamental to building trust and advocacy congestion leading to an increase in journey exceed TfL punctuality targets, on a contract among customers.
PPM performance forms part times and decrease in bus reliability which route basis.
Contract extensions are based on of our franchise agreements with the DfT.
has impacted on the number of passengers performance.
A 2016 study into congestion Risks Punctuality is a key driver of customer describes the impact of slower speeds Risks Poor performance could result in lower satisfaction.
Poor performance could result in leading to higher costs, higher fares, QIC bonus payments and contracts not customers stopping using our services and harm increased journey times, punctuality and being extended.
Breach of franchise agreement reliability decline and service decline: all terms could lead to financial penalties or 2016 performance Average excess waiting time leading to fewer passengers.
Go-Aheads ultimately result in the loss of a franchise.
held at a similar level to last year at 1.22 minutes bus companies work in partnership with in excess of the average scheduled wait time.
The 2016 performance Overall PPM for our rail local authorities in their regions to ensure industry average excess wait is 1.15 minutes.
This is a significant decline that both operators and local authority of 4.6ppt against the prior year.
This metric has Performance has been impacted by roadworks planners can mitigate as much as possible been impacted for the last few years by weak and congestion associated with public realm against the deterioration experienced network resilience in the Southeastern and GTR improvements, including the cycle super highway, through necessary roadworks.
networks which saw a decline of 3.6ppt and affecting our ability to run services in line 9.7ppt respectively.
Conversely, London Midlands It has been accepted that after years of with targets.
PPM saw an increase of 1ppt taking it to 88.5% underinvestment and increasing passenger 2020 target Achieve low average excess waiting and average for the year.
We continue to work numbers the London and south east time of below one minute, in line with closely with Network Rail to improve network is not providing the reliable TfLs targets.
performance on the networks on which we network trains companies need to operate operate, but infrastructure will remain restricted a punctual service and this is having an during the Thameslink upgrade programme and it effect on overall customer satisfaction.
The will not be until the end of 2018 that the full spring 2016 rail passenger survey included benefits of the investment will be realised.
pilot survey where an emotional tracker was used to monitor commuter 2020 target Increase levels of punctuality in all our experiences through a period of disruption franchises to meet 90% PPM in accordance with linked to London Bridge rebuild and the the ORRs Network Rail and London and south Thameslink Programme.
The two factors east operators 2019 target.
The industry is strongly affected passengers sentiment were currently reviewing how it measures performance being on time and the ability to get a seat.
The Thameslink Programme will create additional capacity and stabilise the network London bus punctuality minutes Rail punctuality % supporting a more reliable train service which will improve customer satisfaction.
com 31 31 Our people Focused on our vision 32 32 The Go-Ahead Gr The Go-Ahead Group plc I oup plc I Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Our new behaviours and attitudes have been created in collaboration with colleagues and stakeholders.
They capture in words the spirit of what we stand for, guiding our decision making and our actions and are how we are going to achieve our vision.
A world where every journey is taken care of consistency of approach and language our people plans include several schemes to is our new Group vision.
It is future focused, throughout the business.
Action plans and ensure colleagues have opportunities for full and aspirational and puts customers at the heart of commitments are part of our better together successful careers within the Group.
It sets out where we want to be.
sessions with leaders and managers accountable strong talent programme where individuals with for overseeing delivery.
potential are encouraged to work on projects Creating our vision has been a collaboration and take secondments in other areas of the between colleagues across the organisation and The new vision, beliefs and attitudes help us Group to deepen their understanding of external stakeholders including customers.
We meet our shared goals and objectives in a way the industry.
know it is important that this is not just an that we have mutually agreed is how we wish to exercise to refresh the words we use but that behave and be seen to behave.
With these Go-Ahead bus divisions two year graduate they make a tangible difference to how our strong values in place, the organisation will scheme, launched in 2013, has now successfully people feel about working at Group, how support the right behaviours and challenge seen 21 graduates go through the programme customers experience the service we offer and those that go against them.
Like other successful and six take management roles.
The scheme a point of differentiation from our peers.
organisations we will use our values and built on the Groups well established behaviours to govern decision making.
Our engineering scheme and broadened the scope The vision is a continual reminder that we are leaders and senior managers play a crucial role to include high calibre individuals enthusiastic an organisation that provides a valuable public in assisting others to do this.
about transport, who were commercially aware transport service for people rather than just with strong leadership potential.
Participants being operational logistics experts.
The act of Delivering improved efficiencies and greater focus on the operational aspects of company taking care of peoples journeys resonates with agility will help us to be one step ahead of the management and have the opportunity to work our employees and is a common purpose for competition and continue to invest in the future.
across all areas of the business including driving, everyone in the Group.
We know that by working together we will be contract and project management, marketing able to create a truly customer-focused Embedding the new vision, behaviours and and stakeholder relations.
A coaching approach collaborative workplace and through that underpins the scheme and MDs and operations attitudes across the organisation is underway deliver growth.
Passengers will benefit from our policies, procedures, KPIs and contracts directors act as mentors for the graduates.
better services: customers and our supply chain are all being re-drafted to align the organisation will benefit from increased responsiveness and For the past few years our rail division has with our vision so that we are agile and improved value for money: our people will taken part in the industrys track and train responsive to meeting our customer needs.
We benefit through greater opportunities across scheme providing all-round experience for have launched a programme entitled going the Group: and our shareholders will benefit in graduates to find graduate roles and in the past forward together to deliver the key changes we our success.
year we have introduced our own Govia need to put in place in all our operating graduate scheme with five graduates in 2015 16. companies to continue to grow, deliver better As part of our effort to increase gender Next generation value for money and provide a good service for diversity across our business, two women are Succession planning is an important part of customers.
Facilitated workshop sessions have part of the cohort.
running a responsible sustainable business and been held at all operating companies to ensure Our new vision, beliefs and attitudes are: A world where every We believe in We are journey is taken care of Trusting people Accountable Being can-do people Down-to-earth Building relationships Collaborative Being one step ahead Agile The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
com 33 Our strategy and key performance indicators continued Our people To be a leading employer in the transport sector.
Employee engagement Absenteeism Employee turnover What does it mean?
Since 2012 we have What does it mean?
We measure employee What does it mean?
Employee turnover is measured how engaged our people are through absence by the percentage of scheduled hours measured by the percentage of employees who annual independent employee surveys, conducted not worked due to unplanned absence leave the business in year.
High levels of employee Why is it important?
Go-Ahead strives to be a Why is it important?
High levels of absenteeism turnover could be reflective of low levels of staff good, respected employer and we appreciate the could be reflective of low levels of staff satisfaction and engagement.
By monitoring levels experience and opinions of our people and satisfaction and engagement.
By monitoring levels of turnover we are able to identify areas of the insight gained from their feedback.
Whenever of absence we are able to identify areas of the business with potential employee relations issues.
possible we make changes as a result of feedback business with potential employee relations or staff This also helps to identify issues such as staff received to build trust and foster an environment shortage issues.
Monitoring also helps us with our shortage and assists us in resource planning where employee voice is valued.
In addition to making Go-Ahead an attractive Risks Staff shortages could impact on our ability Risks Employee shortages could impact our ability place to work, high levels of employee to deliver our services at the frequency, level of to deliver our services at the frequency, level of engagement will contribute to the success of punctuality and standard we aim to achieve.
It punctuality and standard we aim to achieve.
potentially puts additional pressure on colleagues Some roles, such as train drivers, take more than in the workplace and impacts on employee a year to train and we have a disproportionate Risks Low levels of employee engagement could morale, engagement and stress levels.
There is a number of employees in those roles likely to be result in reduced productivity and higher levels of significant cost to the business of absenteeism: the nearing the end of their career.
absence or staff turnover, all of which would national estimated average cost of an absent impact on resource planning across the business.
2016 performance The overall rate of employee employee is 554 per year CIPD 2015 survey turnover was 11.4% for the Group, with 14.8% in 2016 performance In the year our overall 2016 performance In the year, the overall rate of our bus division and 7.9% in rail.
engagement score for the Group was 53%.
Our Group absence was 3.9% of working hours lost bus division recorded levels of employee Levels of turnover are regularly monitored by to sickness, with 3.5% in our bus division and engagement of 47%, and our rail division averaged local management teams who we believe are 4.3% in rail.
This is higher than the national sector scores of 59%.
best placed to respond to changing levels and average 3.5% CIPD 2015 survey.
address local issues as they arise is important to As the largest employer in the Group, Go-Ahead Our local management teams are focused on consider the economic climate in relation to this Londons relatively low score of 46% brought establishing workplaces with a positive working KPI as the wider job market can impact turnover down the bus division average significantly.
GTRs atmosphere and consider wellbeing when making levels.
Our rail division is recruiting and training an score of 40% has also negatively impacted the rail operational business decisions.
Line manager unprecedented number of new drivers to division results significantly.
Improving engagement training is aimed at assisting our peoples capability operate increased numbers of train services, and at both these operating companies will be a to manage absence through identifying and to fill vacancies left by retiring colleagues.
particular focus for the management teams.
managing stress in their teams and adhering to 2020 target Maintain consistently low levels of 2020 target All our bus and rail companies set attendance procedures.
their own challenging targets to increase levels of 2020 target Achieve low levels of absenteeism, employee engagement.
Overall, our aim is to below the national average.
improve our levels of engagement each year, remaining above the average for large businesses.
34 34 The Go-Ahead Gr The Go-Ahead Group plc I oup plc I Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 Str Strategic repor ategic report t Go Gov ver ernance finance Financial statements Financial statements Shareholder inf Shareholder infor ormation mation Focus on our people Our aim is to be the employer of choice in the sector.
The safety and wellbeing of our people is our priority and we place great emphasis on strong health and safety standards being maintained across the Group.
We have refreshed our organisations vision and values to better encourage an environment where our people develop and have the opportunity for fulfilling careers with us.
We seek to provide opportunities for personal in roles such as bus and train drivers and Employee relations and professional development and to recognise engineering operational roles.
We work to It has been established that retaining engaged and reward excellence.
We are committed to ensure that there is no bias towards either and motivated employees is important to the protecting the rights of our people and believe gender and that all appointments and internal success of the business.
We seek to engage in equal opportunities at all levels of the promotions are made on the basis of merit.
effectively with teams and individuals at a local business.
We use a range of means to ensure The Group believes in equal opportunities level, while maintaining a Group approach with that the voice of employees is heard across the regardless of gender, age, religion or belief, consistent values and behaviours.
We appreciate Group including: employee surveys, informal sexual orientation, race and, where practicable, the experience and opinions of our people and feedback sessions and discussions, internal social disability.
We give full and fair consideration to conduct annual employee engagement surveys media, phone-ins, newsletters and more.
job applications from people with disabilities, across the Group.
The majority of our During the year, we continued the development considering their particular aptitudes and workforce is represented by trade unions and of our people and succession plans across the abilities.
In respect of existing employees who we strive to foster good relationships with organisation from the boardroom to customermay become disabled, the Groups policy is to union representatives, acknowledging the facing colleagues.
Our central HR function runs provide continuing employment and impact that poor employee relations has on our talent, rising star and mentoring programmes appropriate training, career development and success.
It is clear that the response of unions to for individuals identified as having potential for promotion of disabled people employed by us.
modernisation changes being introduced at rail promotion.
It also develops training courses and company GTR has created a difficult climate for In the past year we have embarked on a provides access to a suite of learning and some particular roles and improving relations in training programme, that will ultimately include development resources for managers and this matter is one of the main focuses of the all operating companies, helping managers of teams across all our operating companies.
people to be aware of issues such as We believe it is important employees can unconscious bias to ensure all people are Our local approach benefit from the Groups success alongside treated fairly and equitably.
Go-Ahead has always operated through a shareholders.
In the past year we have Human rights devolved management structure, with local introduced a Sharesave scheme, the second teams entrusted and empowered to run their We are committed to protecting the rights of scheme in the past four years, aimed at businesses effectively.
We believe our operating our people, customers, suppliers and other encouraging our people to increase their vested company management teams are best placed stakeholders.
This commitment is reflected in interest in the Groups success.
to respond to the needs of local customers and our Group policies and procedures.
The Diversity and equal opportunities communities.
This approach allows flexibility and Modern Slavery Act came into effect in 2015 fast action which we believe gives us Go-Ahead recognises the value of diversity in and Go-Ahead has made steps to promote and competitive advantage in the markets we serve.
all areas and at all levels of the business.
Over improve our commitment to eliminating abuse This local focus is complemented by skills, the past two years we have established a and exploitation in the workplace.
We have expertise and support at Group level in areas Group diversity forum, comprising individuals identified at risk functions within our business such as marketing, IT shared services and from across the Group, with a particular focus and supply chain and have required our procurement and we have regular better on increasing gender diversity.
Traditionally our suppliers to abide by our anti-slavery and together forums to share experience and industry has a large percentage of men working trafficking policy or their own equivalent.
Board gender diversity Senior management gender diversity Overall Group gender diversity Male: 5 83% Male: 53 83% Male: 23,617 86% Female: 1 17% Female: 11 17% Female: 3,908 14% The Go-Ahead Gr The Go-Ahead Group plc I oup plc I www www.
com 35 35 Finance Focused on accountability 36 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Go-Ahead is committed to accountability in its finances, maintaining a strong and effective financial control environment.
We have a disciplined financial framework companies to one enterprise platform.
Our Over the last few years we have invested in operating Group wide.
A key part of our central procurement department achieves cost establishing a central services IT helpdesk team business model is to focus on customer service savings through negotiations on behalf of our offering our operating companies 24 hour to improve customer retention and satisfaction operating companies and our central marketing technical support.
This shared service centre and to invest in capability, processes and function adds value by negotiating advertising allows employees to log all faults ranging from a performance measures to reduce costs by space nationally rather than at individual problem with equipment such as station ticket making our operations reliable effective company level.
vending machines through to getting assistance and efficient.
over the phone or via online chat with a Our central procurement division has computer software problem or query.
We continue to be one of the few FTSE 250 successfully delivered savings in the region of companies with the Fair Tax Mark something 4m across a range of contracts.
For example that we were the first in the FTSE 350 to be the team has negotiated a telecommunications accredited with at the schemes launch in 2014. data contract leveraging the scale of our UK The Board continues to work towards being wide operations and the growing desirability of assessed as low risk by HMRC and ensure that having Wifi service onboard our buses and we adhere to our policy of not undertaking tax trains and at stations.
planning or making use of tax havens.
Our suppliers play a strong role in helping us Our devolved approach enables us to build deliver our strategy and we aim to get the most management accountability at operating from them.
We aim to choose companies who company level.
It means that decisions can be act ethically and responsibly and by working in taken locally about where to re-invest to deliver partnership with our suppliers we have the maximum benefit for customers.
A continued to reduce our carbon, water and significant portion of our profits are reinvested waste emissions.
We have also signed up to the in the business to increase opportunities for prompt payment code and follow the principles growth as well as drive further efficiency.
of the governments better payment Organisational efficiency programmes include practice code.
upgrading IT systems and moving all Group In the top 10 UKs most trustworthy companies 2016 - Forbes List.
Companies that, Consistently demonstrated transparent accounting practices and solid corporate governance First in FTSE 350 to achieve Fair Tax Mark The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
com 37 Our strategy and key performance indicators continued Finance To run our business with strong financial discipline to deliver sustainable shareholder value.
Like for like revenue growth Adjusted operating profit Adjusted NET DEBT EBITDA What does it mean?
For our rail operations, we What does it mean?
Adjusted operating profit What does it mean?
This ratio is used to indicate measure revenue generated through the excludes the incremental impact of IAS 19 the Groups ability to pay down its debt from provision of passenger transport services.
In our revised and also amortisation, goodwill earnings.
Adjusted net debt, which is total net bus division, non-passenger revenue is less impairment and exceptional operating costs debt plus restricted cash in our rail division, is material, so we measure total revenue instead.
to provide more comparable year on year measured against earnings before interest, tax, information.
Growing revenue through a combination of growth in passenger numbers and Why is it important?
Adjusted operating profit Why is it important?
We have a bank covenant modest fare increases drives operating helps us measure the underlying performance of limit of 3.5x and are required to remain below profit growth.
Profit growth enables this level.
This ratio also helps us measure against us to reinvest in the business and deliver our commitment to preserve a strong capital Risks Inadequate levels of revenue growth can shareholder value.
structure and maintain our investment grade impact on profitability, reducing our ability to credit ratings.
invest in the business and make returns to Risks Inadequate levels of profitability can reduce shareholders.
our ability to invest in the business and make Risks Exceeding the bank covenant limit of returns to shareholders.
2016 performance In regional bus, like for like revenue growth was 2.4%, down on 2015 2016 performance Total adjusted Group 2016 performance In line with managements performance 2.6%.
London bus like for like operating profit was 157.4m, up 16.9%.
Adjusted expectations, adjusted net debt to EBITDA was revenue increased by 2.6% despite a significant bus operating profit of 100.4m was up 8.0% in 1.36x, slightly below our target range.
Adjusted reduction in Quality Incentive Contract bonus the year and in line with our expectations, net debt reduced by 5.4m to 239.3m in the revenue resulting from roadworks and congestion enabling us to achieve our target of 100m of year, while EBITDA was down by 9.6m in the capital.
Like for like growth in rail revenue bus operating profit this financial year.
of 4.6% is the result of growth in passenger division performance was ahead of our initial 2020 target To maintain adjusted net debt numbers and regulated rail fares set by the expectations with adjusted operating profit for EBITDA within our target range of 1.5x and 2.5x government.
Regulated rail fare increases are the year of 57.0m, up 36.7%, helped by throughout the economic cycle.
passed back to the government through the improved insurance claims costs and lower premium or subsidy payment of each franchise.
2020 target To maintain growth at broadly similar Bus target: To maintain industry leading margins.
levels to those consistently delivered over Rail target: Deliver value from existing franchises recent years.
and achieve margins nearer the industry average of 3%.
38 38 The Go-Ahead Gr The Go-Ahead Group plc I oup plc I Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 4.7 5.8 9.6 4.3 5.0 6.9 4.3 7.5 6.1 2.6 1.8 7.3 2.4 4.4 4.6 Str Strategic repor ategic report t Go Gov ver ernance finance Financial statements Financial statements Shareholder inf Shareholder infor ormation mation Cashflow Adjusted EBITDA Dividend cover What does it mean?
This ratio is used to monitor What does it mean?
We measure the level by the conversion of operating profit into which our dividend payments can be covered by operating cash.
earnings adjusted earnings per share divided by dividend per share.
Good performance against this KPI demonstrates strong working capital Why is it important?
We are committed to management and financial discipline.
Strong cash delivering shareholder value through our dividend generation provides liquidity.
We measure our dividend cover to help us assess how much of our profits we can pay to Risks Not generating sufficient earnings to shareholders as a dividend whilst allowing reinvest in the business.
sufficient retained earnings to invest in the 2016 performance Cashflow generated from business.
Negative Risks Insufficient or unsustainable dividend cover working capital after adjusting for restricted cash could result in the dividend being reduced.
in 2014 15 was predominately in the rail business and reflects changes in the London Midland and 2016 performance Dividend cover was in line Southern franchise agreement.
The nature of our with our policy at 2.30 times earnings on a rail business can lead to large working capital pre-IAS 19 basis.
Further to a 6.5% increase in the movements at certain times of year, which can interim dividend, the Board has proposed a final result in some fluctuations from year to year due dividend of 67.52 per share, increasing the full to timing of payments and receipts.
Our London year dividend to 95.85p, up 6.5%, from 90.0p.
bus contracts run for five years with a possible 2020 target Maintain adequate dividend cover two year extension.
Capital expenditure throughout the economic cycle, in line with our requirements in this division are impacted by the policy of 2x cover, excluding the incremental timing of contract renewals.
2020 target To match or exceed cashflow generated from operations to EBITDA.
excluding restricted cash movement adjusted for the incremental impact of IAS 19 revised.
