Our markets We believe that public transport is best provided locally.
Each local transport market is unique and each requires a tailored approach to help it deliver local objectives.
passengers through increased innovation, service quality, Market review flexibility and efficiency.
Commuter rail satisfaction in the south We firmly believe in the fundamental strengths of UK public east has fallen recently as service has been impacted by transport.
All major political parties recognise and support the congestion and the infrastructure upgrade programmes being importance of public transport for the UKs present and future implemented to reduce congestion.
However, it is expected needs.
Public transport brings benefits to individuals, that satisfaction levels will increase dramatically when new communities and the nation as a whole.
Economically, it trains and infrastructure upgrades are completed in 2018. connects workers to jobs and enables trade.
Socially, it provides access to employment, education, and health care, and unites Our core markets friends and family.
For many, especially older people, people with disabilities and children, public transport is often the only Our current bus and rail businesses operate in the UK, available way to make a journey.
predominantly in London and the south east of England.
Passenger demand for public transport services sees In the UK, the population continues to increase and car considerable variation across local markets reflecting ownership is rising, creating greater traffic congestion.
Public differences in socio-demographic factors, the relative transport helps to reduce levels of traffic on the road, improve attractiveness of alternative modes of transport, as well as carbon emissions and reduce travel times.
See page 29 for our wider transport policy and government expenditure.
Our case study on customer journey experience.
operations are located in high density commuter markets, It is important for us to listen to our customers at a local level where there is strong demand for public transport.
and understand how their travel behaviours are changing and The London bus and UK rail markets are regulated by what is important to them.
Understanding our customers and Transport for London and the Office of Rail Regulation communities enables us to innovate and evolve to continue respectively.
Both markets operate under an established and meeting their changing demands.
Local bus services outside of London have While we make use of market and wider economic data to been fide-regulated and privatised since 1986. help us understand trends, we do not rely solely on this.
We Go-Ahead is the largest operator in London with a market believe the best way to understand our customers behaviour share of over 24%.
Operating under a regulated system, TfL is to ask our customers themselves for their views, as well as issues tenders for each bus route and private operators enter analysing travelling and purchasing behaviour through our a competitive bidding process for the right to operate them.
Go-Aheads companies undertake Having a good network of bus depots is vital.
Go-Ahead has passenger research to ensure customers needs are recently expanded its strategically located London depots to understood and are met.
In general, levels of passenger 17, with around 85% of our capacity owned as freehold.
satisfaction with bus services across the country are high and the commercial aspects of the market provide benefits to Low emission buses Our strengths as an operator: Understanding and meeting the needs of the people in Euro 6: 16% our local markets, delivering good quality services and Euro 5: 46% value for money Euro 4: 8% Developing strong local brands Other: 30% Delivering safe and efficient vehicle operations High customer service standards, for both our passengers and our transport authority customers Adopting a partnership approach in developing and Euro 6,5 and 4 are considered to be the lowest emission operating services which create long term value for all parties involved vehicles in the market.
The average age of our bus fleet is 7.8 years.
In the past year we have invested 71.8m in Operating on large and complex transport networks 316 new buses.
Employing experienced management who are committed to supporting and developing our people 20 20 The Go-Ahead Gr The Go-Ahead Group plc I oup plc I Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 Str Strategic repor ategic report t Go Gov ver ernance finance Financial statements Financial statements Shareholder inf Shareholder infor ormation mation The economy and population growth New markets During the economic downturn in 2008 09 GDP fell by Go-Aheads longstanding approach to development has around 6% and did not return to its pre-downturn levels until been to seek opportunities that deliver value to our 2013.
Unlike many sectors that experience volatility with shareholders.
We look for markets that fit with our economic changes, the bus and rail markets remained relatively strategy and risk appetite and to which we can bring stable through this period.
Go-Ahead in particular, showed knowledge, experience and expertise.
In the first half of resilience at this time with consistent growth in passenger the year we were pleased to win business in two volumes between 2008 and 2013, demonstrating the strength overseas markets, Germany and Singapore.
of our business model and strategy.
In Singapore, Go-Ahead was awarded a five-year contract Demand for bus travel in the capital remains strong and, to operate bus services beginning September 2016. despite a recent dip in passenger journeys as a result of road Singapores bus contracts system is modelled largely on improvements and congestion, the market is regarded as being Londons and, as Londons largest bus operator, relatively resilient.
Population growth is a key driver for growth Go-Ahead has the right experience and expertise to in public transport and the highest rates of population growth deliver high quality services in Singapore.
Across the regional bus market it is important to note that there are considerable local and We also look forward to entering the German rail regional variations.
Go-Aheads strategy is to focus our market, having been awarded two contracts to operate operations in dense urban markets which can support a rail services in Baden-Wrttemberg from June 2019 until comprehensive network of bus routes, offering good value 2032.
In Germany almost 90 million train-km per year is and ease of use for both commuter and leisure travel.
Bus due to be tendered each year between 2016 and 2020, can often be the cheapest way to travel, offering a low-cost almost half of this in Bavaria and Baden-Wrttemberg.
alternative to other modes in a more uncertain These contract wins show that Go-Ahead is a growing economic environment.
and forward-looking organisation which is well positioned Our rail strategy is to operate intensive urban commuter to capture new, value adding opportunities.
The rail industry is not a single homogeneous entity as each franchise has distinct Characteristics of the markets we are exploring: characteristics.
Significant variables include the type of franchise, Cultural similarities to UK the age and length of the franchise and the revenue bid Strong economic credentials assumptions and subsidy premium profiles.
Go-Ahead benefits from rail profits that are relatively less sensitive to passenger High demand for public transport volume changes: the GTR franchise is a gross cost contract that Stable political outlook is not exposed to revenue risk: while Southeastern and London Growing population Midland have been operating in profit share.
New technology and social change New technology and social changes are shaping the economics At Go-Ahead we recognise the need to put accessibility and of our industry.
As a result the transport market is changing fast More information consumer choice at the heart of our business.
We strive to on page 29 quickly and there are great opportunities ahead, as well as take advantage of technological advances and improve the competitive pressures.
This includes the likely shrinkage of the services we provide.
For a number of years we have led the traditional retail car as the need to own a car diminishes, industry in our use of smart ticketing, with the largest transport especially in cities and the suburbs, and the use of automated smartcard scheme outside of London.
Over the last few years cars and car-sharing services increase.
we have developed mobile apps with features such as realtime information to give customers access to up-to-the minute Bus payment method % information on their mobile devices.
We strive to enable people to use their time travelling productively by creating Cash: 69% comfortable environments and providing innovations such as Smartcards: 23% on board Wifi and mobile phone charging points.
Integrated M-tickets: 8% transport solutions will be an ever more important part of the transport network.
We are exploring new ways to build end to end journeys, and have introduced car share hire schemes in Brighton and the north east that can be accessed by Go-Aheads the key smartcard.
While all London bus journeys are paid with smartcard or contactless our Regional bus journeys reman primarily paid for with cash.
The Go-Ahead Gr The Go-Ahead Group plc I oup plc I www www.
com 21 21 Our markets continued Political and regulatory developments Regional bus market share % The Bus Services Bill, which was published during the course of 7% the year and is currently passing through Parliament, introduces enabling powers for bus franchising and outlined the process Stagecoach: 24% by which powers granted to combined authorities can be exercised.
The Bill also enhances the partnership model with FirstGroup: 18% local authorities that Go-Ahead already supports.
Significant Arriva: 15% benefits have been achieved through the strong alliances Go-Ahead: 7% Go-Ahead companies have forged with local authorities.
National Express: 6% Others: 30% Go-Ahead has been working with the DfT on the important More information supporting guidelines that will underpin how the Bill gets on page 5 implemented and will continue to help inform the debate.
Measures brought forward in the Bus Services Bill must ensure that the franchise decision-making process is transparent and that any franchise proposals will deliver on customer service, value for money and affordability criteria.
London Bus market share % 24% Market challenges Go-Ahead: 24% Comfort DelGro: 19% Arriva: 17% Regional bus: Stagecoach: 15% RATP: 12% Infrastructure improvements in some of our operating areas that will deliver long term benefits are resulting in significant roadworks and disruption in the Abellio: 8% shorter term Tower Transit: 4% Others: 1% The local economy in the north east has not recovered at the same rate as other areas in which we operate.
With unemployment at higher levels than the UK average, passenger volumes have fallen in this area as a result of weaker economic conditions The current lack of detail around the governments plans regarding the Bus Rail market share % Services Bill and possible links to devolution, creates uncertainty in this market, which in turn disincentivises investment by operators 27% Stagecoach: 28% Govia: 27% FirstGroup: 13% London bus: Arriva: 12% TfL has acknowledged that passenger volume targets have not been met due to Abellio: 11% rising levels of traffic congestion caused by increased roadworks and infrastructure Others: 9% improvement schemes.
TfL expects reliability of the bus network to return to best previous levels by next year Rail: The large scale infrastructure project, the Thameslink Programme, continues to impact on our ability to operate some of our services to our target levels.
We are reliant on other parties, such as Network Rail, delivering their contractual obligations 22 22 The Go-Ahead Gr The Go-Ahead Group plc I oup plc I Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016
