Our business model Our business model is robust and provides long term earnings resilience across the economic cycle.
In addition to delivering sustainable returns for our shareholders we create value for our customers, our people and the communities we serve.
1 We generate revenue and profit in two main ways 2 6 Through our three operating divisions: To build a sustainable business for the long term Regional London bus Rail bus 3 5 Creating value for: Enabled by: Our key relationships Communities Customers Our people Our key inputs 4 Investors Strategic Government Supported by: partners & suppliers Our strategic priorities Society Customers Our people Finance Our robust governance framework Our approach to risk 16 16 The Go-Ahead Gr The Go-Ahead Group plc I oup plc I Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 Str Strategic repor ategic report t Go Gov ver ernance finance Financial statements Financial statements Shareholder inf Shareholder infor ormation mation 1 fare revenue raised and therefore revenue risk.
This includes the UK We generate revenue and profit in two main ways: London bus market and the GTR rail franchise.
1 The provision of transport services to fare-paying passengers, whose revenue covers the cost of service and a profit margin.
Most bus Net cost contracts where our revenue is a combination of income from operations in the UK outside London operate on this commercial basis.
fares and payments from transport authorities.
Most UK rail franchises are run on this basis.
2 The provision of passenger transport services on behalf of public sector transport authorities.
We tender for, and run, contracts in two main Where revenue is partly or wholly derived from transport authorities the operator carries cost risk.
Good cost controls are vital in areas such as sub-categories: staff utilisation, fuel efficiency and negotiating and managing contractual Gross cost contracts where our entire revenue comprises payments relationships.
Part of the Groups core skill set is managing all of these made by the transport authority to us with the authority retaining all areas without compromising safety or quality.
2 Through our three operating divisions: Regional London Rail bus bus Read about our divisions on page 18 and 19 3 Enabled by: Our key relationships Our key inputs Passengers Our people We strive to deliver effective local services that put passengers at the We directly employ almost all the people involved in providing our services.
heart of everything we do and where we stay one step ahead of changes Our buses and trains in our customers worlds.
All of our trains are leased and we own all of our regional bus fleet.
In our Our people London bus business, around half of our fleet is leased and half is owned.
High levels of colleague engagement, job satisfaction and a safe, supportive Infrastructure working environment contribute directly to the success of Go-Ahead.
We pay for the use of public sector infrastructure such as railway track Communities access or use of local authority bus stations.
We own the majority of our Our businesses are part of the local communities in which they operate.
Rail depots are rented from Network Rail or similar providers.
Our aim is to provide the social and economic benefits of affordable, Fuel accessible travel in the towns and cities we serve.
Our vehicles are mainly powered by a combination of diesel, electricity Government and gas.
Policy and regulatory changes affect our bus and rail businesses.
Working Read about our fuel hedging policy on page 53 closely with both central and local government we bring the benefits of private sector delivery and lower public spending.
Finance Strategic partners and suppliers We are financed through a combination of investment from our We work collaboratively with strategic partners including the DfT, TfL, shareholders, bank and other debt and also through profits generated by local authorities, Network Rail and rail rolling stock companies.
After payments to transport authorities and infrastructure Professional relationships with core suppliers help to ensure and support providers, our largest costs are those of employing our people, funding efficient delivery of value for money services.
our vehicle fleets and fuel.
Shareholders As a publicly listed company we provide open and transparent See the breakdown of our bus and rail cost bases on pages 52 and 56 information, which enables informed investment decisions to be made.
Feedback from our shareholders forms part of strategic Board discussions.
4 Supported by: Our robust governance framework Our approach to risk Our strategic priorities Read about our strategic priorities Read our corporate governance report Read about our approach to risk on page 23 on page 62 on page 40 5 transport authority customers and strive to be a reliable partner to Creating value for: our industry colleagues.
Through our robust business model, we are A broad range of stakeholders committed to delivering sustainable shareholder value.
We also create At Go-Ahead, we believe it is important to deliver shared value.
Our bus benefits for the UK economy through the employment of over 27,500 and rail operations create value for our people, the communities we people, the taxes we pay, payments to our suppliers and the contribution serve, and our passengers.
We deliver high levels of services to our our rail franchises make to the government.
6 To build a sustainable business for the long term We reinvest profits into our services to maintain our position as a leading provider of passenger transport.
The Go-Ahead Gr The Go-Ahead Group plc I oup plc I www www.
com 17 17 Our core business units We create shared value for our stakeholders through our three core operating divisions: regional bus, London bus, and rail.
Regional bus London bus We operate commercial bus businesses, We operate tendered contracts for predominantly in the south of England Transport for London TfL Outside London, we have operations in Brighton, Oxford, Plymouth, In London, we operate around 190 routes from 17 depots in the East Anglia, on the south coast and in north east England.
Around 85% of these depots are freehold.
We own 100% of 100% of these businesses.
Key market features Key market features Outside London In London Services operated on a largely commercial basis Services operated for TfL which sets routes and service frequency Accountable to the traffic commissioner and other industry bodies Fares set by the Mayor of London Work in partnership with local authorities to meet the needs of our Private operators bid for individual route contracts communities Revenue paid to operators by TfL on a revenue per mile basis Comprises local markets with unique features Five to seven year contracts, dependent on performance Mainly private operators, some local authority owned operations Gross cost contracts require tight control of cost base Operators largely make their own decisions, such as setting bus Growth opportunities fares, routes and service frequencies Go-Ahead is the largest bus operator in London with around 24% Some tendered services are run on behalf of councils, such as market share.
Growth opportunities exist through additional contract school contracts wins, by moving into new areas through acquisition and if the scope of Operators have a relatively flexible cost base which can be adapted the network increases as Londons population grows.
to mitigate external factors Divisional revenue Growth opportunities 95%: Running bus services in London for TfL Go-Ahead operates around 7% of the regional bus market in the UK.
Operating under a regulated system, TfL issues tenders for bus routes It is a mature market with scope for growth through acquisition, in London and private operators enter a competitive bidding process network expansion and changing behaviours resulting in increased bus for individual route contracts.
Contracts are usually five years in use.
The Bus Services Bill, which is currently passing through Parliament, duration with a possible two year performance-based extension.
will give new enabling powers for franchising and the criteria which an Our revenue comes directly from TfL and is paid on a revenue authority needs to meet, though the Bill also enhances the partnership per mile basis.
model with local authorities that Go-Ahead already supports.
5%: Other revenue including Quality Incentive Contract bonuses Divisional revenue Other sources of revenue include providing rail replacement services, 70%: Fare paying passengers advertising on buses and operating other third party contracts.
By offering high quality services and value for money fares we are able Performance targets are set by TfL through Quality Incentive Contracts to grow passenger numbers.
QIC to encourage the provision of punctual services.
Operators 20%: Reimbursement for concessionary travel receive bonus payments when targets are met and are penalised for Government policy entitles anyone of pensionable age to free travel poor performance.
on local bus services in England.
Bus operators are reimbursed a percentage of the full fare for revenue forgone.
This is paid by local Singapore bus authorities from a fund allocated by central government, based on a Singapore bus operates under the Bus Contracting Model, similar principle of the operator being no better and no worse off.
The Singapore Land Transport Authority Our typical reimbursement rates are around 50%.
tenders out routes and collects fares.
Operators are paid a sum to run the routes, plus incentive bonuses for meeting or exceeding 10%: Tendered contracts service standards.
Services which are not commercially viable, such as rural routes and school buses, are tendered by local authorities.
We also operate commercial contracts for universities and other third parties.
More information on page 51 More information on page 51 18 18 The Go-Ahead Gr The Go-Ahead Group plc I oup plc I Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 Str Strategic repor ategic report t Go Gov ver ernance finance Financial statements Financial statements Shareholder inf Shareholder infor ormation mation Total Group revenue 3,361.3m Total Group adjusted operating profit 157.4m Regional bus: 375.7m Regional bus: 53.3m London bus: 487.6m London bus: 47.1m Rail: 2,498.0m Rail: 57.0m Rail United Kingdom We operate rail franchises for the Our operations are primarily based Department for Transport DfT in the south east of theUK Go-Ahead currently operates three UK rail franchises GTR, Southeastern and London Midland through Govia, a 65% owned joint Newcastle venture with Keolis.
Key market features Regulated by the Office of Rail Regulation ORR and other industry bodies Peak fares, routes and service frequencies set by the government Liverpool Existing franchises typically had initial contract terms of around eight years Kings Lynn The infrastructure is largely owned and managed by Network Rail Birmingham Norwich Trains are leased from rolling stock operators Operators have a relatively fixed cost base, reducing flexibility to Colchester Oxford adapt to changes in the wider economy London Growth opportunities Brighton Govia operates around 27% of the UK rail market.
There are significant growth opportunities in this market in the coming years, with several Poole Plymouth franchises due to be awarded.
New franchises typically have revenue opportunity risk, clear contingent capital requirements but low overall capital intensity.
Divisional revenue 95%: Passenger revenue, franchise payments and subsidies Regional bus Operating under a regulated system, the DfT issues tenders for rail London bus franchises and private operators enter a competitive bidding process Rail networks for the right to operate them.
Typically, operators submit detailed franchise bids that specify the level of premium the operator will pay to the DfT or the level of subsidy or franchise payment it will require from the DfT for operating the franchise, dependent on a range of assumptions, such as passenger revenue and cost base.
The model is designed to maximise the value to the taxpayer by incentivising train companies to operate efficiently and encourage passenger growth.
New overseas business 5%: Other revenue We believe there is significant opportunity globally for the services we A small proportion of revenue is generated through other activities on provide, and we actively monitor a range of markets for opportunities.
the rail franchise network such as car parking, station retailing, In 2016 Go-Ahead won business in two overseas markets: Singapore advertising at stations and on trains and third party engineering work.
From September 2016 Go-Ahead will operate 25 bus routes in the Loyang district of Singapore.
The Loyang contract is awarded for five years with the option of a two-year extension based on good performance.
Singapores bus contracts system is largely modelled on Londons.
Go-Ahead is also entering the German rail market, having been awarded two contracts of the Baden-Wrttemberg rail network.
The contracts begin in June 2019 and run until 2032.
More information on page 55 The Go-Ahead Gr The Go-Ahead Group plc I oup plc I www www.
