Directors report Election and re-election of directors The directors present their report and audited financial statements for The appointment and replacement of directors are governed by the the year ended 2 July 2016.
Groups articles, the 2014 Code, the Companies Act 2006 the Act and related legislation.
The directors are appointed by ordinary resolution at a This report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of general meeting of shareholders.
The directors have the power to appoint a The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and director during the year but any person so appointed must be subject to Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and forms part of the election at the first AGM following their appointment.
The current articles management report as required under Disclosure and Transparency require that all directors are subject to re-election on an annual basis.
Certain information that fulfils the requirements of the directors report can be found elsewhere in this document and is All directors will be submitting themselves for election or re-election at the referred to below.
AGM in accordance with the 2014 Code.
The Board is satisfied that each director is qualified for re-election by virtue of their skills, experience and Corporate governance report contribution to the Board.
Biographical details can be found on pages 60 and 61.
Under DTR Rule 7, a requirement exists for certain parts of the corporate governance report to be outlined in this directors report.
The corporate governance statement setting out how the Group complies with the UK Directors indemnities Corporate Governance Code published in September 2014 the 2014 The Group maintains directors and officers liability insurance which gives Code and which includes a description of the main features of its internal appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its directors.
The control and risk management arrangements in relation to the financial Group has also granted indemnities to each of its directors to the extent reporting process is set out on pages 58 to 107.
The information required permitted by law.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined in by DTR 7.2.
6R can be found in the shareholder information section on Section 234 of the Act were in force during the year ended 2 July 2016 and pages 173 to 175.
A description of the composition and operation of the remain in force, in relation to certain losses and liabilities that the directors Board and its committees is set out on pages 60 to 63. may incur to third parties in the course of acting as directors or employees of the Group or of any associated company.
Neither the Groups indemnity nor its insurance provides cover in the event that a director is proven to Strategic report have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
The strategic report on pages 1 to 57 includes an indication of future likely developments in the Group, the Groups business and model strategy and greenhouse gas emissions.
Share capital and substantial shareholdings All information relating to the Groups capital structure, rights attaching to shares, dividends, any restrictions on the transfer of shares, the policy to Articles of association repurchase the Groups own shares, substantial shareholdings and other The Groups articles can only be amended by a special resolution at a shareholder information is shown on pages 173 to 175. general meeting of shareholders.
Shareholders of the Group can request a copy of the articles by contacting the Group Company Secretary at the Change of control registered office.
Details of change of control provisions in the Groups rail franchise agreements and revolving credit facility are set out on page 175.
Directors and their interests The directors of the Group as at the date of the approval of this Annual There are no agreements between the Group and its directors or Report are shown on pages 60 and 61.
All were directors throughout the employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment year to 2 July 2016, with the exception of Patrick Butcher, Group Chief whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that Financial Officer, who joined the Board on 14 March 2016.
Keith Down occurs because of a takeover bid.
resigned as Group Finance Director on 6 December 2015.
The interests of directors and their connected persons in the shares of the Dividends Group along with details of directors share options, are contained in the Our dividend policy is for progressive dividend growth whilst maintaining directors remuneration report set out on pages 84 to 103. dividend cover of approximately two times adjusted earnings, on a pre IAS 19 revised basis, through the economic cycle.
Details of the Directors conflicts of interests proposed final dividend payment for the year ended 2 July 2016 are shown on the consolidated income statement on page 112 of the report.
The Board has established robust procedures for ensuring that its power to authorise conflicts of interest is operated in accordance with the Groups articles of association.
The Board considers that the procedures in respect of this power, which have been properly followed, have operated effectively during the year and the conflicts register has been updated accordingly.
The Board is aware of its directors other commitments and any changes to these commitments are advised to and approved by the Board committees.
104 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Listing Rule 9.8.
4R disclosures Disclosures required pursuant to Listing Rule 9.8.
4R of the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules, can be found within the following sections of the Annual Report: Listing Rule 9.8.
4 Required disclosure Reference 1 Interest capitalised and tax relief Not applicable 2 Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable 3 Details of long term incentive schemes Note 6 to the financial statements and directors remuneration report on pages 84 to 103 4 Waiver of emoluments by a director Directors remuneration report on pages 84 to 103 5 Waiver of future emoluments by a director Not applicable 6 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash by major subsidiary undertakings Not applicable 8 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary Not applicable 9 Contracts of significance Not applicable 10 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Not applicable 11 Shareholder waivers of dividends Directors report on pages 104 to 107 12 Shareholder waivers of future dividends Directors report on pages 104 to 107 13 Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
com 105 Directors report continued Share schemes Pension Employee Benefit Trust The defined benefit section of the Groups pension plan closed to future The Computershare Trustees Jersey Limited, the Trustee of The Go-Ahead accrual with effect from 1 April 2014.
Existing members were offered the Group Employee Trust the Trust, holds shares for the benefit of the opportunity to join the defined contribution section instead.
The defined Groups executive directors and in particular for the satisfying of awards contribution section of the Groups pension plan was closed to new made under the Groups Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and Deferred employees with effect from 1 April 2013 but existing members continue to Share Bonus Plan DSBP.
During the financial period, as part of a 12 month contribute at their current contribution levels.
A new workplace savings planned programme of monthly share purchases, the Trust purchased a total section was set up with effect from 1 April 2013 for the purposes of of 172,964 ordinary shares at a total price of 4,366,152.11 including all auto-enrolment.
This provides a default investment option and at least the associated costs.
The average price was 22.58 per share.
As at 8 minimum level of contributions as required under Government regulations.
September 2016 being the latest practical date prior to the date of this report the Trust held 147,886 ordinary shares representing 0.34% of the Reappointment of external auditor issued share capital of the Group, less treasury shares, in trust for the benefit Details of the reappointment of the external auditor are provided of the executive directors of the Group under the LTIP and DSBP.
The on page 74. voting rights in relation to these shares are exercised by the Trustee and dividends are waived while the shares are held by the Trustee.
Post balance sheet events There have been no material events from 2 July 2016 to the date of Share Incentive Plan this report.
The Group operated a Share Incentive Plan during the year under review, enabling employees of the Group to acquire shares in the Group.
In order Going concern to preserve certain tax benefits, these shares are held in a trust by EES Corporate Trustees Limited for participating employees.
Whilst these shares The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its are held in trust, the voting rights attached to them will not be exercised by future development, performance and position, are set out in the strategic the Trustee or the employees for whom they are held.
The financial position of the Group, its cashflows, liquidity position 2016 being the latest practical date prior to the date of this report, 0.9% of and borrowing facilities are described in the finance review on pages 46 to the issued share capital of the Group, less treasury shares, was held by EES 49.
In addition note 22 to the financial statements includes the Groups Corporate Trustees Limited.
In the event of an offer being made to acquire objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk these shares the employees are entitled to direct EES Corporate Trustees management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging Limited to accept an offer in respect of the shares held on their behalf.
activities: and its exposures to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk.
Save As You Earn Scheme Cash generation from the Groups bus and rail operations was excellent and The Group also operates a save as you earn scheme known as The the balance sheet remains strong.
Core financing is provided by a 200m Go-Ahead Group Plc 2013 Savings-Related Share Option Scheme sterling bond securing financing to September 2017 and committed bank Sharesave, for which the last launch was in February 2016.
Under facilities of 280.0m originally to July 2019, but subsequent to the year end, Sharesave, all permanent employees who have completed at least six has been extended to July 2021.
In July 2014 the 280m facility replaced a months continuous service with a participating company are invited to make 275.5m February 2016 facility.
On 26 August 2016, the Group entered into monthly savings of between 5 and 50 for three years.
At the end of the a 200m term loan to provide flexibility on refinancing the 200m sterling savings term, participants have the choice of their money back, or to 7.5 year bond.
This facility is available to draw down between 4 September purchase Go-Ahead Group shares at a 20% discount to the market price 2017 and 29 September 2017.
Once drawn down, the facility is available to set at the date of invitation.
the Group with extensions for up to a further 24 months.
The directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully, Political donations and expenditure despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
It is the Groups policy not to make political donations and accordingly no The directors have assessed, in the light of current and anticipated economic such payments were made in the year 2016: nil.
Additionally, the Group conditions, the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The directors did not incur any political expenditure as defined in the Act 2016: nil.
confirm they are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, Employees they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Details of the Groups employee policies, including those concerning the Report and Accounts.
employment of disabled persons and employee engagement, are provided The directors are also required to provide a broader assessment of viability on pages 32 to 35, within the People section.
There have been no significant over a longer period, which can be found on page 41. changes to our policies over the year.
The directors going concern confirmation and viability statement have both been considered in accordance with the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014.
106 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016
