Group Q&A Responding to a changing world Evolving regulatory, socio-economic and technological factors impact on our sector.
Go-Ahead seeks to be agile and flexible in order to effectively position itself and manage change.
We are committed to building a sustainable competitive advantage.
We have an established UK business and remain focused on our core markets, while looking for value adding investments elsewhere.
1 What does Brexit mean for the UK bus and rail sector?
page 5 2 How is Go-Ahead positioned to face the uncertainties surrounding Brexit?
page 5 3 What is the Bus Services Bill and its potential impact on the market?
page 5 4 What does the future hold for rural bus services?
page 5 5 Congestion on the roads is a problem.
page 5 6 Some part s of Britains rail networks are operating at full capacity - what are the plans to alleviate these limitations?
page 6 7 How is public transport keeping pace with technological change and innovation?
page 6 8 What is y our approach to remuneration and paying a fair price for success?
page 7 9 What are the Boards plans for Capital returns?
page 7 44 The Go-Ahead Gr The Go-Ahead Group plc I oup plc I Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 authority and bus operator.
Go-Aheads ongoing innovations and 1 What does Brexit mean for the investment in local transport services have repeatedly been UK bus and rail sector?
recognised through industry-leading customer satisfaction scores.
We continue to work with the DfT on the important secondary It is currently unclear what Brexit means for UK economic growth legislation that underpins implementation of the Bill.
It is vital that a and transport volumes.
There are a myriad of factors that affect use robust evaluation framework be included in the legislation to of public transport.
In the case of an economic slowdown it is ensure that any local authority proposing regulating services has to reasonable to anticipate that if unemployment rises and incomes demonstrate that it is in the interests of both customers and are squeezed, passenger numbers in some areas of the sector could taxpayers a key lesson learnt from the findings of the independent decline, especially for discretionary travel.
However, there are a Quality Contracts Scheme Board on the proposals for number of substitution effects that can increase demand.
example, among commuters an increase in part time work could result in more journeys.
Rather than fly abroad more people may 4 What does the future hold holiday within the UK using domestic bus and rail.
A weaker pound will put upward pressure on the cost of fuel, which historically has for rural bus services?
led to a modal shift from private car to public transport.
Local authorities are responsible for tendering local bus services in Beyond the macroeconomics, the impact on transport depends rural parts of the country where population and demand are lower partly on what deal the British government negotiates with its EU and commercial services are not viable.
The transport sector is heavily regulated at the EU important buses are for their communities and local economies and level but it is expected that many of the EUs standards and would like to protect them.
However, reductions in local authority regulations the UK will continue to apply and, in many instances, the funding have resulted in significant cuts to bus services supported standards and regulations implemented by the UK will be similar, if by local authorities.
Many across the country are reluctantly taking not identical, to the EUs.
The UK is likely to remain part of a difficult decisions to scale back services and review subsidised liberalised and integrated European rail system and we fully expect routes as a result.
Fortunately, as part of the governments Spending that the ability of UK transport companies to tender for EU EEA Review in 2015 it was announced that the Bus Service Operators rail franchises would be virtually unchanged by Brexit, irrespective of Grant BSOG would be protected in the near term.
BSOG is one the model adopted.
of the elements enabling operators to keep fares affordable and continue running services that might otherwise be unprofitable and 2 How is Go-Ahead positioned to face the therefore vulnerable to cancellation.
But the longer term outlook uncertainties surrounding Brexit?
for many of these services remains uncertain.
Go-Ahead has a longstanding commitment to delivering high quality and value for With a robust business model, Go-Ahead is well positioned.
The money services to our local markets.
Together with local authorities Groups rail business operates largely on commuter routes in and we are looking at new and innovative ways of running buses against out of London.
Rail profits are also less sensitive to changes in this background of funding cuts and assisting them to find ways that passenger volumes than bus profits.
GTR is a gross cost contract, bus services can be operated sustainably commercially to avoid while Southeastern and London Midland operate within a additional pressure on local taxpayers.
profit-share mechanism and so are to a large extent insulated from revenue movements in the short term.
We believe that any 5 Congestion on the roads is a downturn would be capable of being absorbed within the problem.
remaining life of the London Midland and Southeastern contracts.
In bus, the Group has regional businesses that are well positioned This is a significant issue facing the industry in many parts of the geographically, while London bus operations do not bear country and the role of local authorities is crucial.
Enhanced customer service offers will also be companies are working together with their local authorities to increasingly important to help differentiate our services from ensure that travelling by bus remains an attractive and viable choice, those of our competitors.
with bus priority schemes being actively managed and close liaison and collaboration during roadworks and local events.
3 What is the Bus Services Bill and its A 2016 Greener Journeys report states that in the last 50 years bus potential impact on the market?
journey times have increased by almost 50% in the more congested urban areas and if we had protected bus passengers from the The Bill is legislation that enables local authorities outside London growth in congestion there would arguably be between 48% and to take a number of different approaches to regional bus services.
It 70% more paying bus passenger journeys today.
is not about mandating any particular approach to the management of bus services.
Nor does it impose wholesale reregulation.
The Bill grants devolved powers to regulate services, subject to certain criteria being satisfied.
Importantly, it will also build on the strengths and successes of existing partnership arrangements.
A continuing flow of private sector capital investment will remain crucial to meet important public policy objectives, as well as keep pace with demographic change and new technology that is rapidly transforming the passenger experience.
In regions where bus usage is growing there is typically a close partnership between the local The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
com 5 Group Q&A continued An increasing volume of roadworks, public realm and cycle From 2018 Thameslink services will also connect with Crossrail superhighway improvements in London are causing congestion and services at Farringdon.
Crossrail, Europes largest construction some routes operated on behalf of TfL have slowed considerably.
project, will be fully complete by 2020 and will increase central This has impacted on the number of passengers and our London London rail capacity by 10% as well as reducing journey times.
bus divisions ability to earn Quality Incentive Contract QIC GTR, which operates the Southern and Thameslink routes, is payments in the past year.
The report estimates that for strengthening its fleet maintenance and progressing driver approximately one third of Londons routes the decline has been recruitment and training to increase punctuality and meet the huge more than five times the 1% UK average in the past year.
We have driver training requirements arising from the introduction of new been working with TfL to address this and towards the end of the trains.
Bringing new trains into service boosting capacity and financial year we were pleased to have seen some return of QICs improving reliability are all part of a larger modernisation of the due to congestion easing on some routes.
railway that GTR is undertaking.
It is organising its people to be Smartcards and m-ticketing mobile phone app tickets have a more customer-focused and on-hand when and where passengers strong role to play in reducing overall journey times by reducing the say they need them most.
Regrettably this has contributed to union dwell time necessary at bus stops for cash transactions.
Research unrest at the company, impacting on services over the spring and shows that dwell times can make up to 25 to 30% of total journey summer of 2016.
It is important to stress the Thameslink times.
With more than 850 thousand smartcards in circulation and Programme, and the modernisation associated with it, is a an increasing number of m-tickets being used Go-Ahead has long once-in-a-generation scheme addressing the issues of phenomenal led the way to provide customers with easier, more convenient and passenger growth and underinvestment in the infrastructure.
flexible ways to pay for and speed up their journeys.
7 How is public transport keeping pace with 6 Some parts of Britains rail network are technological change and innovation?
operating at full capacity - what are the The pace of change in the transport sector has increased in recent plans to alleviate these limitations?
Innovations and inventions such as automated vehicles that once seemed a distant possibility are now a tangible reality.
Every day more than 4.5m journeys are made on UK rail services Modernisation is necessary to remain a sustainable and with the number of passengers doubling in the last 20 years.
significant parts of the rail network such as the Southern and Thameslink routes passenger numbers have risen by 40% and 32% The transport industry also needs to be ready to respond to respectively in the past five years.
Additional train services and change as well as pre-empt and instigate it.
Uber and other ventures longer platforms have been added in a piecemeal fashion to try to such as BlaBlaCar are challenging the status quo of the transport keep up with the growing demand, but due to the lack of industry, and we will continue to partner with technology investment in additional infrastructure capacity the punctuality of companies to develop apps and other services to improve journey services has inevitably declined over the same period.
On the planning and on-the-move information to create a smoother end-to Southeastern network south London services also are constrained end journey experience.
Go-Ahead continually upgrades and by limited network capacity.
updates its apps using customer feedback and testing to ensure the user experience is agile, responsive and intuitive.
We are now Across the UK the government and rail industry are investing focusing on personalisation where the tool recognises the individual billions innovating and working to improve reliability, increase customers travel patterns and offers suggestions for the journey capacity and modernise retailing and information.
There are several they wish to make.
major projects coming to completion in the next few years that will cut delays and congestion.
Similarly, investment in design and manufacture such as self-drive capability, electrification and greater automation is advancing more The recent East Coast 348m Hitchin flyover removing a major quickly than for larger vehicles such as buses and coaches.
The bottleneck for services on the East Coast main line delivers more motor industry is investing heavily in making greener, fuel efficient than 1.4bn punctual journeys annually compared with up to 600m vehicles and it is important that bus manufacturers do not lag in the year 1997 98.
The governments Intercity Express behind.
We are the first operator in London to introduce a fully programme on the Great Western line will see new larger trains on electric fleet at our Waterloo depot supported by TfL.
We invest in the Great Western line from 2017 and from 2018 on the East low emission buses across all our operating companies and our Coast main line.
average fleet age is 7.8 years, helping to ensure we reduce carbon The Thameslink Programme, underway now, is long overdue, and emissions and contribute to improving air quality in the the 6.5bn project is transforming one of the busiest stretches of communities we serve.
New trains will add more than 30,000 seats in the Thameslink core, between Blackfriars and St Pancras and passengers departing from Bedford to London will benefit from 2,500 more seats in the morning peak.
Journeys will be more reliable with trains every two to three minutes in each direction through central London at the busiest times.
6 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Focused on technology to improve customer journeys With more customers using smartphones and other devices to organise their leisure and travel plans we need to make sure that our information is easily accessible online for customers.
According to 8 What is your approach to remuneration Ofcom smartphones in the UK have overtaken laptops as internet users number one device.
Some 93% of the adult population own or and paying a fair price for success?
use a mobile phone with 71% having a smartphone.
So we are focused on using mobile technology to personalise and improve our It has long been established that retaining engaged and motivated customers experience.
employees is not only the right thing to do, but also financially beneficial.
Losing key people is a risk to success and over the Planning and making journeys past five years we have introduced comprehensive succession plans across the Group to consider our current and future Go-Ahead is providing elements of its data to enable app developers to include realtime transport information in journey planning apps.
Google transit planner now includes some 85% of Go-Aheads regional We believe in being a fair employer and we are pleased to say we bus realtime operational data.
We know for many journeys the bus will have adopted the voluntary Living Wage of 8.25 per hour across compare favourably with the private car, particularly where local all of our companies.
This exceeds the governments National Living authorities have bus priority measures in place.
Similarly, the rail Wage of 7.20 per hour, introduced in April 2016.
While pay is, of industrys timetable and realtime data is available both for industry course, an important way to motivate and retain employees we online web planners and also for third parties.
Our new Gatwick also aim to create long term benefits for our people.
In the past Express app includes airline arrival and departure times as well as year we launched the second Go-Ahead Sharesave scheme in four realtime train information aimed at providing the most useful years, aimed at encouraging our people to invest alongside our information for people going to the airport.
shareholders, increasing their vested interest in the Groups success.
Navigating large stations can be daunting for some infrequent travellers.
In a challenging environment, our executive leadership team has So Go-Ahead, together with Network Rail and technology companies, delivered strong performance with a focus on the long term have installed Bluetooth beacons into London Bridge station to provide sustainability of the business.
Our approach to remuneration is customers with intelligent and dynamic ways around the station - linked to the delivery of our strategy and focused on consistently particularly useful during the stations rebuild.
This trial is part of improving performance.
We have set out a clear strategy with a HackTrain 2016 event and is sponsored by Go-Ahead and other comprehensive set of actions to improve returns.
We carefully transport companies and is an opportunity for technology start-ups consider elements that make our business successful in both the to use their entrepreneurial innovation for the benefit of the rail short and long term and we place emphasis on long term industry customers.
improvements that are measurable and based on a range of issues across the organisation.
We hold our executive leadership team Almost 40% of our Regional buses have free Wifi for customers to use while travelling.
In the past year more than 100 GTR stations have been accountable for those elements that are within their control and there is a strong alignment between the Groups performance and installed with free Wifi and the new 108 Gatwick Express carriages also have Wifi installed.
the remuneration of executive directors.
It is inevitable and understandable that our industry, providing a vital Paying for travel public service, will be under scrutiny, and our approach is to be While some people may still wish to pay with cash, for increasing transparent and open about executive remuneration.
Read our full numbers of our customers payments are made with smartcards, directors remuneration report page 84. m-tickets tickets on mobile phones or through online secure systems 9 such as Paypal and Pingit.
As high street shops take contactless What are the Boards plans payments so Go-Ahead will be upgrading its onboard bus ticket for capital returns systems to enable contactless payments to be made also.
A full range of tickets available online means that customers no longer need to The Board was pleased to propose another increase to the full year queue at ticket offices, although there is more to do to support dividend this year, recognising the importance of our dividend to customers to feel confident they are buying the correct, best value the investment decision of many of our shareholders.
fare for their journey, online.
The increase in bus profitability over the last five years, and the Our rail apps enable customers to claim delay repay compensation strengthening of our balance sheet, means that the Group now has when their journey has been delayed and work is underway for this more choices about how we allocate capital.
process to be automated to provide a more personalised service.
Our approach is designed to ensure capital is used effectively.
Our priority is to sustain profits from existing businesses and meet Social media commitments in franchises or other contracts.
Furthermore, we Social media enables customers to help each other with advice on consider the use of capital to provide for risks and contingencies, where to go, what to avoid, and what to expect.
With the advent of bid for opportunities in agreed target markets and support new services such as Airbnb, apps such as Tripadvisor, it is clear that franchises or contracts, in addition to making attractive returns peer-to-peer shared opinions have a strong value.
Our capital allocation policy is continually reputations can be diminished by consumers appetite for sharing when under review.
People are willing to share their opinions and recommendations via social media with complete strangers and these comments are often trusted more than official channels of information.
All our operating companies actively engage with customers using social media and aim to use this to increase the depth of the relationship they have with customers by answering individuals comments and questions.
Across the Group this data is useful and we analyse social media trends to help us shape our services to better suit our customers needs.
Ofcom 2015 Communications Market Report The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
