Strategic report Viability statement Underpinned by a robust planningprocess The Directors have assessed the The Groups business model has The financing risks of the Group are viability of the Group, taking account provedto be strong and resilient alsoconsidered to have an impact on of the Groups current position and throughout the different economic theGroups financial viability.
The two the potential impact of the principal cycles even with higher levels of gearing principal financing risks for the Group are risks documented in the Strategic and over the long term, with consistent the Groups ability to replace expiring report.
Based on the assessment, demonstration through its ability to debt facilities and adverse movements in theDirectors have a reasonable sellassets and let vacant properties to interest rates.
A substantial amount of expectation that the Company will provide stable income returns and cash the groups debt facilities mature by beable to continue in operation and generation, throughout challenging 2020.
A Board approved funding strategy meet its liabilities as they fall due market conditions.
Currently the Group will address this as we put in place new overthe four year period to the end directly owns 1.7bn of residential facilities to align with the transition to of2020.
property assets which are relatively PRS investment assets.
The Group has liquid, as has been proved in the past.
currently secured funding todeliver the This assessment was made recognising The Group would remain viable even in planned PRS pipeline andhas prepared the principal risks that could have an the event of very severe and sustained the strategic plan ona fully funded basis.
impact on the future performance house price deflation as it would be able In addition the Group manages itshedge ofthe Company see pages 30 to 33. to accelerate the natural conversion exposure with interest rate swaps, caps Thebusiness plan process incorporates ofits assets to cash and reduce or and fixed ratefacilities.
planning for severe scenarios, with suspend development and acquisition theamalgamation of multiple risks activity.
Only an unprecedented and Based on the results of this analysis, the toassessimpact and longer-term long-term lack of liquidity in UK Directors have a reasonable expectation viabilityof the Company.
residential property markets would that the Group will be ableto continue in cause any threat to theGroup.
operation and meetits liabilities as they The Company has developed a fall due overthe four-year period of their businessplanning process, which is The Board has reviewed its strategic detailed assessment.
conducted annually and comprises andfinancial plans in detail and believes ofafive year strategic plan, a financial that a viability assessment period to forecast forthe current year and a September 2020 is appropriate as any financial projection for the next five ofthe principal risks during this period years.
Theplan is reviewed each year could be managed.
The financial plan bythe Board as part of its budget budget has been stress tested against andstrategy review process.
Once severe and prolonged reductions in approved by the Board, the plan is house prices.
cascaded down across the Company and provides a basis for setting alldetailed financial budgets and strategic actions that are subsequently used by the Board to monitor performance and for the Remuneration Committee to set targets for the annualincentive.
34 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
