Governance Directors report In accordance with the UK Financial select suitable accounting policies financial statements may differ from Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules, and then apply them consistently: legislation in other jurisdictions.
theinformation to be included in the make judgements and estimates Annual Report and Accounts, where thatare reasonable and prudent: Responsibility statement of the applicable, under LR 9.8.
4, is set out in for the Group financial statements, Directors in respect of the annual Note 16 tothe financial statements on state whether they have been financial report page125in relation to the dividend prepared in accordance with IFRSs We confirm that to the best of our waiver arrangements.
asadopted by the EU: knowledge: for the parent company financial Information incorporated statements, state whether applicable the financial statements, prepared in by reference UK Accounting Standards have been accordance with the applicable set The Corporate Governance Statement followed, subject to any material ofaccounting standards, give atrue on pages 43 to 89 forms part of this departures disclosed and explained andfair view of the assets, liabilities, Directors Report and is incorporated inthe parent company financial financial position and profit or loss of into this Directors report by reference.
statements: and the Company and the undertakings prepare the financial statements on included in the consolidation taken Directors interests in the going concern basis unless it is asa whole: and significantcontracts inappropriate to presume that the the Strategic report and Directors No Directors were materially interested Group and the parent company will report include a fair review of the in any contract of significance.
development and performance ofthebusiness and the position Statement of Directors The Directors are responsible for oftheissuer and the undertakings responsibilities keeping adequate accounting records included in the consolidation takenas The Directors are responsible for that are sufficient to show and explain a whole, together with adescription preparing the Annual Report and the the parent companys transactions and of the principal risks and uncertainties Group and parent company financial disclose with reasonable accuracy at any that they face.
statements in accordance with time the financial position of the parent applicable law and regulations.
company and enable them to ensure The Directors have taken all the steps that its financial statements comply that they ought to have taken as a Company law requires the Directors with the Companies Act 2006.
They Director in order to make themselves toprepare Group and parent company have general responsibility for taking aware of any relevant audit information financial statements for each financial such steps as are reasonably open to and to establish that the Companys year.
Under that law they are required to them to safeguard the assets of the auditors are aware of that information.
prepare the Group financial statements Group and to prevent and detect fraud in accordance with IFRSs as adopted and other irregularities.
The maintenance and integrity bythe EU and applicable law and have oftheGrainger plc website is the elected to prepare the parent company Under applicable law and regulations, responsibility of the Directors: the work financial statements in accordance with the Directors are also responsible for carried out by the auditors does not UK Accounting Standards, including FRS preparing a Strategic report, Directors involve consideration of these matters 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
report, Directors Remuneration report and, accordingly, the auditors accept and Corporate Governance statement noresponsibility for any changes that Under company law the Directors must that comply with that law and may have occurred to the financial not approve the financial statements thoseregulations.
statements since they were initially unless they are satisfied that they give a presented on the website.
true and fair view of the state of affairs The Directors are responsible for of the Group and parent company and themaintenance and integrity of the Legislation in the UK governing the of their profit or loss for that period.
In corporate and financial information preparation and dissemination of preparing each of the Group and parent included on the Companys website.
financial statements may differ from company financial statements, the Legislation in the UK governing the legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors are required to: preparation and dissemination of 86 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Directors indemnities and insurance Scope 1 & 2 Global GHG emissions data for period 1 October 2015 to The Company has in place contractual 30September 2016: entitlements for the Directors of Tonnes of CO e 2 theCompany and of its subsidiaries to 2016 locationclaim indemnification by the Company in Emissions from 2015 based Trend 2016 respect of certain liabilities which might Combustion of fuels and operation be incurred by them in the courseof their offacilities 600 603 0% 603 duties as Directors.
Thesearrangements, Electricity, heat, steam and cooling which constitute qualifying third-party forownuse 1,303 989 -24% 979 indemnity provision and qualifying Total footprint 1,903 1,592 -16% 1,582 pension schemeindemnity provision, have been established in compliance with Companys chosen intensity measurement: the relevant provisions of the Companies Emissions reported above per m value of 1 assets under management 0.58 0.61 5% Act 2006.
They include provision for the 2 Emissions reported above per owned unit 0.15 0.28 86% Company to fund the costs incurred by 3 Emissions reported above per employee 6.52 6.98 7% Directors in defending certain claims against them in relation to their duties asDirectors of the Company or its Scope 3 Global GHG emissions data for the financial year: subsidiaries.
The Company also maintains Emissions from 2015 2016 Trend an appropriate level of Directors and Developments contractor electricity and fuel use 454 211 -54% officers liability insurance.
Repairs and maintenance contractor fuel use 188 182 -3% Electricity transmission and distribution losses 89 78 -12% Business travel air and rail 127 72 -44% Financial risk management 4 Estimated tenant energy use tCO2 29,026 18,669 -36% Details are included in Note 28 to the financial statements.
1 Value of assets under management AUM on the last day of the financial year, expressed in millions.
2 Number of owned units on the last day of the financial year within the scope of data collection, Sustainability therefore excluding the sold Germany portfolio.
Further information is provided on 3 Total number of employees of Grainger plc on the last day of the financial year.
co. uk 4 This has been estimated based on a sample of Energy Performance Certificates EPCs and reported in CO only for UK.
Our approach to sustainability is based on our Summary Our Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse assessment of the potential risk and Grainger complies with the greenhouse gas emissions reduced by 16% between opportunity to our business.
In the year gas GHG emissions reporting 2015 and 2016.
This was driven by the ended 30 September 2016, the Group requirements of the Companies Act sale of our German business, and a achieved 50% and partially achieved 2006 Strategic and Directors Reports reduction in energy consumption in our 33% of the applicable sustainability Regulations 2013.
Emissions are reported UK offices and the GRIP REIT portfolio targets that it committed to meeting for our operations in the UK for the full on a like-for-like basis.
Further information reporting period and Germany until the is provided on our website sale of that business which was finalised Our absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 www.
Grainger reports all greenhouse gas emissions from our material GHG emissions, wherever UKresidential and GRIP REIT property possible using tonnes of CO equivalent portfolios have increased due to the 2 tCO e as the unit of measurement.
Our acquisition and development of large 2 reporting period forGHG emissions is properties including our first Build to 1October 2015 to 30 September 2016.
Our portfolio in 2016 changed part-way through theyear with the saleof our German business in April.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 87 Governance Directors report continued Our greenhouse gas emissions per m Scope 1 data Intensity metrics value of assets under management have This includes landlord-obtained gas We have used three intensity metrics: increased slightly due to a reduction in consumed in common areas and by emissions by market value of assets the number of assets following the sale tenants on an unmetered basis as well under management tCO e m value 2 of our German assets and our Equity as fuel consumption in vehicles owned ofAUM, emissions per the number of Release Division.
or leased by Grainger plc.
Fugitive owned units tCO e owned unit and 2 emissions are not included as they emissions per number of employees Methodology havebeen assessed to be immaterial.
inline with our financial reporting Grainger follows the GHG Protocol tCO e employee.
2 Corporate Standard revised edition Scope 2 data andISO14064: Part 1 standard for its This includes landlord-obtained International operations reporting.
In alignment with the UK electricity consumed in common The remainder of our German portfolio Government Environmental Reporting areasand by tenants on an unmetered is managed on our behalf by local asset Guidelines, we have used the 2016 basis as well as electricity consumed and property managers.
emissions conversion factor for the byGrainger plc in its own offices.
Thereis no purchased heat or steam.
Health and safety Wehave reported on all emissions Grainger has a well-developed sources required under the Companies Scope 3 data Healthand Safety Management Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors This includes emissions from electricity Systemfor the internal and external Reports Regulations 2013.
We have used used by Graingers tenants in its control of health and safety risks, which the operational control consolidation UKbuildings based on EPC analysis ismanaged by the Health andSafety method.
These sources fall within our andextrapolation.
This includes the use of consolidated financial statement.
thetransmission and distribution of onlinerisk management systems for Graingers Scope 2 electricity are theidentification, mitigation and In 2015 the GHG Protocol guidance included.
We also report emissions from reporting of real time health and safety wasupdated advising organisations to business travel and from contractors on management information.
The Group provide separate figures to reflect the our development sites and for services Health and Safety Committee consists of market and location based emissions delivered by our repairs and maintenance members from across the organisation.
No other Scope 3 emissions The Committee continues to monitor the The location-based method uses are included.
delivery of legal compliance in health and average emissions intensity of the grid safety through audit and implementation network for that area: the market-based Restatements of improvements to enable the Group to method uses emissions based on We have recalculated emissions for 2015 become best in class.
purchasing decisions made by Grainger.
as we are able to report more accurate For market-based emissions there is a data for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions Employment of disabled persons reporting hierarchy and Grainger has from energy consumption in owned The Company gives full and fair used contractual instruments where properties and fuel consumption in consideration to applications for there isdata readily available.
In addition we have also employment made by disabled persons, purchase 100% renewable electricity restated our Scope 3 emissions from having regard to their particular tariffs for GRIP REIT plc which has electricity transmission and distribution aptitudes and abilities.
In the event of resulted in reduced Scope 2 emissions losses for our offices and owned anemployee becoming disabled every using the market-based approach.
We are also able to report effort is made to ensure that their Where no contractual data is available more accurate data for our business employment within the Company we use residual mix factors.
continues and that appropriate training is arranged where necessary.
It is the policy of the Company that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
88 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Employee involvement Takeover directive The Group places considerable value On a change of control, the core onthe involvement of its employees bankfacility included in Note 27 of andhas continued its practice of keeping thefinancial statements will become them informed on matters affecting repayable should alternative terms for them as employees, for example, continuing the facilities not be agreed eligibility to join Company share with the lenders within 45 days.
In schemes, and on the various factors addition the corporate bond also affecting the performance of theGroup.
referred to in Note 27 may become Communication is made using the repayable following a change of control.
Company intranet, The Source, through There are no other material matters regular newsletters, team meetings, relating toa change of control of the presentations by senior management Company following a takeover bid.
and quarterly all-staff conference calls hosted by the Executives.
The Directors have confirmed approval of the Directors report.
Independent auditors and disclosure of information to auditors By order of the Board.
As far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Each Director has taken steps that they ought to have taken as Directors in Adam McGhin orderto make themselves aware of Company Secretary anyrelevant audit information and to 1 December 2016 establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Political donations In accordance with the Companys policy, no political donations were madein 2016 2015: nil.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 89
