Strategic report Key performance indicators Our KPIs are used to measure the success of the Groups strategic performance Income returns The Directors have reviewed the use of key performance indicators KPIs to ensure that they are aligned to the business strategy.
These measures are used by the Board and senior management to actively monitor business performance.
The following KPIs focus on a key strand of Graingers strategy, which is to increase the overall returns generated from income andimprove the resilience andefficiency of the business model which will support increasing dividend distributions.
PRS rental growth Net rental income Property operating Adjusted earnings Profit before tax % m costs gross to net m m costs % 3.6% 37.4m 28.0% 53.1m 84.2m KPI definition KPI definition KPI definition KPI definition KPI definition Average growth of rents Rental income after Property operating Profit before tax, less Profit before tax for across our PRS portfolio.
property operating costsas a percentage valuation movements the continuing business expenses.
including valuation Previously referred to as movements and Comment recurring profit.
Good rental growth Comment Comment maintained through the 15% growth in net rental 300bps improvement, year, reflecting market income, primarily a result which reflects the Comment Comment conditions and our of acquiring tenanted actionstaken in the 69% increase in FY16 Growth of 64% to proactive approach to rental homes that deliver yearto develop a more adjusted earnings, 84.2m reflecting positive asset management.
immediate income, a efficient and scalable reflecting growth in net valuation movements keystrand of our PRS operating platform.
rental income, a robust and the disposal of land investment strategy.
sales performance and inCzech Republic.
Key Grow rents Simplify and focus Build on our heritage Link to the strategy Link to the strategy Link to the strategy Link to the strategy Link to the strategy Calculated in accordance See Note 7 to the See Note 7 to the See Note 2 for explanation See Note 2 for explanation with the accounting policy financial statements.
and Note 4 to the financial and Note 4 to the financial shown in Note 7 to the statements for reconciliation statements for reconciliation financial statements.
Capital returns The Directors have reviewed the use of KPIs to ensure that they are aligned to the business strategy.
The following KPIs capture Graingers strategy to maximise total returns and capital growth fromits residential investments, with an increasing focus on growing the PRS business and investing 850m by 2020.
The net asset metrics below measure the value of our residential assets and liabilities and capture the year-on-year capital growth.
The loan to value LTV reflects the capital structure of the business while cost of debt shows the cost effectiveness ofour financing.
EPRA NAV EPRA NNNAV LTV Cost of debt Total return pence pence % atperiod end % % 330p 287p 35.9% 3.9% 10.6% KPI definition KPI definition KPI definition KPI definition KPI definition Market value of property EPRA NAV after Ratio of net debt Cost of debt at the period Growth in NNNAV assets, before deferred deducting deferred tothemarket value end including costs and combined with total and contingent tax on andcontingent tax on ofproperties on commitment fees.
dividend per share property revaluations and property revaluations and aconsolidated intheyear.
asreturn on shareholder Comment equity ROSE.
Improvement of 70bps, Comment Comment Comment helped by refinancing 6.5% compound annual 8.9% compound annual Reduction of 960 basis activity including the Comment growth from FY14, 3.4% growth from FY14, points bps in LTV recouponing of two Growth of 60bps growth in FY16 reflecting 8.9%growth in FY16 fuelled by 5.3% growth legacy swaps during the compared with FY15.
a strong trading and supported by a strong inmarket value of our period.
Further benefit valuation performance, trading performance, assets in the year and should be seen in FY17.
despite adjustments good valuation growth, a33% reduction in net forstrategic non-core accretive strategic debt, supported by disposals and the disposals and reduced strongcash generation recouponing of deferred and contingent from sales of vacant legacyswaps.
tax liabilities associated regulated tenancies and with lower corporate non-core disposals of the taxrates.
German and Equity Release businesses.
Link to the strategy Link to the strategy Link to the strategy Link to the strategy Link to the strategy See Note 5 to the financial See Note 5 to the financial See further detail in Financial statements for reconciliation.
