Strategic report Strategy in action Growing rents Inject pace and accelerate theacquisition of existing and newly built rental homes Clippers Quay is a highlyattractive place toinvest, driven by its connectivity and proximity to Manchester and MediaCityUK.
Helen Gordon, Chief Executive A clear and effective three portfolio and provide enhanced pillarstrategy: andbalanced total returns to ourShareholders.
Significantly grow net rental income This investment plan requires no 2.
Simplify and focus the business additional capital raising.
Build on our heritage by policy is directly linked to net rental leveraging our regulated tenancy income for this investment period, assets to grow our PRS business andtherefore will rise in line with our investments.
Our 2020 objective is for Growing net rental income net rental income to more than cover Swift progress on our PRS alloperating costs and to exceed gross investmentpipeline sales revenue from our regulated To significantly grow net rental income, tenancy portfolio.
we are investing 850m into the PRS by 2020.
Coupled with our co-investment We are focused on driving net rental partners share, this totals 1.1bn of yields and are taking significant investment by2020.
The resultant strides in reducing operating costs, growth in net rental income will improving efficiency and creating supplement the capital returns greater scalability.
generated from our regulated tenancy 18 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Net rental income up by 15% to 37.4m Our 2020 targets Invest over 850m by 2020 in order to grow net rental income More than half of our portfolio comprising PRS assets Reduced reliance on sales costcoverage Net rental income to exceed profit from sales Achieving our targets To achieve our goal of growing rents, wemust be able to attract the best customers and keep them for the long-term.
This willallow us to capture the bestpossible sustainable gross rental yield and maximise net rental yield.
We believe that through smart investment, good design and scalable, customer focused operations, we can create more sustainable income through more efficient, durable buildings and happier customers that stay with usfor longer.
Read more Pages 2 and 3 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 19 Strategic report Strategy in action continued Simplify and focus Reducing running costs andincreasing efficiency andscalability We will continue to pursue ongoing improvements, realising further cost efficiencies that our new model creates.
Helen Gordon, Chief Executive We have streamlined our business.
We have significantly reduced operating We are now solely a UK business, costs.
These costs, including overheads, strategically focused on providing are being reduced by 24% from 36.1m rental homes.
We achieved this through a combination of the This year we sold our major non-core non-core disposals, restructuring businesses, German and Equity Release.
We have refocused the operations of the We have begun to reduce the cost business.
Our development team is now ofmanaging our assets, with the focused solely on developing PRS assets leakage ratio between gross to net build-to-rent.
We will no longer seek yieldimproving from 30.7% to 28.0% additional fund management mandates inthe year.
while our focus is on growing our own balance sheet and shareholder returns.
20 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report We have taken actions toreduceoverheads by 24 % Our 2020 targets Continue to improve operational efficiency and scalability, and thereby enhancing rental margins Reduced reliance on sales cost covered by income Achieving our targets Going forward, we will continue toidentify ways of reducing costs and improving efficiencies within the business that will enable us togrow our portfolio without significantly increasing costs.
Thiswill likely entail the use of technology to provide scalability.
Read more Page 37 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 21 Strategic report Strategy in action continued Building on our heritage Leveraging our regulated tenancy assets to grow netrental income Our regulated tenancy business continues to be acompelling investment withrobust cash flows.
Helen Gordon, Chief Executive Our portfolio of regulated tenancies these properties as the regulated tenants 1.2bn, 3,652 homes is predicted vacate their homes and we sell the togenerate over 100m of gross properties on vacancy.
About 7% of the cashper annum forat least the next portfolio is vacated and sold each year.
This will provide a significant proportion of the capital to support These assets also generate a stable our investment in PRSassets and rental yield, which due to the nature of grow rents.
the assets is a very solid income stream.
This is because it is linked to inflation The majority of cash flow from regulated and sees very limited levels of arrears.
tenancies is generated through sales of Regulated tenancy business model Recurring rental income Revisionary surplus Revisionary Purchase surplus price Time Buy at Hold Sell discount 22 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 House price ination HPI Sales price Strategic report We expect our regulated tenancy portfolio to generate over 100m of gross cash per year forthenext 10 years Our 2020 targets Net rental income to exceed profit from sales PRS assets to exceed regulatedtenancy assets Regulated tenancy business model Regulated tenancies are a historical residential asset type Last created in 1988, c. 90,000 to 100,000 tenancies remaining They are no longer created due to legislative changes in 1988 which introduced the Assured Shorthold Tenancies modern PRS Stable, low-yielding assets, acquired at a discount and sold on vacancy at full price vacant possession value Locked-in value, realisable on vacancy reversionary surplus Read more Read more Page 00 Pages 6 and 7 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 23
