CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors report and disclosures The directors present their annual report together with the audited agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions financial statements of the company and the group for the 52 weeks on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
The company has chosen, in accordance with section In connection with the acquisition of Spirit Pub Company the consideration 414C 11 of the Companies Act 2006, to include matters of strategic was satisfied by the allotment of 89,095,959 ordinary shares, with an importance, such as future developments in the business of the group, and aggregate nominal value of 11,136,995. details of the greenhouse gas emissions, in the strategic report which otherwise would be required to be disclosed in the directors report.
A total of 371,620 ordinary shares, with an aggregate nominal value of 46,453 were allotted, for cash, during the period in connection with the companys share save and executive option schemes.
Profits and dividends The groups profit before taxation and exceptional items for the period The company makes regular use of the employee benefit trust EBT to amounted to 256.5 million 2015 168.5 million.
An interim dividend satisfy the exercise of share options and will make market purchases of of 8.45p per share 2015 7.95p was paid on 22 January 2016.
The directors the companys shares from time to time to ensure that it has sufficient recommend a final dividend of 23.6p per ordinary share 2015 21.8p, shares to enable it to do so.
making a total dividend for the year of 32.05 per share 2015 29.75p.
Subject to the approval of shareholders at the AGM, the final dividend Purchase of own shares willbe paid on 12 September 2016 to shareholders on the register In accordance with the companys articles of association, authority was attheclose of business on 12 August 2016. sought at the last AGM to purchase up to 10% of the companys shares in issue as at 27 July 2015.
The authority, which has not been exercised, was Directors approved and remains exercisable until the next annual general meeting Details of the current directors are given on page 46.
Philip Yea was or 8 February 2017, whichever is earlier.
The directors have again sought appointed to the board on 2 February 2016.
At the end of the year approval for the authority to purchase the companys own shares.
TimBridge retired as chairman, having served as a director for 39 years.
Voting rights The board has recommended that all of the directors offer themselves forre-election at the forthcoming AGM, with the exception of Philip Yea In a general meeting of the company, on a show of hands, every member who will be standing for election for the first time.
who is present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote.
On a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy shall Details of the directors service agreements, remuneration, and interests in have one vote for every share of which they are the holder.
The AGM long term incentives and awards are set out in the directors remuneration report.
notice gives full details of deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of resolutions to be considered at the meeting.
Directors interests in shares No voting rights will be exercised in respect of any own shares held The beneficial interests of each of the directors and their immediate bythecompany.
families in the ordinary share capital of the company are shown below: 3 May 2015 1 May 2016 Transfer of shares There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the company other Rooney Anand 467,265 529,041 than those which may from time to time be applicable under existing laws Tim Bridge 1,438,531 1,526,432 and regulations for example under the Market Abuse Directive.
Mike Coupe 2,000 3,690 In addition, pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Kirk Davis 4,000 Authority, directors of the company and persons discharging managerial responsibility are required to obtain prior approval from the company to Ian Durant 22,320 22,320 deal in the companys securities, and are prohibited from dealing during Rob Rowley 3,000 close periods.
Lynne Weedall 2,000 2,051 Change of control Philip Yea 30,000 All of the companys share incentive plans contain provisions relating toachange of control and full details of these plans are provided in the At 1 May 2016, Tim Bridge had a non-beneficial interest in 87,900 directors remuneration report.
Outstanding options and awards would 2015:87,900 shares, in addition to the holding shown above.
normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject There have been no changes in the interests of the current directors tothe satisfaction of performance conditions, if applicable, at that time.
between 1May 2016 and the date of this report.
The groups banking facility agreements contain provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a Interests in contracts change of control.
Certain of the companys trading contracts also contain No director had a material interest in any contract, other than an similar provisions.
employment contract, that was significant in relation to the groups There is one employee who, on a change of control of the company business at any time during the period.
resulting in the termination of their employment, would be entitled to compensation for loss of office.
However, in the context of the company Substantial shareholdings as a whole, this agreement is fide minimis.
The company has been notified of the following significant holdings 3%ormore of voting rights: Articles of association 1 May 2016 28 June 2016 The companys articles of association may only be amended by special Standard Life Investments Holdings Limited 4.774% 4.774% resolution at general meetings of shareholders.
The Capital Group Companies, Inc 16.28% 16.28% Appointment and replacement of directors The number of directors on the board shall be no less than five nor more Share capital than twelve.
Directors may be appointed by the company by ordinary Details of the authorised and issued share capital of the company, which resolution or by the board of directors.
A director appointed by the comprises a single class of shares, ordinary shares of 12p, are set out in board of directors holds office until the next following AGM, and is then note 27 to the financial statements.
The rights attaching to the shares are eligible for election by the shareholders.
set out in the articles of association.
There are no special control rights in relation to the companys shares and the company is not aware of any Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 67 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors report and disclosures continued Appointment and replacement of directors continued Directors and officers indemnity insurance The articles provide that at each AGM all those directors who were elected, The group has taken out insurance to indemnify the directors of the company or last re-elected, at the AGM held in the third calendar year before the against third party proceedings whilst serving on the board of the company current year shall retire from office and may stand for re-election.
In practice and of any subsidiary.
This cover indemnifies all employees ofthe group who directors submit themselves for annual re-election in accordance with serve on the boards of all subsidiaries.
These indemnity policies subsisted theprovisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
throughout the year and remain in place at the date ofthis report.
The company may by ordinary resolution, of which special notice has Financial instruments been given, remove any director from office.
The groups policy on the use of financial instruments is set out in note 24 Any director automatically ceases to be a director if i they give the company to the financial statements.
a written notice of resignation, ii they give the company a written offer to resign and the directors decide to accept this offer, iii all of the other Post balance sheet events directors remove them from office by notice in writing served upon them, Details of events occurring after the year-end are set out in note 33 iv they are or have been suffering from mental ill health and have a court tothefinancial statements.
order for their detention or the appointment of a guardian made in respect of them, v a bankruptcy order is made against them or they make any Directors statement as to disclosure of information arrangement or composition with their creditors generally, vi they are prohibited from being a director by law or vii they are absent from to the auditor board meetings for six months without leave and the other directors The directors who were members of the board at the time of approving resolve that their office should be vacated.
the directors report are listed on page 46.
Having made enquiries of fellow directors and of the companys auditor, each of these directors confirms that: Powers of the directors to the best of each directors knowledge and belief, there is no The business of the company is managed by the directors who may exercise information relevant to the preparation of their report of which the all the powers of the company, subject to its articles of association, any companys auditor is unaware: and relevant legislation and any directions given by the company by passing each director has taken all the steps a director might reasonably be aspecial resolution at a general meeting.
In particular, the directors may expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and exercise all the powers of the company to borrow money, issue shares, to establish that the companys auditor is aware of that information.
appoint and remove directors, and recommend and declare dividends.
Going concern Communications with shareholders The groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect Shareholders who are interested in signing up to e-communications itsfuture development, performance and position, are set out in the should refer to the shareholders information page for further information chiefexecutives review.
The financial position of the group, its cash-flows, on how to register via www.
liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the financial review.
In addition, note 24 to the financial statements includes the groups Charitable donations objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk The group continues to support community initiatives and charitable management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging causes, in particular Macmillan Cancer Support, full details of which are activities: and its exposure to credit and liquidity risk.
given in the corporate social responsibility section of this annual report.
The group makes no political donations.
The directors are of the opinion that the groups forecast and projections, which take account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, and its stress testing to take account of expected payments in respect of Employment and recruitment policies uncertain tax positions show that the group should be able to operate within It is the companys policy to ensure that employees are recruited, selected, its current borrowing facilities and comply with its financing covenants.
developed, remunerated and promoted on the basis of their skills and suitability for the work performed.
The company is committed to treating After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation thatthe all employees fairly and equally and will endeavour to provide workplace company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational adaptations and training for employees or candidates who have a disability existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the and colleagues who become disabled during their employment.
going concern basis in preparing the annual report and financial statements.
The company values employee engagement across the business and Auditor produces a monthly publication that is circulated to all employees containing company news and articles, which is circulated to all employees.
Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office In addition, the company provides regular briefings and presentations to andaresolution to re-appoint the firm as the companys auditor will staff on the companys performance and strategy as well as annual and beproposed at the AGM.
The company operates an HMRC approved sharesave scheme open to all employees which helps to align employees with the Annual general meeting performance of the company.
The AGM will be held at 12 noon on Friday 9 September 2016 at the Millennium Grandstand, Rowley Mile Racecourse Conference Centre, We are a people business so it is vitally important that we recruit and Newmarket, Suffolk.
The notice of the AGM is set out in the separate train the right people to deliver value, service and quality to our customers.
The company works in partnership with local communities to promote and provide opportunities for all.
The directors consider that all of the resolutions set out in the notice of AGM are in the best interests of the company and its shareholders as a Human rights whole.
The directors will be voting in favour of them and unanimously Even though the company does not have a formal human rights policy, recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each of them.
itiscommitted to conducting business with integrity and fairness.
By order of the board Corporate responsibility Disclosure of the groups greenhouse gas emissions is contained within thecorporate responsibility statement on page 43.
Lindsay Keswick Company secretary 28 June 2016 68 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016
