STRATEGIC REPORT Our business model DELIVERING VALUE TO ALL STAKEHOLDERS Pub Company: Our Pub Company consists of both more food-focused The Greene King vision is to be the destination pubs and restaurants and more community-focused local pubs.
bestcompany inBritain: the best for The principal revenue streams are food and drink available for consumption on our premises.
We gain further revenue from our accommodation offer ourcustomers, the best for ourteams, on some sites, and a number of our sites have gaming machines.
The success the best for our shareholders and of our Pub Company is driven by our customers desire to eat and drink outside of their homes and is specifically determined by the number of customers we thebestforour communities.
attract and the amount that they spend with us.
Pub Company 1,841 pubs is the key growth driver for the group and in this division we typically own Our integrated business model is and operate the pubs.
This division is a keyfocus area for growth and we predicated on balancing strong cash will continue to invest the cash generated from the group in our people and our pubs to ensure that PubCompany continues to gain share of the UK generation with investment tofurther eating and drinking outmarket.
position the business towards long-term Pub Partners: Pub Partners is responsible for operating our tenanted, growth markets and, as a result, deliver leased and franchised pubs and aims to ensure that each pub has the right value to allofour key stakeholders.
licensee to operate it, on the right agreement with the right offer.
Revenue in our Pub Partners business of 1,215 pubs is principally achieved through the Our business consists of three divisions: supply of beer and other drinks to our licensees and the rent that they pay us for the pub and our support.
We also derive a small portion of revenue PubCompany previously Retail, from gaming machines.
Although we invest in this business to ensure that PubPartners andBrewing & Brands.
wecan offer prospective lessees the best pubs the cash generated isprincipally reinvested into Pub Company.
Brewing & Brands: Our Brewing & Brands division operates two breweries, one in Bury St Edmunds and the other in Dunbar, that brew our core portfolio of ales, which are complemented by an innovative range Pub Partners of craft ales.
We generate revenue in this division from the sale and distribution of ales produced by us in our own breweries, and from the sale and distribution of drinks both alcoholic and non-alcoholic produced by third parties.
As well as to our internal customers in the other divisions, we also sell our ales to other pub companies and to individual free trade customers.
Afurther important revenue stream is the sale of our own-brewed ales to supermarkets and other retail outlets and, increasingly, in the export market.
Pub Company An integrated business model In addition to driving growth in Pub Company through enhanced investment, further benefits of our integrated business model include the flexibility to transfer pubs between Pub Company and Pub Partners and ensure that we match each pub with the best operating model.
Both Pub Company and Pub Partners arecustomers of Brewing & Brands increasingthe distribution ofour ales.
Acquisition of Spirit The acquisition of Spirit has added additional scale in both Pub Company and Pub Partners, which, in addition to increasing our brand presence and Brewing & Brands recognition, creates opportunities to realise cost synergies in areas such as procurement and distribution.
We have outlined a best of both companies approach to the integration.
For example, we have based our PubCompany division at the Spirit office in Burton-upon-Trent, while continuing to locate Underpinning our business model is a financial strategy the Pub Partners division, Brewing & Brands and the company headquarters tomaximise the strength, flexibility and efficiency of our in Bury St Edmunds.
This arrangement means that Pub Company is more balance sheet, with the aim of supporting growth through centrally located, reflecting our national scale and reach in this division, while investment inour existing estate and selectively acquiring protecting the heritage and legacy of Greene King by retaining a significant new sites, whilemaintaining our progressive dividendpolicy.
We will also optimise the combined brand portfolio, reducing the number of brands and formats from 20 to around ten, including five growth brands, and focusing our investment.
16 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT C o m s m m u a n e i T t i e s BEST FOR OUR... 4 Hungry Horse awarded Best Value Top 50 Apprenticeship Employer 1 Pub Restaurant Menu Best Work Experience 2 5 Best Managed Pub Operator Provider2015 Improved value, service Will employ a further and quality: recordNPS 10,000 apprentices over three years Delivering value toall stakeholders Raised 2m forMacmillan doubleour initialtarget ROCE 9.4% 10bps Water Efficient 3 Projectofthe Year Operating cash flow 24.1% Princes Trust partnership Full year dividend 7.7% 1.
Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 17 S h s a r r e e m h o o t l s d u e C r s
