GREENCOAT U K W I N D Strategic Report Introduction Investment Managers relationships across the sector are also important.
The Directors present their Strategic Report for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Details of the Directors The Group invests in both onshore and offshore wind who held ofce during the year and as at the date of farms with the amount invested in offshore wind farms this report are given on pages 20 to 22. being capped at 40 per cent.
Investment Objective The Group believes that there is a significant market in The Companys aim is to provide investors with an which it can continue to grow over the next few years.
annual dividend that increases in line with RPI ination Structure while preserving the capital value of its investment portfolio in the long term on a real basis through The Company is a UK registered investment company reinvestment of excess cash ow and the prudent use with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The target return to investors is The Group comprises the Company and Holdco.
an IRR net of fees and expenses of 8 per cent.
to 9 per Holdco invests in SPVs which hold the underlying wind cent..
The 2016 dividend of 6.34 pence per annum is farm assets.
The Group employs Greencoat Capital LLP targeted to increase in line with December 2016 RPI as its Investment Manager.
Progress on the objectives is measured by reference to the key metrics on page 2.
Discount Control The Articles of Association require there to be a Investment Policy continuation vote by shareholders if the share price were The Group invests in unlevered operating UK wind to trade at an average discount to NAV of 10 per cent.
farms predominantly with a capacity of over 10MW, or more over a 12 month period.
Notwithstanding this, which sell the power produced and associated green it is the intention of the Board for the Company to buy benets to creditworthy UK offtakers under route-toback its own shares in the market if the share price is market power purchase agreements.
trading at a material discount to NAV, providing of course that it is in the interests of shareholders to do so.
The Group is structured by design to be a utility friendly buyer and co-investor in utility owned wind farms since utilities are the owners of the majority of UK operating wind farms.
The Group is wholly independent and is not tied to any particular utility or developer.
As the Group has no borrowings at the asset level, and only limited borrowing at the Group level, the annual dividend is sufciently protected against lower power prices.
At the same time, it has the ability to benefit from higher power prices as the Group is not required to be locked into long term xed price contracts.
The Group has used debt facilities to make additional investments in the year.
This has enhanced the Groups attractiveness to sellers since execution risk is greatly diminished, with the Group effectively being a cash buyer.
The Group will continue to use debt facilities to make further investments.
The Group will look to repay its drawn debt facilities by renancing them in the equity markets at appropriate times in order to refresh its debt capacity.
While debt facilities are drawn, the Group benets from an increase in investor returns because borrowing costs are below the underlying return on investments.
In contrast to the PFI infrastructure sector smaller in terms of total equity invested and occupied by larger funds, where links to developers may be beneficial in sourcing new acquisitions, independence is of key importance for the Company to continue to make acquisitions at the best possible price.
The Kildrummy 05 Greencoat UK Wind PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report continued Review of Business and Future Outlook of its portfolio companies with its policies on responsible investment.
Further details on these A detailed discussion of the individual project policies may be found on the Companys website: performance and a review of the business in the year www.
together with future outlook are covered in the Investment Managers Report on pages 10 to 19.
The Investment Manager monitors compliance at the investment phase and reports on an ongoing basis to Key Performance Indicators the Board.
The Board believes that the key metrics detailed on page 2, which are typical for investment funds, Employees and Ofcers of the Company together with cash generation will provide The Company does not have any employees and shareholders with sufficient information to assess how therefore employee policies are not required.
The effectively the Group is meeting its objectives.
Directors of the Company are listed on page 1.
Ongoing Charges Diversity The ongoing charges ratio of the Company is As at the date of this report, the Board comprised four 1.33 per cent.
of the weighted average NAV for the men and one woman.
The Board is aware of the year to 31 December 2016.
This is made up as follows benets of diversity and considers this when appointing and has been calculated using the AIC recommended Board Directors.
The Investment Manager operates an methodology.
equal opportunities policy and its partners and 31 December 31 December employees comprise fourteen men and ten women.
2016 2015 Total management fee 1.16% 1.20% Principal Risks and Uncertainties In the normal course of business, each investee Directors fees 0.04% 0.04% company has a rigorous risk management framework Ongoing expenses 0.13% 0.17% with a comprehensive risk register that is reviewed and updated regularly and approved by its board.
The key Total 1.33% 1.41% risks identied by the Board to the performance of the Group are detailed below.
Based on the 31 December 2016 NAV of 800.1 million, the ongoing total management fee is The Board maintains a risk matrix considering the risks 1.12 per cent.
If stated with reference to the affecting both the Group and the investee companies.
Adjusted Portfolio Value in line with a number of the This risk matrix is updated annually to ensure that Companys peers then the total management fee procedures are in place to identify, mitigate and would be 0.84 per cent.
assuming medium term minimise the impact of risks should they crystallise.
of GAV current gearing 11 per enables the Board to carry out a robust assessment of cent.
the risks facing the Group, including those principal risks that would threaten its business model, future The Investment Manager is not paid any performance performance, solvency or liquidity.
As it is not possible to eliminate risks completely, the Corporate and Social Responsibility purpose of the Groups risk management policies and Environmental, Social and Governance procedures is not to eliminate risks, but to reduce them and to ensure that the Group is adequately prepared The Group invests in wind farms and the environmental to respond to such risks and to minimise any impact if benets of renewable energy are widely known.
The Group relies on the Investment Manager to apply The spread of assets within the portfolio ensures that appropriate Environmental, Social and Governance the portfolio benets from a diversied wind resource policies to the investments the Group makes.
The and spreads the exposure to a number of potential policies in place at the Investment Manager outline the technical risks associated with grid connections and Groups approach to responsible investing, as well as with local distribution and national transmission the environmental standards which it aims to meet.
In addition, the portfolio includes six different Responsible investing principles have been applied to turbine manufacturers, which diversies technology and each of the investments made.
Finally, each site contains a number These policies require the Group to make reasonable of individual turbines, the performance of which is endeavours to procure the ongoing compliance largely independent of other turbines.
06 GREENCOAT U K W I N D Strategic Report continued Risks Affecting the Group Financing Risk Investment Manager The Group will finance further investments either by borrowing or by issuing further shares.
The ability of The ability of the Group to achieve its investment the Group to deliver enhanced returns and objective depends heavily on the managerial consequently realise expected real NAV growth is experience of the management team within the dependent on access to debt facilities and equity Investment Manager and more generally on the capital markets.
There can be no assurance that the Investment Managers ability to attract and retain Group will be able to borrow additional amounts or suitable staff.
The sustained growth of the Group renance on reasonable terms or that there will be a depends upon the ability of the Investment Manager market for further shares.
to identify, select and execute further investments which offer the potential for satisfactory returns.
Investment Returns Become Unattractive The Investment Management Agreement includes key A signicantly strengthening economy may lead to man provisions which would require the Investment higher future interest rates which could make the listed Manager to employ alternative staff with similar infrastructure asset class relatively less attractive to experience relating to investment, ownership, investors.
In such circumstances, it is likely that there nancing and management of wind farm projects will be an increase in ination to which the revenues should for any reason any key man cease to be and costs of the investee companies are either indexed employed by the Investment Manager.
The Investment or signicantly correlated or an increase in power Management Agreement ensures that no investments prices due to greater consumption of power or both.
are made following the loss of key men until suitable Both would increase the investment return and thus replacements are found and there are provisions for a would provide a degree of mitigation against higher reduction in the investment management fee during future interest rates.
The Company has not changed its the loss period.
It also outlines the process for their market discount rate since listing, although long term replacement with the Boards approval.
The key men gilt rates have reduced by over one per cent.. are also shareholders in the Company.
Kildrummy 07 Greencoat UK Wind PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report continued Risks Affecting Investee Companies include a wind energy true-up which will apply once two years operational data has become available.
Regulation Under this true-up, the net load factor will be If a change in Government renewable energy policy reforecast based on all available data and the purchase were applied retrospectively to current operating price will be adjusted, subject to fide minimis thresholds projects including those in the Groups portfolio, this and caps.
could adversely impact the market price for renewable energy or the value of the green benets earned from Asset Life generating renewable energy.
The Government has Wind turbines may have shorter lives than their evolved the regulatory framework for new projects expected life-span of 25 years.
In the event that the being developed but has consistently stood behind the wind turbines do not operate for the period of time framework that supports operating projects as it assumed by the Group in its business model or require understands the need to ensure investors can trust higher than expected maintenance expenditure to do regulation.
This principle of grandfathering was so, it could have a material adverse effect on confirmed in the Energy Act 2013. investment returns.
Electricity Prices The Group invests in companies that own operating Other things being equal, a decline in the market price wind farms with an appropriate track record.
The of electricity would reduce the portfolio companies Group performs regular reviews and ensures that revenues.
of the Groups maintenance is performed on all wind turbines across revenues are exposed to the oating power price.
Regular maintenance ensures the wind turbines are in good working order, consistent The Groups dividend policy has been designed to with their expected life-spans.
withstand significant short term variability in power prices.
A longer period of power price decline would Health and Safety and the Environment materially affect the revenues of investee companies.
The physical location, operation and maintenance of In general, independent forecasters expect UK wind farms may, if inappropriately assessed and wholesale power prices to rise in real terms from managed, pose health and safety risks to those current levels, driven by higher gas and carbon prices involved.
Wind farm operation and maintenance may combined with the ongoing phasing out of coal-red result in bodily injury or industrial accidents, particularly power stations.
if an individual were to fall from height, fall or be crushed in transit from a vessel to an offshore Wind Resource installation or be electrocuted.
If an accident were to The investee companies revenues are dependent occur in relation to one or more of the Groups upon wind conditions, which will vary across seasons investments and if the Group were deemed to be at and years within statistical parameters.
The standard fault, the Group could be liable for damages or deviation of energy production is 10 per cent.
over a compensation to the extent such loss is not covered 12 month period 2 per cent.
Since long by insurance policies.
In addition, adverse publicity or term variability is low, there is no significant reputational damage could ensue.
diversication benefit to be gained from geographical diversication across weather systems.
The Board reviews health and safety at each of its scheduled Board meetings and Martin McAdam serves The Group does not have any control over the wind as the appointed Health and Safety Director.
The resource but has no asset level gearing and has Group engages an independent health and safety designed its dividend policy such that it can withstand consultant to ensure the ongoing appropriateness of significant short term variability in production relating its health and safety policies.
Before investment, the Group carries out extensive due diligence and relevant historical wind Going Concern data is available over a substantial period of time.
The The Groups business activities, together with the other component of wind energy generation, a wind factors likely to affect its future development, farms ability to turn wind into energy, is mitigated by performance and position, are set out in the only purchasing wind farms with a proven operating Investment Managers Report.
The Group faces a track record.
number of risks and uncertainties, as set out above.
When acquiring wind farms that have only recently The financial risk management objectives and policies entered into operation, only limited operational data of the Group, including exposure to price risk, interest is available.
In these instances, the acquisition rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk are discussed in agreements with the vendors of these wind farms will note 18 to the financial statements.
08 GREENCOAT U K W I N D Strategic Report continued Going Concern continued The Group continues to meet day-to-day liquidity needs through its cash resources.
As at 31 December 2016, the Group had net current assets of 5.3 million 2015: 7.2 million and had cash balances of 5.9 million 2015: 7.2 million excluding cash balances within investee companies, which are sufficient to meet current obligations as they fall due.
The major cash outows of the Group are the payment of dividends and costs relating to the acquisition of new assets, both of which are discretionary.
The Group had 100 million 2015: 135 million of outstanding debt as at 31 December 2016.
The Group is expected to continue to comply with the covenants of its banking facilities going forward.
The Directors have reviewed Group forecasts and projections which cover a period of not less than 12 months from the date of this report, taking into account foreseeable changes in investment and trading performance, which show that the Group has sufficient financial resources.
On the basis of this review, and after making due enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Stroupster Longer Term Viability As further disclosed on page 30, the Company is a on a real basis.
The Directors believe that the Group is member of the AIC and complies with the AIC Code.
well placed to manage its business risks successfully In accordance with the AIC Code, the Directors are over both the short and long term and accordingly, the required to assess the prospects of the Group over a Board has a reasonable expectation that the Group will period longer than the 12 months associated with be able to continue in operation and to meet its going concern.
The Directors conducted this review for liabilities as they fall due for a period of at least a period of ten years, which it deemed appropriate, ten years.
given the long term nature of the Groups investments While the Directors have no reason to believe that the which are modelled over 25 years, coupled with its Group will not be viable over a longer period, they are long term strategic planning horizon.
conscious that it would be difficult to foresee the economic viability of any company with any degree of In considering the prospects of the Group, the Directors certainty for a period of time greater than ten years.
looked at the key risks facing both the Group and the investee companies, focusing on the likelihood and By order of the Board impact of each risk as well as any key contracts, future events or timescales that may be assigned to each key risk.
The Directors also tested the Companys ability to remain viable under several robust downside scenarios.
Tim Ingram As a sector-focused infrastructure fund, the Group aims Chairman to produce stable and inating dividends while preserving the capital value of its investment portfolio 22 February 2017 09
