STRATEGIC REPORT Key performance indicators To maintain focus on our five strategic priorities, we have a set of overall financial and non-financial KPIs, whichare also used to help to align remuneration to performance.
KPI PROGRESS IN FY16 Pub Company like-for-like sales % The sales this year compared to those in the previous year for all In Pub Company, on a combined basis, LFL sales grew by 1.5%, ahead of the 1 PubCompany sites that were trading throughout the two periods market, which grew by 1.3% over a broadly comparable period.
LFL sales 2 beingcompared, expressed as a percentage.
growth in the original Greene King estate of 1.9% 2015: 0.4%.
EBITDA per pub: Pub Company EBITDA operating profit before depreciation, amortisation In FY16, EBITDA per pub in Pub Company was impacted by synergies and andexceptionals divided by the average number of trading pubs fairvalue adjustments offset by the higher proportion of leasehold properties intheperiod.
in Spirit as a result EBITDA per pub fell by -3.6%.
However, in the original Greene King managed estate average EBITDA per pub grew by 2.3% 2 2015:-0.2%, which excludes synergy contribution.
Pub Partners LFL net income Net income is EBITDA in our leased, tenanted and free-of-tie pubs, The tenanted and leased businesses were successfully integrated at the end stated before property costs and administrative expenses the change ofthe first half and the combined Pub Partners business grew net income 2 in net income is on a same estate basis i. e. adjusting for disposals.
EBITDA per pub: Pub Partners 1 EBITDA operating profit before depreciation, amortisation Average EBITDA per pub increased by 14.3% 2015: 15.5% reflecting andexceptionals divided by the average number of trading pubs thecontribution of the Spirit sites, ongoing improvements in the quality intheperiod.
ofthe estate such as the disposal of 48 pubs from the combined estate andsynergy contribution.
Brewing & Brands OBV growth % 2 Year-on-year growth in the sold volume of our own-brewed ales.
Brewing & Brands achieved 2.9% OBV growth 2015: 4.2%, and helped usto extend our share of the UK ale market by 40bps to 10.5%.
Return on investment % 2 The incremental EBITDA delivered as a result of our developments, Annualised return on development capex improved to 27.8% 2015: 22%.
divided by the value of the capital investment.
Return on capital employed ROCE % Pre-exceptional operating profit divided by the average capital employed The business achieved another year of robust returns, generating a ten basis throughout the year.
Capital employed is defined as total net assets point increase in ROCE to 9.4% 2015: 9.3% which remains comfortably excluding deferred tax balances, derivatives, post-employment liabilities ahead of our cost of capital.
Adjusted basic earnings per share pence Profit for the period attributable to equity holders, excluding the effect Earnings per share before exceptional items was 69.9p 2015: 61.0p, of exceptional items, divided by the weighted average number of shares upby14.6%.
in issue during the period excluding own shares held.
Pub Company net promoter score NPS % The percentage of responses where we score 9 or 10 out of 10 less the Record customer satisfaction scores: NPS 7.9%pts 2015: 12.3%pts.
percentage of responses where we score 0 to 6 out of 10 to the statement I am likely to recommend this pub to a friend and or relative.
Team turnover % The percentage of leavers against the average headcount over a rolling We saw an improved trend in team turnover.
The improvements indicate annual period, excluding any student leavers.
thesuccess of our teams in continuing with business as usual during the integration process.
Team engagement % The proportion of respondents who agreed with the following statement: Team engagement currently stands at 73% across the combined group.
I would recommend Greene King as a great place to work to others.
Investing more in the recruitment, retention and development of our people will lead to a better trained and more motivated team working across our business, which will be reflected in ongoing improvements in team engagement, team retention and the service we give to guests.
Greene King: excludes synergies arising in the Greene King business.
22 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016
