STRATEGIC REPORT Focus area B EST FOR CUSTOMERS Weconsidered: We aim to be the best in the eyes of the customer, which means offering our customers the relevance of the brand or format to current and future customers: industryleading value, service and quality, delivered long-term opportunities to grow and expand the brand: by the best people and in high quality, appealing financial performance: and pubs with clearand exciting brands and formats.
proximity to other brands within the combined group to ensure that we have a balanced portfolio.
We acquired a strong portfolio of brands with Spirit and, together withthe existing Greene King brands and formats, we have begun a brand Following the review, our five growth brands are Hungry Horse, Flaming Grill, optimisation programme.
We reviewed the combined portfolio in order Chef & Brewer, Farmhouse Inns and the Greene King locals estate brand.
to select those brands and formats that will drive future growth.
We then matched each pub with the most appropriate brand andselected a number of pubs in which to trial brand changes.
6 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT BEES KNEES REFURBISHMENT In winter 2015, the Bees Knees Fayre & Square inLeicester reopened as the Bees Knees HungryHorse a pub restaurant focusing on great value food and with zoning allowing more families to dinein a comfortable environment, while other customers enjoy the option to watch sport.
We are very pleased with the results to date: average weekly turnover has increased by 42% and we have generated a strong return on our investment.
We have had some positive feedback from our customers too!
Average weekly takings Before: 19.4k Looking ahead, for each of the following activities below, please say whether you think you will do this more often than before in this pubrestaurant?
Source: PDIQ Brand Conversion Research Dec 2015 Eat in the daytime 15% 28% After: 27.5k Bring my family 12% 26% Come for special occasions We commissioned a third party to ask our 6% customers what they thought of the change for 18% their local pub to the Hungry Horse brand.
Eat in the evening 9% This research has confirmed that there is now an increased intention 17% toeat in the restaurant both during the day and in the evening.
It has also confirmed that the pub has become more family friendly and likely Use it for early evenings ofsocial drinking to be chosen as a venue to celebrate special occasions.
These results are 7% in line without overall strategic objective to build strong and attractive 12% brandsand within this to broaden the appeal of our pubs.
Pre conversion Post conversion Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 7
