CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board of directors N N A R Philip Yea 61 Rooney Anand 52 Kirk Davis 44 Mike Coupe 55 Chairman Chief executive Chief financial officer Non-executive director Commenced role May 2016 Commenced role 2005 Commenced role 2014 Commenced role 2011 Appointed to board in Appointed to board in 2001 Kirk Davis joined Greene King Mike Coupe is the chief executive February2016 Rooney Anand joined the group fromJD Wetherspoon plc where of J Sainsbury plc and also brings Philip Yea became chairman in asmanaging director of the he had been finance director since knowledge and experience from May2016 after being appointed brewing division and was 2011.
He has extensive retail working for other large, multi-site tothe board as an independent promotedto chief executive in experience having held senior retail organisations, including Asda non-executive director in February 2005.
He was previously president finance roles at Tesco and and Tesco, before that.
He is senior independent and managing director of the UK Marks&Spencer and is a member director at both Vodafone Group bakery division at Sara Lee, the of the Chartered Institute of plc and Computacenter plc.
He is international consumer goods Management Accountants.
also a non-executive director of business, and, prior to that, Aberdeen Asian Smaller Companies wasatUnited Biscuits.
Investment Trust plc, and an independent director and trustee of the Francis Crick Institute.
His prior executive career included roles as finance director of Diageo plc and chief executive of 3iGroup plc.
Senior management N N N The senior management team comprises Rooney Anand, chief A A R executive, Kirk Davis, chief financial R R officer, the managing directors of each of the groups business units and the heads of key functional areas, including retail, trading and marketing, HR and property.
Theymeet once every four weeks under the chairmanship of the chiefexecutive.
Ian Durant 57 Rob Rowley 66 Lynne Weedall 49 Key to committees Non-executive director Senior independent Non-executive director Commenced role 2007 non-executive director Commenced role 2012 Nomination committee N Commenced role 2014 Ian Durant is a former finance Lynne Weedall is currently group A Audit committee director at Liberty International plc HR director for Selfridges Group Rob Rowley joined the board in and has extensive financial experience.
and brings to the board a wealth of July 2014 and has extensive board Remuneration committee R He is also chairman of Capital & experience of HR and organisational experience gained as a former Counties Properties plc and Greggs plc development gained from a variety finance director of the Reuters and a non-executive director of of roles in the retail sector, including Group plc.
He is currently a Home Retail Group plc.
Ian stood at Dixons Carphone, Whitbread non-executive director and down as senior independent director and Tesco.
chairman of the audit committees at the end of the financial year.
at Taylor Wimpey plc and Morgan Advanced Materials plc, having retired from the same role at Moneysupermarket.
Rob was appointed senior independent director inMay2015.
46 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016
