STRATEGIC REPORT Focus area B EST FOR TEAMS I really enjoy working in such a fast-paced team and developing not only my education, but also myself.
I can see myself growing as a person and would recommend to anybody wanting to learn on the job to look into becoming an apprentice.
Gabrielle Green, 18, an apprentice chef at the Ship in Bedford 8 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT 3,100 10,000 APPRENTICES STARTED FURTHER APPRENTICES LAST YEAR, EXCEEDING BY MARCH 2019 OUR PLEDGE OF 2,000 Our people make us who we are and they are our greatest asset.
We employ more than 44,000 team members across the country, so attracting and retaining the best people, and developing and investing in them, is key to our continued success.
We want to offer the best for our teams and one of the ways in which we support their career aspirations is through our awardwinning apprenticeship programme.
Apprenticeships provide learners with valuable skills which will help them to build their career with us.
Our programme offers bespoke qualifications that cover a range of jobs, including front of house, kitchen and management, which are tailored to each of ourbrands.
Last year, we exceeded our pledge of recruiting 2,000 apprentices, withmore than 3,100 starting their apprenticeship and working towards a nationally recognised qualification.
This year, we announced our pledge to recruit a further 10,000 apprentices over the next three years.
This is our commitment to our people and also to young people looking for that all important first step on the career ladder.
The acquisition of Spirit Pub Company provided us with the opportunity to review both apprenticeship programmes and make improvements which will benefit the business in the years to come.
The main development is that more of our team members are now able to access apprenticeship qualifications across the country.
Our apprenticeship programme continues to grow.
We have seen a 175% increase in applications to join Greene King as an apprentice compared to the previous year.
We are seeing a particular increase in 1624 year olds interested in enrolling on our apprenticeship scheme and, as our business grows, we are committed to supporting this age group further by providing more opportunities to join.
Our apprenticeship programme has been recognised during the last 12months by winning a number of awards, including: one of the Daily Telegraph and Top Apprenticeship Careers Lists Top50 Apprenticeship Employers in the UK: named as a Top 100 Apprenticeship Employer by the National Apprenticeship Service: Apprenticeships 4 Englands Macro Employer of the Year: VQ Employer of the Year: and National Apprenticeship Service Regional Winner East of England.
we believe we have a responsibility to support young people by creating these opportunities to earn and learn.
Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 9 STRATEGIC REPORT Focus area BES T F OR C OMMUNI T IE S 2m 3 years PROUD TO HAVE RAISED EXTENDED PARTNERSHIP 2M FOR MACMILLAN FOR A FURTHER CANCER SUPPORT THREEYEARS For centuries, pubs have been at the heart of the community and today we continue as our ancestors did before us by serving, and supporting, those who choose to spend time with us.
We want to be the best we can be for our communities.
One of the ways we support them is through our charity programme.
We wanted to unlock the powerful opportunity we have to raise money for important causes through our local community pubs so, in May 2012, we embarked on our first charity partnership with Macmillan Cancer Support.
At that time, we set ourselves a stretching target of raising 1m in three years.
We were delighted, and proud, to announce that after three and half years we had raised 2m.
We see our team members and guests as the real heroes as they pulled together to show such enthusiasm, passion, blood, sweat and tears to beat our fundraising goal.
Some of the key pieces of activity during the last year included: the Worlds Biggest Coffee Morning: the Hungry Horse Macmillan Week: locals Macmillan Fundraising Month of May: and in local communities, family fun days, bingo nights, bike rides, marathons, climbs and much more!
This year, we were proud to receive the Pub Aid Award at the All Party Parliamentary Beer Group Annual Awards for our fundraising achievements for Macmillan.
The impact and reward of the partnership is not just felt by Macmillan.
Ithas helped us to connect with our local communities and allowed our team members to show their creativity, strength and bravery intheir fundraising and build stronger relationships together.
We know the 2m raised will make a huge impact on cancer patients and their families and, this year, we revealed we would continue our successful partnership with Macmillan for a further three years.
The money raised over the next three years will continue to fund vital services such as Macmillan nurses and local support programmes supporting people withcancer to better self-manage in their own communities.
10 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 Our partnership with Greene King began in May2012 and we continue to be overwhelmed by the generosity and ingenuity of Greene King employees and customers in raising money for Macmillan.
The money that Greene King has raised willmake a real difference to the lives of people affected by cancer and their families.
It will provide practical, medical, financial and emotional support andwill help them take back control of their lives.
At Macmillan we believe that no one should face cancer alone and with the continued support of our partner Greene King no one will.
Rachel Gascoigne, partnership manager at  Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 11
