Greencoat UK Wind PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2016 Board of Directors The Directors are of the opinion that the Board as a whole comprises an appropriate balance of skills, experience and diversity.
The Board is comprised of individuals from relevant and complementary backgrounds offering experience in the investment management of listed funds, as well as in the energy sector from both a public policy and a commercial perspective.
Tim Ingram, Chairman appointed 4 December 2012 Tim Ingram Chairman, aged 69, is an experienced chairman and chief executive, with a long executive career in financial services and a non-executive portfolio spanning a variety of sectors, including business management software and services, real estate, manufacturing, investment trusts and commercial and investment banking.
Tims early executive career was in international banking with Grindlays Bank and ANZ Banking Group.
He was an executive director of Abbey National plc now part of Santander from 1996 to 2002.
After leaving Abbey National, he became Chief Executive of Caledonia Investments plc from 2002 until his retirement in July 2010.
He was chairman of Collins Stewart Hawkpoint plc from 2010 until it was acquired by Canaccord Financial Inc. in March 2012.
Since October 2012 he has been chairman of the Wealth Management Association formerly APCIMS the Association of Private Client Investment Managers and Stockbrokers and since April 2011 he has been chairman of Fulham Palace Trust.
He was chairman of RSM Tenon plc from May 2012 to August 2013.
He was a non-executive director, and later senior independent director, of Sage plc from 2002 to 2011, a non-executive director, and later Senior Independent Director, of Savills plc from 2002 to 2012, a non-executive director of Alliance Trust plc from 2010 to 2012, a non-executive director of Alok Industries Ltd, an Indian quoted company, from 2005 to 2015 and a non-executive director of Fastjet plc from September 2015 to March 2016.
He has also been a non-executive director of the board of the European subsidiaries of QBE Ltd since March 2014 and is now its chairman.
He is a member of the Takeover Panel.
Shonaid Jemmett-Page, Chairman of the Audit Committee appointed 5 December 2012 Shonaid Jemmett-Page, FCA, aged 56, is an experienced non-executive director in the energy and financial sectors.
She is currently a non-executive director, chairman of the audit and risk committees and member of the remuneration committee of GKN plc.
She is a non-executive director, deputy chairman, chairman of the remuneration committee and member of the audit and risk & solvency committees of MS Amlin plc.
She is the non-executive chairman of Origo Partners plc.
She is a non-executive director and member of the remuneration and governance committees of Caledonia Investments plc.
She is also the chairman of the audit and remuneration committees, a member of the risk committee and senior independent director of ClearBank Limited.
She was previously a non-executive director of Close Brothers Group plc and APR Energy plc.
Shonaid spent 20 years at KPMG, the global audit and advisory rm, in London and Tokyo, leaving the company in 2001 as a Partner in the Financial Services team.
She was a Senior Vice President, Finance and Information at Unilever plc from 2001 to 2009 when Shonaid left Unilever plc and became Chief Operating officer of CDC Group plc, a private equity fund of funds with net assets of 2.8 billion investing in developing countries.
She left this role in May 2012 to focus on her non-executive appointments.
20 GREENCOAT U K W I N D Board of Directors continued William Rickett C. B.
Senior Independent Director appointed 4 December 2012 William Rickett C. B. aged 63, is a former Director General of the Department of Energy & Climate Change within the UK Government 2006-2009 with considerable experience as a non-executive director of private sector companies.
William is chairman of Cambridge Economic Policy Associates Ltd, an economic, financial and public policy consultancy with a strong energy practice and was chairman of the Governing Board of the International Energy Agency from 2007 to 2009.
He is currently a non-executive director of Impax Environmental Markets plc, a listed investment trust specialising in the alternative energy, waste and water sectors and Smart DCC Ltd, the company procuring the shared infrastructure needed for the roll out of smart gas and electricity meters across the country.
William was previously a non-executive director of: Eggborough Power Ltd, an electricity generating company: Helius Energy plc, an AIM listed developer of new dedicated biomass power stations: and the National Renewable Energy Centre Limited, which helps to develop renewable energy technologies.
Williams Whitehall career included fifteen years of board-level experience in five government departments focusing on energy and transport.
In the late 1980s he led the privatisation of the electricity industry creating the first competitive electricity market in the world.
Later as Director General of Energy he drove the transformation of the UK energy policy to re-establish a nuclear power programme as well as developing strategies for the deployment of renewable energy.
Dan Badger appointed 1 July 2013 Dan Badger, aged 70, has had a long career in the energy sector and has significant experience in wind farm transactions.
He is currently a Partner at Hideal Partners, a renewables advisory rm, and was previously a member of the UK European renewables M&A team at Babcock & Brown.
Dan worked for ten years at the US Department of Energy and the International Energy Agency in economic and policy development roles before moving onto project development within the gas-red generation and then renewables sectors.
While at Babcock and Brown, Dan was involved with and led a number of significant renewables acquisitions across Europe of both development pipeline and operational capacity, a number of these through innovative framework agreements.
Dan also led the 200MW development of the Robin Rigg offshore wind farm, in the Solway Firth, now owned by E. ON.
Martin McAdam appointed 1 March 2015 Martin McAdam, aged 55, is an accomplished executive with significant experience in the energy and renewables sector.
He was formerly Chief Executive officer of Aquamarine Power.
Prior to that, Martin was President and Chief Executive officer of the US subsidiary of Airtricity, a role in which he constructed over 400MW of wind farm capacity.
Martin spent his early career at ESB, the Irish utility, involved in a number of activities including power station construction and generation planning.
After a number of years in information services, he returned to the power industry and joined Airtricity, a significant developer and constructor of wind farms throughout the UK and Ireland, managing construction of new wind farms.
Martins role expanded into operations and ultimately to take responsibility for the growing US business.
He led the integration of the Airtricity Generation Business Unit into the SSE Renewables Division after its sale.
Martin is a non-executive director of Aveillant Ltd, a three-dimensional holographic radar company.
Martin is a Chartered Engineer and a Fellow of Engineers Ireland and a Fellow of the Royal Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce.
21 Greencoat UK Wind PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2016 Board of Directors continued Other UK Public Company Directorships In addition to their directorships of the Company, the below Directors currently hold the following UK public company directorships: Shonaid Jemmett-Page William Rickett C. B. GKN plc Impax Environmental Markets plc Origo Partners plc Caledonia Investments PLC The Directors have all offered themselves for re-election and resolutions concerning this will be proposed at the AGM.
Conicts of Interest The Directors have declared any conicts or potential conicts of interest to the Board of Directors which has the authority to approve such situations.
The Company Secretary maintains the Register of Directors Conicts of Interests which is reviewed quarterly by the Board and when changes are notied.
The Directors advise the Company Secretary and the Board as soon as they become aware of any conicts of interest.
Directors who have conicts of interest do not take part in discussions which relate to any of their conicts.
