STRATEGIC REPORT Operational review continued BREWING & BRANDS The new Greene King IPA branding Brewing & Brands sells and distributes a wide range of award-winning was extended to bottle formats craftales to both the on and the off-trade.
They are brewed in one during the year.
ofourtwo breweries inBury St Edmunds and Dunbar.
OUR CORE BRANDS REVENUE 196.9m SHARE OF TOTAL REVENUE 9.5% 28 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT 32.7 16.6 29.8 15.5 30.4 16.1 37.8 34.9 36.1 196.9 192.7 189.0 GREENE KING 1 OPERATING PROFIT OWN BREWEDVOLUME ALE MARKET SHARE IPAVOLUMES 9.7% 2.9% 40bps to 10.5% 8.0% In Brewing & Brands, our strategy is to drive growth and cash generation in the export market led by China.
Overall, volumes of Greene King IPA grew through building consumer loyalty to our core ale brands and our innovative by 8.0%, increasing its share of the UK cask ale market by 0.4%pts.
The Hen range of seasonal and craft ales.
This strategy has led us to being the UKs brand family had another successful year, particularly in take-home where 4 leading cask ale brewer.
penetration increased by 3% on last year and, overall, Old Speckled Hen 5 remains the number one premium ale brand in Great Britain.
Significant progress was achieved in the year and, including additional volumes to Spirit pubs, OBV grew by 2.9%, increasing our share of the UK ale New product development remains a core part of our strategy and 2 market by 40bps to 10.5%.
helpsus to remain relevant to core consumer drinking occasions.
Volumes ofEast Coast IPA continued to grow throughout the year, we launched Revenue grew 2.2% to a record 196.9m, while operating profit grew by 9.7% OldSpirited Hen and we also released limited edition ales such as Purple to 32.7m leading to a 1.1%pt increase in the margin.
The margin increase was Reign, launched in celebration of Her Majestys 90th birthday.
predominantly driven by new sales to Spirit managed pubs, which are included in the Pub Company revenues along with those to the rest of the Greene King Elsewhere, we were proud to see Belhaven awarded Distributor of the Year estate, but there was also a benefit from a positive channel mix and additional inScotland at the prestigious DRAM awards and a number of our ales, including cost efficiencies realised in the second half ofthe previous financial year.
Greene King IPA, Abbot Ale and Belhaven Best, won gold at this years Monde Awards.
The launch of our new beer caf at our Bury St Edmunds brewery has During the year, initiatives to further build consumer loyalty and engagement added to the brewery tour experience, which itself received a Certificate of included the Greene King IPA To The Pub campaign, which reached an Excellence on TripAdvisor for the fourth consecutive year.
audience of over 20 million and resulted in 60% of ale drinkers surveyed saying that the adverts encouraged them to buy Greene King IPA on their Following the acquisition of Spirit, we have been encouraged by the response next visit to the pub.
Other initiatives were a 1.2m investment in a of the Spirit pub managers and their desire to sell Greene King beers andare multi-channel media campaign in the Hen brand family and increased use delighted that Greene King IPA is on sale in over 90% of Spirit managed pubs.
of social media to promote the Abbot Ale brand, with industry-leading 3 1.
Our three core ale brand families Greene King IPA, Old Speckled Hen 3.
and Belhaven saw further volume growth in the year and our ale portfolio benefited from a number of exciting new partnerships, including Greene King IPAs 4.
Kantar Worldpanel 52 w e 24 April 2016. sponsorship of the England and Wales Cricket Board.
CGA Brand Index On-Trade Survey, 52 weeks to 03 16 Nielsen Scantrack volume positively impacted by a brand refresh in the on-trade and growing popularity data 52 weeks to 04 16.
