GREENCOAT U K W I N D Report of the Directors The Directors present their Annual Report, together Major Interests in Shares with the consolidated financial statements of significant shareholdings as at 8 February 2017 are Greencoat UK Wind PLC for the year to 31 December detailed below.
The Corporate Governance Report on pages 30 Ordinary to 32 form part of this report.
shares held % 8 February Details of the Directors who held ofce during the year Shareholder 2017 and as at the date of this report are given on pages 20 Newton Investment Management 9.21 to 22.
Legal & General Investment Management 5.48 Capital Structure Fidelity Worldwide Investment 5.00 The Company has one class of ordinary shares which Investec Wealth & Investment 4.99 carry no rights to xed income.
Shareholders are entitled to all dividends paid by the Company and, on Baille Gifford & Co Limited 4.59 a winding up, provided the Company has satisfied all Sarasin & Partners LLP 4.32 of its liabilities, the shareholders are entitled to all of Aviva Investors 3.67 the surplus assets of the Company.
Insight Investment 3.62 Shareholders will be entitled to attend and vote at all general meetings of the Company and, on a poll, to significant shareholdings as at 31 December 2016 are one vote for each ordinary share held.
Authority to Purchase Own Shares Ordinary shares held % The current authority of the Company to make market 31 December purchases of up to 14.99 per cent.
of its issued share Shareholder 2016 capital expires at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM.
Newton Investment Management 9.27 Special resolution 14 will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM seeking renewal of such authority Legal & General Investment Management 5.47 until the next AGM or 30 June 2018, whichever is Fidelity Worldwide Investment 4.99 earlier.
The price paid for the shares will not be less Investec Wealth & Investment 4.84 than the nominal value or more than the maximum amount permitted to be paid in accordance with the Baille Gifford & Co Limited 4.58 rules of the UK Listing Authority in force at the date of Sarasin & Partners LLP 4.31 purchase.
This power will be exercised only if, in the Insight Investment 3.78 opinion of the Directors, a repurchase would be in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
Any shares Aviva Investors 3.67 repurchased under this authority will either be cancelled or held in treasury at the discretion of the Companies Act 2006 Disclosures Board for future resale in appropriate market conditions.
In accordance with Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and The Directors believe that the renewal of the Reports Regulations 2008 the Directors disclose the Companys authority to purchase shares, as detailed following information: above, is in the best interests of shareholders as a the Companys capital structure is detailed in note whole and therefore recommend shareholders to vote 15 to the financial statements and all shareholders in favour of special resolution 14. have the same voting rights in respect of the share The Directors also recommend shareholders to vote in capital of the Company.
There are no restrictions favour of resolutions 12 and 13, which renew their on voting rights that the Company is aware of, nor authority to allot equity securities for the purpose of any agreement between holders of securities that satisfying the Companys obligations to pay the equity result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or element of the Investment Managers Fee, and also on voting rights: their authority to allot equity securities for cash either pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 12 or there exist no securities carrying special rights with by way of a sale of treasury shares.
regard to the control of the Company: 23 Greencoat UK Wind PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2016 Report of the Directors continued Companies Act 2006 Disclosures continued Directors Indemnity the Company does not have an employees share Directors and Ofcers liability insurance cover is in scheme: place in respect of the Directors.
The Companys Articles of Association provide, subject to the the rules concerning the appointment and provisions of UK legislation, an indemnity for Directors replacement of Directors are contained in the in respect of costs which they may incur relating to the Companys Articles of Association and the defence of any proceedings brought against them Companies Act 2006: arising out of their positions as Directors, in which they are acquitted or judgement is given in their favour by there exist no agreements to which the Company the Court.
is party that may affect its control following a takeover bid: and Except for such indemnity provisions in the Companys Articles of Association and in the Directors letters of there exist no agreements between the Company appointment, there are no qualifying third party and its Directors providing for compensation for indemnity provisions in force.
loss of ofce that may occur because of a takeover bid.
Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions As the Group has outsourced operations to third Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive parties, there are no significant greenhouse gas Under the Alternative Investment Fund Manager emissions to report from the operations of the Group.
Regulations 2013 as amended the Company is a UK AIF and the Investment Manager is a full scope UK In relation to the Groups investee companies, the level AIFM.
of greenhouse gas emissions arising from the low volume of electricity imports and from operation and Heritage Depositary Company UK Limited provide maintenance activity is not considered material for depositary services under the AIFMD.
Further, as the assets are AIFMD outlines the required information which has to renewable energy generators, they reduce carbon be made available to investors in an AIF and directs dioxide emissions on a net basis at a rate of that material changes to this information be disclosed approximately 440g CO 2 per kWh.
in the Annual Report of the AIF.
Risks and Risk Management All information required to be disclosed under the The Group is exposed to financial risks such as price AIFMD is either disclosed in this Annual Report or is risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk and detailed within a schedule of disclosures on the the management and monitoring of these risks are Companys website at www.
detailed in note 18 to the financial statements.
There were no material changes in the year.
Independent Auditor The Directors will propose the reappointment of BDO Investment Trust Status LLP as the Companys Auditor and resolutions The Company has been approved as an investment concerning this and the remuneration of the trust under sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation Companys Auditor will be proposed at the AGM.
As an investment trust, the Company is required to meet relevant eligibility conditions and So far as each of the Directors at the time that this ongoing requirements.
In particular, the Company report was approved are aware: must not retain more than 15 per cent.
of its eligible investment income.
The Company has conducted and there is no relevant audit information of which the monitored its affairs so as to enable it to comply with Auditor is unaware: and these requirements.
they have taken all the steps they ought to have Diversity and Business Review taken to make themselves aware of any audit A business review and the Groups policy on diversity information and to establish that the Auditor is are detailed in the Strategic Report on page 6. aware of that information.
24 GREENCOAT U K W I N D Report of the Directors continued Annual Accounts Subsequent Events The Directors are of the opinion that the Annual significant subsequent events have been disclosed in Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and note 21 to the financial statements.
understandable and provides the information Strategic Report necessary for shareholders to assess the performance, strategy and business model of the Company.
A review of the business and future outlook, going concern statement and the principal risks and The Directors recommend that the Annual Report, the uncertainties of the Group have not been included in Report of the Directors and the Independent Auditors this report as they are disclosed in the Strategic Report Report for the year ended 31 December 2016 are on pages 5 to 9. received and adopted by the shareholders and a resolution concerning this will be proposed at the AGM.
By order of the Board Dividend The Directors recommended an interim dividend of 11,681,787, equivalent to 1.585 pence per share with respect to the three month period ended 31 December 2016, bringing total dividends with Tim Ingram respect to the year to 38,835,224, equivalent to Chairman 6.34 pence per share as disclosed in note 8 to the financial statements.
