STRATEGIC REPORT Our markets Overview Political environment Our core markets are the UK eating out and UK drinking out markets.
Regulatory forces have played, and will continue to play, a key role We also compete in the UK ale market with our brewing of cask and inshaping our markets and our business.
premium ales, and have a foothold in the UK staying out market.
In July 2015, it was announced that the UK government would introduce Over the last 12 months our core markets have continued to be supported acompulsory minimum wage premium for all staff over 25 years of age, by the macroeconomic environment.
Alongside the rest ofthe sector, we known as the National Living Wage.
Our people are core to our business continue to navigate a number ofchanges in the regulatory environment, and we constantly strive to pay them appropriately for their hard work in particular the introduction ofthe National Living Wage and the statutory while maintaining a high level of investment in development and training.
We remain confident of being able to mitigate most of the impact from the ongoing increases in the National Living Wage.
The long-term fundamentals behind our core markets remain strong and we are cautiously optimistic about the future.
We have seen the UK eating Throughout the year, the Small Business, Enterprise and Employment Act out market grow and expect it to continue to do so.
We also believe it will has taken steps towards implementation, with the publication of a draft become increasingly dynamic with intense competition for every pound in statutory Pubs Code in April 2016.
Now that the revised Code has been the consumers pocket.
The UK drinking out market will continue to show announced, and assuming there are no further changes, we can start to resilience and hold its share of leisure spend.
plan for its introduction at the end of July 2016.
We believe that the overallfinancial impact on the group will be immaterial.
We welcomed the Chancellors decision to freeze excise duty in March Positive sector LFL growth continued, although it was 2016.
We maintain our support for an alcohol minimum unit price MUP.
alittle more subdued in the second half of the year We believe MUP, alongside other measures such as improved alcohol education, can be a highly effective measure in reducing irresponsible UK MARKET LFL GROWTH % ROLLING MAT retailing and consuming of alcohol, therefore helping to reduce the costs to society of rising alcohol related illness and crime.
2.5% We await more detail around the proposed Apprenticeship Levy and will 2.0% again look to work with government to ensure that this legislation supports rather than hinders investment in people development and training.
Source: Thomson Datastream, Capital Economics.
1.0% 0.5% 0.0% Households have been increasingly Jun 2012 Jun 2013 Jun 2014 Jun 2015 Apr 2016 choosing to spend rather than save UK HOUSEHOLD SAVING RATIO % Source: Coffer Peach Business Tracker.
While recent sector like-for-like LFL sales growth has been a little more 14% subdued, within Pub Company, our largest and fastest growing business, 12% we successfully outperformed the market in the 12 months to April 2016, 10% growing our LFL sales by 1.5%, including by 1.9% inthe original Greene King 8% managed estate.
6% 4% Economic environment 2% The macroeconomic environment continued to provide a strong backdrop to 0% our core markets with consumers experiencing increases in average weekly Q1 2010 Q1 2011 Q1 2012 Q1 2013 Q1 2014 Q1 2015 earnings supported by a tightening labour market.
As a result of alow inflationary environment, the climb in consumer confidence throughout 2015 and an increasing appetite for households to spend rather than save, we saw Source: Capital Economics.
1 UK real household spending grow by c. 2.8% in2015.
However, the picture was mixed across the year and, in the second half, Consumer confidence was strong throughout asthe UK referendum on the European Union approached, consumer 2015, but dipped in early 2016 confidence dipped and the economic environment showed some signs ofsoftening with consumers more reluctant to spend discretionary UK CONSUMER CONFIDENCE COMPOSITE INDEX income in the face of such uncertainty.
10 We remain cautiously optimistic about the future UK economic outlook and expect consumer discretionary spend to continue to grow, albeit 0 ataslower rate as the growth in average weekly earnings slows as the country approaches full employment and inflation picks up.
-10 -20 Although the referendum is now behind us, the process by which Britain extracts itself from Europe is uncertain.
We are mindful of the potential -30 impact of this uncertainty on the consumer and expect consumer confidence to remain more subdued until this is clearer.
-40 Sep 2012 May 2013 May 2014 May 2015 May 2016 We are also mindful of the longer-term impact on household incomes from government plans to reduce welfare spending, which are likely Source: GfK.
tohave a disproportionate impact on those with lower incomes.
18 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT The pubs and bars segment is c. 25% We have seen more recent signs of the of the total UK eating out market decline in alcohol consumption levelling off UK EATING OUT MARKET STRUCTURE 2015 BN UK ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION % IN LAST WEEK 20052014 66% 2015 22 20 11 9 8 7 7 85 UK Eating out 64% 2015 62% 10 6 6 22 UK Pubs and bars 60% Pubs and bars Coffee and Independent 58% Restaurants sandwichretailers Tenanted and leased Fast food Retail grab and go Managed and branded 56% Hotels Other 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Source: M&C Allegra 2015.
After a notable decline in alcohol consumption between 2007 and 2012, UK eating out 3 consumption has levelled off more recently.
We have seen drinking out spend We offer a variety of eating out options and experiences across both 4 retain its share of leisure spend at c. 22%.
We expect to see continued ourdestination and local community pubs, with eating out representing resilience in drinking out spend in value terms, which will be supported by the c. 40% of leisure spend in 2015. broader increase in discretionary and leisure spend.
We also expect the price differential between the on and off trades to become less relevant as consumers We compete in a broad UK eating out market made up of around 330,000 1 are drawn to the experience ofdrinking out of their homes.
outlets and annual total spend of c. 85bn.
Within this market, the pubs and bars segment consists of around 50,000 outlets and total spend ofc.
22bn c. 25% of overall eating out spend.
Other markets UK ale market The market is increasingly dynamic.
An environment of increasing consumer We are the UKs leading cask ale brewer and premium ale brewer.
The overall choice extends beyond the traditional pub and restaurant sector and includes UK ale market was flat in the 12 months to April 2016.
This improving picture the supermarkets, who have successfully made eating at home more attractive, has been driven by a slowing in the decline of standard ale in keg and can and the takeaway aggregators who facilitate the option of combining the ease formats and continued growth of premium ale through cask and bottle formats.
of eating out with the comforts of home.
Understanding this, and ensuring ouroffer is compelling enough to compete successfully with this broader During this period, we were successful in extending our share of the UK competitive set, is increasingly important for delivering long-term growth.
ale market by 40bps to 10.5%, which we have achieved through building consumer loyalty to our core ale brands, which have all grown in the year, The overall UK eating out market is expected to grow at an average 1 and through developing our innovative range of seasonal and craft beers annual rate of c. 34% over the next three years, supported by rising real to appeal to a new generation of beer drinkers.
incomes, supply growth in the market and increases in the proportion ofadults eating out of home and the frequency with which they do so, We expect the UK ale market to continue to evolve and improve and to driven in particular by youngeradults.
see low single-digit growth in the total market.
We remain confident in our ability to continue to grow share with our enviable portfolio of brands Hectic lifestyles and the increasing desire to seek experiences mean that that can meet the needs of consumers across all drinking occasions.
consumers are increasingly attracted to both informal dining with great value food and drink across all day parts as well as more premium offerings.
Segments of the market such as fast food and retail grab and go UK staying out market will therefore be among the fastest growing parts of the market.
We will We compete in the UK provincial staying out market and offer great value continue to develop our offer to meet these needs, and are making and convenience to guests on both business and leisure visits, with our estate progress in improving our coffee offer and targeting breakfast and snack at the year end consisting of 3,399 bedrooms.
We see the combination of a sales as well as the more traditional out-of-home dining occasions.
pub restaurant and adjacent rooms to be an attractive guest proposition in the context of increasing business and leisure travel, and therefore one The pubs and bars segment is forecast to hold its share of this market which offers plenty of opportunity for pubs to take share from the more atc.
Managed and branded pubs will be the key drivers of the traditional branded hotel chains.
The staying out market enjoyed a strong evolution of the pub sector as consumers are drawn to brands that year in 2015, benefiting from the economic recovery and a buoyant travel standout and have defined, consistent propositions that signal reassuring market.
RevPAR revenue per available room in the market continued to grow brand familiarity, excitement and the opportunity to try something new.
in the provinces, and RevPAR across our combined Pub Company estate Incontrast, overall spend in the tenanted and leased sector will continue grew by 4.5% across the financial year.
RevPAR in the provincial staying to decline primarily as a result of falling supply.
We see an opportunity out market is expected to grow by c. 34% over the next two years here to buck the inherent market decline by strengthening the quality i. e. continued growth, albeit at a slower rate driven by moderate 5 ofour estate to win share from less well invested competitors.
increases in occupancy and hoteliers average daily rate.
Through our pubs and our portfolio of award-winning ales we offer choice 2.
for all types of drinkers and occasions.
Drink is a key driver of overall spend 3.
% of UK population who drank in the last week aged 16 and over in the pubs sector with 40% of all meals involving an alcoholic drink and 52% source:adultdrinking habits in Great Britain, 2014 ONS, released March 2016. of consumers saying that alcohol is an important choice driver for where to 2 4.
A strong drinks range is therefore a crucial factor in achieving overall customer satisfaction and we aim to capture share of spend by providing a 5.
PwC 2016. drinks range that offers value, quality and an experience to our guests.
Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 19
