BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND SECRETARY Ian Durant Roger Whiteside Richard Hutton FCA Raymond Reynolds Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Retail Director Ian has a background in Roger began his career at Richard qualified as a Raymond joined Greggs in Biography international finance and Marks and Spencer where he Chartered Accountant with retail management in 1986. commercial management, spent 20 years, ultimately KPMG and gained career As General Manager during with experience in the retail, becoming head of its food experience with Procter and the 1990s, he built a property, hotels and transport business.
He was then one of Gamble before joining significant new business for sectors.
His career includes the founding team of Ocado, Greggs in 1998.
Richard has the Company in the leadership roles with the retail serving as Joint MD from 2000 previously been a NonEdinburgh region, and was division of Hanson and to 2004.
From 2004 to 2007 Executive Director of appointed Managing Director Jardine Matheson, HongKong Roger led a successful Northern Recruitment Group, for Scotland in 2002.
Land, Dairy Farm turnaround as Chief Executive and last year chaired Business International, Thistle Hotels of the Thresher Group in the Communitys North and SeaContainers and as off-licence chain before joining East Advisory Board.
Finance Director of Liberty Punch Taverns, ultimately International.
Roger was appointed as Chief Executive of Greggs on 4 February 2013.
5 October 2011 17 March 2008 Non- 13 March 2006 18 December 2006 Appointed since Executive Director until 3 February 2013 Yes Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Independent Chairman of Capital and Member of the Womens Trustee of Greggs Foundation.
Director of the Sunderland External Counties PLC.
Trustee Director of Business in Business Improvement District.
Trustee of the North East Chamber of Alnwick Garden Trust.
Chair of Nominations Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Committee Committee membership Tuna Crunch Baguette Sausage Roll Jammie Heart Biscuit Scotch Pie Menu favourite Because its big on flavour and Our classic favourites 5p fr om the sale of every As a Scotsman, I look forwar d made using tuna which has really cant be beaten!
Jammy Heart biscuit goes to shop visits in Scotland for been sourced responsibly.
to the Greggs Foundation this reason alone!
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 42 Directors Report Allison Kirkby Helena Ganczakowski Peter McPhillips Sandra Turner Jonathan Jowett Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Company Secretary Director Director Director Director and General Counsel Allison is President and CEO Helena worked for Unilever Peter spent most of his Sandra has been involved in Jonathan is a lawyer by of Tele 2, a major European for 23 years and held senior executive career in food the retail sector throughout profession and has held the telecoms company.
Prior to positions in brand manufacturing having held a her career and was employed position of Company Tele 2, where she joined as management and marketing number of executive positions by Tesco PLC, latterly as Secretary for a number of CFO, Allison spent two including UK Marketing including Divisional Managing Commercial Director for FTSE 250 and FTSE Smallcap decades in the FMCG sector Director and ultimately Head Director of Hillsdown Tesco Ireland, from 1987 to companies.
His previous at Procter and Gamble in a of Global Agencies.
Prior to this she worked employers include Avon variety of senior financial and has a PhD in Engineering Terranova the chilled foods in sales and marketing roles Cosmetics Limited, SSL operational roles before from the University of business demerged from for Unilever and Wilkinson International plc, Wagon plc moving to the TMT sector Cambridge.
first at Virgin Media and then ultimately as UK Managing as Group CFO at Shine, a Director of Uniq plc.
More division of 21st Century Fox.
recently, Peter was European Allison is a Fellow of the Chairman of Hain Celestial Chartered Institute of Group.
30 January 2013 2 January 2014 10 March 2014 1 May 2014 12 May 2010 Yes Yes Yes Yes Not applicable Director of Secure Value Non-Executive Director of Non-Executive Director of Non-Executive Director of Member of the British Retail Consulting Limited.
Board Croda International Plc and Browns Food Group.
Carpetright plc, McBride plc Consortium Policy Board: member of Reach for Change.
also owner-manager of a Non-Executive Director of and Huhtmaki OYJ.
Trustee Director of the consulting business working Jacksons Bakery Limited.
with companies ranging from Non-Executive Director of start-up businesses to FTSE Newcastle Hospitals NHS 100 constituents, helping Foundation Trust.
them to develop and implement strategies.
Chair of Audit Committee: Audit, Remuneration and Audit, Remuneration Chair of Remuneration Secretary to the Board and Remuneration and Nominations Committee and Nominations Committee: Audit all its Committees Nominations Committee member Committee member and Nominations member Committee member Bacon Roll Balanced Choice Bake Ham and Cheese Baguette Sugar Strand Doughnut Mexican Chicken Oval Bite Nothing beats a simple It of fers all the taste and Honey r oast ham and It winked at me and I just Our famous oval bites ar e the bacon roll for breakfast.
comfort of a traditional pasty cheddar cheese the had to eat it!
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 43
