Governance Board of Directors 36 LEADERSHIP: EXPERIENCE ACROSS THE BOARD LEE KENNETH PAUL WILL FELDMAN ALEXANDER MILES WHITEHORN Non-executive Chairman of the Board Chief Executive officer Chief Financial officer Senior Independent Director Lee Feldman joined GVC in December Kenneth Alexander joined GVC in March Paul Miles joined GVC in February 2017 Will Whitehorn joined GVC in March 2017.
He is the Managing Partner of 2007 as Chief Executive.
He was formerly as Chief Financial officer.
A Chartered He is the Deputy Chairman and Senior Twin Lakes Capital, a private equity rm Finance Director, then Managing Director, Accountant, Paul has held a number Independent Director at Stagecoach focused on branded consumer products, of the European operations of Sportingbet of senior finance roles in regulated Group plc and is an independent media and business services.
From 2008 plc, which he joined in 2000.
He is a industries, encompassing international Non-executive Director of Purplebricks through 2015, he was also the CEO member of the Institute of Chartered and online operations.
He is also a member of the of Aurora Brands: the owner of both Accountants of Scotland and previously include Group Financial Controller at First Minister of Scotlands GlobalScot MacKenzie-Childs and Jay Strongwater, worked for Grant Thornton.
insurance group RSA Group plc and Acting Business mentoring network, President the iconic American luxury home Group Finance Director of Phoenix Group of the Chartered Institute of Logistics furnishings and personal accessories plc, the FTSE 250 life assurance operator.
and Transport and Chairman of the companies.
Feldman was named the Paul joined Wonga as CFO in 2014 as a Scottish Gallery and Scottish Event CEO of Aurora Brands when Twin Lakes key member of an executive team brought Campus Limited.
Previously, Will joined led the acquisition of the business.
in to restructure the business.
the Virgin Group in 1987 and served as He is also a member of the board of Group Public Relations Manager and directors of PacicHealth Labs and LRN as Brand Development and Corporate Corporation.
Prior to co-founding Twin Affairs Director, as well as being a Lakes, Lee was a partner in Softbank founding director of Virgin Games, before Capital Partners.
A and J. D. being appointed as President of Virgin from ColumbiaUniversity.
He is also a former non-executive Chairman of Nominations Committee Chairman Next Fifteen Communications Groupplc, Crowd Reactive Limited and Speed Remuneration Committee Communications Agency Limited, and was a member of the Science & Technology Facilities Council STFC until 2012, chairing its Economic Impact Advisory Board and was a Non-executive director ofSTFC Innovations Limited.
GVC Holdings PLC Annual Report 2016 37 KARL PETER STEPHEN NORBERT DIACONO ISOLA MORANA TEUFELBERGER Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Karl Diacono joined GVC as a Peter Isola joined the GVC Board in 2016 Stephen Morana is widely recognised for Norbert Teufelberger has been involved Non-executive Director in December following the move to the Main Market his e-commerce expertise, particularly in the global casino and gaming industry 2008.
He chairs the Remuneration of the LSE as an expert in gaming law as a specialist in the online gaming since 1989.
He occupied key positions Committee and serves on the Audit and regulation with experience advising sector having spent ten years as part with Casinos Austria, was a consultant to Committee.
He holds a Masters Degree numerous e-commerce clients.
Peter Isola of the management team at Betfairplc.
the Novomatic Group of companies and in Management and is currently CEO of is the Senior Partner of Isolas, Gibraltars Stephen joined Betfair in 2002, becoming co-founded a land based casino company the Group that is a regulated Corporate longest established law rm.
He is a Chief Financial officer in 2006 and currently listed on the Nasdaq Capital Service Provides and holds a license Gibraltarian, domiciled in Gibraltar and in also served as Interim CEO in 2012.
Norbert joined the GVC Board to Act as Trustees issued by the Malta 1982 was called to the Bar of England and After Betfair, Stephen spent over three from bwin.
party digital entertainment Financial Services Authority.
He is also Wales and also Gibraltar.
Peter has worked years at Zoopla Property Group as CFO plc bwin following the acquisition in a non-executive director on a number of in the gaming and financial services where he helped them join the FTSE February 2016 having been CEO of bwin companies as well as other online gaming sector all his professional life and is widely 250 in June 2014.
He joined bwin in September companies and is actively involved in the recognised and respected as a leading the Board of GVC in February 2016 1999 and was instrumental in drawing up hospitality industry.
Karl is a director of expert in gaming and regulation.
Peter is a following the successful acquisition of the initial business plan of the company a number of GVC subsidiaries along with former President of the Gibraltar Chamber bwn.
party digital entertainment plc and and the subsequent structuring and Gaming VC Corporation Limited, a Maltese of Commerce and advises the Gibraltar the enlarged Groups move to the Main preparation for its public listing.
He holds subsidiary of the GVC Group to which Government on a number of committees in Market of the LSE.
Stephen is also an a Masters in Business Administration from Fenlex Corporate Services Limited also both financial services and gaming.
He is a NED and Audit Committee Chairman at the University of Economics and Business provides certain payroll and administrative director of a number of Gibraltar regulated Boohoo.
com plc, the high growth fast Administration in Vienna.
rms in financial services, gaming fashion business.
Stephen is a qualied and e-commerce including Gibraltar chartered accountant and a member of Remuneration Committee Chairman International Bank Limited, Callaghan the INSEAD alumni.
Insurance Brokers Limited and Sapphire Audit Committee Audit Committee Chairman Networks.
He was recently appointed a Commissioner of the Gibraltar Financial Nominations Committee Services Commission.
Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee
