Board of Directors Dennis Millard N R Jill McDonald N C Jonny Mason Group Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Chairman Dennis has been Chairman of the Group since Jill has been Group Chief Executive Officer since Jonny joined the business as Group Chief Financial 28 May 2009.
His former appointments include 11 May 2015.
Previously Jill was CEO, UK & Officer on 12 October 2015.
Jonny was previously Chairman of Connect Group plc, Non-Executive President, North West Division, Europe for CFO of Scandi Standard AB, a Scandinavian Director and Senior Independent Director of Premier McDonalds Corporation.
Her responsibilities at company that successfully listed in Stockholm in Farnell plc, Chief Financial Officer of Cookson McDonalds encompassed around 3,300 owned June 2014.
Prior to this, he was CFO at Odeon and Group plc, Finance Director of Medeva plc and a and franchised restaurants across seven countries, UCI Cinemas and Finance Director of Sainsburys member of the Economics Affairs Committee CBI.
more than 500 franchisees and over 200,000 Supermarkets.
His early career was at Shell and colleagues.
Jill began her career at Colgate Hanson plc.
He has broad commercial and financial experience Palmolive and British Airways.
in the retail, service, distribution and manufacturing Jonny brings a broad range of financial experience sectors in the UK and internationally.
Dennis is a Jill brings outstanding business leadership, across consumer facing and retail businesses.
He member of the South African Institute of Chartered particularly with regard to customer service and is a strong leader with a track record in a range of Accountants and holds an MBA from the University colleague engagement in a consumer facing business contexts.
Jonny is a Director of the charity of Cape Town.
She is a Non-Executive Director for Dimensions UK Limited.
He is also Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director of Pets at Home Group Plc and is a Non-Executive Director for Debenhams plc.
David Adams A N R Claudia Arney A N R Helen Jones C A N R Senior Independent Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director David has been a Non-Executive Director since Claudia joined the Board as a Non-Executive Helen joined the Board as a Non-Executive 1 March 2011 and Senior Independent Director Director in January 2011 and became Director on 1 March 2014. since 1 March 2014.
David was Finance Director Remuneration Committee Chairman in March 2014.
Helen is currently a senior executive at Caff and Deputy Chief Executive of House of Fraser plc Claudia was previously Chairman of The Public Data Nero and is a member of Ben and Jerrys until 2006, then Executive Chairman of Jessops Group, Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Independent Board of Directors.
Helen was the plc, becoming Non-Executive Chairman in 2009.
In Non-Executive Director of TelecityGroup, and a CEO of the Zizzi Restaurants group and was addition, he has held several Executive and NonBoard Member of the Shareholder Executive.
In her also responsible for successfully launching the Executive roles in 30 years in retailing including ten executive career she was Group Managing Director, Ben & Jerry brand in the UK and Europe.
years as a plc Finance Director.
Digital at EMAP, Director of the Enterprise and Helen brings valuable and relevant marketing David is currently Chairman of Conviviality Retail plc, Growth Unit at HM Treasury and Managing Director and branding experience in consumer focused Ecovision Ltd, Park Cameras Ltd and Walk the Walk of TheStreet.
She has also worked at Goldman businesses.
a breast cancer charity and is Senior Independent Sachs, FT. Com and Mckinsey.
Claudia brings Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Audit extensive experience of building digital businesses, Committee at Hornby plc and Non-Executive strategy formulation and business transformation.
Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee at Claudia is currently a Non-Executive Director of Fevertree Drinks plc and Non-Executive Director Aviva plc, Derwent London plc and the Premier and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee at League.
Key to Committee Membership: N Nomination Committee, A Audit Committee, R Remuneration Committee, C Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 36 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 1 April 2016 slugline
