Sector Review Process Safety Products which protect assets and people at work.
Philippe Felten Sector Chief Executive, Process Safety Performance Group KPIs 2016 target 1 Revenue growth 1.8% 1 Organic revenue growth constant currency 5.3% 5% 1 Profit growth 11.6% 1 Organic profit growth constant currency 14.8% 5% 2 Return on Sales 25.4% 18% 3 R&D % of Revenue 3.7% 4% We met the challenges in the oil and gas sector by focusing on a continuing strategy of product and end-market diversification, geographic expansion and market-leading Contribution to Group customer service.
New product R&D investment to drive m 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 diversification was maintained.
At the same time, we carried out rigorous overhead control and reorganised management Revenue 155 159 127 126 122 to align our businesses with changing market conditions.
Profit 40 45 35 32 29 Revenue % of Group Profit % of Group 1 4 Sector revenue and adjusted sector profit before finance expense are compared to the equivalent prior year figures.
2 4 Return on Sales is defined as adjusted sector profit before finance expense and taxation 19% 22% expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
3 Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
4 Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and acquisition items see note 1 to the Accounts.
MARKET TRENDS AND GROWTHDRIVERS The underlying long-term drivers in our Process Safety markets are unchanged, despite challenging market conditions.
Weexpect them toremainthe key growthfactors: increasing and more stringent global health, safety  population growth and industrialisation stimulating rising energydemand increasing development, complexity and geographic spread ofenergyresources and their safety requirements The global expectation of improvements in workplace health and safety isbacked by government occupational safety and health programmes worldwide and continually increasing regulation.
This will continue to drive long-term growth in our target process safety niches at rates above general economic growth.
The dramatic fall in oil prices 60% down from their high point in 2014 wascaused by oversupply combined with lower demand due to slowing economic growth, particularly in China.
Oil price decline has had 34 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS aconsiderable impact on the oil and gas While we expect the upstream oil market will Half of our Process Safety sector businesses sectorand on the wider global economy.
remain subdued on a global basis, there are are exposed to markets affected by the Upstream capital expenditure exploration opportunities in Asia and the Middle East oil price.
Many customers were forced to and production by the oil majors has been where the activity level remains attractive.
cut capital expenditure which negatively cut significantly, with many projects postponed.
The other half of the STRATEGY Capital investment in longer-term midstream sector, including gas detection, machine Our strategy for growth in the Process Safety and downstream projects storage, processing automation and sequential safety, delivered sector continues to focus on: and distribution, where our products have growth in line with expectations.
We grew most exposure, is continuing.
revenue in the UK, US and China while investment in new products to diversify our facingmore challenging conditions in end markets and meet local market needs Current market conditions are not expected Europeand Australia.
toaffect worldwide government and local geographic market expansion via shared Our companies active in valve management authority programmes of imposing stricter regional sector hubs and pressure management have delivered legislation to protect people and the acquisitions, predominantly in adjacent consistent growth in recent years, driven by environment.
We do not anticipate significant markets with low oil and gas exposure rising energy demand.
In 2015 16 we faced change in oil and gas upstream capital significant capex reduction in the upstream expenditure during 2016 17.
Our businesses During 2015 16 we combined several oiland gas sector.
will continue to focus on market segments companies with similar end markets to raise where investment continues and where our operating efficiency and support growth in R&D spend in the sector increased to technical know-how translates into improved chemical, petrochemical, pharmaceutical, 3.7% of revenue and focused on delivering safety and operational efficiency for customers.
and food and beverage markets around the products and solutions that support our globe.
The strategic goals were to: Midstream petrochemical and chemical market diversification strategy.
In addition, processors have benefited significantly from we have added monitoring capabilities speed up product innovation falling oil prices due to cheaper feedstocks.
allowing digital data communication with increase market and geographic Inthese markets we expect continued our safety-critical products.
diversification investment in raising safety standards improve customer services OUTLOOK andweexpect to benefit from this trend.
Cost reduction and the diversification Two businesses that specialise in safety strategy focusing on, for instance, the Our businesses focusing on machine control systems for process valves were chemical, pharmaceutical, and food and automation, sequential equipment control merged to create a strong and innovative beverage process markets, combined and gas detection have minor revenue valve management company.
The merger with structural management changes, will exposure to oil and gas.
These companies will help accelerate product innovation and let us make progress.
Continued growth continued to grow strongly throughout improved control technologies to make valve inour non-energy niches machine 2015 16 and we are confident of continued operation simpler, more efficient and safer.
automation, gas detection and sequential growth in 2016 17.
Innovation, deep safety control systems will continue to understanding of customer applications Management of three of our machinery support sector growth.
and continuously improving geographic access safety businesses based in the UK, support are the main drivers for growth USA and France has been integrated with We see growth opportunities for our gas in the non-oil Process Safety markets.
Each company continues safety products in niche applications and we to operate with its established branding GEOGRAPHIC TRENDS expect growth in 2016 17 due to improved and local manufacture, but R&D has been We performed well in US and Asian non-oil market intelligence and better sales centralised.
This strategy reinforces our ability markets and these territories remain key execution, particularly in export markets.
to add value through innovation but maintains growth targets for this sector.
India is still a a local footprint so that close contact with Well-designed process safety systems growth market where demand for improved customers remains a strength.
havethe dual role of increasing safety safety throughout the process industries is while maintaining high productivity.
The rising and we anticipate stronger emphasis Our Process Safety businesses will continue evolution ofmonitored process safety on safety and environmental protection to invest in R&D with an increased focus systems incorporating sensors and digital regulation in the medium term.
onunderstanding local customer needs, data communications for alarm triggering particularly in the new markets we enter.
opens new possibilities to position our value Europe was stable due to its flat economy We encourage collaborative sharing of proposition: raising production process butwe expect to expand our position with market intelligence about routes to market, efficiency combined with regulatory our recently merged and strengthened sales channels, tender projects, OEM safetycompliance.
In China our businesses are marketing There is a clear trend for greater regulation Our corrosion monitoring business, collaboratively with shared sales teams inthe chemical and petrochemical markets, acquired in 2014, was impacted by the andservice facilities.
This will reinforce our and this will continue to drive demand for our oil price fall andreduced capital and presence and deliver greater penetration in process safety solutions.
Our Process Safety operating spend bycustomers.
The Tianjin chemical warehouse acquisition policy is to acquire in high growth reorganised the business structure and explosion in 2015, in which 173 people died, sectors relatively immune to commodity already see benefitsin terms ofmarket has prompted the Chinese government pricecyclicality.
toraise safety standards in hazardous We do not expect recovery in oil and gas environments and actively enforce PERFORMANCE customer spend during 2016 17.
Revenue declined by 2% to 155m 2015: of our cost reduction and diversification efforts 159m and profit fell by 12% to 40m 2015: should help to mitigate these unfavourable In oil markets, the mature and declining 45m.
At constant currency, organic revenue market conditions as we move through the NorthSea and the USA will continue to be was down 5% and profit was down 15%.
Production volumes are now Return on sales was 25.4% 2015: 28.3%.
falling even in the previously resilient US shaleoil industry.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 35
