STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other Statutory Information ACTIVITIES Halma plc is a holding company.
A list of its subsidiary companies is set out on pages 166 to 168.
The principal operating companies andtheiractivities are set out on pages 176 to 179.
ORDINARY DIVIDENDS The Directors recommend a final dividend of 7.83p per share and, ifapproved, this dividend will be paid on 17 August 2016 to ordinary shareholders on the register at the close of business on 15 July 2016.
Together with the interim dividend of 4.98p per share already paid, thiswill make a total of 12.81p 2015: 11.96p per share for the financialyear.
SHARE CAPITAL AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE Details of the share capital, together with details of the movements inthe share capital during the year, are shown in note 22 to the accounts.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one voteat general meetings of the Company.
There are no other classes of share capital.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, with both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
No person has any special rights of control over theCompanys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF ORDINARY SHARES Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company and to appoint one or more proxies or, if the holder of shares is a corporation, one or more corporate representatives.
On a show of hands, each holder of ordinary shares who being an individual is present in person or being a corporation is present by a duly appointed corporate representative, not being themself a member, shall have one vote, as shall proxies unless they are appointed by more than one holder, in which case they may vote both for and against the resolution in accordance with the holders instructions.
On a poll every holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which they are the holder.
Electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting instructions must be received not later than 48 hours before the meeting.
A holder of ordinary shares can lose the entitlement to vote at general meetings where that holder has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company with information concerning interests held in those shares.
Except as setout above and as permitted under applicable statutes, there are no limitations on voting rights of holders of a given percentage, number ofvotes or deadlines for exercising voting rights.
The Company has established an Employee Benefit Trust and the trustee has waived its right to all dividends.
RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER OF SHARES The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share that is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent dealings inshares in the Company from taking place on an open and proper basis or where the Company has a lien over that share.
The Directors mayalso refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is: i lodged, duly stamped if necessary, at the registered office of the Company or any other place as the Board may decide accompanied by the certificate for the share s to be transferred and or such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: ii in respect of only one class of shares: iii in favour of aperson who is not a minor, infant, bankrupt or a person of unsound mind: or iv in favour of not more than four persons jointly.
Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a transfer of an uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations governing the operation of CREST.
There are no other restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company except certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example insider trading laws : or where a shareholder with at least a 0.25% interest in the Companys certificated shares has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company with information concerning interests inthose shares.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions onthetransfer of securities or on voting rights.
TREASURY SHARES Shares held in treasury do not have voting rights and are not eligible for dividends.
EMPLOYEE SHARE PLANS Details of employee share plans are set out in note 23 to the accounts.
The Company introduced a new Executive Share Plan, which was approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM, and reflects current legislation, best practice and corporate governance requirements including recovery and withholding provisions.
In addition, the new Plan includes flexibility togrant performance-related share awards, other share awards and deferred bonus awards.
The new Plan will be used primarily to grant performance-related awards and deferred bonus awards to executive Directors and selected senior employees.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the ability to continue to grant long term share-based incentives as part of abalanced remuneration package will create a strong alignment of long term interest between senior management andshareholders.
Initial performance awards were made to executive Directors and selected senior management in July 2015, following shareholder approval ofthe Plan.
The first grants of the deferred bonus awards will be made shortly after the payment of the cash element of the bonus.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 91 Other Statutory Information continued DILUTION LIMITS The Performance Share Plan has awarded shares, before lapses, over a ten-year period totalling 4.0% of the Companys issued share capital: this is within the 10.0% overall limit and the 7.5% limit for discretionary share awards agreed in 2005.
The Company has utilised treasury shares to satisfy all such awards.
The new 2015 Executive Share Plan provides that overall dilution through the issuance of new shares for employee share schemes includingtreasury shares should not exceed an amount equivalent to 10% of the Companys issued share capital over a ten-year period andfor discretionary share awards to senior management 5% over a ten-year period.
As at the date of this report, the Company remains withinthese limits.
APPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT OF DIRECTORS With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act and related legislation.
Directors can be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution ata general meeting or by the Board.
If a Director is appointed by theBoard, such Director will hold office until the next annual general meeting and shall then be eligible for election at that meeting.
Inaccordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code each of the Directors, being eligible with the exception of Jane Aikman who will step down as a Director, will offer themselves for election or re-election at this years Annual General Meeting.
The Company canremove a Director from office, including by passing a special resolution or by notice being given by all the other Directors.
The Articles themselves may be amended by specialresolution of the shareholders.
POWER OF DIRECTORS The powers of Directors are described in the Matters Reserved for the Board, copies of which are available on request from the Company Secretary, and are summarised in the Corporate Governance Report on page 59.
ESSENTIAL CONTRACTS AND CHANGE OF CONTROL There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company, principally bank loan agreements, private placement debt and employee share plans.
There are two significant agreements, in terms of the likely impact on the business of the Group as a whole, containing such provisions: the 360m syndicated revolving credit facility which, if within 10 days of a change of control notice to the Loan agent, can result in 30 days notice being given to the Company by any Lender, for all amounts outstanding to that Lender, to be immediately due andpayable, at which time the commitment of that Lender will becancelled.
If all of the Lenders give this notice the whole facility wouldbe cancelled: and the US$250 million US Private Placement Note Purchase Agreement under which, in the event of a change of control, the Company isrequired to make an offer to the holders of the US Private Placement notes to prepay the principal amount of the notes together withinterest accrued.
The Group has contractual arrangements with a wide range of suppliers.
The Group is not unduly dependent upon contractual arrangements with any particular customer.
Whilst the loss or disruption to certain of these arrangements could temporarily affect the Groups business, noneis considered to be essential.
The Companys share plans contain provisions as a result of which options and awards may vest and become exercisable on a change ofcontrol of the Company in accordance with the rules of the plans.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees that provide for compensation for lossofoffice or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
ALLOTMENT AUTHORITY Under the Companies Act 2006 the Directors may only allot shares if authorised by shareholders to do so.
At the Annual General Meeting an ordinary resolution will be proposed which, if passed, will authorise the Directors to allot and issue new shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 12,500,000 up to 125,000,000 new ordinary shares of 10p each, being just less than one third of the issued share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as at 13 June 2016 the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of Meeting.
In accordance with the Directors stated intention to seek annual renewal, the authority will expire at the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company in 2017.
Passing this resolution will give the Directors flexibility to act in the best interests of shareholders, when opportunities arise, by issuing new shares.
As at 13 June 2016 the latest practicable date prior to the publication ofthe Notice of Meeting, the Company had 379,645,332 ordinary sharesof 10p each in issue of which 940,421 were held as treasury shares, which is equal to approximately 0.25% of the issued share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as at that date.
92 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Companies Act 2006 also requires that, if the Company issues new shares for cash or sells any treasury shares, it must first offer them toexisting shareholders in proportion to their current holdings.
Atthe Annual General Meeting a special resolution will be proposed which, ifpassed, will authorise the Directors to issue a limited number of shares for cash and or sell treasury shares without offering them to shareholders first.
The authority is for an aggregate nominal amount ofup to 10% of the aggregate nominal value of the issued share capital of the Company as at 13 June 2016 the latest practicable date prior tothe publication of the Notice of Meeting of 3,780,000.
The resolution will also modify statutory pre-emption rights to deal with legal, regulatory or practical problems that may arise on a rights issue or other pre-emptive offer or issue.
The authority will expire at the same time asthe resolution conferring authority on the Directors to allot shares.
TheDirectors consider this authority necessary in order to give them flexibility to deal with opportunities as they arise, subject to the restrictions contained inthe resolution.
There are no present plans toissue shares, except under share plans previously approved in general meeting.
PURCHASE OF THE COMPANYS OWN SHARES The Company was authorised at the 2015 annual general meeting to purchase up to 37,800,000 of its own 10p ordinary shares in the market.
This authority expires at the end of the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the Directors stated intention to seek annual renewal, a special resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to renew this authority until the end of next years annual general meeting, in respect of up to 37,800,000 ordinary shares, which is approximately 10% of the Companys issued share capital excluding treasury shares as at 13 June 2016 the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of Meeting.
TheDirectors consider it desirable that the possibility of making such purchases, under appropriate circumstances, is available.
The authority, if granted, will only be exercised if market conditions make it advantageous to do so.
The Directors will only make purchases under the authority where they believe that to do so would result in an increase in earnings per share for the remaining shareholders, or where the purchased shares are used to satisfy awards made under employee share plans, and such purchases are considered to be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Their present intention is that the shares purchased under the authority will be held in treasury for future cancellation, sale for cash or transfer for the purposes of, or pursuant to, an employee share plan, although in the light of circumstances at the time it may be decided to cancel them immediately on repurchase.
The effect of any cancellation would be to reduce the number of shares in issue.
For most purposes, while held intreasury, shares are treated as if they have been cancelled for example, they carry no voting rights and do not rank for dividends.
Following approval of the Performance Share Plan PSP at the 2005 annual general meeting, the Directors made routine purchases of Halma shares in the market for holding in treasury until required for vesting under the PSP.
In the year to 2April 2016, no shares were purchased in the market for treasury.
Under the Executive Share Plan approved at the 2015 annual general meeting, shares vesting may be satisfied with market purchased shares held in trust or in treasury or with new issue shares.
Otherwise, the Directors have no present intention of using this authority.
In reaching a decision to purchase shares, the Directors will take intoaccount the Companys cash resources, capital requirements and the effect of any purchase on the Companys earnings per share.
Itisanticipated that renewal of the authority will be requested at subsequent annual general meetings.
As at 13 June 2016, which is the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of Meeting, no further options were outstanding.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held on 21 July 2016.
The Notice of Meeting, together with an explanation of the proposed resolutions, is enclosed with this Annual Report and Accounts and is also available on the Companys website at www.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS As at 13 June 2016, the Company had been notified, in accordance with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following voting rights as a shareholder of the Company.
2 April 2016 13 June 2016 Percentage of Percentage of voting rights voting rights No.
of ordinary and issued No.
of ordinary and issued Nature of shares share capital shares share capital holdings Massachusetts Financial 37,841,275 10.00 37,841,275 10.00 Indirect ServicesCompany Capital Group 22,865,085 6.04 22,865,085 6.04 Indirect Mawer Investment Management 18,943,311 5.00 18,943,311 5.00 Direct Sprucegrove Investment 18,776,510 4.96 18,776,510 4.96 Indirect ManagementLtd BlackRock Inc 14,646,007 3.87 14,646,007 3.87 Indirect Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 93 Other Statutory Information continued SPECIAL BUSINESS The Board will propose four special resolutions under Special Business at the Annual General Meeting.
One of these is to permit theCompany to retain the ability to call general meetings other than annual general meetings at 14 days notice rather than 21 days notice, in accordance with Section 307A of the Companies Act 2006 as amended.
AUDITOR Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts confirms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant auditinformation and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as Auditor and a resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP will be proposed atthe forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
SCOPE OF THE REPORTING IN THIS ANNUAL REPORT ANDACCOUNTS The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Group, together with the financial statements and Auditors Report, for the year ended 2 April 2016.
The Corporate Governance Report set out on page 54, which includes details of the Directors who served during the year, forms part of this report.
There have been no significant events since the balance sheet date.
An indication of the likely future developments in the business of the Company and details of research and development activities are included in the Strategic Review on pages 4 to 47.
Details related to employee and environmental matters, including greenhouse gas emissions reporting, are included within the Sustainability report on pages 48to 53.
Information about the use of financial instruments by the Company and its subsidiaries is given in note 26 to the financial statements.
For the purposes of compliance with DTR 4.1.
8 R, the required content of the management report can be found in the Strategic Report and these Regulatory disclosures, including the sections of the Annual Report and Accounts incorporated by reference.
4C R, the following items are not applicable: 1 interest capitalised: 2 publication of unaudited financial information: 5 waiver of emoluments by a Director: 6 waiver of future emoluments by a Director: 7 non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash: 8 non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash inrelation to major subsidiary undertakings: 9 parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary: 11 provisions of services by a controlling shareholder: and 14 agreements with .
Applicable items can be located as follows: 4 details of long-term incentive schemes note 23 to the financial statements: 10 contracts ofsignificance: 12 shareholder waiver of dividends: and 13 shareholder waivers of future dividends Other Statutory Information, pages 91to94.
By order of the Board Carol Chesney Company Secretary 14 June 2016 94 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
