Our Marketplace Halfords principally operates in combined with a change in The Cycling Market Category split of Halfords two broad markets: Motoring and needs from increasingly timeThe Cycling market is not Group revenue Cycling.
Around 70% of Group poor consumers, is driving the particularly well documented, sales are generated from products Do It For Me trend.
with data difficult to come that are principally Motoring by, which is reflective of the Our product ranges continue related with the remaining 30% fragmented nature of the to evolve in line with market coming from Cycling.
At a profit operators within it.
As such we requirements and advances level, the contribution of Motoring conduct our own extensive, in automotive technology.
bespoke customer and market example, stop-start batteries are research, some of which we have becoming increasingly prevalent The Motoring Market included below.
and we have the right equipment Within Motoring, the Halfords and fully-trained colleagues to The Cycling market had been Group operates in two segments: Motoring 70% be able to cater to this demand, growing at a compound annual Car parts, accessories, Cycling 30% both in our Retail stores and our growth rate of around 68% over consumables and technology, Autocentres.
the three years prior to 2015. with a total market worth up Retail as % of Halfords We continue to see good to an estimated 7bn.
This The market for bikes is estimated revenue growth in some subsections of element of the Motoring market to be around 800m and for our in-car technology offering.
has grown by around 3% per parts, accessories and clothing In-car cameras dash cams annum in the last few years.
In continue to be very popular Halfords Retail competes in a recent years we have gained and we are uniquely placed portion of this market worth share in bikes, now standing to offer a comprehensive circa 3bn, holding around a at around 24% of the market.
advice and fitting service for 15% market share.
Our share of the PACs market these products.
Multimedia, has remained steady at around Car servicing and aftercare, connectivity and streaming 15%.
In cycle repair, a market of with a total market worth technology continue to grow as around 100m, our investments around 9bn.
This element customers look for ways to bring in equipment and people have of the market has grown by Retail 85% their in-car environment more resulted in strong growth, and we around 2% per annum in the Autocentres 15% technologically up-to-date.
believe we have been continuing last few years and is where to take share over the past 12 The sat nav market continues Autocentres competes, months.
to decline, but this is becoming Halfords share of the holding around 1.5% share of an increasingly smaller and less Motoring market a highly fragmented market.
Our Cycling sales were important part of our business.
particularly strong over 2013 Going forward we anticipate the Key products such as child car and 2014 due to a combination Motoring market to continue to seats continue to be important of factors: grow at an average rate of 2-3% for customers and are providing The economic conditions per annum over the mediumgrowth.
were favourable with true term.
The number of cars on the Likewise, the services we offer disposable income recovering road is rising and the mileage alongside our products continue to drive big ticket purchases.
The to evolve, as evidenced by the number of new car registrations in There was plenty of positive continued success of our 3Bs 2015 was the highest on record.
Car parts, accessories, media coverage driving bulbs, blades, batteries fitting The average age of cars in the UK technology and consumables awareness around cycling service.
In FY16 in the Retail is steady at around 7.5 years.
Car servicing and aftercare the fantastic achievements stores we sold nearly 9 million 3B Cars are also becoming more of Team GB at the London products and fitted 38% of these complex, with greater variety Olympics, the Tour fide France Halfords share of the on demand.
of models and enhanced starting in Yorkshire and more Cycling market The growth in new drivers, cars, technology making it more amateur cycling and triathlon miles driven and car complexity difficult or even impossible for events.
is also an opportunity for our people to Do it Yourself.
For The Government has Autocentres business to attract example, replacing a stop-start continued to invest in and retain new customers.
Trust, battery requires connection infrastructure and safety, value, convenience and the with the on-board computer particularly in London.
attitude of our colleagues are something that Halfords stores also key to doing this as well and colleagues are equipped as retaining our long-standing to do, but is not possible for Halfords customers.
This complexity, Bikes PACs Repair 8 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 1 April 2016 slugline 24% 15% 15% 1.5% 10% strategic report our governance Financial statements sHareHolder inFormation Whilst the Cycle to Work Those who use their bike for currently cycling will continue to other cities.
For example, there initiative has been in place leisure: cycling with family and do so.
Our research shows that are now four cycle superfor some time now, friends for light exercise these more frequent cyclists highways in London and five awareness and participation replace their bikes more often: more to come.
Those who commute grew significantly over those a large proportion of frequent Looking specifically at recent years.
Those who are cycling cyclists plan to replace their market performance, our for fitness and potentially bikes within the next year.
Finally, we saw consistently analysis suggests that the entering competitions and Fitness cyclists are more likely warm and sunny summers in market declined in the last 12 cycling with clubs.
to increase their bike spend the 2013 and 2014. months, due to the reasons most, sometimes doubling it.
The fitness cyclists are not the explained in the operational New cyclists look for entry level They are also the group that buy only set who cycle frequently review.
This decline was bicycles around the 200300 more PACs.
and are engaged or enthusiastic principally attributed to the mark and our fantastic Apollo about cycling.
Our research has Our research also looked at summer of 2015.
Since then and Carrera ranges meant revealed that many of the leisure those not cycling today and we we have observed a gradual Halfords was better positioned cyclists are cycling just as often were very encouraged by the stabilising of market conditions, than most to benefit from this.
proportion of them that intended notwithstanding that it may take Looking forward we have to buy a bike in the near term.
some time to return to consistent Reflecting on the different confidence in the longgrowth and the weather In addition to understanding customers, we know that term growth potential of the continues to have an impact on the customer weve also looked we over-index in our share cycling market, based on the timing of customer purchase.
We of cyclists riding for leisure our understanding of the know that participation in the However we remain confident purposes and conversely undercustomer and macro factors, UK is still low and there is large in the long-term growth index with those who cycle for both economic and social.
scope for new entrants as prospects of the cycling market.
fitness or cycle in clubs.
We We anticipate that the Cycling well as increased spend from Participation in the UK is still low know these groups behave and market will grow by 3-5% per existing cyclists.
Also, female and there is large scope for new therefore spend differently, so annum on average.
participation is particularly low, cyclists as well as increased we have a dual offering in cycling but growing.
This presents an spend from existing cyclists.
Our research has identified with Halfords and now Cycle opportunity for us because This is supported by significant cyclists by how they use their Republic.
we know that an increase in government support in London bike and how often they use it, The total pool of people now female cyclists will also drive an and in many other cities, as well and although there are many cycling has increased and they increase in families and children as consumer trends towards subtleties in the segmentation, are cycling more often and more taking up cycling.
we broadly see three types of miles than previously.
We have there is significant government customers: confidence that those who are support in London and in many A win-win collaboration We understand the fear many adults have of getting back on a bike after years out of the saddle so, to help, we partnered with British Cyclings Breeze network.
British Cyclings Breeze network is the largest programme in Britain, designed specifically to get more women cycling.
Led by women for women, Breeze is underpinned by an amazing network of volunteers Breeze Champions who organise local rides catering to all levels, from grassroots up.
The partnership is a win-win collaboration, increasing the profile of British Cyclings Breeze network and supporting our appetite to grow womens cycling.
In addition to promoting the network to customers on our website and through emails, in FY16 we piloted bike maintenance workshops in partnership with Breeze, with over 2,500 women attending and 97% saying theyd recommend the workshop to others.
Later in the summer our cycle mechanic crew supported cycle events organised by Breeze, with a team of Halfords colleagues also taking part.
The partnership has also provided the opportunity for colleagues to become Breeze champions too.
