Remuneration Policy Summary Remuneration policy summary This section of the report sets out Halfords Remuneration Policy for all of the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
It explains the purpose and principles underlying the structure of remuneration packages and how the Policy links remuneration to the achievement of sustained high performance and long-term value creation.
As our Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy is unchanged from that approved by shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting on 29 July 2014, we have provided a summary of the Policy to give context to decisions taken by the Remuneration Committee the Committee during the year.
The full Policy was in the Report and Accounts for 2014 and it can also be found on our website.
com investors governance remuneration-policy A summary of the Policy is provided in the following tables.
Key Elements of Executive Directors Remuneration Policy Base salary Base salary is set at an appropriate level to attract and retain management of a high calibre with the necessary financial, retail, customer service and digital skill sets required to deliver a sustainable business model and drive shareholder returns.
Key Policy features Implementation of the Policy in the period Base salaries are reviewed annually, typically with effect from With effect from 1 October 2015, the salary of the CEO was 1 October, with increases broadly aligned to those in the wider increased by 2%, mirroring the increase generally awarded to workforce.
Occasionally, larger increases may be considered to colleagues in the Support Centre.
Salaries will next be reviewed take account of changes in an individuals role or responsibilities, from 1 October 2016. individual progression or experience or external market trends.
Changes made None Benefits To provide Executive Directors with market competitive benefits consistent with the role.
Key Policy features Implementation of the Policy in the period Executive Directors receive various benefits as part of their Executive Directors continued to enjoy the same benefits package package, such as a fully expensed car or a cash allowance and a as their predecessors had in the prior year.
No allowances or fuel card, private health insurance and life assurance.
Where an benefits were increased.
Executive Director relocates to take up a role, other benefits may Changes made be paid, such as relocation expenses, a housing allowance and school fees.
None Pensions To provide Executive Directors with an appropriate allowance for retirement planning.
Key Policy features Implementation of the Policy in the period Defined employer contribution funding to the Halfords Pension The CEO and CFO will receive 15% of base salary.
Plan or payments into a personal fund or a cash allowance for Executive Directors to make their own pension arrangements.
Changes made The maximum payable by the Company will be 20% of base salary.
None 60 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 1 April 2016 slugline strategic report our governance financial statements shareholder information Annual Bonus To incentivise Executive Directors to achieve annual financial targets and performance against strategic goals.
Key Policy features Implementation of the Policy in the period The maximum annual bonus opportunity is 150% of base salary.
In the period, the CEOs maximum bonus opportunity was 150% of base salary, 1 3 of which will be paid in shares and deferred for The annual bonus is based on a mix of financial and strategic three years with dividends reinvested, and the remainder paid in measures.
Measures are selected each year by the Committee to cash.
The CFOs maximum bonus opportunity was 100% of base ensure continued focus on the Companys strategy.
At least 50% salary, paid in cash.
of the bonus will be based on financial measures.
Changes made Generally the annual bonus is paid in cash, but the Committee might determine that it be paid in shares or in a mixture of cash The FY16 Executive Bonus and Deferred Bonus Plan reinforced and shares.
existing malus provisions in relation to any deferred element and introduced clawback provisions for any paid element, giving The Committee may require a portion of any bonus earned to be the Company the power to seek redress from any individual deferred.
Deferred bonus awards are normally made in the form of for material misstatement, employee misconduct, serious nil cost options, which normally vest three years from award.
The reputational damage or miscalculation of metrics leading to an Committee may decide to pay dividends on those shares during award under either scheme.
The principles set out in the FY16 the vesting period, either as cash or as additional shares.
Executive Bonus and the Deferred Bonus Plan are continued in Malus provisions apply to any deferred shares, allowing FY17.
The CFOs bonus opportunity will increase to 150% of salary the Committee to scale back any award before exercise in for FY17 with one third paid in shares and deferred.
circumstances that the Committee determines is appropriate such as a material misstatement of the Companys results, serious reputational damage to the Company, or where the Company suffers serious losses.
PSP To attract and retain Executive Directors of a high calibre.
To incentivise and reward long-term performance and align Executive Directors interests with those of our shareholders.
Key Policy features Implementation of the Policy in the period The PSP comprises annual awards, usually in the form of nilAwards granted in 2016 will vest subject to the achievement of cost options, with vesting based on performance against prestretching Revenue and EBITDA targets.
determined conditions over a minimum three-year period.
The vesting of 25% of the awards will be determined by the growth The maximum core award is 150% of base salary.
A participant in the Groups Revenue and the vesting of 75% of the award will be has the opportunity to earn up to 1.5 core award for exceptional determined by the growth in the Groups EBITDA performance and, therefore, the maximum annual face value of over a three-year performance period.
Any award paid over the core In addition to achieving these targets, the vesting of awards will be award is subject to a two-year retention period.
subject to meeting a net debt underpin.
The core award for the CEO and CFO in the period was 150% of base salary.
Changes made The new PSP rules approved at the AGM in FY15 restated existing malus provisions and introduced clawback provisions, each giving the Company the power to seek redress from any individual for material misstatement, employee misconduct, serious reputational damage or miscalculation of metrics leading to an award under the PSP.
During the period, the Committee set the performance targets for the 2016 PSP to be consistent with, and supportive of, the Moving Up A Gear strategy communicated in November 2015. stock code: HFd halfords.
com 61 slugline Remuneration Policy Summary continued Key Elements of Non-Executive Director Remuneration Policy NED Fees Fee levels are designed to attract and retain high-calibre individuals to serve as Non-Executive Directors.
Key Policy features Implementation of the Policy in the period Fee levels are set to reflect the time, commitment and experience of Fees for Non-Executive Directors remained unchanged in the the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors, benchmarking fees period.
against UK listed retail comparators.
Changes made The fees of Non-Executive Directors are normally reviewed every two years by the Board, following a recommendation from the Given that fees for Non-Executive Directors have not been CEO.
The Chairmans fees are determined by the Remuneration increased since 2008, it was felt appropriate for them to be Committee, again following a recommendation from the CEO.
For FY17, appropriate benchmarking data for the FTSE 250 was analysed and the following recommendations, The Chairmans fee includes a sum for chairing the Nomination which are consistent with market practice elsewhere, are proposed: Committee but other Committee Chairmen may receive an additional fee for that role, as does the Senior Independent Director.
for Non-Executive Directors basic fees, a 4% increase will be applied giving an increase in basic fee to 50,000: The fees are normally paid in cash quarterly but may be paid in shares if this is considered appropriate.
the fee for Chairing the Audit and Remuneration Committees will increase to 10,000 each: a fee for Chairing the new CSR Committee will be introduced and will commence at 5,000 as this is a new role: the fee for the Senior Independent Director to be reduced by 5,000 to 10,000.
This is still ahead of the median and, when combined with the proposed increased fee for Chairing the Audit Committee, will mean that in practice, the recipients overall fee received is not reduced: and, the same principle as is used for basic Non-Executive Director fees set out above is also applied to the Chairman of the Board.
This would give a 4% rise, which is fractionally less than the median.
62 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 1 April 2016 slugline
