Remuneration Committee Report continued Remuneration Policy This section of the report details the remuneration policy for executive and non-executive Directors which shareholders approved at the 2015 annual general meeting.
Thispolicy formally came into effect from 23 July 2015, being the date of the 2015 AGM, and is effective for up to three years.
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the Act and Regulation 11and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and describes how the Board hasapplied the principles relating to Directors remuneration in theUKCorporate Governance Code.
As required by the Act, a resolutionto approve the Annual Report on Remuneration will be proposed at the AGM of the Company at which the financial statements willbe approved.
In line with the Regulations, the following parts of the Annual Report on Remuneration are audited: the single figure for total remuneration for each Director, including annual bonus and performance share plan outcomes for the financial year ending 2 April 2016: plan interests awarded during the year: pension entitlements: payments topast Directors and payments for loss of office: and Directors shareholdings and share interests.
All other parts of the Directors Remuneration Report are unaudited.
Element and objective Operation and process Opportunity Performance measures Executive Directors Salary Reviewed annually or following a material change in responsibilities.
Salary Base salary increases will be applied in line with the outcome of annual Not applicable A fair, fixed remuneration reflecting the size and scope isbenchmarked periodically against appropriate comparators of a similar reviews normally with effect from 1 April.
Salaries for the financial year of theexecutives responsibilities which attracts and size and operating in a similar sector, and is linked to individual performance under review and the following year are disclosed in the Annual Report retains highcalibre talent necessary for the delivery andcontribution.
Salary is the only element of remuneration that is pensionable.
Salary increases for executive Directors will not normally exceed the average of the wider employee population other than in exceptional circumstances.
Where increases are awarded in excess of the wider employee population, forexample where there is a material change inthe responsibility, size or complexity of the role, the Committee willprovide the rationale in the relevantyears Annual Report onRemuneration.
Benefits Benefits are appropriate to the location of the executive and typically Benefits may vary by role, and the level is determined to be appropriate for the Not applicable To provide benefits that are competitive within comprise but are not limited to a company car, life insurance, permanent role and circumstances of each individual executive Director.
disability insurance, private medical insurance, relocation and tax advice for value will equate to the reasonable market cost of such benefits.
It is not anticipated that the current cost of benefits as set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration would increase materially over the period for which this policy applies.
The Committee retains the discretion to approve a higher cost in exceptional circumstances e. g. relocation expenses or an expatriation allowance on recruitment, etc.
or in circumstances where factors outside the Companys control have changed materially e. g. market increases in insurance costs.
The rationale behind the exercise of such discretion will be provided in the relevant years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Pension Executive Directors participate in either a Group Defined Contribution Defined Contribution: maximum contribution of 20% of pensionable salary Not applicable To provide competitive post-retirement benefits, or the pensionplan or the US 401k money purchase arrangement.
The maximum contribution cashallowance equivalent, to provide the opportunity rate for executives joining prior to 2014 15 was 27.5%.
Cash supplements in lieu of Company pension contributions may be made forexecutives to save for their retirement.
tosome individuals at a level dependent upon seniority and length of service.
Cash supplement: Halma contributes up to 26% of full salary if the executive Cash supplements may be reduced to reflect the additional employer social Director is a former active member of the defined benefit pension plan.
Defined Contribution members whose contributions exceed the local tax allowance are paid the excess contributions, onthe capped pensionable To the extent the pension contributions exceed the local tax allowance, salary, as a cashsupplement, net of employer social costs.
thecontributions may be paid to the executive, subject to taxes and socialcharges.
401k: contributions of 3% of salary with a discretionary 2% profit share component subject to IRS caps.
Some executives are deferred members of the Group defined benefit pensionplan which closed to future accrual in December 2014.
Defined benefit: now closed to future accrual, but provides a maximum pension equivalent to two thirds of final pensionable salary, up to a CPI-indexed cap: 155,528 for 2015 16 and 2016 17.
74 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REMUNERATION POLICY The remuneration policy is designed to promote the long-term interests of the Company by securing the high calibre executives needed to manage the Group successfully, and to align their interests with those of our shareholders by rewarding them for enhancing shareholder value.
The policy also seeks to reward achievement ofstretching performance targets without driving unacceptable behaviours or encouraging excessive risk-taking.
The Committee carried out a comprehensive review of remuneration during the 2014 15 year coincident with the expiry of the life of the 2005 Performance Share Plan.
It noted that there were aspects of theprevious policy that work well and were therefore retained.
However, it also noted that both the Company and market practice have moved on in the 10 years since the last formal review.
Accordingly, it introduced changes to the policyto reinforce the link between executive remuneration and theCompanys long-term performance enhancing the executives alignment with the long-term interests of shareholders.
There are six elements of the remuneration policy for executive Directors, which are summarised in the table below.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 75 Remuneration Committee Report continued Remuneration Policy continued Element and objective Operation and process Opportunity Performance measures Executive Directors Annual Incentive The structure of the Annual Incentive is reviewed at the start of the year Maximum opportunity: 150% of base salary for the Chief Executive The bonus is based 100% on the achievement of To incentivise and focus management on the achievement toensure that the performance measures and their weightings remain and Finance Director and 125% of base salary for other Directors.
The primary measure of an objective annual target which is set to support the appropriately aligned with the Groups strategy and are sufficiently challenging.
used to determine bonus outcomes is EVA, although the Target opportunity: 60% of maximum.
shortto medium-term strategy of the Group.
Committee may, at itsdiscretion and from time to time, Performance targets are calibrated and set at the start of the year, with supplement EVA with additional financial measures that Bonus payable at threshold: 0% of salary.
reference to a range of relevant reference points including the annual budget reflect Halmas strategic priorities for the year, provided agreed by the Board.
At the end of the year, the Committee determines the In exceptional circumstances, the Committee has the ability to exercise any such additional measureaccounts for no more than extent to which these targets have been achieved.
discretion to override the formulaic bonus outcome within the limits of the 30% of the .
scheme where it believes the outcome is not truly reflective of performance Payment of one third of any bonus is in the form of an award of shares that Details of the measures, weightings and targets applicable and to ensure fairness to both shareholders and participants.
isdeferred for two years, with vesting normally subject tocontinued service.
forthe financial year under review are provided in the Annual Report onRemuneration.
Dividend equivalents accrue over the vesting period.
Dividend equivalents arepaid in cash or shares at the end of the vesting period.
Deferral into shares provides a link to the long-term strategy of the Group andenhances the retentiveness of the policy.
A recovery and withholding provision enables the Company torecoup overpayments in the event of misstatement, error ormisconduct, either through withholding future remuneration orrequiring the executive to repaytherequisite amount.
Executive Share Plan ESP Executive Directors are granted annual awards over Halma plc shares or a Maximum opportunity: Up to 200% of salary.
Vesting of performance share awards is subject to continued To incentivise executives to achieve superior returns to cashequivalent where required by regulations as determined by the Committee: employment and the Companys performance over a In exceptional circumstances, such as to facilitate the recruitment of an shareholders over a three-year period rewarding them for awards vest after aperiod of at least three years based on Group performance.
Tothe extent performance external candidate, the Committee may, in its absolute discretion, exceed sustained performance against challenging long-term targets: conditions are not met, awards will lapse.
Dividend equivalents thismaximum annual opportunity, subject to a limit of 250% of salary.
to retain key individuals andalign interests with shareholders, arepaid in cash or shares at the end of the vesting period, and only on those The performance measures will be Earnings per Share EPS reflecting the sustainability ofthe business model over the Threshold performance will result in the vesting of 25% of the shares which vest.
and Return on Total Invested Capital ROTIC, and subject to long term and the creation of shareholder value.
aminimum weighting of 25% on either of these measures.
A recovery and withholding provision enables the Company torecoup overpayments in the event of misstatement, error ormisconduct, either Details of the weightings and targets applicable for awards through withholding future remuneration orrequiring the executive to made inthe financial year under review are provided in repaytherequisite amount.
Share Incentive Plan SIP The SIP is an HMRC-approved arrangement.
It entitles all UK-based Participation limits are in line with those set by HMRC from time totime.
To encourage share ownership across all UK-based employees to receive Halma shares in a potentially tax-advantageous manner.
Chairman and non-executive Directors Chairman and non-executive Directorfees Non-executive Director fees are determined by the Board and may comprise Fees are normally reviewed annually in April, but typically only reset triennially.
The fees paid to non-executive Directors in respect of the To attract individuals with the requisite skills, experience a base fee, committee chairmanship fee and Senior Independent Director fee.
Increases are effective from 1 April.
yearunder review and for the following year are disclosed andknowledge to contribute to the Board.
The Chairmans fee is determined by the Committee.
The fee paid to the Chairman is determined by the Committee, and fees to NEDs are determined by the Board.
The fees are calculated by reference tomarket levels and take account of the time commitment and the responsibilities of the NEDs.
Additional fees are payable for acting as Senior Independent Director andforbeing the chairman of a Board committee, as appropriate.
Notes to the Policy Table Payments from Existing Awards The Committee will honour any commitment entered into, and executive Directors will be eligible to receive payment from any award made, prior to the approval and implementation of the Remuneration Policy on 23 July 2015.
Details of these awards are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Selection of Performance Measures The performance measures used in Halmas executive incentives have been selected to ensure incentives are challenging and reinforce the Groups strategy and align executive interests closely withthose of our shareholders.
In the annual bonus, the use of EVA, in summary, profit less a charge for capital employed definition is provided on page 84 reinforces the Groups business objective to double every five years through a mix of acquisitions and organic growth.
Profit is a function of the extent to which the Company has achieved both its organic growth target and its success in identifying appropriate acquisition targets in current and past years.
Ensuring that the cost of funding acquisitions is reflected in the bonus model means that executives share the benefit of an acquisition that outperforms expectations, but equally bear the cost of overpaying for an acquisition.
Good or poor management of working capital is also reflected in the calculation of EVA.
In the ESP, EPS provides a disciplined focus on increasing profitability and thereby provides close shareholder alignment through incentivising shareholder value creation, and ROTIC reinforces the focus oncapital efficiency and delivery of strong returns, thereby further strengthening the alignment of remuneration with the Group strategy.
76 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Element and objective Operation and process Opportunity Performance measures Executive Directors Annual Incentive The structure of the Annual Incentive is reviewed at the start of the year Maximum opportunity: 150% of base salary for the Chief Executive The bonus is based 100% on the achievement of To incentivise and focus management on the achievement toensure that the performance measures and their weightings remain and Finance Director and 125% of base salary for other Directors.
Notes to the Policy Table Performance targets are set to be stretching yet achievable, taking into account the Companys strategic priorities and the economic environment in which it operates.
Targets are calibrated taking intoaccount a range of reference points, but are based primarily on the Groups strategic plan.
Payments from Existing Awards The Committee will honour any commitment entered into, and executive Directors will be eligible to receive payment from any award made, prior to the approval and implementation Remuneration Policy for Other Employees of the Remuneration Policy on 23 July 2015.
Our approach to salary reviews is consistent across the Group, with consideration given to the level of responsibility, experience, individual performance, market levels and the Companys ability to pay.
TheCommittee considers remuneration surveys to establish market rates, as appropriate, but uses such data carefully so as to avoid an upward ratchet.
Selection of Performance Measures The performance measures used in Halmas executive incentives have been selected to ensure incentives are challenging and reinforce the Groups strategy and align executive Executive Board members and other senior executives participate in an annual bonus scheme on a similar basis as the executive Directors.
A number of senior executives also interests closely withthose of our shareholders.
Performance conditions are consistent for all participants, while award sizes vary by organisational level.
All UK employees are eligible to participate in the SIP on the same terms.
Profit is a function of the extent to which the Company has achieved both its organic growth target and its success Pension and benefits arrangements are tailored to local market conditions, and are determined to be appropriately competitive.
in identifying appropriate acquisition targets in current and past years.
Ensuring that the cost of funding acquisitions is reflected in the bonus model means that executives share the Approach to Recruitment Remuneration benefit of an acquisition that outperforms expectations, but equally bear the cost of overpaying for an acquisition.
Good or poor management of working capital is also reflected in The Committees policy is to set pay for new executive Directors and Executive Board members within the existing remuneration policy in order to provide internal consistency.
The Committee aims toensure that the Company pays no more than is necessary to appoint individuals of an appropriate calibre.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 77 Remuneration Committee Report continued Remuneration Policy continued EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS In the case of appointing a new executive Director, the Committee may make use of any of the existing elements of remuneration, as follows: Component Approach Salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to relevant market data, experience andskills of theindividual, internal relativities and the current salary of any incumbent in the same role.
Where a new appointee has an initial base salary set below market, the Committee may make phased increases over a period of several years to achieve the desired position, subject to the individuals development and performance in the role.
Benefits New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits in line with the current policy, as well as expatriation allowances and anynecessary expenses relating to an executives relocation on appointment.
Pension New appointees will be eligible to participate in the Companys Defined Contribution pension plan, receive a cash supplement or localequivalent.
Annual bonus The scheme as described in the policy table will apply to new appointees with the relevant maximum being pro-rated toreflect the proportion of the year employed.
ESP New appointees will be granted performance awards under the ESP on the same terms as other executives, as described inthe policy table.
SIP New appointees in the UK will be eligible to participate on identical terms to other employees.
In addition to the elements of remuneration set out in the policy table, inexceptional circumstances the Committee may consider it appropriate togrant an incentive award under a different structure in order to facilitate the recruitment of an individual or to replace incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In making such awards, the Committee will look to replicate the arrangements being forfeited as closely as possible and in doing so consider relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the payment mechanism, expected value and the remaining vesting period of these awards.
INTERNAL APPOINTMENTS Remuneration for new executive Directors appointed by way of internal promotion will similarly be determined in line with the policy forexternal appointees, as detailed above.
Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to the Board, the Company willcontinue to honour those commitments.
Incentive opportunities for below-Board level employees are generally no higher than for executive Directors, and incentive measures vary to ensure they are appropriate.
SHARE OWNERSHIP GUIDELINES To ensure alignment between the interests of executive Directors and those of shareholders, the Company requires executive Directors to progressively build up and maintain a beneficial holding of Halma plc shares equivalent to a minimum of 200% of salary 2014 15: 100%.
Untilsuch time as this threshold is achieved, executive Directors are required to retain no less than 50% of the net of tax value of any vestedperformance share award or deferred bonus share award.
78 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SERVICE CONTRACTS AND EXIT PAYMENT POLICIES It is the Companys policy that executive Directors should have contracts with an indefinite term providing for a maximum of one years notice.
The details of the Directors contracts are summarised in the table below.
Contracts will be available for inspection at the AGM and throughout the year at the Companys registered office.
Executive Director Date of service contract Notice period Andrew Williams April 2003 One year Kevin Thompson April 2003 One year Adam Meyers July 2008 One year The Companys policy is to limit payments on cessation to pre-established contractual arrangements.
In the event that the employment of anexecutive Director is terminated, any amount payable will bedetermined in accordance with the terms of the service contract between the Company and the employee, as well as the rules of any incentive plans.
No predetermined amount is provided for in the Directors contracts.
TheUK executive Director contracts enable the Company to pay up to one years salary in lieu of notice, with no contractual entitlement to any other benefits, and, under the rules, the Remuneration Committee may determine the individuals leaving status for share plan vesting purposes.
Ifthe financial year end has passed, any bonus earned is payable to the individual.
Adam Meyers service contract permits him to remain an employee for the entire period of notice enjoying any benefits related to employment.
The share plan and bonus provisions are identical to theUK.
Both contracts contain appropriate non-compete restrictions for a suitable period post-employment.
When considering termination payments under incentive schemes, the Committee reviews all potential incentive outcomes to ensure theyare fairto both shareholders and participants.
The table below summarises how the awards under the annual bonus and share plans are treated inspecific circumstances under the rules of the relevant plan and the extent to which the Committee has discretion: Reason for leaving Timing of payment vesting Calculation of payment vesting Annual Death, injury or disability, redundancy, After the end of the financial Performance against targets will be bonus retirement, or any other reasons the year, although the Committee assessed at the end of the year in the normal Committee may determine has discretion to accelerate way and any resulting bonus normally will be e. g. in relation to death pro-rated for time served during the year All other reasons No bonus is payable Deferred Death, injury or disability, redundancy, On the second anniversary Awards vest in full bonus retirement, or any other reasons the ofthe award Committee may determine All other reasons Awards lapse Share Injury or disability, redundancy, or On the third anniversary Awards will normally be pro-rated fortime Plans any other reason the Committee may, oftheaward to the date of cessation of employment at its discretion, determine and performance metrics assessed as at the third anniversary Death Immediately unless otherwise Any outstanding awards normally will determined by the Committee bepro-rated for time and performance at its discretion up to the point of death All other reasons Awards lapse Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 79 Remuneration Committee Report continued Remuneration Policy continued PAY-FOR-PERFORMANCE The following charts provide an estimate of the potential future rewards for executive Directors, and the potential split between different elements of pay, under three different performance scenarios: Fixed, On-target and Maximum.
Potential reward opportunities are based on Halmas remuneration policy, applied to salaries as at 1 April 2016.
In the case of the ChiefExecutive, Finance Director and other executive Directors thisassumes a performance share award level of 200%, 175% and 150% ofsalary respectively which is the basis on which the policy will be applied in 2016 17.
The projected values exclude the impact of anyshare price movements and dividend equivalents.
The Fixed scenario shows base salary, pension and benefits only.
The On-target scenario shows fixed remuneration as above, plus a target pay out of 60% of the maximum under the annual bonus andvesting of 50% of a single years award under the ESP.
The Maximum scenario reflects fixed remuneration, plus maximum payout of annual bonus and ESP awards.
Andrew Williams, Chief Executive Percentages amounts 000 Fixed 100% 803 On-target 41% 28% 31% 1,965 Maximum 27% 31% 42% 2,945 Kevin Thompson, Finance Director Percentages amounts 000 Fixed 100% 497 On-target 42% 29% 29% 1,176 Maximum 29% 33% 38% 1,741 Adam Meyers, Sector Chief Executive Medical Percentages amounts $000 Fixed 100% 520 On-target 42% 29% 29% 1,241 Maximum 28% 33% 39% 1,841 Fixed Annual incentive ESP 80 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Unless otherwise indicated, all non-executive Directors NEDs haveaspecific three-year term of engagement, subject to annual re-election atthe AGM, which may be renewed forup to two further three-year terms if both the Director and the Board agree.
The remuneration of the Chairman and the NEDs is determined by the Committee and the Board in accordance with the remuneration policy approved by shareholders.
The contract in respect of the Chairmans services provides for termination, by either party, by giving not less than six months notice.
Thenon-executive Directors have contracts in respect of theirservices, which can be terminated, by either party, by giving notless thanthreemonths notice.
Contracts are available for inspection at the AGM and throughout the year at the Companys registered office.
Summary details of terms and notice periods for NEDs are includedbelow.
Non-executive Director Date of appointment Notice period Paul Walker April 2013 6 months Jane Aikman August 2007 3 months Daniela Barone Soares November 2011 3 months Roy Twite July 2014 3 months Tony Rice August 2014 3 months Carole Cran January 2016 3 months Jane Aikman has given notice of her intention to retire from the Board effective at the close of the 2016 AGM.
As such, she is not seeking re-election to the Board.
NEDs do not receive benefits from the Company and they are not eligible to join the Companys pension plan or participate in any incentive schemes.
Any reasonable expenses that they incur in performing their duties are reimbursed by the Company.
Paul Walkers personal assistant is an employee of the Company.
Details of the policy on NED fees are set out in the table on pages76and 77.
NED RECRUITMENT In recruiting a new Chairman or NED, the Committee will use the policy as set out in the table on pages 76and 77.
CONSIDERATION OF CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE GROUP The Committee considers the remuneration and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group when determining remuneration for executive Directors.
However, the Committee does not currentlyconsult specifically with employees on the executive remunerationpolicy.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS When determining remuneration, the Committee takes into account the views of our shareholders and best practice guidelines set by shareholder representative bodies.
As part of their consideration of the new remuneration policy, the Committee consulted widely with the Companys major institutional shareholders and their representative bodies.
The Committee always welcomes feedback from shareholders onthe Companys remuneration policy.
Detail on the votes received on the remuneration policy and Annual Report on Directors Remuneration at the previous annual general meeting is provided in the AnnualRemuneration Report.
EXTERNAL DIRECTORSHIPS The Committee acknowledges that executive Directors may be invited to become independent non-executive directors of other listed companies which have no business relationship with the Company and that these roles can broaden their experience and knowledge toHalmas benefit.
Executive Directors are permitted to accept one such appointment with the prior approval of the Chairman.
Approval will only be given where the appointment does not present a conflict of interest withtheGroups activities and the wider exposure gained will be beneficial to the development of the individual.
Where fees are payable in respect of such appointments, these are retained by theexecutive Director.
Andrew Williams is a non-executive director of Capita plc.
Fees paid to him during the period to 2 April2016 were 64,000 2015: 16,000.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 81
