I e n r n i u o q v c a t A e Business Model and Strategy Creating long-term sustainable value Business model objective Our objective is to double every five years.
We aim to achieve this through a mix of acquisitions and organic growth.
Return on Sales in excess of 18% and Return on Capital Employed over 45% ensure that cash generation is strong enough to sustain investment for growth and increase dividends without the need for high levels of external funding.
What resources our business model relies on Financial Product Innovation Human Capital Intellectual Assets Relationships Sustainability Our strongly Developing and Investing in our Building competitive Empowering our Minimising the impact cashgenerative delivering the right people to enable advantage through businesses to work that our operations businesses support products across talent leadership investment in R&D closely with have onthe investment ourmarkets throughout our and new product customers, suppliers environment for growth businesses development and each other What we do Through innovation and acquisition, we have a portfolio of market-leading companies within our four sectors.
Demand for our products is underpinned by resilient, long-term growth drivers.
Process Safety Infrastructure Safety Medical Environmental & Analysis Competitive advantage Each business builds strong application knowledge and technology by focusing on its specific market niche where there are often barriers to entry.
We place our operational resources close to our customers through autonomous locally managed businesses.
We reinvest cash into acquiring high performance businesses in, or close to, our existing markets.
A sustainable strategy Our strategy Our values To acquire and grow businesses in Achievement relatively non-cyclical, specialised global Innovation niche markets.
The technology and Empowerment application know-how ineach company Customer satisfaction delivers strong competitive advantage Sustainable Our investment priorities tosustain growthand high returns.
growth Innovation International expansion Talent development Driving value creation Key beneficiaries of our value creation Customers Communities Employees Shareholders Suppliers Governments Measuring and protecting value creation KPIs Risks and uncertainties Sustainability Governance See p24 See p30 See p48 See p54 12 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 E m w p o o r G w e r
