Our Business Model We have a clear plan to drive long-term Through the expertise of our sustainable growth.
partners and well-trained colleagues... Training and accreditation such as our 3-Gears We will do this through training programme, ensures that consistent product the effective use of knowledge and service reaches our customers our resources and across all our locations.
MANUFACTURED INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL CAPITAL FINANCIAL CAPITAL Generating returns for our stakeholders through effective management of our financial resources.
Our integrated approach to sustainability keeps economic, social and environmental HUMAN CAPITAL considerations in mind, as well as the material issues of our Developing, rewarding and retaining stakeholder groups to inform our c. 11,000 colleagues so that they our model and operations.
are engaged and driving our longterm sustainable growth ambitions.
See more on our sustainability and stakeholder policies on pages 51 to 53 SOCIAL & RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL Building relationships with suppliers, customers and the communities around us.... to delight our customers every time.
We aim to grow our business by attracting more customers, encouraging them to buy more products and services, and persuading INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL them to visit our stores and autocentres more often.
To do this we make four promises: Developing our brand through Prices you can trust Quality you can trust innovation and expertise.
Range you can rely on Service that wows MANUFACTURED CAPITAL Maintaining and developing our infrastructure and sales channels to strengthen competitive advantage.
10 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 1 April 2016 slugline strategic report our governance Financial statements sHareHolder inFormation We are able to leverage the halfords brand and the brands of our partners... Halfords is the nations go-to retailer for cyclists and motorists.
We have a range of exclusive and highly-regarded brands including Boardman, Apollo and Carrera in cycling, as well as our Halfords Advanced ranges in motoring.
SOCIAL & HUMAN CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL Our model is underpinned by our financial discipline, astute purchasing and strategic reinvestments We are a cash generative business and have generated 45.4m of free cash flow in the year.
We are well supported by our banking syndicate, having amended the debt facility in 2014 and extending it to November 2019.
FINANCIAL CAPITAL Through our portfolio of convenient stores and centres, efficient distribution network and user-friendly websites... We want to create a compelling shopping experience that excites customers, improves their knowledge of our products and services, and engages them emotionally with our brand.
Our ambition is to create a service-led, fully integrated digital proposition which will maintain our ongoing relevance.
INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL MANUFACTURED CAPITAL stock code: HFd halfords.
