Sector Review Infrastructure Safety Products which detect hazards to protect assets and people in public spaces, transportation and commercial buildings.
Fire and smoke detectors, fire detection and suppression systems, security sensors and audible visual warning devices.
Sensors used on automatic doors and elevators in buildings and transportation.
Nigel Trodd Sector Chief Executive, Infrastructure Safety Performance Group KPIs 2016 target 1 Revenue growth 13.2% 1 Organic revenue growth constant currency 6.3% 5% 1 Profit growth 12.3% 1 Organic profit growth constant currency 4.5% 5% 2 Return on Sales 21.2% 18% 3 The Infrastructure Safety sector delivered strong revenue and R&D % of Revenue 5.3% 4% profit growth in 2015 16.
Our results benefited from good performances from both established and recently acquired Contribution to Group businesses.
Firetrace LLC was acquired in October 2015, adding fire suppression products to our global fire portfolio.
m 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Revenue 265 234 220 205 204 Revenue % of Group Profit % of Group Profit 56 50 44 42 39 1 4 33% 31% Sector revenue and adjusted sector profit before finance expense are compared to the equivalent prior year figures.
2 4 Return on Sales is defined as adjusted sector profit before finance expense and taxation expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
3 Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
4 Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and acquisition items see note 1 to the Accounts.
MARKET TRENDS AND GROWTHDRIVERS Increasing health and safety regulation and rising safety awareness in both developed and developing regions is the primary driver in our Infrastructure Safety sector.
Customer demand in this sector is also driven by: continuing global trends of population ageing, urbanisation andpopulationgrowth economic growth in the developing world leading to increased  and modernisation increasing desire for wireless connectivity, enabling automation insmartbuildings Governments throughout the world continue to introduce increasingly stringent health andsafety regulations.
In mature markets, safety standards are constantly updated andcompliance becomes increasingly demanding forour customers.
For example, the adoption of new standards is advancing technology in elevator phones and door detectors which will stimulate market growth.
Developing markets increasingly adopt andenforce globallyrecognised safety standards in domestic, public and industrial environments.
This includes the industrial high-speed door market which shows a clear trend 36 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS towards the use of more sensors, not only STRATEGY Our door sensors business performed well to activate the door but also to increase In automatic door sensors our strategy is inall segments, driven by increased market safety around the door area.
based on the application of our core demand for safety around the door and competency detecting people, vehicles anenlarged customer base.
Our strategy Urbanisation in Asia continues to drive and objects into a broader range of markets of diversification, with its focus on the demand for high-rise properties and, such as transport and security.
We have transportation and security market, also although new elevator installations in China developed novel new laser-based sensor delivered strong growth thanks toincreased have declined slightly for the first time in over platforms which are enabling us to grow demand for sensor applications based on 10 years, growth in all other regions mitigates market share in our core pedestrian door ouradvanced laser technology.
Over thenext five years market and open up new opportunities.
Our fire business surpassed the previous the number of newelevator installations is Halmas fire companies are increasingly years performance.
The first full year of expected to remain relatively flat.
Currently focused on meeting customers needs by theAdvanced Electronics acquisition went over half of elevator market revenue comes supplying systems in addition to our system welland the company performed above from maintenance and refurbishment and components, such as fire detectors.
Firetrace met expectations thisis set to continue its current growth acquisition of Advanced Electronics last year inthe first six months post acquisition.
trajectory of around 5% per year.
The US An increasing focus on home security is Due to increased competition, especially in market continues to deliver strong returns driving market growth in wireless security China, demand for our elevator door sensors and this will be boosted by the introduction systems that often integrate fire detection as was lower and sales of our elevator displays ofsignificant new products over the next a secondary function.
We are establishing were flat.
However, there was strong growth fewyears.
In China we are focusing on the ourselves as a major wireless smoke detector in sales of our telephone products.
upper market segment as this important supplier in this sizeable, growing market.
market continues to grow and is becoming In Security, we experienced a challenging Theautomatic door market is also evolving more regulated.
year, due primarily to currency headwinds towards system integration.
Our ability to inour two major market areas, Europe linkup with alarm and building management Despite the changes in regulatory standards andSouthAfrica.
systems and with the outside world in general for elevator door detectors, this remains a is becoming an increasingly important part of market with price pressure, especially on OUTLOOK our strategy.
However, as maintenance Our door sensors business is expected and refurbishment increasingly becomes the to continue its growth in all regions.
GEOGRAPHIC TRENDS main global market our focus on premium We will continue toinvest in geographic Our automatic door control products products will, over time, increase sales and growth and in allsegments, supported by continued to penetrate more geographic margins.
We continue to diversify into other ongoing investmentin new technologies, markets.
Action has been taken in Eastern sections of the elevator market, namely LCD the development of new competitive Europe, the Nordics, South America, displays and elevator phones.
The global productsand sales and marketing.
Canada, Australia, Japan, India and the market for phones is estimated to be around Middle East.
Dedicated resources have the same size as the elevator door detector The outlook for our fire companies is strong, beenput in place to fuel our growth in market and the in-car display market is at with a growing market and several new thoseregions.
A new regional sales office least twice the size.
Our Our security sensors business growth global account management and local Profitability is expected to stabilise in elevator strategy is based on new product innovation presence allows usto efficiently supply safety due to a more regional-based sales which provides added functionality and ease and support those regions.
Additionally, structure and an increased focus on new of installation.
We increased investment in the we actively seek local distributors to grow product development.
development of new wireless intrusion our market share.
detection products and associated smart In security markets, we foresee a recovery The EMEA and US fire detection markets security and building automation systems.
due primarily to a higher level of interest in have predicted growth rates of 4% which, wireless security systems and continued together with increasing our market share, PERFORMANCE growth of the smart buildings market.
China The sector delivered strong revenue and is projected to have the fastest growing fire profit growth in 2015 16.
Revenue grew by We have a pipeline of potential acquisitions detection market with growth estimated to 13% to 265m 2015: 234m and profit rose and aim to continue to add complementary beover 8% per year.
South East Asia is also by 12% to 56m 2015: 50m.
At constant businesses to the sector.
The sector expects exhibiting strong growth of over 7%.
currency, organic revenue was up 6% and to make progress in theyear ahead.
We continue to exceed Group China remains a key growthmarket for our targets on Return on Capital Employed and elevator products.
market predominately dependent on new Return on Sales remained strong at 21.2%, installations, to one driven by maintenance due primarily to successful new product and refurbishment, the market will continue launches and an effective balance between togrow.
The mature western markets are investment and cost control to maintain forecast to continue to grow broadly in line margins.
Revenue in all major markets with GDP while the rest of Asia-Pacific increased during the year, with 4% growth including India is forecast to grow in the inthe UKand 48% in Africa, Near and Middle region of 10%.
Inthe USA we achieved 39% growth.
In security, we have a strong position in theUK market.
There is an increasing contribution from India where many new bank branches are being built outside major cities and all are required to install intruder alarmsystems.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 37
