Market Review Our businesses are able to respond quickly to changes inthe market environment MACRO-ECONOMIC, REGULATORY Our competitive environment is influenced environment is given in the sector reviews AND COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT byglobal, regional and national product onpages 34 to 41.
Halmas strategy is to develop market approvals or technical validations.
Our strategy of focusing on non-cyclical niche positions primed for growth over 10 years or Compliance with new and updated product markets with growth underpinned byresilient more.
Our operating companies have growth regulations is a steadily increasing cost and regulatory drivers and product approvals strategies with three to five year horizons.
technical challenge but our expertise in this provides our businesses with genuine area enables us to respond quickly and build Our focus on the supply of safety, health stability: resilience in challenging economic competitive advantage.
andenvironmental products positions our conditions and organic growth above businesses in relatively non-cyclical markets Halma is exposed to a very diverse range of prevailing market rates.
This underlying with high barriers to entry and long-term carefully selected niche markets, each with intrinsic strength enables us toplan and to growth driven by: its own unique drivers.
As a result, macroinvest for the longer term withconfidence.
economic factors can affect our businesses increasing health and safety regulation For 2016 17, growth projections for the US competitive environment very differently economy, our largest geographic market, depending on their market segment and increasing demand for healthcare areinthe region of 2.6%.
increasing demand for life-critical resources forecasts in the region of1.7% in Europe and Our operating companies develop and 2.2% in the UK areexpected to support Regulation underpins most of our markets, execute their own growth strategies and steady growth in thesemarkets.
The volatility driving sustained demand and often making respond to changes in their specific markets.
ofSterling relative to the US Dollar and Euro customer spending non-discretionary.
Our Sector management teams provide strategic means that our companies need tomanage companies strong market positions deliver support and oversight for wider-reaching and input costs and pricing closely.
upgrade and replacement sales opportunities longer-term market dynamics.
More detail as customers seek to maintain compliance The emerging economies are forecast about our market segments and competitive and conform with best practice.
tocontinue to grow at 4 or 5% through 2016 17.
Developing socio-economic Global total, urban and rural population conditions in Asia and South America are expected to fuel greater demand for our 10 products used to create safer workplaces, provide healthcare, improve infrastructure safety and manage life-critical resources.
8 6 4 2 0 2015 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050 Total population Urban Rural Source: United Nations 8 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 population: billions STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INCREASING HEALTH AND that work-related accidents and diseases can countries are estimated to be costing up SAFETY REGULATION damage productivity, competitiveness and to10% of annual GDP.
A large majority of work accidents are abusiness reputation.
These factors drive Safety and health at work standards preventable and employers throughout the demand for our Process Safety and andpractices vary considerably between world must comply with increasingly strict Infrastructure Safety products.
countries, economic sectors and social government laws and regulations to protect Globally, an estimated 2.3 million workers groups.
However, they are generally rising their workers, the environment and their dieeach year from accidents at work and and becoming more closely aligned.
Deaths assets from workplace hazards.
That is over 6,000 and injuries take a particularly heavy toll in A growing number of countries are now fatalities per day, or one person every 15 developing countries, where a large part focusing on occupational safety and health, seconds.
A further 317 million workers ofthe population may work in hazardous and on preventing accidents and worksuffernon-fatal work accidents every year.
However, greater investment and related illness.
There is a global trend for advances in occupational safety are reducing The financial impact of poor occupational governments, employers and workers the number of fatal accidents at work.
safety and health practice is due to absences torecognise the significant economic from work and sickness, disability benefits, Governments around the world are prompted andpersonal impact of work accidents compensation, interruption of production and by deaths and injuries caused by accidents andillhealth.
In addition to the human tointroduce new and tougher regulations In parallel with increasing national regulation, cost, this is a social and economic burden thatprotect people from harm in commercial particularly in developing economies, many forenterprises, communities and countries.
The continuous multinational employers based in the The macro-economic impact of occupational introduction of new, mandatory building codes developed world are extending their health injuries, illness, disability and incapacity is affecting fire protection, building security, and safety practices across their global estimated to be 4% of global GDP.
Aboveautomated doors and elevators drives operations.
Employers increasingly recognise average workplace casualty rates in some demand for our Infrastructure Safetyproducts.
Global health expenditure 14 12 33% 10 8 21% 6 67% 4 10% 79% 2 90% 0 1995 2012 2022 Emerging economies Source: Developed economies World Economic Forum Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 9 trillion US$ Market Review continued INCREASING DEMAND 20% and in Japan 28%.
In the USA, the market is still dominated by the developed FORHEALTHCARE worlds largest healthcare market, increasing world.
Economies such as the USA, Europe, Global healthcare demand is driven by life expectancy is predicted to double the and Japan spend about 12% of GDP on healthcare whereas developing economies fivelong-term demographic trends: number of over-65s by 2050. average about 6% of GDP.
Advanced ageing of the global population While about 9% of Chinas current population economies account for almost two thirds are aged over 65, the proportion is projected ofthe worlds healthcare expenditure with growth of the global population to rise to around 12% in 2020.
This will mean theUSA alone responsible for 40% of the increase in chronic disease that healthcare services for the elderly will global spend.
rising developing world incomes account for nearly 23% of Chinas total healthcare budget.
In addition to ageing, population growth new medical technologies and therapies andrising affluence are strong drivers of Although developed countries have the All regions of the world, in both developed healthcare demand in the developing world.
oldest population profiles, the large majority and developing economies, are experiencing Healthcare spending in emerging nations of older people and the fastest rates of population ageing together with rising isforecast to rise dramatically with annual population ageing are in developing prevalence of age-related chronic disease.
growth estimates for India and China at countries, where the number of older people These demographic factors combine over15% and 12% respectively, boosted by is forecast to rise over 250% by 2050. to forma strong long-term driver for national initiatives to improve accessibility healthcare services and products in our andquality of healthcare.
Fertility rates are falling globally causing the Medical and Environmental & Analysis population growth rate to slow in almost The incidence rates of cancer, heart disease, sectors.
Continuous advances in medical every region except Africa.
In 2015 the global stroke, respiratory disease, diabetes and technology and medical procedures also population reached 7.3 billion, almost a hypertension have risen sharply in the past stimulate demand for new equipment.
tripling of the population in 1950.
Despite decade, particularly in developing regions.
thepopulation growth rate falling, world Driven by a global trend of declining fertility These chronic diseases are the leading cause population is projected to rise to 8.5 billion and rising longevity, the number of people of mortality worldwide due to population by2030.
Almost 40% of population growth aged over 65 is forecast to more than triple ageing, more sedentary lifestyles, changing during 2015 to 2030 is expected in Africa.
Life expectancy diets and rising obesity.
Halmas focus on isexpected to rise from 72.7 years in 2013 ophthalmology and advanced blood pressure Global healthcare spending about 10% of to73.7 years by 2018.
As a result, over 10% monitoring products directly relates to the global GDP is forecast to grow faster than of the worlds population will be over 65. diagnosis and treatment of these chronic the global economy over the next decade Theproportion in Western Europe will hit andage-related diseases.
The global healthcare 10 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INCREASING DEMAND FOR 100% more in developing countries, the second largest water consumer.
Energy LIFE-CRITICAL RESOURCES butthecurrent growth rate of agricultural uses about 15% of the worlds total water Continuous growth in demand for life-critical consumption of freshwater resources withdrawal, but this is expected to rise 20% resources is the result of social and economic isunsustainable.
Water demand for by 2035. development.
The United Nations predicts manufacturing industry worldwide is Global economic growth is forecast to drive that the worlds growing population will need predicted to rise by 400% from 2000 up energy demand by 34% between 2014 at least 40% more water and 50% more to2050, with the largest increases and 2035.
Most of the extra energy will be energy within the next fifteen years.
consumed in the fast-growing emerging economies: energy use within developed Rising energy consumption and water usage Competition for water resources is forecast OECD countries is expected to remain is driven by four key trends: toincrease between industries and economic largelyunchanged.
sectors, and between countries in both population growth developed and developing regions.
The rising The oil and gas segment of the energy value of finite water resources drives demand economic growth market consists of three sectors: for our water conservation, treatment and rising living standards upstream exploration and production, testing products.
dietary and agricultural changes midstream storage, processing and As people in developing economies become distribution, and downstream oil refining During the 20th century, water consumption more affluent, they can switch from starchand raw gas processing.
grew twice as fast as the world population.
based diets to meat and dairy diets, which Increasing global demand for fresh water In response to the recent slump in oil prices, raises agricultural water demand.
Dietary resources is driven by growing populations, the oil majors have postponed many projects change has had the strongest impact on urbanisation, migration, food and energy and made massive cuts in upstream capital global water consumption over the past 30 production, and economic factors like trade investment.
Despite signs in the second years, and this trend is expected to continue globalisation and changing patterns of quarter of 2016 that the oil price is beginning well into the middle of the 21st century.
These same trends have led to rise, energy industry forecasts suggest that tothe pollution of water resources, further upstream sector capital investment is likely Rising demand for energy and water is reducing the capacity of the natural to continue to fall in the shortand mediumstrongly linked.
Water is used in power watercycle to meet the worlds growing term.
Conversely, the oil price fall has been generation, in fuel extraction, transport and waterdemand.
favourable to midstream and downstream processing, and to irrigate biofuel feedstock processors who have benefited from lower crops.
Water use in energy production can Today, about one third of the global feedstock prices.
As a result, investment also affect fresh water resources by reducing population lives in water-stressed countries.
continues in midstream and downstream the downstream volume and quality.
Energy By 2025 that could rise to two thirds.
By oil and gas storage and refinery projects is vital to provide fresh water, powering the 2050 the United Nations expects that the where our Process Safety products have systems that collect, transport, distribute and world will need toproduce 60% more food most exposure.
After agriculture, energy production is Several of our businesses may see revenue from upstream oil and gas projects continue to fall.
However, a combination of long-term growth in energy demand, rising capital expenditure in refining, petrochemicals and pipelines in the oil and gas midstream downstream sectors, and in alternative energy markets like wind farm power generation, will offer growth and diversification opportunities for our businesses affected by the short-term oilprice fall.
As global demand for water resources becomes unsustainable, the value of conservation, improving efficiency and effective monitoring is growing.
Several of our Environmental & Analysis sector businesses operate in markets driven by the global trends of rising demand for life-critical resources such as energy and water.
Rising energy demand and continued global investment inthe key sectors of traditional and unconventional energy sources also drives demand for our Process Safety products.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 11
