Sector Review Medical Products which enhance the quality of life for patients and improve the quality ofcare delivered by providers.
Devices that assess eye health, assist with eye surgery and primary care applications.
Critical fluidic components used by medical diagnostic OEMs and laboratories.
Sensor technologies used in hospitalsto track assets and support patient and staff safety.
Adam Meyers Sector Chief Executive, Medical Performance Group KPIs 2016 target 1 Revenue growth 17.4% 1 Organic revenue growth constant currency 9.8% 5% 1 Profit growth 13.9% 1 Organic profit growth constant currency 9.1% 5% 2 Return on Sales 26.0% 18% 3 R&D % of Revenue 4.5% 4% The Medical sector delivered good organic revenue and profit growth in all of our niches, reaching record revenue and profit levels yet again.
Profit and revenue growth, Contribution to Group ROS and ROCE continue well above Group targets.
We m 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 continued to strengthen the Medical sector organisation to support organicgrowth and acquisition activity.
Revenue 199 169 163 136 100 Revenue allocated to R&D has increased, strengthening Profit 52 45 42 36 26 our innovative technology development pipeline and helping to fuel revenue growth.
Despite this and other investments 1 4 Sector revenue and adjusted sector profit before finance expense are compared to the equivalent prior year figures.
ourcash contribution was still above Group target.
2 4 Return on Sales is defined as adjusted sector profit before finance expense and taxation expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
Three new businesses were acquired during the year.
3 Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
Wecontinue to focus on acquiring in this sector.
4 Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and acquisition items see note 1 to the Accounts.
Revenue % of Group Profit % of Group MARKET TRENDS AND GROWTH DRIVERS The Medical sector growth driver of increasing demand for healthcare 25% 28% isunderpinned by: worldwide population ageing and increasing life expectancy increasing prevalence of diabetes, obesity and hypertension increasing healthcare access in developing economies new medical diagnostic technologies new or improved surgical and pharmaceutical therapies Global demand for medical devices is forecast to continue to grow by about 5% per year for the next few years with the highest growth of 8.5% in Asia.
A steady rise in the proportion of the global population aged over 60 drivesdemand for healthcare, in both developed and developing countries.
Because eyesight problems and high blood pressure are both age-related, population ageing is a key driver for our ophthalmology and hypertension management businesses.
38 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A third of American adults suffer from high more Americans benefiting from health As indicated last year, R&D investment blood pressure: this chronic disease is the insurance through the Affordable Care Act, increased and reached 4.5% of revenue.
This primary, or contributing, cause of over 2.4 economic growth and the transition of an is an increase in spending of 2m and is now million American deaths each year.
The ageing population into the Medicare system.
Increased investment prevalence of obesity throughout the world By 2024 the US government predicts that was mostly within the Patient Care segment.
has almost doubled in the past 25 years nearly US$1 in every US$5 spent will be on Medical sector R&D focuses on components leading to increases in both .
We expect continued growth and instrumentation that will be readily related illness and diabetes-related in the market for single-use surgical devices accepted by our existing conservative eyedisorders.
in the USA, but capital equipment sales customer base.
We have begun expanding may grow slowly.
local development and manufacturing efforts In China about 325 million adults have high Demand for ophthalmic products in China in emerging markets tobetter satisfy local blood pressure the primary cardiovascular is growing fast at about 15% a year and the customer needs.
This year we launched a disease risk factor.
Half of Chinese adults with market is forecast to double in size by 2021. locally developed and manufactured blood hypertension are unaware of their condition Our Chinese investment continues more pressure device in China and began and only 34% use anti-hypertensive drugs.
product registrations, more R&D engineers registering more devices for local Cataract surgery is one of the most frequent and development of localised products.
surgical operations carried out worldwide.
The estimated 20 million cataract operations Although 400,000 people become blind A growing Medical sector sales team in China carried out globally each year is forecast fromcataracts every year in China, it has jointly markets many of our ophthalmologic togrow by 5% annually until 2019. thelowest cataract surgery rate in Asia.
Collaborative selling helps us Cataract surgery rates in China will increase recruit high calibre talent and share customer Hospitals in both developed and developing as access is improved, particularly in rural intelligence and distribution channels.
markets are under pressure to improve areas.
However, government pressure on We also plan to set up a medical product patient outcomes, reduce costs, improve topurban hospitals and preferences for local manufacturing hub in Shenzhen.
throughput and ensure safety of staff and products is producing a more challenging PERFORMANCE patients.
Our Real Time Location Systems environment in China in the short term.
The Medical sector grew revenue by 17% RTLS let hospital managers track and STRATEGY to199m 2015: 169m and profit by 14% monitor the location of patients, equipment The Medical sector is focused on enhancing to52m 2015: 45m.
Organic constant and staff to cut costs and improve patient the quality of life for patients and improving currency revenue growth and organic care.
The global market for RTLS is forecast the quality of care delivered by providers.
constant currency profit growth were to grow at about 33% per year between Weserve niche applications in global 10% and 9% respectively.
By investing in our current portfolio, Liquid handling is the principal process in We delivered revenue growth in major and through acquiring additional companies, laboratory automation and demand for our geographies with the USA ahead 23%, we aim to continue to deliver growth rates critical fluidic components is poised to grow Europe up 19% and Asia Pacific ahead above Grouptargets.
at a CAGR of over 6%, at least until 2020.
We also delivered 8% growth in the The largest geographic markets for laboratory Our businesses fall into two segments: UK but were disappointed in Rest of World automation are North America and Europe Patient Care and Provider Solutions.
The growth down 3%, largely due to a slowdown while Asia is expected to have the highest Patient Care segment involves businesses inLatinAmerica.
that develop and market devices to measure Return on Sales remained strong at 26% the health of patients.
Areas of focus include despite increased investment, particularly Each year the medical product regulatory ophthalmology and vital signs monitoring.
environment gets tougher: product Inthe Provider Solutions segment, we registration costs rise, testing is more rigorous deliverproducts to diagnostic equipment Cash generation was above the Group and more audits are needed.
The growing manufacturers, laboratories and hospitals.
target of 85% as we make investments complexity of medical device registration Areas of focus here include critical fluidic to continue our strong revenue growth.
underlines the value of our investment in components for instruments such as blood We completed three acquisitions: well-established medical sales channels analysers, finished devices for laboratories, VAS:Visiometrics: and CenTrak.
and sensor technologies that track assets and support patient and staff safety.
OUTLOOK GEOGRAPHIC TRENDS In the medium term we expect our Patient While the global medical device market Key strategic initiatives to increase growth Care and Provider Solutions segments to growth should provide opportunity for organically and via acquisition include: outperform the market with sales driven by sustained revenue growth, we anticipate enhanced distribution in export markets, geographic variation due to local economic increasing collaboration to drive expansion newproducts, increased penetration in conditions, government spending and joint product development existing markets and acquisitions.
increasing R&D investment to broaden product lines and commercialise innovative The Medical businesses acquired in Medical device demand in North America, new products 2015 16will have a significant positive the largest global market for medical device further geographic penetration and impacton the sectors results in 2016 17 technologies, is forecast to have a 3.7% increased local manufacturing andbeyond.
We continue to build our CAGR until 2018, whereas Asia isexpected pipeline of acquisition targets both improving talent and increasing diversity to grow at a CAGR of 8.5%.
In Europe withinexisting and adjacent niches.
medical device demand is forecast togrow adjacent market niche expansion at a CAGR of about 4% until 2018.
We measure active collaboration across the US healthcare spending was again stronger sector and have seen an increase of 83% in than anticipated in the past year and is inter-company trading this year.
Collaboration forecast to rise by about 6% per year until on R&D projects continues within and outside 2024.
This strong growth is due to many the sector.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 39
