Our Retail Strategy In November 2015 we launched our new Moving Up a Putting Customers Service in Gear strategy in the Driving Seat Our DNA For Retail this strategy Description Description Investing in customer data and insight Halfords has been through a service is an evolution from capabilities to maximise the lifetime revolution and now we need to embed it in the previous Getting customer value.
Our ability to offer great service is one of our key differentiators.
Into Gear strategy and comprises five pillars Objectives Objectives Improve our understanding of our Maintain 3-Gears training programme and customers.
increase emphasis on service and selling skills.
Combine our pools of customer data into a single view.
Develop talent throughout the Group, 868.5 including through our Aspire and Leverage customer data to gain insights retail revenue m Apprenticeship programmes.
Reward skills through enhanced pay.
Refresh brand positioning to create a more emotional connection.
Offer value for money across our range.
15% SALES MATCHED TO CUSTOMERS Progress to date Progress to date % of Retail sales matched to customers Over 70% of colleagues qualified for Gear is now 15%.
2 and over 600 colleagues at Gear 3.
72% Starting to use customer data tailored Continued improvement in key customer COLLEAGUES GEAR 2 email campaigns.
qUALIFIED Developing a single view of customer.
500 basis points improvement in colleague turnover.
New brand positioning launching in June.
Recognised as 18th in the Sunday Times Best Companies To Work For awards 8.5% Received the Discovering Potential Award for our work at the Halford GROWTH IN SERvICE Academy at Onley prison.
RELATED SALES See more on Retail market trends Read more about Putting Customers Read more about Service in our DNA on pages 8 to 9 in the Driving Seat on page 16 on page 17 14 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 1 April 2016 slugline strategic report our governance Financial statements sHareHolder inFormation Building on Better Shopping Fit for Future Our Uniqueness Experience Infrastructure Description Description Description Exclusive products, relevant innovation and A seamless customer experience, online as Moving from fixing the basics to improving unique partnerships and collaborations.
Objectives Objectives Objectives Maintain and develop a pipeline of Continue to refresh our store design.
Maintain short-term stability of our relevant innovation.
supply chain operations through peak Continual improvement of our online periods and at the same time review and Nurture and complement our and fulfilment propositions.
Launch a transactional website for Turn our IT investment focus from fixing Develop exclusive products.
the basics to developing value-adding Grow our share of trade customers.
Continue to target growth in areas colleague and customer-facing IT where we have relatively low market applications.
Continue our strategy of right-sizing, relocating and renegotiating leases upon expiry.
Progress to date Progress to date Progress to date Wiggins range developed and launching 25 store refreshes in FY16.
Current 3-day-a-week delivery to stores online and in store in July 2016. model is embedded and stable.
Store of the Future concept progressing Orla Kiely range of leisure products now through the design phase.
Long-term supply chain requirements available in stores and online.
Halfords website and fulfilment Exclusive in-car technology launched upgrades during H2 FY16.
Good progress on IT application in stores.
Cycle Republic transactional website Extended motorbike range.
developed and on track to be launched 25 lease renegotiations, 2 relocations in summer 2016. and 1 right-size of stores in FY16.
130% brighter bulbs and lifetime guarantee on batteries launched.
Acquisition of Tredz and Wheelies.
A new collaboration agreed with Olympic cyclist Laura Trott.
Read more about Building on Read more about Better Shopping Read more about Fit for Future our Uniqueness on page 18 Experience on page 18 Infastructure on page 19 stock code: HFd halfords.
