strategic report our governance financial statements shareholder information Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements of Halfords Group plc the Company together with its subsidiary undertakings the Group for the period ended 1 April 2016.
Halfords Group plc Registered Number 04457314 Registered Office Address Icknield Street Drive, Washford West, Redditch, Worcestershire, B98 0DE Country of Incorporation England and Wales Type Public Limited Company Summary of General Disclosures incorporated into this Directors Report The following information required to be disclosed in this Directors Report has been provided by the Company: Disclosure Page The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities within the Chief Financial Officers Report.
24-29 The Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial 104 instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk within Note 20 to the Group Financial Statements.
The Statement of Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and description of the Groups corporate governance 38-47 framework within the Corporate Governance Report.
A summary of how the Company recognises its responsibility to its colleagues, customers, environment, and community through 50-53 various initiatives case studies being on pages 9: 12: 16 and 29 and within the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Report The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements.
73 Board of Directors 36 Directors Report including interests and indemnities 37-39 Auditor 38 Going Concern 39 Viability Statement 39 Political Donations 39 Creditor Payment Policy 39 Share Capital, Major Shareholders and Authority to Purchase Shares 39 AGM 39 Leadership 41-47 Role of the Board Board Composition and Meeting Attendance Effectiveness 41-49 Composition of the Board Skills and Experience Independence Diversity Appointments to the Board Induction and Development Evaluation Re-election Directors and their Other Interests Board Committees Nomination Committee Accountability 44-47 Audit Committee Internal Control and Risk Management Remuneration 44 Relations with Shareholders 47 Audit Committee Report 54-57 Remuneration Committee Report 58-72 STOCK CODE: HFD halfords.
com 37 slugline Directors Report or she has, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or Principal activities possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company a situational The principal activities of the Group are: the retailing of automotive, leisure and cycling products from its Halfords and Cycle Republic retail conflict.
Directors have a continuing duty to update any changes to their conflicts of interest.
stores and car servicing and repair from its Autocentres outlets.
The principal activity of the Company is that of a holding company.
The Directors indemnities Companys registrar is Capita Asset Services, which is situated at The Directors and Officers insurance cover has been established for Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
all Directors and Officers to provide cover against their reasonable actions on behalf of the Company.
The Directors of the Company and Strategic report the Companys subsidiaries have the benefit of a third-party indemnity In accordance with Section 414A of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors have chosen to set out in the Strategic Report the following provision, as defined by section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, the Companys Articles of Association.
information required to be included in the Directors Report: Colleagues Likely future developments page 4: Greenhouse Gas Emissions page 53: The Group strives to meet its business objectives by motivating and encouraging all colleagues to be responsive to the needs of our Use of Financial Instruments Note 20 to the Group Financial customers and continually improve operational performance.
This Statements: and is delivered through a range of structured training and development Charitable Donations page 52 The Corporate Governance Report on pages 40 to 47 is a statement programmes, such as Gears in Retail, where Retail colleagues progress through a structured series of e-learning, face to face and for the purposes of Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2.
1. shop floor experience modules and are then recognised for their Profits & dividends success through certification, career progression and increased pay The Groups results for the year are set out in the Consolidated Income awards.
Autocentres runs, in conjunction with the IMI, a number of Statement on page 79.
The profit before tax on ordinary activities was Technical Training Courses that are designed to develop colleagues 81.5m 2015: 83.8m and the profit after tax amounted to 64.9m skills.
Similar to Retail, it has its own version of the Gears in Retail 2015: 65.8m.
The Board proposes that a final dividend of 11.34 programme which supports colleagues development and rewards pence per ordinary share be paid on 26 August 2016 to shareholders via a pay matrix.
Autocentres has become the first organisation in 50 whose names are on the register of members at the close of business years to be authorised by the DVSA to train MOT Testers in-house.
This payment, together with the interim dividend of addition we run a Leadership Development programme, called Aspire, 5.66 pence per ordinary share paid on 22 January 2016, makes a total to identify, nurture and develop colleagues across the Group, with for the year of 17 pence per ordinary share.
The total final dividend potential to be our leaders of the future.
This continues our drive to payable to shareholders for the year is estimated to be 22m.
Computershare Trustees Jersey Limited, trustee of the Halfords The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to Employee Share Trust, has waived its entitlement to dividends.
This applies to recruitment, Performance monitoring training, career development and promotion for all colleagues, The delivery of the Groups strategic objectives is monitored by the regardless of physical ability, gender, sexual orientation, religion, age Board through KPIs and periodic review of various aspects of the or ethnic origin.
Full and fair consideration is given to employment Groups operations.
The Group considers that the KPIs listed on applications by disabled persons wherever suitable opportunities pages 22 to 23 are appropriate measures to assess the delivery of the exist, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
Training strategy of the Group via its Retail and Autocentres divisions.
and career development support is provided where appropriate.
Directors Should a colleague become disabled, efforts are made to ensure their The following were Directors of the Company during the period ended continued employment with the Group, with retraining being provided 1 April 2016 and, unless otherwise stated, at the date of this Annual if necessary.
Report: The Group has an established framework of colleague Dennis Millard communications, to provide colleagues with information on matters of Jill McDonald appointed 11 May 2015 concern to them and business performance as well as to encourage Jonny Mason appointed 12 October 2015 the engagement of every colleague in the Boards commitment to high David Adams standards of customer care and service provision.
Claudia Arney A whistleblowing policy and procedure enables colleagues to report Helen Jones concerns on matters affecting the Group or their employment, without Matt Davies resigned 30 April 2015 fear of recrimination.
In addition, the Group takes a zero-tolerance Andrew Findlay resigned 1 October 2015 approach to matters of discrimination, harassment and bullying in all In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and the UK aspects of its business operations, including in relation to gender, race, Corporate Governance Code guidelines, all those persons holding national origin, disability, age, religion or sexual orientation.
Appropriate office as a Director of the Company on 1 April 2016 will retire and offer policies and procedures are in place for reporting and dealing with themselves for re-election at the 2016 AGM.
Jonny Mason, who was such matters.
appointed on 12 October 2015, will stand for election for the first time.
Auditor Directors interests The Companys Auditor is KPMG LLP.
A resolution proposing the Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which they have, reappointment of KPMG LLP is expected to be in the Notice of the AGM or may have, interests that conflict with those of the Company unless and will be put to shareholders at the meeting.
that conflict is first authorised by the Board.
Disclosure of information to the auditor The Company has in place procedures for managing conflicts of In accordance with Section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006, each interest.
The Companys Articles of Association contain provisions Director in office at the date the Directors Report is approved confirms to allow the Directors to authorise potential conflicts of interest, so that: that if approved, a Director will not be in breach of his her duty under i. so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information company law.
In line with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and each Director has notified the Company of any situation in which he 38 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 1 April 2016 slugline strategic report our governance financial statements shareholder information ii.
he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as All shareholders are entitled to attend and speak at the general a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant meetings of the Company, appoint proxies, receive any dividends, audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is exercise voting rights and transfer shares without restriction.
There aware of that information.
are no known arrangements that may restrict the transfer of shares or voting rights.
Going concern The Group has a 170m five-year revolving credit facility, ending in The Company has term and revolving credit facilities that require November 2019.
At the year end, the Group had undrawn borrowing the Company in the event of a change of control to notify the facility facilities of 143m 2015: 117m.
The Groups current committed agent and, if required by the majority lenders, these facilities may be borrowing facilities contain certain financial covenants, which have been cancelled.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director met throughout the period.
The Groups forecasts and projections, taking or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its borrowing Companys share schemes and Deferred Bonus Plan may cause facilities and covenants for the foreseeable future.
As a consequence, options and awards granted to Directors and employees under such the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Rules relating to the appointment or removal of the Directors, and their Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the powers, are contained within the Companys Articles of Association, foreseeable future, hence they continue to adopt the going concern basis which in accordance with legislation can only be changed with of accounting in preparing the Financial Statements.
viability Statement Major shareholders In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance As at 29 April 2016, this being the latest practicable date, the Code, the Directors have assessed the viability of the Company over Companys register of substantial shareholdings showed the following a three year period to 1 April 2019.
The directors believe this period to interests of 3% or more of the Companys issued ordinary shares.
be appropriate as the Companys strategic planning encompasses this Number % of issued period, and because it is a reasonable period over which the impact of Holder of shares shares key risks can be assessed within a fast-moving retail business.
Artemis Investment Management LLP 23,028,046 11.57 The Board has a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able Schroders Plc 13,914,607 6.99 to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due at least until 1 April 2019.
Jupiter Asset Management Limited 11,142,795 5.60 Hargreave Hale Inv.
Management 9,357,593 4.70 In making this statement, the Directors have reviewed the overall resilience of the Group and have specifically considered: Rathbone Brothers Plc 8,501,088 4.27 a robust assessment of the impact, likelihood and management Norges Bank Inv.
Management 7,511,888 3.77 of principal risks facing the Group, with a focus on those risks that Invesco Limited 7,452,297 3.74 could threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or Ameriprise Financial Inc 7,410,238 3.72 liquidity or sustainability.
The assessment considered how risks may J O Hambro Capital Management develop over three years.
: and Limited 6,421,133 3.22 financial analysis and forecasts showing current financial position Authority to purchase shares and performance, cash flow projections, funding requirements and At the 2015 AGM, shareholders approved a special resolution funding facilities.
authorising the Company to purchase a maximum of 19,906,322 Branches shares, representing less than 10% of the Companys issued share The Company and its subsidiaries have established branches in the capital at 5 June 2015, such authority expiring at the conclusion of the different countries in which they operate.
AGM to be held in 2016 or, if earlier, on 30 September 2016.
Political donations Disclosures required by listing rule 9.8.
4R The Group made no political donations and incurred no political Disclosures required by the FCAs Listing Rule 9.8.
4R can be found on expenditure during the year FY15: nil.
It remains the Companys policy the following pages: not to make political donations or to incur political expenditure, however Long term incentive schemes Performance Share Plan the application of the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006 pages 59 and 61: and is potentially very broad in nature and, as last year, the Board is seeking shareholder authority to ensure that the Group does not inadvertently Waiver of dividends page 38 breach these provisions as a result of the breadth of its business Important events since year end activities, although the Board has no intention of using this authority.
On 24 May 2016, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital Creditor payment policy of Tredz Limited and Wheelies Direct Limited.
Further information The Group does not follow any formal code of practice on payment, regarding this acquisition can be found on page 111 in note 28 to the instead it agrees terms and conditions for transactions when orders for Group Financial Statements.
goods or services are placed, and includes relevant terms in contracts, Annual general meeting as appropriate.
These arrangements are adhered to when making The AGM will be held at the Hilton Garden Inn, 1 Brunswick Square, payments, subject to the terms and conditions being met by suppliers.
Brindley Place, Birmingham B1 2HW on Tuesday 26 July 2016.
The The number of trade creditor days outstanding as at 1 April 2016 for Notice of the AGM and explanatory notes regarding the special the Group was 63 days 2015: 70 days.
The Company is a holding business to be put to the meeting will be set out in a separate circular company and has no trade creditors.
Share capital Details of the Companys share capital, including changes during the By order of the Board year in the issued share capital and details of the rights attaching to Tim OGorman the Companys ordinary shares, are set out in Note 21 on page 107.
Group Company Secretary All ordinary shares, including those acquired through Company share 1 June 2016 schemes and plans, rank equally with no special rights.
