A better life cycle Transforming peoples lives In some areas of Africa, a bike can be the only maintain the bikes, helping to improve lives in means of transport.
Owning a bike enables a sustainable way.
We provide opportunities people to travel to work or school, and carry for customers to donate unwanted bikes via goods or passengers, whilst small scale farmers national trade-in events and also and traders can reach customers further afield.
at over 75 stores on an ongoing basis.
The bikes can similarly be an invaluable resource Over 20,000 bikes have been donated so for travelling health workers and provide access far, resulting in 300 tonnes of bikes being to training and employment, helping to improve diverted from landfill disuse and benefitting lives in a sustainable way.
However, bikes can an estimated 120,000 beneficiaries in Africa be too expensive for the majority in Africa.
household research in Ghana shows that Additionally, the skills to maintain the bikes each bike is used by an average of six people.
Halfords colleagues have also raised over Our charity partner, Re Cycle, helps to address 295,000 to help support the charitys costs.
Not only by getting bikes over to Africa but also by teaching local people how to repair and A road to a brighter future A full cycle mechanic training facility set up inside Onley Prison, trains prisoners to become professional cycle mechanics.
Offenders work on childrens bicycles that have been handed in at participating stores and these, along with new bike helmets, are then donated to schools in disadvantaged areas.
The programme offers the very best candidates an opportunity to become full-time Halfords colleagues, helping them to rebuild their lives following their sentences and providing Halfords with fully trained and committed colleagues.
15 have so far graduated and been offered jobs.
The programme has had a lot of high profile government interest culminating in a visit to the workshop by Prime Minister, David Cameron.
Plans are underway to set up a second cycle workshop at Drake Halls womens prison providing further opportunities for rehabilitation.
12 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 1 April 2016 slugline
