Acquisition focus Insight Our market insight enables us to select businesses in industries with long-term growth drivers.
These ensure that the need for our products is sustained, through periods of significant macro-economic change.
Opportunity We recognise the growth opportunities in the businesses we acquire and give business owners the opportunity to sell their business and retain all the good things that have made them successful.
We then give them the opportunity to collaborate with other Halma businesses to accelerate and sustain growth.
Value The combination of this vibrant acquisition activity and our organic investment enables us to deliver sustained dividend returns over a long period of time.
Kirk Key Process Safety sector Acquired 2011 Insight Trapped key interlocking is a method of ensuring processes operate safely.
It is specified as standard in Europe and is growing in prevalence in the USA and Asia as industrial regulations are tightened to reduce the potential for human error contributing to accidents.
Kirk Key is the established name in the USA for trapped key interlocking, positioned as a leader in certain market niches, primed and ready for growth.
Opportunity Adding Kirk in the USA to our existing safety interlocking businesses expanded the geographic market reach of all of these companies.
The potential to share sales resources, technologies and customer support channels has improved the level of service and innovation we can offer, strengthening our leadership position in this important Process Safety market.
Value Kirk has joined with our other interlocking companies Castell and STI underone global management team, forming a truly global market-leading presence for trapped key interlocking.
Collaboration in innovation, sales and operational efficiency gives these businesses the potential to build even stronger positions in many new geographic and end markets.
Firetrace Infrastructure Safety sector Acquired 2015 Insight Regulations around the world continue to require better fire protection for people, places and property.
Fire protection is not just for buildings damage to assets and fixed or moveable equipment can be costly and dangerous too.
Firetraces instant, automatic suppression technology for small spaces meets that market need perfectly.
Opportunity There is great potential for Firetraces systems in many markets, including the server rooms and bus engine compartments they already protect.
The experience and connections of our existing Infrastructure Safety companies, as well as the wider Groups expertise in many international markets, can help facilitate and accelerate this diversification and growth.
Value Firetrace enhances and broadens our presence in the fire protection market, adding a fast-growing company to the sector.
It diversifies our end markets and provides great potential for organic growth in new international markets.
Medicel Medical sector Acquired 2011 Insight People are living longer than ever before.
At the same time demand for better medical treatment, easier access to healthcare, and improved quality of life is growing.
Cataracts are an inevitable part of the ageing process and are the worlds leading cause of preventable blindness.
Medicels products are used by eye surgeons across the world to treat this condition and give patients their sight back.
Medicel Opportunity Medical sector Acquired 2011 Medicels technology allows a surgeon to insert artificial lenses through very small incisions in the patients eye, speeding up recovery time and improving post-operative outcomes.
Halmas wealth of medical and ophthalmic market knowledge, experience and global support is helping to drive the spread of this life-improving equipment faster and farther than ever before.
Value Medicels growth has been exceptional, with access to new geographic markets and the support of other ophthalmic companies in Halmas Medical sector.
Its success has encouraged further investment in the ophthalmic surgery market with the acquisition of Accutome and MST in 2012.
Alicat Environmental & Analysis sector Acquired 2010 Insight Many processes rely on precise gas and liquid flows.
From industrial applicationsto environmental monitoring, pressure and flow rates need to be carefully controlled.
Fast, accurate measurement of flow rates is crucial in many of the markets in which we operate.
Alicat makes some of the best mass flow meters in the world.
Opportunity Alicats mass flow meters are able to measure the exact amounts of gas or liquid passing through processes at any given moment.
This technology is critical to processes in a huge number of industries such as food processing, high-tech manufacturing and scientific research.
Halmas hubs in China and India offer Alicat the opportunity to build their presence in the markets faster.
Value Alicat has continued to invest in new product development, process innovation and international expansion to become one of Halmas highest growth and most profitable businesses.
The Halma hubs have enabled it to diversify the companys end markets and position it for sustainable success.
