Our Autocentres Strategy Be First Choice A Service Customers Be a Grand Prix for Motorists Come Back for Operation Description Description Description Making our Autocentres the first choice for We believe great service, delivered by Excellent technical service isnt all our motorists across the UK is both the first engaged and motivated colleagues, who customers expect.
We want centres we step and the ultimate aim of our strategy.
value customer feedback, guarantees a can be proud of, offering customers the loyal and satisfied customer base.
consistent experience they expect from the Halfords brand.
That means clean and While our convenient locations and tidy receptions, friendly colleagues willing consistent pricing can attract new to help and a great environment to wait for customers, great service is what will keep their vehicle.
We are creating a culture of customer service among our colleagues, where their skills, knowledge and attitude combine to form great relationships with our customers.
Objectives Objectives Objectives We want to build a loyal and satisfied To create a culture of customer service To improve the standards in centres.
customer base, and this can be achieved among our colleagues, where their skills, To create a great environment for through our scale, convenient locations knowledge and attitude combine to form customers whilst waiting for their and technical expertise.
great relationships with our customers.
Offering customers added value for To attract and retain the most passionate To continue to invest in the latest booking in advance via our increasingly and skilled colleagues to our Autocentres technological equipment.
popular online booking system which by focusing on improving recruitment and customers can access via tablets, desktop engagement.
To nurture our colleagues abilities by prioritising training and development.
To continue learning by regularly reviewing feedback from our customers.
2016 Progress 2016 Progress 2016 Progress Interest-free credit trialled and rolled out Improvements in Net Promoter Score 24 centres refreshed in the year.
Good customer and colleague response More customer-friendly opening hours Trust Pilot rating maintained at about 8 to refreshed centres.
such as Sundays and weekday evenings.
New quality team assessing the workmanship of our technicians.
20 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 1 April 2016 slugline strategic report our governance Financial statements sHareHolder inFormation Operational Review Autocentres customer service pods, TV screens, Wi-Fi, Continued progress on coffee and large viewing windows.
In the our strategy to attract year all eleven new centres were opened in the new concept style and we also and retain customers Leverage the refreshed 24 centres.
We will continue to by building trust.
Halfords Brand refresh centres during FY17.
During the year we have increased the Like-for-like sales Description number of services you can book on the The strength of the Halfords brand and the increased for the 10th web and added timed slots.
We have wider Group capabilities will help to ensure trialled more customer-focused opening the success of our Autocentres.
While consecutive quarter hours, such as Sundays and weekday Retail and Autocentres are separate parts evenings, and we are rolling this out on a and customer service of our Group, their capabilities are clearly gradual basis.
We also trialled interest-free linked, and cross-selling our services is a metrics improved.
credit during the year and rolled this out key part of our strategy going forwards.
across the business in February 2016.
Financial performance In terms of leveraging the Halfords brand, Total Autocentres revenues were up 4.1% we have continued to run a basic car check and, on a LFL basis, up 2.5%.
Gross margin service consistently across our stores and improved by 90 basis points in the year, garages.
In addition to using Halfords car reflecting a lower tyre mix and an increase batteries and oils, our garages are now in service, MOT and repair margins.
For the first Operating costs increased by 5.8%, with time we have started to send emails to Objectives the majority of the increase coming from the Halfords Retail customer database to To operate common offers across new centres opened in recent years and the promote Autocentres services.
both Autocentres and Retail, using our balance due to pay rises, enhanced training knowledge of each customer base and investments in support functions.
We have continued to invest in our people: to encourage customers of each to Underlying EBITDA increased by 13.2% to training around 750 technicians in the year become customers of both.
and continuing to invest in our apprentice scheme.
Our training programmes are now To sell jointly-sourced products.
Eleven new Autocentres were opened and externally recognised by the Automotive two were closed, taking the total number To explore opportunities to cross-sell.
We are also of Autocentre locations to 314 at the end introducing a new technician pay grading of the year.
24 centres were refurbished to suitably reward technicians and provide during the year, taking the total new or a clearer development path.
refurbished to just over 10% of the estate.
10-15 new centres will be opened in the Outlook year ahead and any sub-optimal centres will We remain committed to new centre continue to be closed.
openings, along with the continuation of a roll-out across the wider estate of the Strategic progress refresh programme.
We are also investing The Autocentres strategy was launched in a new electronic point of sale system, in November 2014 and remains in place: which will enable us to stock and sell Retail with the focus on building trust with products in our centres, jointly source our customers.
We continued to make 2016 Progress parts with Retail and implement an e-diary.
good progress and we are seeing the All centres now using Halfords antiimprovements come through in customer freeze in addition to oil and batteries.
service measures, but there remains much Read the Chief Executives Development commenced on new to be done.
Statement on pages 4 to 5 electronic point of sale system, which The standards in our centres continued will enable centres to hold and sell Retail See our Key Performance to improve, evidenced in an improvement stock.
Indicators on pages 22 to 23 in customer retention and Net Promoter Trial of email marketing to Retail Score.
We have introduced a new quality customers.
team, with the objective of continuing to improve the quality of workmanship.
Following the trial of a new centre concept in Croydon in 2014 we have been rolling out to the rest of the estate some of the elements that have worked well, including stock code: HFd halfords.
