Corporate Governance Report continued Effectiveness COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD TIME ALLOCATION Report and Company announcements, The Board is comprised of the Chairman, The Board benefits from the wide variety of further materials such as recent broker five independent non-executive Directors skills, experience and knowledge that each coverage, the last Board evaluation and and three executive Directors.
However, being available and CEO conference presentations were views this structure as a suitable balance committing sufficient time to the Company also provided.
Carole met the Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director on a of direct knowledge of the Groups isessential and therefore the number of one-to-one basis on her appointment and operations with independent challenge external directorships that a non-executive has subsequently met the other members and experience fromoutside the Company.
Director holds is an important consideration of the Board and Executive Board along with when recruiting and when performing the BOARD DIVERSITY senior managers from Head Office functions annual evaluation of non-executive The Board recognises the benefits to an and the sectors.
International group of greater diversity on visits tooperating companies across the theBoard and in management positions Executive Directors are permitted to accept sectors is being arranged, which will include throughout the Group.
At the year end, and at one external appointment, subject to the prior the opportunity for Carole to meet investors the date of this Report, the Board comprised approval of the Chairman.
Approval will only at the forthcoming investor event.
nine Directors, including three women 33%.
be given where the appointment does not The spread of nationalities are seven British, present a conflict of interest with the Groups The Chairman reviews training and one American and one Brazilian.
activities and where the role is considered development needs of the Board, and each tobe beneficial to the development of individual Director, at least annually.
Briefings Halma has the ambition to increase the theindividual, which will also benefit and presentations from subject specialists number of executives based outside Europe theCompany.
form part of the ongoing training needs for and the USA to better reflect the revenue the Directors.
generated outside those markets and to In addition to the scheduled Board meetings PERFORMANCE EVALUATION embrace diversity and inclusion across the six per year, non-executive Directors are The Board undertakes a formal evaluation of Group.
To support this ambition, the Board expected to attend the AGM, the annual its performance, and of each Director, on an has adopted a Diversity and Inclusion policy strategy meeting and certain other Company annual basis.
The principal Committees of the and a programme of training to support the events and site visits throughout the year.
Board undertake an annual evaluation of their policy has been rolled out to senior Atime commitment of around 20 days per effectiveness, in accordance with their terms executives and head office personnel.
annum is the anticipated requirement for of reference.
Operating subsidiary company boards are each non-executive Director.
Confirmation encouraged to invite local personnel with isobtained on appointment from each As in prior years, the Board met in January diverse skill sets to attend board meetings non-executive Director that they can allocate 2016 before its scheduled meeting to provide toprovide a fresh perspective and bring sufficient time to the role.
Details of Board a forum for discussion of the Board evaluation adiverse and inclusive approach to the attendance during the year is set out on page outside the formal meeting.
This forum has decision-making body.
63 and biographical details of each Director proven useful for a number ofyears.
The are set out on pages 56 and 57.
INDEPENDENCE Chairman and non-executive Directors also The Board has reviewed the independence INDUCTION OF NEW DIRECTORS meet after each Board meeting without ofthe Chairman and each non-executive Newly appointed non-executive Directors executive Directors present to ensure there is Director and considers the Chairman and follow a tailored induction programme, an opportunity to discuss potentially sensitive allof the non-executive Directors to be whichincludes dedicated time with Group matters.
The Chief Executive will join for part independent of management and free from executives and visits to companies within of these meetings at least once per annum.
business or other relationships that could each of the four sectors.
The Senior Independent Director meets with interfere with the exercise of independent the non-executive Directors without the Carole Cran met with the Company Secretary judgement.
The Board believes that any Chairman present, at least annually, to to review the tailored induction materials, shares in the Company held by the Chairman evaluate the Chairmansperformance.
which provide a comprehensive overview of: and non-executive Directors serve to align The Executives are also given the opportunity the Group and the legal and organisational their interests with those of the shareholders.
to meet with the Chairman and or the Senior structure: the governance framework: the Independent Director separately.
The Tony Rice was appointed as the Senior roleof non-executive Director: key business outcome of these meetings is fed back Independent Director in July 2015, following contacts at Group, sector and operating toindividuals by the Chairman, Senior the retirement of Stephen Pettit from company level: and details of the external Independent Director or Chief Executive, theBoard.
In addition to the latest Annual asappropriate.
64 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Board and Committee evaluations RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS contact details including links to their conducted in 2015 were externally facilitated The Board recognises the importance ownwebsites.
The website features the by EquityCommunications.
Accordingly, the of effective communication with our facilitytorequest e-mail alerts relating to Board and Committee evaluation for 2016 shareholders.
In regular meetings with announcements made by the Group and was an internal evaluation, conducted by the shareholders and analysts the Chief there is a feedback form to invite suggestions Chairman having a structured one-to-one Executive and Finance Director communicate for improvements to the website and our session with each member of theBoard the Groups strategy and results, disclosing investor relations activities.
Committees and the Company Secretary.
such information as is permitted within Shareholders can keep up to date with the Theresults were anonymised and provided theguidelines of the Listing Rules.
Such latest Halma financial news, on the move, tothewhole Boardin January 2016. meetings ensure that institutional shareholders with our Investor Relations iPad app.
This is representing over 50% of the Companys The main areas of focus arising from the available as a free download from the Apple issued share capital meet or hold discussions evaluation process, andsubsequently iTunes store, as detailed below.
The app is with the Company on a regular basis.
Major discussed by the Board, were: the size updated at the same time as our website shareholders are also offered theopportunity and balance of the Board: the continued anddelivers news releases, regulatory to meet the Chairman and or Senior development of the Groups strategic priorities announcements, presentations, reports, Independent Director.
Notes from allinvestor and future direction: executive succession webcasts, videos, financial documents meetings are circulated to the Chairman with planning: andthe allocation of resources.
investor feedback from results roadshows circulated to the whole Board.
RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS To help investors understand the scope of With the exception of Jane Aikman who will our business we have produced a series of The Company consults with its major retire from the Board after the AGM, all of the corporate videos outlining our strategy, our shareholders on significant matters for current Directors will stand for re-election, performance, our future and an animated example, the Remuneration Committee and in the case of Carole Cran, election, video on the products that we make.
These consulted the top 10 shareholders last year atthe forthcoming AGM.
can be viewed from the home page of our regarding its proposed remuneration policy website www.
com and from our and practice.
Major shareholders are invited Following the annual evaluation of the Board iPad investor app.
Type this link into your to attend briefings following the half-year and its Committees, all Directors standing for browser to go to the Halma Investor andannual results.
Once again, the Chief election or re-election at the AGM continue Relations app download page on iTunes: Executive hosted a dinner in London tobe effective, hold recent and relevant http: goo.
gl 4W91y duringFebruary 2016 for analysts and experience and continue to demonstrate institutional investors.
No new material commitment to the role.
Biographical details The Financial calendar is set out on financial information or updates on trading ofeach Director standing for election or page180.
is provided at such events.
In September re-election are set out in the Notice of Meeting.
2015, the Company hosted asite visit to All shareholders are encouraged to attend Crowcon in Abingdon, UK, for analysts and LIABILITY INSURANCE the Annual General Meeting AGM in London investors.
The event focused onHalmas Each Director is covered by appropriate where they can gain a better understanding Process Safety sector, including Crowcons directors and officers liability insurance, at of the Company and meet the Directors.
Slides and a summary of the the Companys expense.
In addition, there TheAGM provides an opportunity for presentation given may be viewed or are Deeds of Indemnity in place, which shareholders to ask questions to the Board downloaded from the Companys website on the matters put to the meeting, including provide an indemnity from the Company to atwww.
the Annual Report and Accounts and the the Director in respect of any proceedings management of the Company.
The results brought by third parties against Directors The content of presentations to shareholders ofthe AGM are published on the Companys personally in their capacity as Directors of the and analysts at results announcements, website once they become available.
The indemnity does not extend to news releases about the Group and all certain areas, including: any liability to pay a regulatory announcements are also available fine levied in criminal proceedings: defending on the Companys website.
Shareholders criminal proceedings where the Director is are encouraged to visit www.
com convicted and such conviction is final: to access Annual Report and Accounts, defending any civil proceedings brought by Half Year Reports, biographical information the Company or an associated company: on Directors and the Executive Board, share orin any proceedings for disqualification price information and subsidiary company ofthe Director.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 65
