Corporate Governance Report continued VIABILITY STATEMENT During the year, the Board carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks affecting the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Accountability The principal risks and uncertainties, including an analysis of the potential impact and mitigating actions, are set outon pages 30 to 33 of the StrategicReport.
The Board has assessed the viability of INTERNAL CONTROL STATEMENT Groups internal controls are summarised the Company over a three year period, The Boards responsibilities onpages 28 and 29. taking into account the Groups current The Board has overall responsibility to the The Directors confirm that they consider position and the potential impact of the shareholders for the Groups system of theAnnual Report and Accounts, taken principal risks and uncertainties.
Whilst internal control and risk management, and asawhole, to be fair, balanced and the Board has no reason to believe that the review of the systems effectiveness is understandable and provides the information the Group will not be viable over a longer carried out with the assistance of the Audit necessary for shareholders to assess the period, it has determined that three years Committee.
Whilst not providing absolute Companys position and performance.
The is an appropriate period.
In drawing its assurance against material misstatements Groups business model is set out on page conclusion, the Board has aligned the or loss, this system is designed to identify 12 and an explanation of the strategy and period of viability assessment with the and manage those risks that could adversely longer-term objectives of the Company is Groups strategic planning process a impact the achievement of the Groups contained within the Strategic Review on three year period.
The Groups risk management pages 4 to 47. that this approach provides greater structure and process is detailed on pages certainty over forecasting and, therefore, 28 and 29.
The Groups principal risks GOING CONCERN increases reliability in the modelling and anduncertainties are detailed on The Groups business activities, together with stress testing of the Companys viability.
the main trends and factors likely to affect its In addition, a three year horizon is typically future development, performance and position, The Board confirms that there is an ongoing the period over which we review our and the financial position of the Group, its cash process for identifying, evaluating and external bank facilities, and is also the flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities, managing the significant risks faced by the performance period over which awards are set out in the Strategic Report.
In addition, Group and for determining the nature and granted under Halmas share-based note 26 to the financial statements includes the extent of the significant risks it is willing to incentive plan are measured.
Groups objectives, policies and processes for take in achieving its strategic objectives.
managing its capital, its financial risk In reviewing the Companys viability, TheBoard, advised by the Audit Committee, management objectives, details of its financial theBoard has identified the following regularly reviews the process, which has instruments and hedging activities, and its factors which they believe support been in place for the year under review and exposures to currency and liquidity risks.
theirassessment: up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
This process is in The Group has considerable financial the Group operates in diverse but accordance with the Guidance on Risk resources including a 360m five-year relatively non-cyclical markets: Management, Internal Control and Related revolving credit facility, of which 236m Financial and Business Reporting.
The Board there is considerable financial capacity was undrawn at 2 April 2016 together with has continued to improve and embed under current facilities and the ability contracts with a diverse range of customers controls throughout the Group and will toraise further funds: and suppliers across different geographic continue to keep the systems under review the decentralised nature of our Group areas and industries.
No one customer toensure that the internal control and risk ensures that risk is spread across our accounts for more than 2% of Group management framework remains fit businesses and sectors, with limited turnover.
As a consequence, the Directors forpurpose.
exposure to any particular industry believe that the Group is well placed to ormarket: manage its business risks successfully.
REVIEW OF INTERNAL there is a strong culture of local CONTROLEFFECTIVENESS After conducting a formal review of the responsibility and accountability The Board regularly reviews the effectiveness Groups financial resources, the Directors within a robust governance and of the Groups risk management and have a reasonable expectation that the control framework: and internalcontrol systems, including financial, Company and the Group have adequate operational and compliance controls.
The an ethical approach to business is set resources to continue in operational existence review is principally based on reviewing from the top and flows throughout for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they reports from management to consider ourbusiness.
continue to adopt the going concern basis in whether significant risks have been identified, preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
In making their assessment, the Board evaluated, managed and controlled.
carried out a comprehensive exercise of LONGER-TERM VIABILITY The Groups external Auditor, Deloitte LLP, financial modelling and stress-tested the In accordance with the UK Corporate has audited the financial statements and model with various scenarios based on Governance Code, the Board has has reviewed the financial control systems the principal risks identified in the Groups considered the Companys longer to the extent considered necessary to annual risk assessment process.
In termviability and sets out its Viability support the audit report.
eachscenario, the effect on the Groups Statement below.
KPIs and borrowing covenants was COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK considered, along with any mitigating CORPORATE GOVERNANCE factors.
Based on this assessment, CODE 2014 THE CODE theBoard confirms that they have a Throughout the year ended 2 April 2016, reasonable expectation that the Company theCompany has fully complied with the will be able to continue in operation and provisions as set out in the Code.
The meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period to 31 March 2019.
68 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
