Audited Investment Report of Consolidated Key Chairmans Managers Supplemental Directors Independent Financial Highlights Statement Review Data Report Auditors Statements Disclosures Commitments HVPE Commits Fresh Capital to Newly-Formed HarbourVest Funds During the financial year ended 31 January 2016, HVPE committed $526 million 01 to newly-formed HarbourVest funds.
These commitments are complementary to HVPEs existing portfolio of HarbourVest funds and highlight the Companys consistent and ongoing commitments to compelling investment opportunities.
HarbourVest funds, in turn, commit capital to mangers over a period of typically four years and call down capital over a period of seven to nine years, creating an Investment Pipeline of allocated to underlying partnerships and investments and unallocated commitments.
Committed During Financial Year Ended HARBOURVEST FUND 31 January 2016 $million HarbourVest X Programme 2015-2018 $350 U. S. fund-of-funds focused on building a portfolio of private companies via primary fund investments, complemented by secondary investments and direct co-investments HarbourVest X Buyout 2.5% called $232 HarbourVest X Venture 3.5% called $118 HarbourVest 2015 Global Fund 2015-2017 $100 Multi-strategy global fund-of-funds focused on building a portfolio of private companies via primary fund investments, secondary investments, and direct co-investments in North America 70%, Europe 20%, and the rest of the world 10% 6.0% called Largest holding by current value: Heritage Food Service Group HIPEP VII Europe 2014-2017 $26 23 European multi-strategy fund-of-funds focused on building a portfolio of private companies via primary fund investments 13.0% called Largest holding by current value: Dining Club HarbourVest Canada Growth Fund 2015-2018 $25 C$32 North American venture fund-of-funds focused on building a portfolio of private companies via primary fund investments and direct growth equity investments in Canada Largest holding by current value: Intelex Technologies HarbourVest Mezzanine Income Fund 2014-2017 $25 U. S. mezzanine direct co-investment fund focused on building a portfolio of loans 5.25% called TOTAL COMMITTED TO HARBOURVEST FUNDS $526 Total programme Since 31 January 2016, HVPE has committed an additional $200 million to newly-formed HarbourVest funds, including a global multi-strategy fund-of-funds, global secondary funds, and a global direct co-investment fund.
13 HVPE STRUCTURE ALLOWS DIFFERENTIATED APPROACH TO COMMITMENTS The Company can maintain a higher level of unfunded commitments than some other listed companies based on timing, duration, and predictability.
Extended Investment Period Age of the Investment Pipeline Many listed fund-of-funds vehicles make comHVPEs allocated commitments range across a mitments directly to newly-formed third party number of vintage years.
At 31 January 2016, partnerships, which are expected to invest approximately $107 million of commitments most of their commitments over three to five or 17% of the allocated total are more than years.
In contrast: six years old, and only a small portion of this HVPE makes the majority of its total is likely to be drawn down by the underlycommitments to newly-formed ing managers.
Approximately $197 million HarbourVest funds which typically have or 32% of allocated commitments are between a seven to nine-year investment period four and six years old and likely to be drawn or to HarbourVest-led co-investments.
The remaining This extended investment period reflects $316 million or 51% of allocated commitments the fact that HarbourVest funds commit are one to three years old and are expected capital to primary funds over a period of to be called in the medium term.
The pace three to four years, which in turn build of these drawdowns has been shown to be their portfolios and generally invest most relatively predictable over time.
capital over the next three to five years.
This model has required an increase in HVPE makes commitments to the level of commitments in order for HarbourVest funds, which in turn HVPE to aim to achieve and maintain build portfolios of private companies its goal of being fully invested.
via primary funds, secondary Allocated and Unallocated investments, and direct co-investments.
Investment Pipeline Once funded during the Investment In order to reflect the differences in expected drawdown periods appropriately, the Company Phase, the capital becomes part of divides its Investment Pipeline into allocated the Investment Portfolio.
Of the Companys total Investment Pipeline of $1.04 billion: AGE OF THE INVESTMENT PIPELINE 59% has been allocated by HarbourVest AT 31 JANUARY 2016 $million funds to underlying investments.
41% has not yet been allocated to underlying partnerships.
Allocated Unallocated The Investment Manager anticipates that the $620 $423 Companys allocated commitments will be drawn down over a three to five-year period.
All of the Companys commitments to HarbourVest direct and secondary funds are classified as allocated commitments because their drawdown profiles are closer to those of third party funds.
However, the commitments that have not been allocated are expected to be drawn over a longer period of up to seven to nine years.
