BRIBERY The Investment Manager is not entitled to any direct remuneration save expenses incurred The Directors have undertaken to operate the in the performance of its duties from the business in an honest and ethical manner and Company.
The investment management accordingly take a zero-tolerance approach to agreement, which was amended and restated bribery and corruption.
The key components of on 27 August 2015 the Investment Management this approach are implemented as follows: Agreement, may be terminated by either The Board is committed to acting party by giving 12 months notice.
In the professionally, fairly and with integrity in event of termination within ten years and three all its business dealings and relationships: months of the date of the listing on the Main The Company implements and enforces Market, the Company shall pay a contribution effective procedures to counter bribery: and to the Investment Managers remaining The Company requires all its service unamortised IPO costs, which were $7.7 million providers and advisors to adopt equivalent at 31 January 2016.
In addition, the Company or similar principles.
shall pay a fee equal to the aggregate of the DISCLOSURES REQUIRED UNDER management fees for the underlying investments LISTING RULE 9.8.
4R payable over the course of the 12-month period preceding the effective date of such There are no disclosures required under termination to the Investment Manager.
DELEGATION OF RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTMENT MANAGER Under the Investment Management Agreement, The Board have considered the appointment the Board has delegated to the Investment of the Investment Manager and, in the opinion Manager substantial authority for carrying out of the directors of the Company, the continuing the day-to-day management and operations appointment of the Investment Manager on the of the Company, including making specific terms agreed is in the interests of its shareholdinvestment decisions, subject at all times ers as a whole.
In considering this appointment, to the control of, and review by, the Board.
the Board have reviewed the past performance In particular, the Investment Management of the Investment Manager, the engagement of Agreement provides that the Board and the the Investment Manager with Shareholders and Investment Manager shall agree a Strategy the Board, and the strategic plan presented to Mandate which sets out a five-year plan for the Board by the Investment Manager.
The Investment Manager is HarbourVest Advisors L. P. and the principal contents BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES of the Investment Management Agreement The Board meets at least five times a year, are as follows: and between these scheduled meetings To manage the assets of the Company there is regular contact between directors, subject always to supervision by the the Investment Manager and the Company Board and subject to both the investment Secretary, including a formal strategy meeting policy of the Company and any restrictions and scheduled Board update calls.
As a result contained in any prospectuses published of the changes in the UK Finance Act, on by the Company : 12 August 2014, the Company amended To assist the Company with shareholder its Articles to permit the Board to meet in liaison: the U. K. However, the Board continues to To monitor compliance with the hold the majority of its meetings offshore.
Investment Policy on a regular basis: To nominate up to two Board representatives for election by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
