Audited Investment Report of Consolidated Key Chairmans Managers Supplemental Directors Independent Financial Highlights Statement Review Data Report Auditors Statements Disclosures GOING CONCERN The Board, in assessing the viability of the Company, have paid particular attention to After making enquiries and given the nature of the principal risks faced by the Company the Company and its investments, the directors as disclosed below.
As part of its strategic are satisfied that it is appropriate to continue planning, the Board considered models of to adopt the going concern basis in preparing pessimistic but plausible scenarios over the the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements, three year period in relation to capital calls and, after due consideration, the directors on the Company and distributions received consider that the Company is able to continue by the Company.
In addition, the Board has for a period of at least the next 12 months.
established a risk management framework, In addition, the Board monitors and manages reviewed on a half-yearly basis, which is intended the ongoing commitments via the criteria set to identify, measure, monitor, report and, out on page 10.
When considering the criteria, where appropriate, mitigate the risks to the the Board reviews detailed reports from Companys investment objective, including any the Investment Manager detailing ongoing liquidity or solvency issues.
The Board does not commitments and the investment pipeline.
consider any other risks to be principal risks as Furthermore, the Board, as part of its regular defined in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
review of the Balance Sheet and debt position, considers model scenario outputs that Based on its review, the Board has a reasonable are based on a look-through to the anticipated expectation that the Company will be able to underlying fund and portfolio cashflows.
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over a three year period to VIABILITY STATEMENT 31 January 2019.
Pursuant to provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 and Principle 21 PRINCIPAL RISKS of the AIC Code, the Board has assessed the Risk Factors viability of the Company over a three year period The Companys Board believes that there are from 31 January 2016.
Whilst the Board has no four principal risks faced by the Company: reason to believe that the Company will not be The NAV is at risk of decline, particularly viable over a longer period, it has chosen this if the economic recovery or equity period as this falls within the Boards strategic markets falter.
horizon and within the Companys expected Although the Company currently has investment lifecycle.
no borrowings, it may be necessary to utilise the credit facility at some stage The Companys investment objective is to in the future.
In addition obligations generate superior shareholder returns through could be difficult to fund under certain long-term capital appreciation by investing circumstances.
primarily in a diversified portfolio of private equity The Company depends on HarbourVest investments.
The majority of the Companys and its investment professionals for core investments are in HarbourVest-managed services.
The Company could experience periods of share illiquidity, ongoing price volatility, and discounts to NAV in the shares.
