BRIBERY The Investment Manager is not entitled to any direct remuneration save expenses incurred The Directors have undertaken to operate the in the performance of its duties from the business in an honest and ethical manner and Company.
The investment management accordingly take a zero-tolerance approach to agreement, which was amended and restated bribery and corruption.
The key components of on 27 August 2015 the Investment Management this approach are implemented as follows: Agreement, may be terminated by either The Board is committed to acting party by giving 12 months notice.
In the professionally, fairly and with integrity in event of termination within ten years and three all its business dealings and relationships: months of the date of the listing on the Main The Company implements and enforces Market, the Company shall pay a contribution effective procedures to counter bribery: and to the Investment Managers remaining The Company requires all its service unamortised IPO costs, which were $7.7 million providers and advisors to adopt equivalent at 31 January 2016.
In addition, the Company or similar principles.
shall pay a fee equal to the aggregate of the DISCLOSURES REQUIRED UNDER management fees for the underlying investments LISTING RULE 9.8.
4R payable over the course of the 12-month period preceding the effective date of such There are no disclosures required under termination to the Investment Manager.
DELEGATION OF RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTMENT MANAGER Under the Investment Management Agreement, The Board have considered the appointment the Board has delegated to the Investment of the Investment Manager and, in the opinion Manager substantial authority for carrying out of the directors of the Company, the continuing the day-to-day management and operations appointment of the Investment Manager on the of the Company, including making specific terms agreed is in the interests of its shareholdinvestment decisions, subject at all times ers as a whole.
In considering this appointment, to the control of, and review by, the Board.
the Board have reviewed the past performance In particular, the Investment Management of the Investment Manager, the engagement of Agreement provides that the Board and the the Investment Manager with Shareholders and Investment Manager shall agree a Strategy the Board, and the strategic plan presented to Mandate which sets out a five-year plan for the Board by the Investment Manager.
The Investment Manager is HarbourVest Advisors L. P. and the principal contents BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES of the Investment Management Agreement The Board meets at least five times a year, are as follows: and between these scheduled meetings To manage the assets of the Company there is regular contact between directors, subject always to supervision by the the Investment Manager and the Company Board and subject to both the investment Secretary, including a formal strategy meeting policy of the Company and any restrictions and scheduled Board update calls.
As a result contained in any prospectuses published of the changes in the UK Finance Act, on by the Company : 12 August 2014, the Company amended To assist the Company with shareholder its Articles to permit the Board to meet in liaison: the U. K. However, the Board continues to To monitor compliance with the hold the majority of its meetings offshore.
Investment Policy on a regular basis: To nominate up to two Board representatives for election by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
64 HVPE 2016 Annual Report Audited Investment Report of Consolidated Key Chairmans Managers Supplemental Directors Independent Financial Highlights Statement Review Data Report Auditors Statements Disclosures The directors are kept fully informed of investment Committees of the Board and financial controls and other matters that are On 24 November 2015, the Board announced relevant to the business of the Company.
Such that it had resolved to establish a Service information is brought to the attention of the Provider Review Committee and a Nomination Board by the Investment Manager and by the Committee, in addition to the existing Audit Administrator in their quarterly reports to the Committee.
Prior to the establishment of Board.
The directors also have access where these committees the work undertaken by necessary in the furtherance of their duties to prothe new committees was performed by the fessional advice at the expense of the Company.
In the financial year ended 31 January 2016, The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr. Corbin the Board met each quarter to review the and details of its activities and membership activities of the Company for that period and can be found on page 72 of this report.
held two meetings devoted solely to strategic The Service Provider Review Committee is issues.
An additional six meetings were held chaired by the Chairman of the Company and at short notice to consider limited objectives: its members are Mr. Schmidt, Mr. Hodson and these meetings were attended by those Mr. Moore.
The other directors of the Company directors available in the jurisdiction to constitute may attend by invitation of the committee.
a meeting at the relevant time on limited The Service Provider Review Committee is notification.
All directors received notice of expected to hold its inaugural meeting in the the meetings, the agenda, and supporting year ending 31 January 2017. documents and were able to comment on the The Nomination Committee is chaired by the matters to be raised at the proposed meeting.
Chairman of the Company and its members In addition to the formal quarterly, strategy, are Mr. Corbin, Mr. Hodson, Mr. Moore and and ad-hoc meetings, the Board also receives Mr. Schmidt, being all of the independent detailed updates from the Investment Manager directors of the Company.
The mandate of via update calls.
the Nomination Committee is to consider Below is a summary of the director attendance issues related to Board composition and at the scheduled Board meetings held in the the appointment of directors.
The Nomination financial year: Committee held its first meeting on Scheduled and Strategic Board Meetings 11 February 2016, and all members of Sir Michael Bunbury 6 6 the committee attended this meeting.
Mr. Brooks Zug 6 6 Mr. Peter Wilson 6 6 Mr. Keith Corbin 6 6 Mr. Alan Hodson 6 6 Mr. Andrew Moore 6 6 Mr. Jean-Bernard Schmidt 6 6 65
