Board Composition Risk Review The Board has a breadth of experience relevant The Board has an ongoing process in place for to the Company, and the directors believe identifying, evaluating, and managing the signifthat any changes to the Boards composition icant risks faced by the Company.
A description can be managed without undue disruption.
of the principal risks and uncertainties facing With any new director appointment to the the Company is given beginning on page 67.
Board, the new director will participate in an As part of the process for evaluating risks, the appropriate, structured induction process.
Board undertakes a half-yearly review of its risk matrix.
The risks reviewed are grouped into four Directors Indemnity categories: Financial Risks, Operating Risks, Under the Companys Articles of Association, Strategic and Investor Relations the Directors, Secretary and officers are indemRisk, and Governance and Regulatory nified out of the Companys assets and profits Risk.
Risks are assessed and classed from and against all actions expenses and according to their probability of occurring liabilities which they may incur by reason of any and the likely impact upon the Company.
contract entered into or any act in or about the Risks are then categorised based on priority, execution of their respective offices or trusts being grouped into Primary and Secondary except as incurred by their own negligence, risks which are reviewed accordingly.
breach of duty or breach of trust.
During the financial year, the Board focused on corporate governance and on the changes Board Evaluation required to achieve a Main Market listing.
In The Board undertakes a formal annual evaluation addition the Board considered currency risk of its performance and the performance of the and how it might impact future returns: potential Investment Manager and the Secretary.
Each future liquidity requirements based on scenario directors performance is reviewed annually by the analysis by the Investment Manager: and how Chairman, and the performance of the Chairman to maintain the Companys NAV and share price is assessed by the remaining directors by way growth.
In general, the Board noted that those of a performance evaluation questionnaire and a risks where the probability and impact remained subsequent scheduled interview.
As part of the high post-mitigation were outside of the review, succession planning, the scope of the Companys control and would affect global directors role including any committee memmarkets as a whole.
berships, and the ability of the director to devote sufficient time to the Company are considered.
INTERNATIONAL TAX REPORTING In addition to this annual evaluation, in recognition The Company is subject to Guernsey regulations of the Companys move to the Main Market and guidance based on reciprocal information of the London Stock Exchange, the Board sharing inter-governmental agreements which has resolved to commission an external Guernsey has entered into with a number of appraisal to review its operation and jurisdictions.
The Board has taken the necessary effectiveness during 2017and intends to actions to ensure that the Company is compliant appoint Board Alpha Limited to undertake with Guernsey regulations and guidance in this task.
