Audited Investment Report of Consolidated Key Chairmans Managers Supplemental Directors Independent Financial Highlights Statement Review Data Report Auditors Statements Disclosures INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE Directors Report AND INVESTMENT POLICY The directors present their report and financial The Companys investment objective is to statements for the year ended 31 January 2016. generate superior shareholder returns through A description of important events which have long-term capital appreciation by investing occurred during the financial year, their impact primarily in a diversified portfolio of private on the performance of the Company as shown equity investments.
The Company may also in the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements make investments in private market assets beginning on page 81 and a description other than private equity where it identifies of the principal risks and uncertainties facing attractive opportunities.
the Company, together with an indication of The Company seeks to achieve its investment important events that have occurred since the objective primarily by investing in investment end of the financial year and the Companys funds managed by HarbourVest, which invest likely future development is given in this Report, in or alongside third party-managed investment the Chairmans Statement and the Notes to funds HarbourVest Funds.
HarbourVest the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements Funds are broadly of three types: i Primary and are incorporated here by reference.
HarbourVest Funds, which make limited partner commitments to underlying PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY private market funds prior to final closing: The Company is a closed-ended investment ii Secondary HarbourVest Funds, which company incorporated in Guernsey on make purchases of private market assets by 18 October 2007 with an unlimited life.
acquiring positions in existing private market The Company has one class of shares funds or by acquiring portfolios of investments the Ordinary Shares and its shares are made by such private market funds: and iii admitted to trading on the Main Market of Direct HarbourVest Funds, which invest the London Stock Exchange and listed and into operating companies, projects or assets admitted to trading on Euronext Amsterdam.
Until 9 September 2015, the Company had two In addition, the Company may, on an opportunistic classes of shares in issue being Class A shares basis, make investments generally at the same of no par value Class A shares and Class B time and on substantially the same terms shares of no par value Class B shares.
On alongside HarbourVest Funds Co-invest- 6 December 2007 the Class A shares were admitted ments and in closed-ended listed private to listing and trading on Euronext Amsterdam by equity funds not managed by HarbourVest NYSE Euronext.
On 12 May 2010, the Class A Third Party Funds.
Co-investments made shares were admitted to trading on the Specialist by the Company may, inter alia, include Fund Market of the London Stock Exchange.
investments in transactions structured by other On 27 August 2015 the Companys Articles HarbourVest vehicles including, but not limited of Association were amended to permit the to, commitments to private market funds or repurchase and cancellation of all Class B operating companies in which other shares in issue and on 9 September 2015 all HarbourVest Funds have invested.
Class B Shares were repurchased for a value of Cash, at any time not held in such longer $1 per Class B Share and immediately cancelled.
term investments is, pending such investment, The transition from the Specialist Fund Market held in cash, cash equivalents, money market of the London Stock Exchange to the Main instruments, government securities, assetMarket of the London Stock Exchange took backed securities and other investment-grade effect on 9 September 2015 and the Company securities and interests in any private equity joined the FTSE 250 index on 21 December 2015. vehicle that is listed or traded on any securities exchange Temporary Investments.
Please refer to Note 1 in the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding voting rights.
