Audited Investment Report of Consolidated Key Chairmans Managers Supplemental Directors Independent Financial Highlights Statement Review Data Report Auditors Statements Disclosures BIOGRAPHIES Sir Michael Bunbury, Peter G. Wilson, Chairman, Director Independent Director Peter Wilson age 53 Sir Michael Bunbury joined HarbourVests age 69 is an London-based experienced director subsidiary in 1996. of listed and private He is a member of investment, property and financial services HarbourVests Executive Management Comcompanies.
He is currently the Chairman of mittee and co-leads HarbourVests secondary BH Global Limited, the former Chairman of JP investment activity in Europe.
He serves on the Morgan Claverhouse Investment Trust plc, a advisory committees for partnerships managed former Director of Foreign & Colonial Investment by Baring Vostok Capital Partners, CVC Capital Trust plc which has been an investor in numerous Partners, Holtzbrinck Ventures, Index Venture HarbourVest funds, including funds in which Management, Nordic Capital, and Paragon the Company is invested, Director of Invesco Partners.
Prior to joining HarbourVest, he spent Perpetual Select Trust plc, and a consultant to three years working for the European Bank Smith & Williamson.
Sir Michael began his career for Reconstruction and Development, where he in 1968 at Buckmaster & Moore, a member of originated and managed two regional venture The Stock Exchange, before joining Smith & capital funds in Russia.
He served as founding Williamson, Investment Managers and Chartered Chairman of the Board of Trustees of City Accountants, in 1974 as a Partner.
Peter also spent two years at served as Director and Chairman and remains The Monitor Company, a strategy consulting a consultant to the firm.
firm based in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
He received a BA with honours from McGill D. Brooks Zug, University in 1985 and an MBA from Director Harvard Business School in 1990.
Brooks Zug age 70 Keith B. Corbin, is a senior managing Senior Independent director of HarbourVest Director and Partners, LLC and Chairman of the a founder of Audit Committee HarbourVest.
He is a member of HarbourVests Executive Management Committee and is Keith Corbin age 63 responsible for overseeing primary, secondary, is an Associate of the and direct co-investments.
He joined the Chartered Institute of Bankers A. C. I.
1976 corporate finance department of John Hancock and Member of the Society of Trust and Estate Mutual Life Insurance Company in 1977, and, in Practitioners T. E. P. 1990.
He has been involved 1982, co-founded Hancock Venture Partners, in the management of international financial which later became HarbourVest Partners.
services businesses in various international Brooks is a past Trustee of Lehigh University centres during the last 33 years.
Mr. Corbin and a current Trustee of the Boston Symphony is currently the Group Executive Chairman of Orchestra.
He received a BS from Lehigh Nerine International Holdings Limited, Guernsey, University in 1967 and an MBA from Harvard which also has operations in the British Virgin Business School in 1970.
Brooks received his Islands, Hong Kong, India, and Switzerland.
He serves as a non-executive Director on the board of 3W Power S. A. and various regulated financial services businesses, investment funds, and other companies.
Those assignments also include the chairmanship of audit and other board committees.
57 Alan C. Hodson, Jean-Bernard Independent Director Schmidt, Independent Director Alan Hodson age 54 is a Director of JP Jean-Bernard Schmidt Morgan Elect.
Alan age 70 is a former joined Rowe and Managing Partner of Pitman subsequently Sofinnova Partners, a leading European venture SG Warburg, SBC and UBS in 1984 and capital firm based in Paris.
Jean-Bernard joined worked in a range of roles, all related to listed Sofinnova in 1973 as an investment manager.
He became Global Head of In 1981 he became President of Sofinnova Equities in April 2001 and was a member of the Inc. in San Francisco, managing Sofinnovas Executive Committee of UBS Investment Bank U. S. venture capital funds until 1987, when he and of the UBS AG Group Managing Board.
returned to Paris to head the Sofinnova group.
He retired from UBS in June 2005 and has He then began focusing on Sofinnovas investsince held positions on a variety of commercial ments in Europe and on technology and early and charity Boards.
stage projects in information technologies and life sciences.
In 1989, he launched the first Andrew W. Moore, Sofinnova Capital fund.
He is a past and current Independent Director board member of many technology companies Andrew Moore age in the U. S. and France.
Between 1998 and 61 is Group Chairman 2001, he was a board member of AFIC, the of Cherry Godfrey French Venture Capital Association.
From June Holdings Limited and 2003 to June 2004, he was Chairman of EVCA Director of Sumo the European Private Equity and Venture Limited.
Andrew joined Williams & Glyns Bank, Capital Association.
Jean-Bernard is a graduate which subsequently became The Royal Bank of of Essec Business School in Paris and holds Scotland, after obtaining a diploma in business an MBA from Columbia University in New York.
He moved to Guernsey to establish and act as Managing Director of a trust company for The Royal Bank of Scotland in 1985.
During his career, Andrew held a range of senior management positions, including acting as head of corporate trust and fund administration businesses for The Royal Bank of Scotland in Guernsey, Jersey, and Isle of Man, which provided services to many offshore investment structures holding a wide variety of asset classes.
Andrew has over 30 years of experience as both an executive and non-executive Director of companies including investment funds and banks.
