HARGREAVES LANSDOWN GOVERNANCE 88 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT liquidity and credit risk.
THE STRATEGIC REPORT AND DIRECTORS of business on 16 September 2016.
Details of dividend waivers are also detailed in Note 10.
REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Directors present their report on EVENTS AFTER BALANCE SHEET DATE the affairs of the Group and the audited The Corporate Governance Report found consolidated financial statements of the on pages 52 to 59 and, together with this Group for the year ended 30 June 2016.
Details of those important events affecting the Group which have occurred since the end report of which it forms part, fulfills the Accompanying this Directors Report are of the financial year are set out in Note 26 to requirements of the Corporate Governance the Strategic Report, Corporate Governance the consolidated financial statements.
Statement for the purpose of the Financial Report, Audit Committee Report and Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Directors Remuneration Report.
reports form part of the Annual Report.
EMPLOYEE DISCLOSURES A review of the business and its future Our disclosures relating to the employment SHARE CAPITAL development is set out in the Strategic of disabled persons, the number of women Report.
A description of the principal risks in senior management roles, employee The Companys shares are listed on the of and uncertainties is given on page 36 of the engagement and policies are included in Our the London Stock Exchange.
People on pages 44 to 45. authorised and issued share capital during the year and as at 30 June 2016 is shown in note 22.
The ordinary shares rank pari CAUTIONARY STATEMENT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY passu in all respects.
Save as agreed at the Annual General Meeting of the shareholders, The review of the business and its strategic Information about the Companys approach to the ordinary shares have pre-emption rights priorities in the Annual Report has been the environment and sustainability including in respect of any future issues of ordinary prepared solely to provide additional details of our greenhouse gas emissions are shares to the extent conferred by Section 561 information to shareholders to assess the set out on pages 40 to 43. of the Companies Act 2006.
Groups strategies and the potential for these strategies to succeed.
It should not be relied on by any other party for any other RISK MANAGEMENT BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF SHARES WITH purpose.
The review contains forward looking INFORMATION RIGHTS statements which are made by the Directors Details of the Groups policy on risk in good faith based on information available management has been made in Note 28 to Beneficial owners of shares who have been to them up to the time of the approval the consolidated financial statements and nominated by the registered holder of those of these reports and should be treated relate to various financial instruments and the shares to receive information rights under with caution due to inherent uncertainties exposure of the Group to financial, market, section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are including both economic and business risk factors associated with such statements.
The Directors, in preparing this Strategic Number and % of Number and % of Report, have complied with Section 417 of the Ordinary Shares at 30 Ordinary Shares Companies Act 2006.
June 2016 at 30 June 2015 Non-Executive Directors RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS Christopher Barling - - Mike Evans 8,125 0.01% 8,125 0.01% The results of the Group are set out in detail Stephen Robertson 9,890 0.01% 9,890 0.01% on page 100.
The Company paid a final dividend and an interim dividend during the Shirley Garrood - - period, as detailed in Note 10 to the financial Jayne Styles - - statements.
A second interim final dividend Executive Directors of 16.30 pence per ordinary share and a special dividend of 9.90 pence per ordinary Ian Gorham 332,628 0.07% 332,628 0.07% share were declared after the balance sheet Christopher Hill - - date and will be payable on 28 September Total 350,643 0.07% 350,643 0.07% 2016 to shareholders on the register at close HARGREAVES LANSDOWN GOVERNANCE 89 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES As permitted by the Articles of Association, the Directors have the benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third party indemnity provision as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
The indemnity was introduced in August 2014 and is currently in force.
The Company also purchased and maintained throughout the financial year directors and officers liability insurance cover in respect of itself and its Directors to guard against against liability which may be incurred acting as Directors and officers.
Cover was increased from 20 million to 40 million during the year and this cover remains in force at the date of this report.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS As at the date of this report, other than the Interested Party Date of notification Number and % of Ordinary shares Directors interests which are set out in the BlackRock, Inc. 7 July 2016 32,343,003 6.81% table on the preceeding page, the Company Peter Hargreaves 14 April 2015 152,639,678 32.18% has been notified in accordance with the DTR of the following shareholdings amounting to Stephen Lansdown 25 March 2014 75,500,000 15.92% more than 3% of the issued share capital of Baillie Gifford & Co 30 September 2014 23,888,812 5.04% the Company.
There is a Relationship Agreement in place between Peter Hargreaves and the Company to ensure that the independence provisions as set out in the Listing Rules are complied with.
The Board MARKET ABUSE REGULATIONS confirms that for the year ended 30 June 2016, and in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4 14 : The Company has its own internal dealing i The Company has complied with the independence provisions included in the Relationship rules which applies to all staff and which Agreement.
encompass the requirements of the Market ii So far as the Company is aware, the independence provisions included in the Relationship Abuse Regulations.
Agreement have been complied with by the other parties to the Relationship Agreement and their associates.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING At the Annual General Meeting on 21 October 2016, the following three items of special required to direct all communications to the any interests under share options or awards, business will be tabled: registered holder of their shares rather than details of which are set out in the Directors to the Companys registrar, Equiniti Registrars, Remuneration Report.
Authority to purchase own shares: The Comor to the Group directly.
pany was granted authority at the AGM in 2015 to purchase its own shares up to an aggregate During the period covered by this report, no value of 10% of the issued nominal capital.
Director had any material interest in a contract DIRECTORS INTERESTS to which the Company or any of its subsidiary This authority expires at this years AGM and undertakings was a party other than their own a special resolution will be proposed for its The Directors who held office during the service contract, requiring disclosure under renewal.
This resolution gives the Directors year and at 30 June 2016 had interests the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 authority to make market purchases of up including beneficial interests in the shares except in respect of the rental of the office to 47,431,862 ordinary shares, representing of the Company as shown in the table premises at Kendal House as disclosed in note approximately 10% of the Companys issued opposite.
These interests are exclusive of 27 to the financial statements.
HARGREAVES LANSDOWN GOVERNANCE 90 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Table of cross references required for the Listing Rule 9.8.
ordinary share capital at 5 September 2016.
The Directors do not have any present Listing Rule 9.8.
4 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules requires us to make certain intention to exercise such authority and the disclosures.
The table below highlights each disclosure and where each can be found within the authority will expire at the conclusion of the Annual Report.
next AGM after the passing of the proposed resolution.
Listing Required Disclosure Location in the Rule Annual Report 2. and 3.
Directors authority to allot shares 9.8.
4 and waiver of pre-emption rights: The 1 A statement of the amount of interest, capitalised by the Group Not applicable following resolutions are to be proposed as during the period under review with an indication of the amount and treatment of any related tax relief.
special business at the AGM on 21 October 2 Any information required by Listing Rule 9.2.
18R relating to Not applicable 2015 to enable the Directors to allot unissued unaudited financial information in a class 1 circular or a prospectus: shares and, subject to the limits therein or any profit forecast or profit estimate.
contained, to allot shares for cash other than 3 Listing Rule deleted.
Not applicable to existing shareholders in proportion to their 4 Details of long term incentive schemes as required by Listing Rule Not applicable shareholdings.
3R, being any arrangement where the only participant is a director of the listed company or an individual whose appointment Allotment of shares This resolution renews as a director of the listed company is being contemplated and the Directors authority to allot shares.
The the arrangement is established specifically to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment or retention of the relevant individual.
maximum nominal value of relevant securities 5 Details of any arrangements under which a director of the company Not applicable that may be allotted pursuant to the authority has waived or agreed to waive any emoluments from the company is 632,424.80, representing 158,106,200 or any subsidiary undertaking.
This amount represents 6 Details where a director has agreed to waive future emoluments, Not applicable approximately 33.3 percent of the Companys details of such waiver together with those relating to emoluments total share capital in issue as at 5 September which were waived during the period under review.
7 Details of any allotment for cash of equity securities made during Not applicable the period under review otherwise than to the holders of the companys equity shares in proportion to their holdings of such Waiver of pre-emption rights This equity shares and which has not been specifically authorised by resolution renews the Directors authority to the companys shareholders.
issue new shares for cash, without following 8 The information required in item 7 above must be given for any Not applicable the statutory pre-emption procedures, unlisted major subsidiary undertaking of the company.
so long as: i the issue is a rights issue, 9 Details of any share placing where the company is a subsidiary Not applicable open offer or other pre-emptive offer, or undertaking of another company.
pursuant to a scrip dividend alternative: or 10 Details of any contract of significance subsisting during the period Not applicable ii the aggregate nominal amount of such under review: issue does not exceed 94,863.72 which a To which the listed company, or one of its subsidiary undertakings, is a party and in which a director of the listed represents 5% of the issued share capital as company is or was materially interested: and at 5 September 2016. b Between the listed company, or one of its subsidiary undertakings, and a controlling shareholder.
The Directors do not have any present 11 Details of any contract for the provision of services to the listed Not applicable intention of exercising either of the authorities company or any of its subsidiary undertakings by a controlling shareholder, subsisting during the period under review.
and the authorities will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting.
12 Details of any arrangement under which a shareholder has waived Note 10 to the consolidated or agreed to waive any dividends.
financial statements provides information on These resolutions seek authorities which are employee benefit trusts that in accordance with the current guidelines have waived dividends issued by the Investment Committees of 13 Where a shareholder has agreed to waive future dividends, details Note 10 to the consolidated the Association of British Insurers and the of such waiver together with those relating to dividends which are financial statements National Association of Pension Funds.
payable during the period of review.
provides information on employee benefit trusts that have waived dividends PwC have expressed their willingness 14 A statement made by the Board in respect of matters relating to a A statement regarding the to accept appointment as auditor and a controlling shareholder.
controlling shareholder resolution to appoint them will be proposed is on page 89 of the at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Directors report HARGREAVES LANSDOWN GOVERNANCE 91 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 generation of the core business, the Group VIABILITY STATEMENT days and through challenges which take account of the external environment including would be able to withstand the impact of macroeconomic, regulatory, social and these scenarios occurring over the period of In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK technological changes.
The output of the the financial forecast by making adjustments Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have strategic plan is a set of objectives and the to its operating plans within the normal course assessed the viability of the Group over the allocation of resources required to achieve of business.
This assessment has been them in order to further increase our market made with reference to the Groups current share and continue its profitable growth.
This position and prospects, the Groups strategy, is supported by an analysis of the risks that VIABILITY STATEMENT the Boards risk appetite and the Groups could prevent the plan from being delivered Principal Risks and Uncertainties as detailed in and a set of financial forecasts.
Based on their assessment of prospects and the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 45. viability above, the Directors confirm that they The financial forecast covers the planning have a reasonable expectation that the Group To date the Groups business model see pages horizon of the strategic plan.
The first year will be able to continue in operation, and meet 18 to 21 has proved to be robust, consistently forms the basis for the operating plan which its liabilities as they fall due, over the three demonstrating growth in the core business is reviewed on a six monthly basis.
The later year period ending 30 June 2019. through its ability to gather new assets and years are flexed once the year one basis is new clients on to the Vantage platform, even agreed.
Key assumptions in the forecasts Going concern in challenging market conditions.
The focus include: In conjunction with its assessment of longer on excellent client service ensures asset and term viability above, the Board concluded client retention rates are very strong which, Continued growth in the self-directed that it remained appropriate to adopt the combined with a high percentage of recurring investment market going concern basis of accounting in preparing income of 78%, has led to a strong track record Launch of the HL Savings product the consolidated financial statements as of profit growth.
The core business of the Continuing to invest in our digital capability it believes the Group will continue to be in Group continues to increase its market share Investment in the development of people business, with neither the intention nor the measurements and, in particular, Hargreaves necessity of liquidation, ceasing trading or Lansdown is by far the largest player in the seeking protection from creditors pursuant to Direct to Client platform space with a market ASSESSMENT OF VIABILITY laws or regulations for a period of at least 12 share of 37.5%.
months from the date of approval of the Group The strategic plan provides long-term direction financial statements.
The Board is continuing with its focus on the and will be re-evaluated on at least an annual core business model, supplemented with basis.
Although reflective of the Directors Disclosure of information to auditor strategic initiatives funded from its own profits best estimate of the future prospects of the Each of the persons who is a Director at the date in order to broaden the services offered to business, it is tested in a series of robust of approval of this Annual Report confirms that: its clients, primarily through the provision of downside financial scenarios as part of the additional cash services as highlighted on page Groups process to review the Internal Capital so far as the Director is aware, there is no 6 to 7.
Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP, a relevant audit information of which the regulatory requirement from the Financial Companys auditor is unaware: and Conduct Authority.
the Director has taken all the steps that THE ASSESSMENT PROCESS AND KEY they ought to have taken as a Director, in ASSUMPTIONS The ICAAP, required by the Financial Conduct order to make themselves aware of any Authority, is prepared to identify and relevant audit information and to establish During the year the Board implemented a new quantify the Groups risks and level of capital that the Companys auditor is aware of that annual strategic planning process involving which should be held to cover those risks.
all the key functions of the business.
Whilst Various stress test scenarios are created by the Board has no reason to believe that the management and with Board level input based This confirmation is given and should be Group will not be viable over a longer period, it upon our principal risks and which represent interpreted in accordance with the provisions considers a time horizon of three years to 30 severe but plausible circumstances that the of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
June 2019 as an appropriate period over which Group could experience.
Stress test scenarios to assess its viability and prospects, and to include fluctuations in markets, increased Approved by and signed on behalf of the Board plan the execution of its strategy.
competition and disruption to business.
Judith Matthews The strategic planning process is overseen The results of this stress testing showed that Company Secretary by the Board, which actively participates due to the stability, profitability and cash 6 September 2016 in the process through bi-annual strategy
