HARGREAVES LANSDOWN STRATEGIC REPORT 18 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 BUSINESS MODEL WE ARE IN BUSINESS TO BUILD LONG-TERM PROFIT.
THIS ALLOWS US TO INVEST IN DEVELOPMENT AND INNOVATION, AS WELL AS IN GREAT PEOPLE, AND TO DISTRIBUTE PROFITS TO SHAREHOLDERS AS DIVIDENDS.
HOW OUR BUSINESS REVENUE GENERATES VALUE We earn revenue through the administration Fund supermarkets and wrap platforms more and management of assets held typically focus on servicing the independent predominantly on the Vantage platform.
Our Assets include funds, UK, US and European investment supermarket services the private shares, investment trusts, exchange-traded investor directly.
The Hargreaves Lansdown funds ETFs, bonds and cash.
They can be business model allows us to offer highly held in tax wrappers or trading accounts and competitive prices to our clients, achieving can be viewed and traded all on one platform.
high quality recurring revenue streams We focus on delivering a high quality service and strong profitability.
We aim to create to our clients fulfilling their investment needs shareholder value by retaining our position as throughout their life.
The revenue from the best place in the UK for private investors this service can be split into recurring and to buy investments and savings products.
Reinvesting part of our profits enables us to grow our business by retaining existing RECURRING REVENUE clients, obtaining new investments from our existing clients and by winning new We deem revenue to be recurring when clients.
We do this by providing market charges are calculated on the value of Assets leading service, information and value.
When Under Administration AUA or management combined with the security we offer and the and will continue to be earned on an ongoing trust in our brand it provides a compelling basis whilst we administer or manage those reason for clients to choose and remain with assets.
For example, we charge a percentage Hargreaves Lansdown.
of the value of funds held on Vantage each month based on the value of those holdings at the end of the month.
The majority of recurring revenue arises from the administration of assets held on the Vantage platform.
This income is HARGREAVES LANSDOWN STRATEGIC REPORT 19 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 based on a percentage of the value of AUA There will always be a natural loss of the supply chain and therefore increases the and is expressed as basis points bps.
business whether from investors using their revenue we are able to earn on the assets Revenue levels vary according to the class savings upon retirement, death or the effects held on the platform.
These revenue streams of investment, the type of account and the of competition.
However, we aim to minimise have similar characteristics to those detailed above.
amount held fees are tiered and or capped.
lost business with a constant focus on The mix of investments and products has an excellent service and providing a one stop impact on the levels of revenue.
shop offering a broad range of investments TRANSACTIONAL REVENUE and services.
Investors can readily switch AUA grows through existing and new clients between different investments without the adding more investments into their accounts, need to leave our investment platform, which Stockbroking commission contributes the majority of our transactional revenue and combined with growth in the underlying means we do not see the outflows of AUA arises each time a client buys or sells an value of the investments they hold in their that, for example, an asset manager would equity, ETF or bond.
Stock markets give an indication experience when an investor decides to for equities varies from 11.95 per trade of investment growth and the most relevant sell their investment the cash or the new to 5.95 depending on the number of proxy measure tends to be the movement in investment can remain on our investment trades placed in the previous month.
Other the FTSE All-Share Index.
transactional revenue streams include fluctuations may decrease the value of AUA, initial charges for advisory clients or one-off our clients exposure to the stock market In addition to administering we also manage advisory fees.
has historically increased AUA, and therefore certain assets.
These include our range of HL revenue, in the long run.
Multi-Manager Funds and our PMS Service.
The number of active clients will impact the Managing assets broadens our coverage of HARGREAVES LANSDOWN STRATEGIC REPORT 20 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 underlying trend of stockbroking volumes: the more clients, the more potential revenue, all other things being equal, but short-term factors can have a significant influence.
For example, stock market volatility can often lead to high dealing volumes and initial public offerings can lead to large one-off sources of stockbroking income.
Initial and oneoff advisory fees are directly linked to the number of new advisory clients each period.
HOW WE ARE DIFFERENT These days everyone talks about excellent service, but it takes experience and commitment to actually deliver.
Our service is joined up one website, one login, one conversation, one platform offering a huge range of investments a one stop shop.
There is more we can do to keep improving, The business operations are very scalable, HOW OUR BUSINESS IS but we are in a strong position when it comes so as we continue to grow we benefit from SUSTAINABLE to delivering great service as evidenced economies of scale and increasing cost by recent awards from Which?
We utilise technology to ensure Platforum.
We have a consistent track record of growing our service is efficient and as automated as AUA, active clients and improving our possible, such that adding new clients and A founding principle of our business is service.
Other than last year, for the reasons assets has only a marginal cost impact.
We simplicity the financial services industry highlighted in the Chief Executives statement continually look at what our clients want, is weighed down with complexity, yet when at that time, we have also had a consistent as well as the competitive landscape and we deal directly with self-directed investors track record of growing profits and earnings industry developments in order to evolve we make it simple for them.
We believe this is because we our service with the aim of growing our scale and position in the market to negotiate have the right distribution channels, offer the market share.
Communication with clients is favourable discounts for our clients, we lobby right service and products, and operate with conducted through regular client forums and for better savings products, and we put the the right cost structure.
Going forward we targeted surveys.
A key current project is how client at the heart of everything that we do.
believe that market and demographic trends we can better service the asset class of cash continue to be favourable for growth in our on behalf of our clients and to that end we Most changes and opportunities within our key markets of pensions and ISAs.
In addition are developing a cash management portal.
The Peer to Peer lending service will also give business require an element of systems the growth in the market size addressable access to a new host of assets that we can or web development.
We own, control and by Direct to Client platforms is expected to look to add to our platform and earn recurring develop our own IT systems.
We have our continue growing significantly.
own proprietary systems that are not sold to others in the industry, and we have in-house A large proportion of AUA 72% are high The reinvestment of profits to provide development knowledge and expertise.
This quality recurring revenue streams sticky : improved services, better functionality and, makes us nimble and quick to respond to by this we mean that they are held within tax over time, making the cost of investing opportunities.
Our business is not capital wrappers which make investors less likely to cheaper for our clients all contribute to our intensive, but we employ c. 200 IT staff spend them.
Our excellent service standards sustainability.
to maintain, develop and operate our IT and breadth of service means that we have infrastructure, website and systems.
The very high rates of asset and client retention long-term sustainability of our IT platform 93.5% and 94.3% respectively.
continues to be a key strategic priority for us.
HARGREAVES LANSDOWN STRATEGIC REPORT 21 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OUR STRATEGY CLIENT PROPOSITION We put the client at the centre of everything we do.
As a result, our strategic aims relate to the five core attributes we believe our clients value the most.
These are: Lifelong solution We believe investors value the simplicity of being able to manage all their finances in one place.
This has been a defining principle in making our platform a one stop shop for investments.
Clients are able to consolidate all of their investments, whether in a tax wrapper or not, into one convenient, easy to manage service.
We will continue to develop our offering to both expand the coverage of our clients investments and also to respond to changes in their needs and behaviour.
Secure and profitable After property, investments are usually an individuals second most valuable asset.
As a result, clients value the security of their investments highly.
We aim to provide confidence in our company and therefore comfort to our clients.
In order to be here in the future we need to maintain strong company finances, protect our clients against financial crime and keep a culture of compliance.
We also continually invest in our IT systems and operations to maintain the capacity to deal with a growing client base.
Great value We aim to provide a great value service.
This allows us to provide the security and incredible service our clients desire, rather than being the cheapest and offering a reduced service.
Clear and transparent pricing is also important to us and we will continue to clearly disclose pricing to maintain client trust and understanding.
Incredible service The myriad of financial services and products available, combined with constantly changing regulations and tax rules, can make managing investments complex and confusing.
We aim to provide the best information to simplify this process and allow clients to make decisions with confidence.
Beyond information, we want to deliver the best client experience.
Innovation and nurturing of new ideas allows the delivery of new products and services along with continual, incremental improvements to our existing services.
Easy & efficient We believe dealing with us should be easy and efficient.
As such, we are constantly reviewing our processes and services to streamline interactions and allow clients to conduct their business with minimum hassle through whichever channel they choose.
Application processes only ask for the information we really need, you can get straight through to someone on the phone with no automated system and information is easy to find.
DELIVERING THE CLIENT PROPOSITION The client proposition is supported by: The platform The platform acts as the supermarket through which clients can buy, hold and sell their investments within different tax efficient wrappers, individual savings accounts ISAs and self-invested personal pensions SIPPs, or general investment accounts.
It acts as an intermediary between the clients and the fund managers or registrars for the investments.
Technology The platform uses our own proprietary systems.
This allows us to offer unique products and services in a nimble and efficient manner.
We are therefore uniquely positioned to respond to opportunities and develop our service to deliver the five core attributes desired by clients in an uninhibited manner.
People Our people lie at the centre of Hargreaves Lansdown, developing and implementing the strategy and client proposition.
They do this through the development of the platform, our technology and our products and services.
We have our own in-house knowledge to develop our proprietary systems.
Products Once clients have reviewed the services and information available on our website they will invest into one or more of our products.
These include ISAs, SIPPs and general investment accounts.
See page 6 to 7 for more details.
