Internal risks Risk Impact Mitigation and movement in the year The Group either incurs The Group, through its governance, Risk and Compliance functions, Commercial risk additional expenses or is unable coupled with targeted Internal Audit in the respective trading entities, Commercial performance does to generate sufficient income.
assesses the effectiveness of critical processes and procedures on a not meet Group expectations or regular basis.
These are assessed alongside the risk appetite at both the Three Year Plan.
Group and trading entity level through the management reporting that is provided at Risk Committees and Boards.
This provides assurance to the Board that risks to commercial performance and the successful delivery of the Three Year Plan are adequately and effectively mitigated.
Underwriting and pricing agility enables the Group to react to external influences, ensuring that it is able to optimise commercial performance.
Embedding and realising efficiencies and benefits from new technology introduced processes for claims handling and policy administration.
This will also continue to enhanceand simplify the customer experience and drive more positive outcomes.
A sustained business disruption The Group continues to improve and invest in power and systems Operational risk event could materially affect resilience programmes that have, and will continue to improve the Business disruption event the Groups ability to deliver stability of Retail in the event of a business interruption.
Board is satisfied that there are adequate and effective contingency plans and recovery capability to continue to conduct business in the event of a disruption event.
The continued expansion of UK operating facilities also introduces options for natural resilience across the Retail locations.
Underwriting has adequate and effective resilience plans to continue its operations.
The Boards of the respective regulated subsidiaries review business disruption risks on a regular basis against the risk appetite that is set and are confident that there are mitigating controls and recovery options to ensure that this is a wellmanaged risk.
A supplier, delivering a key The Group has policies and procedures in place to manage and Operational risk service, fails leading to the Group monitor the procurement process and contract management Supplier failure.
not being able to continue to in the trading entities.
The Group monitors the key risks in each operate and deliver its strategic trading entity and the processes in place to ensure that the risk objectives.
The Group has a clear view of the risks associated with suppliers, through the interaction that the respective trading entity Boards have with executive and senior leaders.
Efforts continue to introduce additional controls and monitoring as well as develop the internal capabilities to drive good commercial value from supplier arrangements and minimise the risk.
