Remuneration Committee As part of the Board effectiveness evaluation conducted inOctober this year, the Remuneration Committee was also subject to an appraisal by its members.
The evaluation considered how it discharged its responsibilities as well as theperformance of the Committee members.
The Committee has agreed a number of actions for the coming year.
Composition of the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprised the following Non-Executive Directors during the year: Chairman Members Malcolm Le May Malcolm Le May Alison Burns Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Thomas Colraine Mike Fairey Edward Fitzmaurice Dear Shareholders Sumit Rajpal I am pleased to present the report of the The Board, and the Committee itself, recognise that the Remuneration Committee for the financial year composition of the Committee does not fully comply with the ended 31 December 2016.
UK Corporate Governance Code in that not all members of the Committee are Independent Non-Executive Directors: The Committee is a formal sub-Committee of the Board however, it believes that the independence of the Committee is not compromised as it has an Independent Chairman and a with its own defined Terms of Reference.
Its primary role is to review and set the remuneration policy for the Executive majority of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Biographies of the Committee members are set out on pages 46 to 48.
Directors, within the context of salaries and benefits paid across the Group as a whole.
It also makes discretionary TheCompany Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Terms of Reference for the Committee have been agreed performance related awards to Executive Directors and senior management.
No Director or manager is involved in by the Board and are available online at www.
anydecisions as to their own remuneration.
The remuneration of the Chairman is a matter for the full Board, whilst the The Chief Executive Officer may be invited, from time to Chairman, the Goldman Sachs and Founder Directors shall determine the remuneration of the Independent Nontime, to attend meetings of the Committee.
No individuals are involved in decisions relating to their own remuneration.
Executive Directors within the limits set out in the Articles ofAssociation.
TheCommittee met formally four times during the year under review.
The Terms of Reference for the Committee can be The Committee obtained information and advice during viewed on the Companys website.
the period under review from the Group HR Director, the Company Secretary and, where appropriate, the Executive Following appointment, Deloitte LLP advised the Committee on a number of executive remuneration matters including Directors.
It may also seek advice from any other employees as required.
As permitted by its Terms of Reference, the a review of the executive remuneration framework, developments in market practice and share incentive plans.
Committee has engaged the advice and support of Deloitte LLP as independent remuneration consultants at the expense of the Company.
71 Corporate governance continued Remuneration Committee continued Meetings Remuneration Report and Policy The Committee met five times during the year, during which it: The Directors Remuneration Report and Remuneration Policy follows this Committee report.
The Remuneration agreed performance targets EPS and TSR for the Groups LTIP: Policy Policy was approved by shareholders at last years approved 2016 awards under the Groups LTIP: AGM and no changes to the Policy are proposed at this time.
Inaccordance with the Large and Medium sized Companies confirmed the threshold for Committee remit for the and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations approval of Senior Executive remuneration, in addition to 2013, the Policy is expected to remain in effect for the next that of the Executive Directors and Company Secretary: two years and will be placed before shareholders at the AGM approved bonus awards under the short term management in 2019 for approval.
If any changes to the Policy are proposed bonus plan for the performance year ended 31 December before this date, a revised Policy will be put forward for 2015: shareholder approval at the next available AGM or specially convened general meeting.
Where such changes to the Policy approved minor amendments to the rules of the Group all are proposed, the Company intends to consult with major employee Share Incentive Plan: shareholders beforehand.
approved the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2015: The Committee is conscious of the importance of remuneration strategy and practice and the considerable reviewed the Companys approach to remuneration attention it is attracting from institutional shareholders, reporting post publication of the Groups Annual Report governments and other stakeholders.
The Committee will forthe year ended 31 December 2015: continue to follow developments and where appropriate reviewed new reporting requirements and best practice, recommendations from evolving market practice and, as including gender pay reporting requirements: permitted under its Terms of Reference, use its discretion to ensure we set remuneration policy which is in the best agreed the process for review and approval for annual interests of the Company.
salary bonus awards for Executive Directors and other Senior Executives: Priorities for 2017 approved changes to remuneration of certain Senior In the coming year the Remuneration Committee will focus on: Executives in context of appointments and role changes in relation to the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial endorsed by the Nomination Committee: Officer and Senior Executive management within the considered market and other benchmark data for Executive Groups trading entities: Director remuneration and that of other Senior Executives assessment of Group performance against 2016 budget as well as the Board Chairman: and approval of bonus awards for 2016: discussed and approved the terms for the recruitment approval of bonus performance measures and targets anddeparture of certain Senior Executives in accordance for2017: with its Terms of Reference: review of any issues raised by shareholders in relation considered a proposed approach to short term toremuneration and the remuneration policy: management bonus awards for the performance year assessment of the ongoing appropriateness of ending 31December 2016: and remuneration arrangements and remuneration trends and conducted an annual review of Committee effectiveness.
market practice: recommendation for approval by the Board awards and performance conditions under the Companys Long-Term Incentive Plan for 2017: and analysis of performance conditions under the Companys Long-Term Incentive Plan at the year end.
For and on behalf of the Remuneration Committee Malcolm Le May Chairman 1 March 2017 72
