As at 31 December 2016, assuming all vesting conditions For the LTIP grant in 2017, Executive Directors will be eligible aremet, the total MIP interests for Gary Hoffman and to participate in the LTIP for the first time.
Richard Hoskins would have a value equivalent to 5,945,454 and 1,660,106 Company ordinary shares respectively.
Awards made in 2017 will vest on the basis of: GaryHoffman also holds legacy interests in the parent entity 50% on relative TSR, with targets and vesting schedule of Hastings Investco Limited, which he originally acquired at unchanged from those that applied to the 2016 awards as the time of the Goldman Sachs investment in the business set out in the table above: inJanuary 2014.
These interests may be satisfied in cash or, incertain circumstances, as ordinary shares in the Company.
50% on cumulative adjusted EPS, with threshold target set at 63.8p per share and stretch at 73.9p per share.
Scheme interests awarded to Executive Directors inthe year External appointments No awards under the LTIP have yet been granted to Executive Executive Directors may hold external directorships if the Chairman determines that such appointments do not cause Directors.
Gary Hoffman and Richard Hoskins will be considered for awards at the next three year performance any conflict of interest.
Where such appointments are approved and held, it is a matter for the Chairman to agree cycle which will run from January 2017. whether fees paid in respect of the appointment are retained by the individual or paid to the Company.
LTIP awards were granted to other selected Senior Executives within the Company in 2016.
These awards may vest in 2019 Gary Hoffman currently holds three external appointments, conditional on performance over a three year period to 31December 2018.
Whilst there is no requirement to disclose with Visa Inc, Visa Europe and as Chairman of The Football Foundation.
He received 190,064 in respect of his roles at the performance conditions attached to these awards, in the interests of transparent reporting, the Committee considered Visa Inc and Visa Europe.
The appointment with The Football Foundation is unpaid.
it appropriate to provide details on the performance conditions attached to these awards.
Service Agreements The Committee considered the key long term objectives over Date of Notice Unexpired the performance period and determined that the awards Director appointment period term should be linked to the value created for shareholders over Gary Hoffman 15 06 2015 6 months 6 months the period.
As a consequence the awards are equally weighted Richard Hoskins 03 09 2015 6 months 6 months against relative TSR and adjusted EPS performance targets.
The EPS target is a cumulative pence per share target over In line with our Policy, Executive Directors have rolling each of the three years.
The targets for the LTIP granted in contracts which may be terminated by either the Company or 2016 aresummarised below: the Director giving six months notice.
EPS Relative TSR Vesting is based on the Vesting is based on TSR cumulative pence per share performance measured against target over each of a three year the constituents of the FTSE 250 performance cycle excluding investment trusts Proportion Proportion EPS performance vesting TSR performance vesting Below Threshold 0% Below median 0% Threshold 54.6p per share 25% Median 25% Stretch 63.8p per share 100% Upper quartile 100% Straight line vesting between Straight line vesting between threshold and stretch median and upper quartile 79
