Directors report continued Directors report continued Shareholders Hastings A, L. P. Hastings B, L. P. Goldman, Change of control significant contracts Sachs & Co. and the Founder Shareholders collectively There are several commercial agreements that take effect, Significant Shareholders continue to have significant alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company: direct and indirect investment in the Company via Hastings none is considered to be significant in terms of its potential Investco Limited.
Pursuant to a Relationship Agreement impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
The Company Agreement entered into by the Company, Hastings A, L. P. does not have agreements with any Director or colleague that Hastings B, L. P. and Goldman, Sachs & Co. and the Founder would provide compensation for loss of office or employment Shareholders collectively are each able to appoint two of the resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the Directors to the Board while they or persons connected to Companys share schemes and plans may cause options them continue to hold a direct or indirect interest in 20% or and awards granted to colleagues under such schemes more of the Companys shares and one Director while they andplans to vest on a takeover.
or persons connected to them continue to hold a direct or indirect interest in at least 5% but less than 20%.
of the Branches Companys shares.
The appointees are Sumit Rajpal and The Company and its subsidiaries do not have any branches Michele Titi-Cappelli for Hastings A, L. P. Hastings B, L. P. and in any other country.
Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Richard Brewster and Edward Fitzmaurice for the Founder Shareholders.
The appointment Greenhouse gas emissions and replacement of Directors is governed by the Articles of Tonnes CO e 2016 2015 2 Association, the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, Scope 1 277 369 the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
7.1 of the Code, all Directors will be subject Scope 2 1,064 1,201 to annual election by shareholders.
The Company confirms Total Footprint 1,341 1,570 that Hastings Investco Limited is a controlling shareholder Full time employee FTE 2,001 1,994 as defined by Listing Rule 6.1.
2A R, being a shareholder who CO e per FTE 0.67 0.78 2 exercises or controls at least 30 per cent of the voting rights Scope 1 Direct emissions resulting from natural gas and gasoil consumption inthe Company.
Scope 2 Energy indirect emissions from purchased grid electricity.
In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4 14 c the Company All emission sources have reported on as required under the confirms it has complied with the independence provisions Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts included in the Agreement: that as far as the Company is and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended.
The reporting aware independence provisions included in the Agreement boundary used for collation of the above data is consistent have been complied with during the period under review by with that used for consolidation purposes in the Financial Hastings Investco Limited and the significant Shareholders: Statements.
and the procurement obligations included in the Agreement have been complied with during the period under review by Greenhouse gas emissions primarily arise from the Groups Hastings Investco Limited and the Significant Shareholders.
electricity, gas, gasoil and refrigerant gas consumption through the operation of its offices.
Only offices which are The Company confirms that during the financial year ended, solely occupied by the Group have been included in the no shares in the Company were purchased by the Company reporting scope and therefore exclude the leased offices in or acquired by it by forfeiture or surrender in lieu of forfeiture: London, Leicester and Hyperion House, Newmarket for which or were acquired by a Company nominee, or by another with energy data is not available or accurate.
the Companys financial assistance, the Company having a beneficial interest: or were made subject to a lien or other charge taken by the Company.
