Chief Financial Officers statement continued Establishing a strong track record continued The Groups sustained growth continues Weve continued to invest in the future, Introduction to be profitable and cash generative, with around 700 Colleagues now based in I am pleased to present another strong with adjusted operating profit up 21% Leicester, and have begun the phased roll set of results.
Our continued momentum to 152.1m before the reduction in the out of our Guidewire broking platform, means another record year of customer Ogden rate, or, 5% to 132.1m after the which will provide end to end capability numbers and premiums, whilst we reduction in the Ogden rate, and cash to service customers.
These investments continue to deliver on all of the promises generated from operations of 172.5m.
will allow Hastings to continue to grow made when we listed on the London This has enabled us to reduce our net profitably through improving the Stock Exchange.
LCP increased by debt leverage multiple, strengthen the customer experience, providing scale 15% to 2.35 million through continued balance sheet and pay healthy dividends.
and delivering new home and motor strong retention rates and by attracting The Board has proposed a final dividend products.
The Groups underwriter, new customers with our refreshingly of 6.6 pence per share, in addition to the Advantage Insurance Company Limited straightforward approach.
This increase interim dividend of 3.3 pence per share AICL, has made a smooth transition to in policies combined with sustained that was paid in November.
Overall, this the new Solvency II regime SII, which rate increases has driven gross written means the total return to shareholders came into effect on 1 January 2016, premiums up 25% to 769.0m.
The earn in respect of the year ended 31 and remains well capitalised with a SII through of higher average premiums December 2016 will be 65.1m, a payout coverage ratio of 140% after the impact combined with a rigorous focus on ratio of 65.6%.
underwriting discipline has maintained our calendar year loss ratio within the Overall, I am proud of Hastings target range of between 75% and 79% achievements as we continue to meet set at IPO, after strengthening reserves or beat the promises made, strengthen following the reduction in the discount our financial position and propose a rate for personal injury damages awards final dividend of 6.6 pence per share.
Recognising the Groups momentum, the Board has released an updated set of targets as we continue to focus on further growth from expanding our core motor book, building our home underwriting capabilities and scaling upour multicar offering.
Richard Hoskins Chief Financial Officer 1 March 2017 1 Adjusted operating profit is defined as profit before taxation expense, finance costs, amortisation and depreciation and non-trading costs Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Adjusted operating profit margin is defined as adjusted operating profit divided by net revenue.
2 C alendar year loss ratio is a measure of underwriting performance, representing net claims incurred divided by net earned premiums.
T he calculations of prior year development and accident year loss ratio have been amended so that prior period adjustments to risk margin are now recorded and presented within prior year development.
This change has been reflected in the comparative accident year loss ratio and prior year development figures.
This change does not impact on the reported calendar year loss ratio for any period, and does not reflect a change in reserving approach.
3 N et debt leverage multiple represents the Groups net debt expressed relative to 12 months trailing adjusted operating profit.
4 A djusted profit after tax for the purposes of dividend payout ratio is Group net income adjusted to exclude the impact of share scheme costs.
For the 2015 dividend payout ratio, the dividend was calculated and paid at one third of adjusted profit after tax to reflect the shorter period from the IPO to the year end.
