4Cs Awards 2016 And the winners are Our Colleagues receive their 4Cs Awards for their great achievements as voted for by their peers.
Colleagues Customers Colleagues are always the first step in the Diversity What makes us stand out from our 4Cs.
We believe that engaged colleagues We regularly monitor the demographic competitors is our great value pricing lead to happy customers and we actively and diversity of our colleagues at all and products and the way we are built promote a 4Cs culture where we develop, levels.
We consider candidates from all for the way customers buy insurance.
invest in and listen to our colleagues so backgrounds as part of any recruitment Key to our success is providing a they continue to contribute and thrive process and we are committed to refreshingly straightforward service.
We regularly recognise attracting and retaining the best talent Wedo this by: and reward the hard work and dedication in the industry.
listening and responding to our our colleagues deliver providing the high customers every week and asking quality service experience our customers them to tell us about their experience Gender diversity across have come to expect.
We use the 4Cs to of our service and products: the Group measure performance and success as individuals and as a Group, so we have a monitoring and predicting customer All colleagues clear, consistent and balanced approach behaviour and market trends so to delivering our objectives by using the we adapt our pricing and product 1,351 1,329 right behaviours.
strategy accordingly: and Total: 2,680 providing a quality service to all our We also use the 4Cs to recognise and Underwriting and Retail customers by working in an open thank colleagues for going the extra mile senior management andaccountable way.
on a monthly and yearly basis.
Our 4Cs Awards programme offers colleagues the 75 19 chance to nominate their team members for their great achievements and the Total: 94 positive impressions they make on all our Underwriting Board AICL colleagues, Company, customers and local communities.
In 2016 we had over 1,700 6 0 nominations and the winners of the seven categories received their coveted awards Total: 6 at the annual 4Cs Awards VIP event.
Retail Board HISL Equal opportunities and human rights 4 3 We are committed to ensuring that everyone has the right to equal Total: 7 opportunities at all stages of recruitment, Company Board selection and throughout their working careers.
Short listing, interviewing and 11 2 selection is carried out without regard to gender, gender reassignment, sexual Total: 13 orientation, marital or civil partnership status, colour, race, nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion or belief or age.
