Managing our risks continued How we protect our business continued External risks Risk Impact Mitigation and movement in the year Adverse economic conditions The Group and trading entity Boards regularly consider the Economic stress could reduce the opportunity investment portfolios managed in the respective trading entities Failure to deliver the Groups to deliver the strategic plans against the economic outlook and the Groups risk appetite.
strategy due to unforeseen and or reduce the income from economic changes.
The strategy is to continue to grow the home product whilst keeping investments.
a watchful eye on the economy and the longer term impacts for the Whilst the car insurance industry Groups product strategy.
has been relatively unaffected The economic situation and forecasting have been monitored and by economic downturns, as the assessed against the strategic plan.
Group diversifies into home products, more of its product exposure will be subject to the effects of a sustained economic downturn.
The regulatory landscape is The Group has an effective regulatory horizon scanning capability to Regulatory change constantly being reformed, review the potential implications for the Group and more importantly Changes to the regulatory which may introduce constraints of its regulated subsidiaries.
In addition the trading entities continue environment that introduce that reduce the income drivers to foster good working relationships with their respective regulators, inhibitors for income generation from general insurance.
and take the opportunity to embrace regulatory change early and, in the general insurance industry.
Equally, however, changes to where appropriate, adjust the strategic plans to accommodate the regulatory landscape could that change.
Retail is often engaged in consultations with the FCA, present opportunities for providing its views on regulatory reform which gives the Group early incremental income generation, insight and opportunity to contribute towards the shape of future dependent on consumer regulation.
Underwriting has worked more closely with the Gibraltar behaviour.
FSC in 2016, since the implementation of Solvency II.
The Group strategy is based on During the year the Group has invested in developing its governance, the current regulatory regime risk and control in Underwriting as it further embeds Solvency II.
and guidelines and foreseeable Within Retail and Underwriting, Risk and Compliance teams have been changes.
Any material shift in the supplemented with additional resource and capability to strengthen regulations that apply to general the second line of defence.
insurance could impact the commercial plans of the Group.
The Groups ability to meet Underwriting adopts a prudent approach to the risk accepted and the Operational risk its strategic plan could be pricing strategies used continue to reduce this risk.
In addition the Climate change that results compromised in the event of industry wide implications of increased claims as a result of climate in increased frequency and increased claims frequency and change would probably result in premium inflation across the market.
severity of claims that reduces or severity.
Maintaining the conservative underwriting approach will ensure that the commercial performance of the Group protects its revenue generation whilst minimising the cost the Group.
Reduces or restricts the Groups The Group constantly monitors the markets in which it competes Market conditions risk market share that results for pricing and other changes that could impact its commercial Competition in the insurance in an impaired commercial objectives.
This monitoring and the ability to rapidly adjust pricing market increases.
strategies ensure the Group remains competitive by managing both income generation and policy volumes with agility.
