Introduction to our Board Maintaining effective governance The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance.
Our board structure and governance approach are designed to ensure that we retain our strong focus on value generation and that we operate throughout as a highly ethical and responsible business.
Board structure Board balance Chairman 1 Executive Directors 2 Mike Fairey Gary Hoffman Richard Hoskins Independent Non-Executive Directors 6 Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Directors 4 Officer N Re R N Board diversity Male 11 Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: 3 September 2015 3 September 2015 3 September 2015 Female 2 Board experience Experience: Mike has Experience: Gary has Experience: Richard been the Chairman of been the Chief Executive has been the Chief the Group since June Officer of the Group Financial Officer of the 2015.
Mike was Deputy since November 2012 Group since April 2015 Chief Executive of and joined the Board in and joined the Board in Lloyds Banking Group September 2015.
He is for 10 years until 2008 extensive experience a Chartered Accountant and currently holds a in the banking and with extensive experience number of Non-Executive insurance industries.
positions, including as Prior to joining the Prior to joining the Non-Executive Chairman Group, Gary was Chief Group, Richard was the of OneSavings Bank plc.
Executive Officer of Chief Financial Officer NBNK Investments, of Global Commercial an investment vehicle Insurance at AIG.
Prior formed in August 2010 tothat he served at Aviva to establish personal as Chief Executive of the and business retail groups North American banking in the UK.
Prior operations and as Chief Insurance to that, he led the UK Financial Officer of Old governments turnaround Mutuals North American Finance Banking of Northern Rock as its operations.
From Mining 2006 to 2008, he was Vice-Chairman of Barclays Retail PLC, having previously Consultancy been Chairman of UK Banking and Barclaycard at Barclays PLC following five years as Chief Executive of Barclaycard.
He is the Non-Executive Chairman of VISA Europe, a Non-Executive Director of VISA Inc. and Chairman Committee Chairman Re Remuneration Key of the UK sports charity, Committee A Audit Committee the Football Foundation.
R Risk Committee N Nomination Committee 46 Our Board comprises individuals with a range of skills, each Director bringingspecifically relevant experience to ensure that we achieve therightlevels of balance and effective stewardship.
Richard Brewster Alison Burns Thomas Colraine Ian Cormack Edward Fitzmaurice Non-Executive Independent NonSenior Independent Independent NonNon-Executive Director Executive Director Director Executive Director Director N Re R A N Re A N Re Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: 3 September 2015 12 July 2016 3 September 2015 3 September 2015 3 September 2015 Experience: Richard was Experience: Alison Experience: Tom brings Experience: Ian spent Experience: Edward part of the management has held Executive a wealth of experience 30 years at Citibank joined the Group in April buy out of Hastings and Non-Executive from the insurance and where he was appointed 2008 as Chief Executive completed in February roles within Aviva plc, financial services sector.
head of UK and Co-Head Officer of Hastings 2009.
Richard became including the position of He was previously Group of the Global Financial and Equity Direct and involved with Hastings Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Institutions business was formerly the Chief in 2007 and has held of Aviva Ireland.
Alison and Co-Chief Operating before becoming Chief Executive Officer and Non-Executive Director has extensive financial Officer at Willis Group Executive Officer of subsequently Nonpositions in Group services experience, Holdings, and Chief AIGs European business Executive Chairman entities, including gained in senior roles Financial Officer at AIG from 2000 until 2002. of Hastings Insurance Hastings Insurance with Santander, Bupa, Europe Limited.
He is a He currently serves as Services Limited, and Services Limited.
He Lloyds TSB and AXA Chartered Accountant, a Non-Executive on the Group Chief Executive previously held positions UK, and brings strong on the Board of Schroder boards of JRP Group plc, Officer prior to the at Cox Insurance Holdings leadership and executive & Co. Limited and is also Phoenix Group Holdings appointment of Gary plc, and Mercantile and management experience.
Chairman of Cambridge plc, and National Angels Hoffman.
He was part of General Reinsurance Topco Limited, the Limited, and is Chairman the MBO of the Hastings Company plc.
Richard is holding company for the of Temporis Capital LLP Direct business which aChartered Accountant.
and Maven Income & completed in February Growth VCT4 plc.
2009 and previously worked at Homeserve plc, Dixons plc and AngloAmerica.
47 Introduction to our Board continued Maintaining effective governance continued Pierre Lefevre Malcolm Le May Sumit Rajpal Teresa Robson-Capps Michele Titi-Cappelli Independent NonIndependent NonNon-Executive Independent NonNon-Executive Executive Director Executive Director Director Executive Director Director A R R Re N Re A R R Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: 3 September 2015 3 September 2015 3 September 2015 1 July 2016 3 September 2015 Experience: Pierre Experience: Malcolm Experience: Sumit was Experience: Teresa is Experience: Michele serves as a Nonhas extensive experience appointed as Noncurrently a Non-Executive was appointed as NonExecutive Director on within the UK insurance Executive Director for Director for Clydesdale Executive Director for the Board of the Groups industry from his the Group as part of the and Yorkshire Bank Group the Group as part of the subsidiary AICL, where previous role as a Noninvestment made by plc and Yorkshire Water.
investment made by he is also Chairman of Executive Director at RSA Goldman Sachs in the Teresa was previously a Goldman Sachs in the the Risk Committee and plc.
He is a Chartered Group in 2014.
Sumit Non-Executive Director Group in 2014.
Michele a member of the Audit Accountant and currently Co-Heads the Corporate for National Australia is a Managing Director in Committee.
He has Senior Independent Private Equity business Bank: Europe Clydesdale MBD in London, where extensive international Director on the board globally and runs the Bank.
Teresa brings he is responsible for experience in the of Provident Financial Americas Corporate significant experience sourcing, executing and insurance industry and plc and IG Group plc Private Equity business with international blue managing corporate has previously held and a Partner at Opus in the Merchant Banking chip companies including investments in Southern Chairman and Chief Corporate Finance.
Division of Goldman HSBC, Accenture and Europe and in financial Executive roles at He is also a Co-Founder Sachs.
He also serves Cable & Wireless, and institutions.
He first Groupama and AXA and of Juno Capital.
on the boards of K&N experience of the joined Goldman Sachs is currently a member of Engineering, Ipreo, insurance industry.
in 1999 as an analyst in the Supervisory Board ProSight Specialty the Investment Banking of Vivat NV Netherlands Insurance, TransUnion Division in London and and a Director of ABBH and Safeguard Products.
rejoined the firm in 2004 Belgium.
as an associate in MBD in London.
Michele became an Executive Director in 2007 and worked in the New York office in 2010.
He was named Managing Director in 2012.
Committee Chairman Re Remuneration Key Committee A Audit Committee R Risk Committee N Nomination Committee 48
