Delivering on our promises Investing in our colleagues Getting it right for our colleagues is always the first step in our 4Cs culture.
We make sure that we invest in and listen to them so they continue to contribute and thrive.
Our 4Cs Your voice As we grow, its important Our 4Cs culture frames My daily commute was that colleagues tell us how our decision making severely affected by they feel about life at Hastings.
process, guiding us as recentrail strikes.
we continue to grow We run a yearly engagement survey Ivemade use of a free and take the colleague feedback to a sustainable and coach replacement co-create Company wide and local financially stable Group action plans that feed through to serviceoffered by the in aresponsible manner.
This service way that our colleagues tell us whats wasset up asaresult The one thing that on their minds.
We regularly ask for offeedback through comes through loud colleagues to share their thoughts, ideas and frustrations which they ourColleague Forum.
and clear in our annual do through the weekly newsletter, Itsmuchappreciated colleague survey is that monthly Colleague Forums, annual andshows Hastings is the best thing about Colleague Roadshows and even keen to listen and to working at Hastings is in the queue for coffee.
Regular conversations allow us to listen and support us however it can the people and the respond in the best possible way.
Our 4Cs culture makes Reece Elliott Customer Services Hastings successful and what makes us stand out.
Carole Jones GroupHRDirector 08 Delivering on our promises We listened to our colleagues and took action who wanted to understand the with 22 Roadshows hosted by the bigger picture Chief Executive Officer and half yearly updates hosted by senior leaders.
Your career Were committed to developing the skills andcareers of our colleagues and continually invest in our training and development programmes.
Since I joined its been a We provide classroom and live academy training for customer journey of development, serving colleagues, who are regularly learning, and building upskilled, and all colleagues have myconfidence and in just opportunities to improve skills twoyears Ive moved from to support their careers with us.
In 2017 well be expanding our approach and will invest in high level Theres never a dull moment apprenticeships so we retain and atHastings!
attract critical skills needed to grow Samia Patel our business.
Leicester colleague Expanding Our Leicester site opened Hastings Direct has in May 2015 tosupport our brought new life to growth strategy.
StGeorges Way and In less than two years we now toLeicester, creating employ nearly 700 colleagues, have many jobs for our moved to our permanent city centre location and have completed phase vibrant city.
Gary two of our expansion to support Hoffman and the our continuing growth.
Our third team have fulfilled phase of expansion is underway, their promises to us which will give us space to support upto 1,200 colleagues.
Its been a and we look forward hugely successful move for us and toalong lasting allows us to invest in and attract the relationship.
best talent so we continue to deliver refreshingly straightforward service Sir Peter Soulsby to our growing customer base.
