Managing our risks continued How we protect our business continued Internal control and Risk management function Risk identification & risk management There is a consistent risk management assessment The Groups governance structure, framework throughout the Group and its trading entities, providing support, combined with embedded controls, processes and appetite statements, advice and communicating the risk management strategy.
This framework enables the Executive and senior Identity management to conduct the affairs of is approved by the Board upon recommendation of the respective Risk the regulated subsidiaries in line with Board expectations.
It provides a disciplined Our risk and structured process to reduce the the regulated subsidiaries adhere to Monitor Access management approved strategies, continually monitor potential for internal or external events approach that may detrimentally affect the Group outcomes, and proactively identify risk and opportunities as well as initiating through proactive risk identification, assessment, mitigation, monitoring mitigation as required, and reporting Mitigate to the Board and its Committees on a and reporting.
Through a set of continuous and developing processes regular basis.
applied throughout the Group, the Risk Management function ensures all known Strategy is implemented by suitably Monitoring and quality control experienced people in the regulated and emerging risks are managed and procedures are embedded in front mitigated in line with risk appetite.
subsidiaries, incentivised appropriately line operations with clearly prescribed and guided by strong corporate culture breach reporting and escalation The risk management framework and values across the Group.
The ability processes in place.
Second line to identify and respond quickly to comprises risk registers that contain oversight is provided by independent details of risks, controls, key risk evolving or emerging risks and issues is and appropriately resourced Risk, supported by an agile environment that indicators, actions related to risk Compliance and Quality Assurance mitigation and ownership of each encourages independent and objective functions.
Third line oversight is challenge, focused on escalation risk.
The framework is continuously conducted by an internal audit function, developed to include Strategic, Business and resolution.
Timely management managed and resourced via a thirdinformation is generated to enable and Conduct risks.
Stress andreverse party relationship with Grant Thornton stress testing and scenario analysis appropriate monitoring, reporting, UK LLP.
The effectiveness of the oversight and decision making based are regularly undertaken and reviewed Groups control functions is overseen by the respective Committees.
For on sound proposals and judgement.
by the respective Board of Directors The structures, controls and processes example, cash flow forecasts have been and Committees of the Group.
This stress tested using the principal financial in place need to support the operations is supplemented by external audit, of the Company and are suitable and and operational risks listed on pages 43 provided by KPMG.
to 45, including reductions in premium effective.
These will remain appropriate and proportionate to the size, nature and other income, retention rates and new business volumes, deterioration and complexity of the Company and are therefore regularly reviewed by the in loss ratio and possible failure of a reinsurer.
Additional focus has been Executive management and the Group Board and its trading entities.
applied to ensure compliance with andembedding ofthe requirements The Group has established various .
functions and models within the business to ensure effective oversight and compliance, in accordance with the three lines of defence model that is implemented across the Group and its trading entities.
