About us What makes us different Founded in 1996 in Bexhill-on-Sea on the Sussex coast, Hastings is now one of the fastest growing general insurance providers to the UK market, with over 2.3 million livecustomer policies and employing over 2,600 colleagues atsites inBexhill, Newmarket, Leicester and Gibraltar.
Our approach Hastings provides refreshingly Vision straightforward products and services to UK car, van, bike and Protect home insurance customers with around 90% of policies directly 1 in 10 by 2020 underwritten by its Gibraltar based insurer, Advantage Insurance Company Limited.
Values The Group operates as an integrated It is our attitude and the way we run our insurance provider with two businesses.
business that makes Hastings different.
TheGroups Retail business, Hastings All of our actions are based on our 4Cs Insurance Services Limited, is responsible for cultural framework: Colleagues, Customers, the end customer pricing, fraud management, Company and Community.
Getting it right product design, distribution and management for our colleagues is always our first step.
of the underlying customer relationships.
By creating the right environment and giving TheGroups Underwriting business, our colleagues the right tools to do their job Advantage Insurance Company Limited, they will do more for our customers, and engages in risk selection, underlying technical the Company, enabling us to grow profitably pricing, reserving and claims handling.
and sustainably, allowing us to invest in the communities we serve.
Retail is supported by, and benefits from, Underwritings prudent approach to risk and reserving and also benefits from a panel of insurance partners who provide additional underwriting capacity.
The Groups integrated model deliberately separates underlying product manufacturing from itsdistribution.
02 Hastings Group Holdings plcAnnual Report 2016 Delivering the 4Cs Colleagues Customers 2,680 2.35m Colleagues in Bexhill, Gibraltar, Live customer policies  2015: 2,322 2015: 2.04m Company Community 132.1m 132,000 Adjusted operating profit post-Ogden Charitable donations in the year 2015: 126.1m 2015: 159,000 03 About us continued Value creation We have a clear strategy for growth and value creation, supported by recognised brands which together with our vision and values enable us to deliver on our promises and generate sustainable stakeholder value.
Our strategy Grow Discipline Driving profitable growth by targeting Focus on prudent underwriting 3million live customer policies during 2019 Focus Agile Continued focus on cash generation Rapid reaction to market changes andde-leveraging Invest Expand Invest in digital capability and mobile Expand our product offering and invest distribution channels inour competitive proposition 04 Our brands and products Investment case A differentiated, highly focused business, with digital distribution built for the way in Our largest and best known brand, delivering great which customers now buy insurance.
value car, van, bike and home insurance inarefreshingly straightforward way.
com An agile, data driven retail business underpinned by the ability to react rapidly to movements in the market, creating a sustainable competitive advantage.
Our premium cover for car, van, bike and home.
Offeringall the benefits of Hastings Direct plus a rangeof additional features included as standard.
Underwriting built on a bedrock of www.
com sophisticated risk selection and pricing with leading integrated fraud management, resulting in a lower risk profile combined Our no frills car and home insurance, providing just with attractive loss ratios and the optimal theessentials.
com A track record of strong, profitable growth.
Our telematics brand measures and rewards good Confidence in trajectory, with continued driving behaviour, helping young and inexperienced growth, increasing profitability and strong drivers save money on their car insurance.
InsurePink provides competitive car insurance, donating 10 from every policy sold to the Pink RibbonFoundation.
co. uk Peoples Choice car insurance provides great benefits ata competitive price.
