Directors report Directors report The Directors present their Annual Report and the Financial Statements fortheyear ended 31 December 2016.
Statutory information contained elsewhere Articles of Association in this Annual Report Any amendment to the Companys Articles of Association mayonly be made by the passing of a special resolution Information required to be part of the Directors report can be found elsewhere in this document, as indicated, and is oftheshareholders of the Company.
incorporated into this Report by reference: Substantial shareholders Results and dividend in the Chairmans statement on pages As at 1 March 2017 the Company was aware of substantial 6 to 7 and the Chief Financial Officers statement on pages interests in the Companys shares or had been notified 25 to 33. of interests in voting rights under Chapter 5 of the DTR, Corporate governance, the Groups financial risk as follows: management and internal control objectives and policies in % of issued the corporate governance statement on pages 55 to 74 and Shareholder Shareholding share capital Holding Managing Our Risks on pages 38 to 45.
Main Street 1353 Details of the salaries, bonuses, benefits and share interests Proprietary Limited 196,508,074 29.9 Direct of Directors in the Directors remuneration report on pages Hastings Investco 75 to 85.
Limited 177,691,496 27.0 Direct Directors responsibility statement on page 53.
Mr Neil Utley 30,000,000 4.6 Direct Management report Share capital structure, issue and buying back The Strategic Report and this Directors Report, with its andshareholder rights inclusions as indicated above, form the Management Report The number of Ordinary Shares of 2 pence each issued as required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR and fully paid at 31 December 2016 was 657,217,641.
Ordinary Shares have equal rights to dividends and capital and to vote at general meetings of the Company, as set out Directors and Directors interests intheCompanys Articles of Association.
The names of the Directors of the Company and changes to Resolutions to provide authorities to Directors to allot directorships during the reporting period and the biographical shares, to disapply certain pre-emption rights and to make details of the current Directors of the Company are shown on market purchases of the Companys own shares, all subject pages 46 to 48.
Details of Directors interests in the shares to appropriate limits, will be put to the Annual General of the Company are shown on page 81.
This information is Meeting AGM.
There are no specific restrictions on the incorporated into this Report by reference.
size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Directors indemnities and insurance Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys provisions for the benefit of its Directors which remain in shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of force at the date of this report.
In certain circumstances, securities or on voting rights.
theCompany can indemnify Directors, in accordance with its Articles of Association, against costs incurred in the No person has any special rights of control over the defence of legal proceedings brought against them by virtue Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Directors and officers liability insurance cover remains in place to protect all Directors and senior managers.
Directors interests in the share capital of the Company are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 75 to 85.
