The Company does not own any vehicles and business travel Directors statement of responsibility for through private vehicles is limited the data is not available or disclosure of information to auditor accurate.
Transport emissions have therefore been excluded As required by section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each from the reporting scope.
Director serving at the date of approval of the Financial Statements confirms that: The reporting period is in line with the Companys financial to the best of his knowledge and belief, there is no year, which is the same as the calendar year.
information relevant to the preparation of their reports ofwhich the Companys auditor is unaware: and Political contributions There were no political contributions during the year 2015: nil.
he has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit Directors statements information and to establish that the Companys auditor isaware of that information.
As required under the Companies Act 2006, the Code and the DTRs, various statements have been made by the Board Words and phrases used in this confirmation should be as set out on page 53 and are incorporated into this Report interpreted in accordance with section 418 of the Companies byreference.
Auditor Our colleagues KPMG LLP were appointed as the Companys auditor in We consider our most important asset to be our colleagues December 2015 for the financial year ended 31 December who are the cornerstone of our business.
The ability to deliver 2015 and their appointment was approved by shareholders refreshingly straightforward insurance comes from a high at the AGM in 2016 for the current financial year.
KPMG have performing, dedicated and customer focused team.
We invest confirmed that they are willing to be reappointed as auditor in our colleagues and provide them with an environment for the financial year ending 31 December 2017.
In accordance in which they feel included, valued, empowered and able with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution to reach their full potential.
Every colleague is expected to proposing the appointment of a statutory auditor will be contribute to the success of the business.
Accordingly, we proposed at the AGM.
recognise the hard work and dedication of our team by linking remuneration to personal performance in a way which does The Audit Committee report on pages 62 to 66 provides not compromise the impact on customer outcomes we do details on the length of tenure and re-appointment of the not remunerate colleagues based on sales incentives.
We auditor, and when the tender was last conducted.
actively encourage personal development by offering a range of training options to build the capabilities of our teams for the future and encourage the behaviours needed to deliver our business strategy.
We foster a culture of freedom to contribute and make things happen, aiming to be a progressive insurance industry innovator.
We promote communication and collaboration to harness the talent of our colleagues and reward and recognise both individual and team success.
