How we are different Creating value through differentiation Our unique model is at the core of our ability to deliver on our strategy, operate efficiently and effectively, and continue to generate value for our stakeholders.
Our vision: protecting 1 in 10 by 2020 Investing in value creationdrivers Maximising value from our business What we do Creating value We have an ongoing programme of Our business development model has been designed to be The breakdown of our business We are fully focused on maximising investment in the key areas that drive successful in the high growth, dynamic digital distribution value for our keystakeholders.
segment of the UK car insurance market.
Colleagues Customer proposition The Group has a unique proposition refreshingly straightforward insurance.
The Groups brand 2,680 Data capture advertising, online and offline direct marketing and social Sophisticated data capture allows us to refine media activity all promote this proposition.
At Hastings Colleagues in Bexhill, Gibraltar, andoptimise our pricing strategies we make the whole customer experience straightforward Newmarket and Leicester with great value products and great service.
Agile pricing maximises Determines the Customers customer capture and appropriate technical Sophisticated data capture income without negatively netrate The Group employs a team of highly specialised impacting underwriting people who are empowered to drive the Groups profitability 2.35m sophisticated pricing capabilities.
A dedicated team of Live customer policies decision scientists are focused on improving the pricing structures and assessing overall customer lifetime value.
Company Retail Underwriting Technology Hastings Insurance Advantage Insurance Services Limited Company Limited The business is underpinned by sophisticated IT 132.1m systems to analyse and process applications.
In order to support the Groups business strategy with the delivery Adjusted operating profit post-Ogden of digital customer self service capabilities, the Groups software systems are being upgraded to Guidewire Price Direct Disciplined approach ClaimCenter, PolicyCenter and BillingCenter.
These will Community and risk expertise comparison help to optimise the claims process by providing greater websites control to colleagues, reducing the claims lifecycle workflow and facilitating activity management and 132,000 Underpinned by leading technology, earlyliability decisions.
software, counter fraud capability Charitable donations in the year and risk management Strategic drivers We have a consistent set of strategic drivers that underpin our business model Growth Discipline Focus 18 Investing in value creationdrivers Maximising value from our business What we do Creating value We have an ongoing programme of Our business development model has been designed to be The breakdown of our business We are fully focused on maximising investment in the key areas that drive successful in the high growth, dynamic digital distribution value for our keystakeholders.
Car Home Bike Van ourvalue creation process.
insurance insurance insurance insurance Colleagues Customer proposition The Group has a unique proposition refreshingly 86% 7% 4% 3% straightforward insurance.
The Groups brand 2,680 advertising, online and offline direct marketing and social media activity all promote this proposition.
At Hastings Colleagues in Bexhill, Gibraltar, we make the whole customer experience straightforward Newmarket and Leicester Our customer Our distribution Our differentiator with great value products and great service.
proposition 90% of our business is Sophisticated data Refreshingly though price capture to optimise Customers straightforward comparison websites our pricing strategies Sophisticated data capture 10% is direct The Group employs a team of highly specialised people who are empowered to drive the Groups 2.35m sophisticated pricing capabilities.
A dedicated team of Live customer policies decision scientists are focused on improving the pricing The Hastings approach structures and assessing overall customer lifetime value.
An agile fast moving company where colleagues can contribute and thrive Passionate about data and analytics Company The most straightforward claimsand service experience forcustomers Technology The business is underpinned by sophisticated IT 132.1m systems to analyse and process applications.
In order to support the Groups business strategy with the delivery Adjusted operating profit post-Ogden Our brands of digital customer self service capabilities, the Groups software systems are being upgraded to Guidewire ClaimCenter, PolicyCenter and BillingCenter.
These will Community help to optimise the claims process by providing greater control to colleagues, reducing the claims lifecycle workflow and facilitating activity management and 132,000 earlyliability decisions.
Charitable donations in the year Strategic drivers Agile Invest Expand 19
