Managing our risks How we protect our business The management of the business and the execution of our strategy are subject to a number of risks.
We have a robust system of analysis, assessment and mitigation planning in place to ensure that we maintain readiness for a range of eventualities.
Our approach Viability statement The Board has established a culture of effective risk management through The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the the identification, assessment, Group will continue to operate and meet its liabilities, as they fall due, for mitigation, monitoring and reporting the next three years.
Three years is considered to constitute an appropriate of risks throughout the Group.
The period as it is the period covered by the most recent strategic plan reviewed Board also sets risk appetite, reviews by the Board.
The Directors assessment has been made with reference to risks, bothexisting and emerging, the Groups current financial position and prospects, the Groups strategy, andconsiders risk when reviewing the Boards risk appetite and the Groups principal risks and how these are theGroups strategy and in meeting managed, as detailed in the strategic report.
There are regular briefings to the Board, Directors and senior management, The Board has ultimate responsibility which include the progress of new strategies being implemented e. g. product for the Groups risk management diversification or technology enhancements and any risks and opportunities framework and delegates the oversight that may emerge.
of this to the Risk Committee.
This Committee is a formal sub-Committee The strategy and associated principal risks underpin the Groups Three Year of the Board with its owndefined Terms Plan and stress testing, which the Directors review on an annual basis.
current Three Year Plan is constructed on the commercial activities of the regulated subsidiaries of Retail and Underwriting.
This includes a detailed The principal purpose of the Risk analysis of income and expenditure and the resulting free cash generated, Committee is to advise the Board on supported by explanations of material year on year increases or reductions, risk management matters, recommend over the term of the plan.
The Three Year Plan also contains detailed analysis the Group framework of risk limits and of the income drivers and means of managing expenses in line with the risk appetite to the Board for approval Group overall appetite.
and oversee the risk management arrangements of the Company and The strategic risks, which include threats relating to the general insurance Group generally.
The Committee market and other economic and environmental risks, are aligned to the ensures that the material risks facing Groups Three Year Plan.
These are assessed as being within appetite, with the Group have been identified and that adequate and effective controls and efficient monitoring and reporting.
This appropriate arrangements are in place is underpinned by the culture and values demonstrated by the executive and to manage, mitigate, monitor and report senior leadership across the Group and its regulated subsidiaries, providing those risks effectively and also ensures the rationale for the Board to maintain the reasonable expectation that the that responsibility for managing, Groups strategy is sustainable for the next three years.
mitigating and monitoring risk in each of the regulated subsidiaries has been effectively delegated to the respective company boards.
38 The uniform approach of the Risk Second Line: Oversight Functions: Risk identification andassessment Management Frameworks enables A robust risk management framework establishes boundaries by a direct link between risks in the is used at Group level and within proposing Group policies and trading entities and the Group.
the regulated subsidiaries to ensure frameworks for Board approval, Thestandardised Risk Management there is a consistent approach to risk and standards to align Group wide methodology used in the identification, management across the Group.
practices to defined strategy: assessment, recording, monitoring and facilitates guidance and direction reporting of risk results in a cohesive There are two approaches to risk on effective risk, control and and integrated approach, leverages management: compliance management practices the Risk Committees at subsidiary level to satisfy Group policies and bottom up Business Risk is aimed and provides effective and consistent standards and introduce Group at the day to day operations of Retail assessment of the Groups risks.
wide best practice providing and Underwriting and is linked to the challenge, monitoring and trading entities annual budget: and Internal control framework assurance reporting directly The Group has an internal control top down Strategic Risk focuses on toRiskand Audit Committees.
lower frequency, higher impact risks framework based on a three lines of Third Line: Independent Assurance: defence approach.
The three lines are that could have a significant impact on offers independent challenge and the Group and or the trading entities comprised of: assurance by internal and external ability to successfully deliver the First Line: Business Operations: auditors: Groups Three Year Plan.
has ownership, responsibility and provides independent challenge, accountability for day to day risk Strategic Risk is reviewed and challenged objective assurance and consulting identification, assessment and by the Board Risk Committee and those activities designed to addvalue management activity: of the Groups regulated subsidiaries.
and improve the Groups directly owns and operates risk These Committees receive timely, up operations: and bring a systematic, to date commentary on the material mitigating controls and remedial disciplined approach to evaluate actions: movement of risk, whether influenced by and improve the effectiveness external or internal conditions or events, of risk management control and ensures compliance with all or by any material shift in Business Risk governance processes.
regulatory obligations and internal that is linked to the successful delivery of policies: and the Three Year Plan.
All three lines of defence have specific provides management assurance tasks within the internal control by monitoring and reporting risk, Business Risk is overseen by Risk framework and report via the Audit control and compliance matters Committees at an operational level that or Risk Committee and ultimately the for governance oversight.
are comprised of Executive Directors and Board.
The role of these Committees is senior management.
Departmental risk to monitor and provide opinions on the profiles risks, controls, key risk indicators effectiveness of the Companys internal and internal or external events are controls and management of risk.
held centrally and regularly provided to the risk management function for independent review and challenge.
