Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 86 DIRECTORS REPORT Post balance sheet events Directors powers to allot and buy Hays is incorporated in the UK and registered There have been no significant events to back shares as a public limited company in England and report since the date of the balance sheet.
The directors have the power to authorise Wales.
Its headquarters are in London and the issue and buy-back of the Companys it is listed on the main market of the London Dividends shares by the Company, subject to authority Stock Exchange.
An interim dividend of 0.91 pence 2015: being given to the directors by the 0.87 pence per Ordinary share was paid shareholders in general meeting, applicable Strategic Report to shareholders on 5 April 2016.
The Board legislation and the Articles.
A description of the Companys business recommends the payment of a final dividend model and strategy is set out in the Strategic of 1.99 pence 2015: 1.89 pence per Ordinary Appointment and replacement of directors Report along with the factors likely to share, representing a total dividend of 2.90 Shareholders may appoint any person who affect the Groups future development, pence 2015: 2.76 pence for the financial is willing to act as a director by ordinary performance and position.
Subject to the resolution and may remove any director by on environmental, employee, social and shareholders of the Company approving this ordinary resolution.
The Board may appoint community matters, including information recommendation at the 2016 AGM, the final any person to fill any vacancy or as an on gender diversity within the Group, dividend will be paid on 11 November 2016 to additional director, provided that they are and an overview of the principal risks those shareholders appearing on the register submitted for election by the shareholders and uncertainties faced by the Group are of members as at 14 October 2016.
The at the AGM following their appointment.
also provided in the Strategic Report.
Specific conditions apply to the vacation of office, including cases where a director The Statement of Compliance with the Code for the reporting period is contained in the Financial instruments becomes prohibited by law or regulation Corporate Governance Statement.
Details of the financial instruments used from holding office, or is persistently absent by the Group are set out in notes 18 to 20 from directors meetings, or if three-quarters Information relating to matters addressed to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
of appointed directors request his or her by the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination A general outline of Hays use of financial resignation or in the case of mental Committees, which operate within clearly instruments is set out in the treasury incapacity or bankruptcy.
defined terms of reference, are set out within management section on page 41 of the the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Financial Review of this Report.
Details of the interests of Hays directors Directors and their connected persons in the Ordinary All of the matters above are incorporated Biographies of the serving directors of Hays shares of the Company are outlined in the by reference into this Directors Report.
are provided on pages 50 and 51 of this Remuneration Report.
They all served on the Board The purpose of this Report is to provide throughout the 2016 financial year, with the Directors indemnities information to the members of the Company, exception of MT Rainey, who joined the Board The Company continues to maintain as a body.
The Company, its directors, on 14 December 2015.
In addition, Richard third-party directors and officers liability employees, agents or advisers do not accept Smelt served on the Board during the year insurance for the benefit of its directors.
or assume responsibility to any other person until his retirement on 11 November 2015.
This provides insurance cover for any claim to whom this document is shown or into brought against directors or officers for whose hands it may come and any such General powers of the directors wrongful acts in connection with their responsibility or liability is expressly The powers of the directors are contained in positions.
The directors have also been disclaimed.
This Report contains certain the Companys Articles of Association.
These granted qualifying third-party indemnities, forward-looking statements with respect powers may be exercised by any meeting as permitted under the Companies Act to the operations, performance and financial of the Board at which a quorum of three 2006, which remain in force.
Neither the condition of the Group.
By their nature, these directors is present.
The power of the Board insurance nor the indemnities extend to statements involve uncertainty since future to manage the business is subject to any claims arising from fraud or dishonesty events and circumstances can cause results limitations imposed by the Companies Act and do not provide cover for civil or criminal and developments to differ from those 2006, the Articles of Association Articles or fines or penalties provided by law.
The forward-looking statements any directions given by special resolution of reflect knowledge and information available the shareholders applicable at a relevant time.
Share capital at the date of preparation of this Report.
Hays has one class of Ordinary shares Nothing in this Report should be construed The Articles contain an express authority for which carry no right to fixed income or as a profit forecast.
the appointment of executive directors and control over the Company.
These shares provide the directors with the authority to may be held in certificated or uncertificated Related party transactions delegate or confer upon such directors any form.
On 30 June 2016, the Company had Details of the related party transactions of the powers exercisable by them upon such 1,464,096,566 fully paid Ordinary shares in undertaken during the reporting period are terms and conditions and with such restrictions issue, of which 31,163,744 Ordinary shares contained in note 31 to the Consolidated as they see fit.
The Articles contain additional were held in treasury by the Company.
authorities to delegate powers and discretions to committees and sub-committees.
OVERVIEWSTRATEGIC   INFORMATION Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 87 Dilution limits in respect of share schemes Employee involvement The rights and obligations attaching to the The current Association of British Insurers Ongoing communication forms the basis of Companys Ordinary shares are contained ABI guidance responsibility for which the partnership between Hays leadership in the Articles.
In brief, the Ordinary shares now rests with the Investment Association and its employees.
Employees receive allow holders to receive dividends and to on dilution limits provide that the overall business performance updates from Alistair exercise one vote on a poll per Ordinary share dilution under all share plans operated by Cox, the Chief Executive, and from their for every holder present in person or by proxy a company should not exceed 10% over a respective regional Managing Directors, at general meetings of the Company.
They 10-year period in relation to the Companys by email on a four-weekly basis.
These are also have the right to a return of capital on share capital, with a further limitation of 5% posted on the Groups intranet, which acts the winding up of the Company.
in any 10-year period on executive plans.
The as a source of reference for the Groups Companys share plans operate within ABI brand, values, policies and procedures.
There are no restrictions on the size of recommended guidelines on dilution limits.
Regular presentations are also made to holding or the transfer of shares, which employees by the Chief Executive and are both governed by the general provisions Major shareholders regional Managing Directors during office of the Companys Articles and legislation.
As at 30 June 2016, the following shareholders visits made over the course of the year.
Under the Articles, the directors have the held an interest of 3% or more of the power to suspend voting rights and the right Companys issued share capital: Hays continues to provide tailored training to receive dividends in respect of Ordinary to the people who are in the front line of shares and to refuse to register a transfer of % of total Ordinary shares in circumstances where the delivering recruitment solutions as well voting rights holder of those shares fails to comply with as in management and leadership roles.
Cedar Rock Capital a notice issued under Section 793 of the These programmes take a number of Limited 7.8% Companies Act 2006.
The directors also different guises across the Groups regional have the power to refuse to register any businesses but all share the common goal of BlackRock Inc 7.2% transfer of certificated shares that does not improving the service we provide to clients.
Virtus Trust 7.2% satisfy the conditions set out in the Articles.
Baillie Gifford & Co 6.5% To ensure that employees remain engaged Marathon Asset The Company is not aware of any in our business, an annual employee Management 6.4% agreements between shareholders that engagement survey, known as TALKback, is might result in the restriction of transfer of carried out each year.
This allows employees Heronbridge voting rights in relation to the shares held to voice their views and opinions on all Investment by such shareholders.
aspects of their workplace environment, Management LLP 4.0% training and development, work culture, Majedie Asset Treasury shares leadership and client relations.
The results, Management 3.8% As Hays has only one class of share in issue, which indicate employee engagement Columbia Threadneedle it may hold a maximum of 10% of its issued levels and highlight any areas of concern, Investments 3.5% share capital in treasury.
As at 30 June 2016, are presented to the Management Board 2.13% of the Companys shares were held in and to the Board.
Legislation restricts the exercise Employees of rights on Ordinary shares held in treasury.
Our goal is for our people to reach their Hays believes in the value of loyalty and The Company is not allowed to exercise full potential and to give of their best as considers its employee incentive programme voting rights conferred by the shares whilst individuals and in teams.
In this context, of commission schemes, performancethey are held in treasury.
It is prohibited we are committed to never discriminating related cash bonuses and share schemes from paying any dividend or making any on the grounds of race, colour, creed, to be important factors in keeping its distribution of assets on treasury shares.
disability, religion, ethnic origin, gender, employees motivated.
The employee share Once in treasury, shares can only be sold sexual orientation or age.
All Hays employees schemes have been running successfully for cash, transferred to an employee share are required to abide by these principles since inception and provide many employees scheme or cancelled.
During the 2016 which are set out in the Groups Equal with an additional stake in the business.
financial year, Hays transferred 11,898,607 Opportunities Policy and Code of Conduct.
shares out of treasury to satisfy the award Articles of Association of shares under the Companys employee Hays gives full consideration to applications The Companys Articles may only be share schemes.
for employment from disabled persons amended by special resolution of the where they have the right skills and abilities shareholders.
Shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust for the role.
Should an employee become The Hays plc Employee Share Trust the disabled whilst working for the Group, Hays Disclosure of information to the Auditor Trust is an employee benefit trust which would make every effort to accommodate So far as the directors who held office at is permitted to hold Ordinary shares in the them, to assist them in any re-training or to the date of approval of this Report are aware, Company for employee share schemes find suitable alternative employment within there is no relevant audit information of purposes.
No shares were held by the Trust the Group.
which the external Auditor is unaware and as at the year end.
Shares held in the Trust each director has taken all steps that he may be transferred to participants of the or she ought to have taken as a director to various Group share schemes.
No voting make himself or herself aware of any relevant rights are exercisable in relation to shares audit information and to establish that the unallocated to individual beneficiaries.
external Auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation should be interpreted in accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 88 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Accordingly, Resolution 16 will be proposed At last years AGM, shareholders authorised 2016 Annual Report and Financial as an ordinary resolution to renew this the calling of general meetings other than Statements authority for a period expiring at the an AGM on not less than 14 clear days On the recommendation of the Audit conclusion of the 2017 AGM.
The directors notice and Resolution 19 will be proposed Committee and having considered all have no present intention of exercising as a special resolution and seeks to renew matters brought to the attention of the this authority.
The authority granted by this Board during the financial year, the Board resolution, if passed, will be for a period is satisfied that the Annual Report and Disapplication of pre-emption rights expiring at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM.
Financial Statements, taken as a whole, Also at last years meeting, a special is fair, balanced and understandable.
The resolution was passed under the Companies The flexibility offered by this resolution Board believes that the disclosures set out Act 2006 empowering the directors to will be used where, taking into account the in the Annual Report provide the information allot equity securities for cash without circumstances, the directors consider this necessary for shareholders to assess the first being required to offer such shares appropriate in relation to the business to Companys performance, business model to existing shareholders.
Resolution 17 will be considered at the meeting and in the and strategy.
seek to renew this authority.
If approved, interests of the Company and shareholders the resolution will authorise directors in as a whole.
Annual General Meeting accordance with the Articles to issue The Companys AGM will be held at 12 noon shares in connection with a rights issue and New share schemes on 9 November 2016 at the offices of UBS, 5 Broadgate, London EC2M 2QS.
otherwise to issue shares for cash up to a Resolutions 20 and 21 seek shareholders specified maximum nominal amount which approval to two share plans.
One is The Notice of Meeting sets out the includes the sale on a non pre-emptive basis replacement, on the same terms, of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM of any shares held in treasury.
Companys existing Deferred Annual Bonus and gives details of the voting record date Plan, awards under which will continue and proxy appointment deadline for that Resolution 17 will be proposed as a special to be made in accordance with the policy Meeting.
The Notice of Meeting is contained resolution to renew this authority for a approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM: in a separate circular to shareholders which period expiring at the conclusion of the the existing plan expires before the next is being mailed or otherwise provided to 2017 AGM.
The second plan is a US S423 shareholders at the same time as this Report.
Stock Purchase Plan, which is an allAuthority to purchase own shares employee share plan similar to that offered Auditor A special resolution was also passed at to employees under our Sharesave Plans in Resolutions 13 and 14 at the forthcoming last years meeting enabling the Company the UK and certain other countries, approved AGM will respectively propose the to purchase its own shares in the market.
Resolutions 20 and appointment of  Resolution 18 will seek to renew this 21 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
LLP as Auditor of the Company and authority.
The directors intend only to authorise the directors to determine its exercise this authority if to do so would, Recommendation remuneration.
These resolutions will be in their opinion, enhance shareholder value.
The directors consider that all the proposed as ordinary resolutions and shall The Company will have the option of holding, resolutions to be put to the meeting are in have effect until the conclusion of the next as treasury shares, any of its own shares the best interests of the Company and its general meeting of the Company at which that it purchases pursuant to the authority shareholders as a whole.
Your Board will be accounts are laid.
This would voting in favour of them and unanimously give the Company the ability to sell treasury recommends that you do so as well.
Political donations shares, providing the Company with The Company made no political donations flexibility in the management of its employee By order of the Board during the year and intends to maintain its shares schemes.
No dividends will be paid on policy of not making such payments.
It will shares whilst held in treasury and no voting Doug Evans however as a precautionary measure to rights will attach to the treasury shares.
Company Secretary avoid inadvertent breach of the law, seek 1 September 2016 shareholder authority at the 2016 AGM The price paid for Ordinary shares will not to make limited donations or incur limited be less than the nominal value of 1 pence per political expenditure, although it has no share and not more than the higher of 5% intention of using the authority.
above the average of the middle market quotations of the Companys Ordinary shares Resolution 15 will be proposed as an ordinary as derived from the London Stock Exchange.
resolution to seek authority to make political donations, and if passed, such authority shall Resolution 18 will be proposed as a special expire at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM.
resolution to renew this authority for a period expiring at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM.
Authority to allot shares At the 2015 AGM, shareholders authorised Notice of general meetings the directors, subject to the Companies Act The notice period required by the 2006, to allot Ordinary shares or grant rights Companies Act 2006 for general meetings to subscribe for or grant rights to subscribe of the Company is 21 clear days, unless for or convert any securities into shares shareholders approve a shorter notice without the prior consent of shareholders.
period, which cannot however be less than This authority expires at the conclusion of 14 clear days.
