t n e m n o r i v n e e v i t i t e p m o C L m o r c R o a e f c l t r u e a i t l x m p p e e n d t r e t m i t a s a r Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 22 OUR BUSINESS MODEL HOW IT WORKS Our resources and relationships We earn fees on a What we need to make our contingent basis, when business model work we successfully place a candidate in a role with a client.
These fees, paid by the client, are derived as a percentage of the People and culture Relationships and collaborations candidates salary.
Hays is the ultimate people business and as Our philosophy is to form and maintain such our ability to attract, develop, enable and strong relationships not only with retain the very best consultants and managers clients and candidates, but also with Our consultants develop in our industry is vital to our success.
other like-minded organisations, creating mutually-beneficial long-term relationships Market Understanding collaborations which help us better expertise client needs with clients and candidates For more information go to page 26 understand and serve our customers.
to understand their local Technology and data markets and are equipped Our sector-leading global technology platform For more information go to page 30 is able to interact with other applications with the latest technology, and third-party technologies to enable our Environment and community Placing tools and data to match consultants to make sense of the vast amount We believe that what we do makes a big people in roles of data generated in todays world, source difference to the world around us.
real-time, accurate information on their market help hundreds of thousands of people and ultimately to get the best candidates to every year to secure the next leg on their clients faster than anyone else.
personal career journey, and companies We understand the source the skilled employees they need needs and challenges to grow.
This all contributes to the wider Data, tools Candidate For more information go to page 29 growth and success of the economies and products relationships of our clients and and communities in which we operate.
candidates locally and Brand Our reputation as a world-leader in the employ the power of specialist recruitment market is supported For more information go to page 31 our integrated global and reinforced by our world-class global brand, which is consistent in each of our business to meet them markets around the world.
We constantly quickly and effectively.
focus on building and enhancing our reputation by supplementing our core brand with thought-leadership publications, such as The Hays Journal, Hays Global Skills Index, salary guides, white papers and market reports.
For more information go to page 30 e k r e g a t e n m t e d n g a i d t l r e a e l i n b v d s o e l r G y y m o n o c e o r c a M OVERVIEWSTRATEGIC   INFORMATION t n e m n o r i v n e e v i t i t e p m o C L m o r c R o a e f c l t r u e a i t l x m p p e e n d t r e t m i t a s a r Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 23 How we create value Stakeholder benefits As the ultimate people business, The value we create not only creates everything we do is focused on placing returns for our shareholders, but the right people into the right roles also for our other stakeholders Clients We work closely with our clients to help them find the skilled people they need to drive growth in their businesses.
We work with thousands of companies every year, with no single client representing more than 1% of Market Understanding Group net fees.
Whether it is local SMEs or expertise client needs global multinationals, we help companies deal with skills shortages in certain markets, whilst reshaping workforces in others.
Candidates We help candidates securing their next Placing permanent job or temporary assignment.
people in roles We connect our candidates with the world of work through an array of events, debates, seminars and networking opportunities across our network of 33 countries.
Last year we filled 67,000 permanent jobs and over 220,000 temporary assignments.
Data, tools Candidate and products relationships Employees We invest a significant amount of time and effort to ensure Hays is a great place to work.
We offer our consultants the best training to become experts in their market and develop their careers, along with the best technology and tools in the industry to enable them to be as productive and successful as possible.
Shareholders We are working towards our objective of building the worlds pre-eminent specialist recruitment business and in doing so we aim to create long-term sustainable value for our shareholders.
The breadth, scale and balance of our business model, together with our industry-leading operating leverage, allow us to deliver superior financial performance through the cycle.
This, combined with our focus on working capital management and the cash generative nature of our business, means we have the potential to generate meaningful shareholder returns as our business grows.
e k r e g a t e n m t e d n g a i d t l r e a e l i n b v d s o e l r G y y m o n o c e o r c a M Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 24 OUR BUSINESS MODEL WHAT IT GIVES US We have a business A balanced and diverse model We have deliberately and strategically built with scale, breadth and a business which is balanced and diverse.
diversity of exposure, We have exposure to both more cyclical, which is built to take mature markets such as the UK and more into account the megaimmature, structural growth markets such as Germany.
We are exposed to the temporary, trends driving change contractor and permanent recruitment in our industry, the shortmarkets and have long-established scale and expertise in 20 specialist areas of skilled term market movements employment.
we experience and We have public sector and private sector positions us to work clients, and work on one-off placements for towards our long-term SMEs and global multi-nationals as well as contract-based higher volume recruitment aims and strategy.
The balance, breadth and scale of our business is unique in the world of specialist recruitment.
This is a key differentiator, and we believe it is important as it makes our business and its earnings relatively more resilient to todays ever changing macroeconomic and political landscape.
Exposure to mature and less-mature markets Structural growth markets are those where the use of agencies like Hays to source skilled candidates is a relatively new practice.
Traditionally in these markets, this recruitment is undertaken by companies themselves, using hiring teams within their own HR functions.
A key driver of our growth is therefore the first time outsourcing of this recruitment to third parties.
This means that these markets are relatively less cyclical by nature, and less driven by the prevailing economic backdrop, or short-term sentiment.
More mature markets are those where the use of agencies is a well established, longstanding norm.
Here, clients will use agencies to help them fill roles in the majority of cases.
As such, these markets tend to be more cyclical in nature, with activity levels dependant far more on the amount of job churn occurring at any particular time.
That is, the confidence of clients to replace leavers in their businesses, or hire extra people, and the confidence amongst candidates to move jobs.
OVERVIEWSTRATEGIC   INFORMATION Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 25 Balanced exposure across markets is key to our model Breadth of expertise 17% c. 15% 58% 22% 20% Public Top 40 Temporary Asia Pacic Information Technology c. 85% 83% Other clients Private 15% 45% Accountancy Continental and Finance Europe and Rest of World 15% Construction and Property 8% Oce support 42% 8% Permanent Engineering 34% 33% Other UK and Ireland Net fees by geography, type and market maturity Structural immature Cyclical more mature 39% Group net fees 61% Group net fees 0-30% market penetration 30-70% penetration 70% penetration 32% 11% 88% 44% 65% 57% Temp Temp Temp Temp Temp Temp 89% Perm 68% Perm 56% Perm 43% Perm 35% Perm 12% Perm LatAm, Russia & Asia Germany France, US, Canada Australia & New Zealand UK & Ireland CE&RoW & Netherlands Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 26 OUR BUSINESS MODEL OUR RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS In this section we People and culture discuss the drivers of our Hays is the ultimate people business and business: the resources our ability to attract, retain and develop and relationships we the best people is vital to our success.
To achieve this we focus on: have around the world.
reward, with commission structures to ensure that team and individual Achieving our goals requires a mixture of contributions are competitively rewarded: components all working together.
Key to our providing attractive career development success is our ability to attract the very best paths for new recruits, starting with talent and provide an attractive career path a structured induction programme that will make them experts in their fields.
and ongoing training as they progress We also equip our consultants with a their careers: powerful, global brand and with sectorequipping consultants with the latest leading technology tools and products technology, tools and products and so that they can interact with clients and embrace digital technology as an candidates in multiple ways, using various enabler to make them as effective different channels.
Our philosophy is not just as possible: to invest in technology solutions, but more encouraging employees to develop importantly to build strong collaborations their careers by moving internationally: with leading providers and innovators continually investing in our leadership and influential organisations, creating and development programmes which long-term relationships which help us are aligned with the Groups business better understand our markets and serve strategy.
240 senior managers have our customers.
All of this is key to enabling now attended our Fast Forward and our model to function, and our ability to Advanced Management Development respond to a fast-moving market and programmes: and deliver on our strategic aims.
promoting a strong sense of corporate social responsibility at Hays.
After all, Formal training days last year everything we do contributes to finding people jobs, changing peoples lives, and fuelling the wider economy.
CSR 4,000 is embedded in our academically recognised leadership development programme in which a cadre of senior leaders work with a charity to solve real strategic problems.
Hays programmes to boost performance and recognise achievement include: our international Hays Elite competition which rewards the 50 top fee-earners from around the world with companywide recognition and an all-expenses paid trip to a popular holiday destination: our Summer Boot Camp where consultants are invited to enlist for a 12-week workout and complete designated activities to boost their fees by 20% and qualify for attendance at a prestigious finishing event: and monthly themed National Business Development Days on which consultants compete to see who can generate the most new business leads.
OVERVIEWSTRATEGIC   INFORMATION Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 27 People and culture case study: is new for us in the USA, but in which we After spending the first three years of my are expert global leaders across the rest Hays career in the UK, I took the opportunity ATTRACTING, of our Group.
Its also an exciting challenge to move to Australia in 1998, where I worked to take experiences I gained in more across various different specialisms, firstly MOTIVATING AND established parts of the Group and apply in Sydney and then Perth.
After 11 years them in a new country for our business.
RETAINING THE BEST in Australia, I was promoted to be the Managing Director of our new business PEOPLE AT HAYS.
This was an exciting opportunity, Senior Manager, Hays US given the relative immaturity of the market there, which is a key strategic growth business for the Group.
Since 2012 Ive seen My Hays career has taken me across three my role expand to cover the whole of the countries and has been a fulfilling and Asia region reporting into the Group CEO, a varied one.
I began in London in 1995, with the task of overseeing Hays organic before moving to Dublin a year later to help expansion in one of the most exciting, expand the Irish business.
Having proven fast-growing markets in the world.
my capabilities I was quickly promoted to regional manager and I was then asked to Christine Wright Asia Managing Director, Hays join a task force of fee-earners to lead Hays entry into the Canadian market in 2001.
I then returned to Hays in Ireland in I joined Hays in 2008, as an Associate on the 2004, but not long after that I had the Construction & Property desk in Melbourne.
opportunity to return to Canada and Following the acquisition of Veredus, in make a contribution on a much bigger the US, in 2014, an opportunity arose to scale as Managing Director.
establish and build a team focused on the Construction & Property market in Orlando, Rowan OGrady Individuals relocated internationally Florida, a large and established Veredus Canada Managing Director, Hays within our business in the last three years office.
I took on a Senior Manager role there, and have responsibility for building 175 a market-leading business in an area which Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 28 OUR BUSINESS MODEL OUR RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS CONTINUED Gender diversity within Hays Diversity at Hays At Hays, diversity means understanding Split of PLC Board members and reflecting the community in which we operate, building loyalty with our 1.
Male 6 67% 1. colleagues, candidates and clients.
Female 3 33% Differences such as age, gender, ethnicity, physical appearance, religion, education and beliefs are valued and everyone has the opportunity to contribute to the 2.
Company and fulfil their potential.
Respect for people and becoming an Employer of Choice are the core values in our approach.
Our aim is to create an Split of Senior Management open, honest and unprejudiced working team members environment and to ensure that all our colleagues feel part of Hays and are 1.
Female 17 27% We value and utilise the differences that our people bring to our business and in 2. the competitive environment in which we operate it is essential that we attract and retain the best people and those that reflect the client and candidate groups we serve.
Split of employees At Hays, our culture is meritocratic: we share a passion for creating opportunities 1.
Male 3,528 38% 1. for our people to flourish and succeed, 2.
We know that diversity of perspective and an inclusive approach is great for business and careers with us.
By reflecting our marketplace and embracing difference we can continue to drive an outstanding organisation culture 2. that impacts business results and delivers world-class service to our customers.
Fundamental to our leading expertise is a shared commitment to equality and to harnessing the dynamism that diversity and inclusion bring to our workplace.
We were named as one of the Best Places to Work in the UK In the 2016 Glassdoor Employees Choice Award we ranked second overall in the Best Places to Work, and the top rated recruiter listed.
The Employees Choice Awards programme relies solely on the input of employees, who provide feedback on their jobs, work environments and companies via Glassdoors anonymous online company reviews survey.
Glassdoor Employees Choice Award winners We were named as one of the Best Places to Work in the UK in 2016.
2 OVERVIEWSTRATEGIC   INFORMATION Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 29 Technology and data In todays digitally-enabled and data-rich world it is essential that we equip our people with the latest technology tools and products to maximise their productivity and to ultimately get the best candidates to clients faster than anyone else.
Use of data The amount and variety of data that is being generated in our industry has increased exponentially over recent years.
We now receive over six million CVs a year and around three million hits on our jobs websites every month.
Capturing, analysing and making sense of this wealth of data has become a strategic imperative.
Clients and candidates interact with us in multiple and evolving ways, using various channels and it is part of our philosophy to recognise and quickly respond to these trends.
For example, candidate profiles have moved away from traditional printed formats, first to email and now increasingly onto various social media platforms.
We have responded to this online world, but equally we recognise that data must be managed in an integrated manner with our own proprietary database, OneTouch, to give us a competitive edge.
This is why we ensured that OneTouch was built not only to be fully integrated internally within our business, but that it would also have the ability to interact and connect with external platforms, as they evolve.
This not only enables us to have an up-todate list of active candidates ready to be placed into jobs, but also to maintain relationships with the passive candidate pool.
At the heart of our business is the protection of candidate personal data and client confidential information.
We respect the trust individuals and companies place in us to look after the information they provide us on a daily basis.
Hays has systems and processes in operation to best ensure that this information is held and transferred, where appropriate, in a secure manner.
Hays recognises the importance of complying Capturing, with all relevant data protection and privacy laws in each of our local markets.
analysing and As well as investing in technology solutions making sense of this for the front office, we also recognise the importance of having a largely-automated wealth of data has back office, which has driven significant financial benefit to the profitability of the become a strategic Group.
Equally important is having access to our real-time, detailed management imperative information system, which allows management teams to make accurate and timely business decisions.
Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 30 OUR BUSINESS MODEL OUR RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS CONTINUED Key relationships and Brand collaborations We have focused on building the reputation of Hays as the respected industry standard We believe that it is important to be in the specialist recruitment market, and outward-looking and to develop strong also as being the leading commentator relationships not only with clients on issues impacting the world of work.
and candidates, but also with other organisations, where we see an Our brand lies at the heart of opportunity to deliver mutual benefit.
everything we do We have been building wider recognition Our long-standing arrangement with and awareness of Hays as a market leader Google allows our consultants to index through partnerships with the CBI and 20 million documents across 33 countries Manchester City Football Club, amongst in real time, giving us a competitive others, and by building a portfolio of high edge when it comes to sourcing the quality and respected publications that perfect candidate for any given role.
demonstrate the thought-leadership Our relationship with LinkedIn means credentials of Hays and our people.
that our consultants have access to LinkedIns member database so they These include the Hays Journal, the Hays can search LinkedIn and our own Global Skills Index as well as white papers database, OneTouch, side-by-side.
and industry-leading content that we publish This Cross System Awareness allows us via our corporate blog, Viewpoint, and on to connect millions of people globally social media platforms such as LinkedIn, with relevant job opportunities, materials where Hays is the most followed recruitment and employment-related content.
Most company, with over 1.4 million followers.
recently, we have partnered with SEEK, the worlds biggest online employment We believe that establishing a powerful, marketplace, to create a leading and global brand helps us drive net fee income, innovative position in the use of cloudas it opens doors for our consultants computing and data science in the and makes it easier for them to build recruiting industry, bringing value to relationships.
People also aspire to work for hirers and jobseekers alike.
Additionally, the leading brand in any industry sector, so we recognise that there are a number of the strength of our brand helps us attract smaller, innovative organisations that are the very best new recruits to join Hays.
working on developing new technology solutions to challenge and improve the landscape of the recruitment world.
We are a committed partner to Seedcamp, a pan European Founders First Round Fund, helping to identify and support the next generation of market leaders powering the world of work.
Our relationships are not limited to the technology sector however.
We have been working with research consultancy Oxford Economics since 2012 to develop the Hays Global Skills Index, an annual Index that looks at the labour market dynamics across 31 countries, giving a clear picture of the dynamics that are playing a role in the global labour markets and the LinkedIn followers changing nature of the global skills landscape.
We have also been a strategic partner of the CBIs Annual Conference over 1.4 million since 2013.
The CBI is the UKs premier business lobbying organisation.
Its Twitter followers flagship event, the Annual Conference, attracts over 1,000 influential business professionals and political leaders to 75,000 discuss the state of the economy and the most critical issues affecting global Facebook likes business today.
80,000 OVERVIEWSTRATEGIC   INFORMATION Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 volunteering, fundraising activities and Environment and community donations.
The many activities undertaken during the year include collections and Human rights fundraising to provide food for those at risk At Hays we are committed to our Code of of social exclusion in Spain and to refugees Conduct and Ethics Policy which reflects in Germany: a five city cycle ride, over the way we operate including in relation 700km, in Ireland for charity partner Aware: to human rights.
All staff within Hays are various sporting and other fundraising expected to act with integrity and honesty activities for Make-A-Wish Australia: and behave in a way that is above reproach, supporting young people living with cancer as well as treat people fairly, with courtesy in New Zealand: and funding 6,000 hours and respect, be responsible, respect of childrens hospice care in the UK for diversity and communicate openly.
charity partner Together for Short Lives, exceeding our two-year fundraising target Included in our Code of Conduct is an Equal in the first year of our partnership.
We make every effort to ensure that no discrimination arises The environment in which we work during the recruitment, employment and Hays in the UK has ISO 14001 period after employment of any employee environmental management certification, for reasons of gender, sexual orientation, which demonstrates our commitment marital status, creed, colour, race, nationality, to environmental management.
ethnic or national origin, religious or other belief, political opinion, spent convictions, Hays gathers data from every office disability or age, and all employees are around the world in order to calculate expected to deal with all persons with the our greenhouse gas GHG emissions same attention, courtesy and consideration.
in accordance with the World Resources This support of equal opportunities applies Institute WRI Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
not only as a direct employer but also in our introduction of candidates to clients.
Our data is independently verified by Carbon Smart Ltd who conduct the Supplier Code of Conduct verification engagement in accordance We expect our suppliers to operate with the ISO14064 part 3 standard with in an ethical, legally compliant and Brand case study: guidance for the validation and verification professional manner.
BUILDING A The standards we expect are detailed in our BRAND THAT We measure our annual emissions in Supplier Code of Conduct, a copy of which relation to employees our intensity ratio.
can be found on our website, haysplc.
As a people-based business, number of employees is a quantifiable factor associated Community support Every day we provide our clients with our activities.
Our reporting year for As the ultimate people business, our and candidates around the world with GHG emissions is 1 April 2015 to 31 March employees are keen to support their local industry-leading content, with the aim 2016, and this year our employee intensity per communities and charities in any way they of helping them to succeed in their tonne CO 2e was 1.58 against 1.98 last year.
This effort is operated on local and careers and source the right talent national levels to great effect through for their businesses.
The key platform which enables us to do this is Viewpoint, our global careers advice blog.
2016 2015 Total Total Viewpoint currently hosts over 500 GHGs % GHGs % tonnes contribution tonnes contribution blogs, authored by over 30 experts 1 1 Impact Scope Resource CO2e to total CO2e to total from various fields.
Direct Scope 1 Operational fuel 245 2 199 1 Last year, our content generated over Vehicle fuel 4,331 28 4,201 24 855,000 views and almost 200,000 Refrigerant 344 2 264 2 social shares.
By sharing our targeted 2 Indirect Scope 2 Electricity 5,775 38 6,546 37 and relevant content with our audience this way, we are able to both demonstrate District heating 396 2 370 2 the expertise of our people and strengthen Scope 3 Air travel 3,219 21 4,569 26 the unique positioning of our brand.
Rail travel 329 2 611 3 Electricity T&D losses 570 4 602 3 Private cars business use 153 1 377 2 Total direct and indirect 15,362 100 17,739 100 1 Greenhouse gas emissions are stated in tonnes of CO2e carbon dioxide equivalent, comprising carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide for the 12-month period ended 31 March 2016.
Out of scope Indirect emissions, which were the biogenic part of vehicle fuels, totalled 167 tonnes of CO2e 106 tonnes in FY15.
2 All electricity totals are calculated using 2015 government location-based conversion factors.
