Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 68 REMUNERATION REPORT HOW REMUNERATION LINKS TO STRATEGY AND RISK Key remuneration component Time horizon years How our Remuneration Policy links to our strategy How our Remuneration Policy takes into account risk Our Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the Companys AGM Fixed element 1 2 3 4 on 12 November 2014 and received strong Base salary, associated benefits and variable pay A principal risk is the loss of specialised talent.
Base salary support with a favourable vote of 92.62%.
elements combine to attract, retain and motivate the and core calibre of executives required to shape and execute This is mitigated by offering a competitive package against businesses of a There is no change to the Remuneration Policy strategy and generate superior shareholder returns.
comparable size and comparable peer group as well as recognising the breadth benefits this year.
Our full Remuneration Policy can of the role and individual experience the role-holder brings to the Company.
be found on our website at haysplc.
com Link to relevant strategic priority: and in our FY14 Annual Report.
However, we have included a policy summary for each 1 2 3 remuneration element alongside the detailed disclosure of the Single Figure of Remuneration Variable elements 1 2 3 4 and beside other tables throughout this report Financial and personal objectives are set with reference In establishing the annual Group budget, the Board seeks to ensure that which we hope will help understanding.
Annual bonus: to our business strategy approved by the Board.
achievable, yet stretching, goals are properly balanced with risk.
Financial targets Cash element for reward are then linked to budget.
As stated in our FY15 report, in line with the Current weighting and measures are: revised UK Corporate Governance Code the 60% Earnings per share The financial metrics chosen are KPIs of the business and therefore reflect how Code issued in September 2014, we included 20% Cash conversion well management mitigates our principal financial and reputational business risks clawback provisions in our incentive plans 20% Personal which include: during 2015.
In accordance with the Code, these are effective in relation to all awards Its cyclical nature, closely linked to the economy: Key Performance Indicators KPIs.
made in the financial year 2016 and thereafter.
Ensuring we have the right business model to deal with market changes: Clawback provisions therefore apply to the PSP The importance of compliance and data governance when operating across Link to relevant strategic priority: awards granted in September 2015 for two 33 countries with multiple regulatory and legal frameworks: and years post any vesting, with malus provisions Increased reliance on technology and the associated risk of data loss or 1 2 3 4 in place during the performance period.
Clawback provisions also apply for a period Deferred bonus is awarded in shares and therefore of three years to the cash element of the Personal objectives are linked to the delivery of key projects designed to Annual bonus: helps align future focus with that of shareholders and bonus awarded in 2016 in relation to FY16 enhance the Groups operational strength and competitiveness in line with Deferred element longer-term strategy.
performance and malus provisions apply to future strategy.
They include operating within our Group risk framework.
Link to relevant strategic priority: Bonus deferral into shares helps focus on long-term outcomes.
Our Annual Report on Remuneration for 1 2 3 4 the financial year 2015 received a positive The annual bonus also has malus provisions during the three-year deferral vote of 96.69% indicating support for our period and clawback provisions new for the cash element of the bonus made in approach towards the application of our relation to FY16 and going forward, and applicable for three years post award.
Key financial performance metrics are set in line with the The PSP metrics mitigate risk by providing a balanced approach of actual Performance Companys long-term strategy approved by the Board.
financial performance and business efficiency over a longer time period, Votes for 962,720,176 96.69% Share Plan together with relative performance against comparable businesses and Votes against 32,968,188 3.31% Current performance conditions are: longer-term alignment with shareholders.
Votes withheld 10,632,042 One-third based on total shareholder return TSR relative to a comparator group, with vesting subject The TSR metric measures the relative return from Hays shares against a basket The table adjacent shows how we link our to satisfactory financial performance over the of comparator companies and the result is underpinned by the Companys Remuneration Policy to our strategy and period, as determined by the Committee: underlying financial performance.
One-third based on cumulative earnings per share EPS : and The EPS metric targets are calculated taking into account the Company budget One-third based on cash conversion for Year 1 plus growth around an assumed rate of RPI.
Links to strategy Link to relevant strategic priority: The cash conversion metric indicates the continuous focus on ongoing Strategic priority 1 business cash efficiency whatever the trading circumstances of the business.
Materially increase and diversify Group profits.
1 2 3 4 The award in shares focuses on alignment with shareholders.
Strategic priority 2 Build critical mass and diversity across our Malus provisions during the three-year performance period and clawback global platform.
provisions new for awards from FY16 and applicable for two years post vesting are also in place to mitigate risk.
Strategic priority 3 Invest in people and technology, responding Shareholding requirements ensure that executive Encouraging a material, personal stake in the business through substantial Shareholding to change and building relationships.
directors interests are aligned with shareholders over shareholding requirements helps to align executives with shareholders and requirements a longer time horizon.
focus on delivering long-term shareholder value which includes risk mitigation.
Strategic priority 4 Generate and distribute meaningful cash Link to relevant strategic priority: returns.
1 2 3 4 For more details on strategy please go to pages 20 and 21 OVERVIEWSTRATEGIC   INFORMATION Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 69 Key remuneration component Time horizon years How our Remuneration Policy links to our strategy How our Remuneration Policy takes into account risk Fixed element 1 2 3 4 Base salary, associated benefits and variable pay A principal risk is the loss of specialised talent.
Base salary elements combine to attract, retain and motivate the and core calibre of executives required to shape and execute This is mitigated by offering a competitive package against businesses of a strategy and generate superior shareholder returns.
comparable size and comparable peer group as well as recognising the breadth benefits of the role and individual experience the role-holder brings to the Company.
Link to relevant strategic priority: 1 2 3 Variable elements 1 2 3 4 Financial and personal objectives are set with reference In establishing the annual Group budget, the Board seeks to ensure that Annual bonus: to our business strategy approved by the Board.
Current weighting and measures are: 60% Earnings per share The financial metrics chosen are KPIs of the business and therefore reflect how 20% Cash conversion well management mitigates our principal financial and reputational business risks 20% Personal which include: Its cyclical nature, closely linked to the economy: Key Performance Indicators KPIs.
Ensuring we have the right business model to deal with market changes: The importance of compliance and data governance when operating across Link to relevant strategic priority: 33 countries with multiple regulatory and legal frameworks: and Increased reliance on technology and the associated risk of data loss or 1 2 3 4 system failure.
Deferred bonus is awarded in shares and therefore Personal objectives are linked to the delivery of key projects designed to Annual bonus: helps align future focus with that of shareholders and enhance the Groups operational strength and competitiveness in line with Deferred element longer-term strategy.
1 2 3 4 The annual bonus also has malus provisions during the three-year deferral period and clawback provisions new for the cash element of the bonus made in relation to FY16 and going forward, and applicable for three years post award.
financial performance and business efficiency over a longer time period, Share Plan together with relative performance against comparable businesses and Current performance conditions are: longer-term alignment with shareholders.
One-third based on total shareholder return TSR relative to a comparator group, with vesting subject The TSR metric measures the relative return from Hays shares against a basket to satisfactory financial performance over the of comparator companies and the result is underpinned by the Companys period, as determined by the Committee: underlying financial performance.
Link to relevant strategic priority: The cash conversion metric indicates the continuous focus on ongoing business cash efficiency whatever the trading circumstances of the business.
Malus provisions during the three-year performance period and clawback provisions new for awards from FY16 and applicable for two years post vesting are also in place to mitigate risk.
Shareholding requirements ensure that executive Encouraging a material, personal stake in the business through substantial Shareholding directors interests are aligned with shareholders over shareholding requirements helps to align executives with shareholders and requirements a longer time horizon.
Link to relevant strategic priority: 1 2 3 4
