OVERVIEWSTRATEGIC   INFORMATION Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 57 EFFECTIVENESS NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT recruited to fill that vacancy and also to ensure Board appointments will continue to be made the Board has the right skills and experience to on merit, and the Committee recognises the fulfil the Boards aim for Hays to be the worlds benefits of diversity and, provided we remain pre-eminent specialist recruitment business.
true to our key principles, we will aim to build on our existing diverse composition in the future.
The Zygos Partnership was appointed to facilitate the appointment of MT Rainey, who Alan Thomson was appointed by the Board on 14 December Nomination Committee Chairman 2015, and we will continue to work with them 1 September 2016 as we consider further opportunities as vacancies arise.
Alan Thomson Role of the Nomination Committee Chairman of the Nomination Committee of the Board and its Committees and The role of the Committee is summarised make recommendations to the Board Dear Shareholder below and detailed in full in its terms of with regard to any changes: The Nomination Committee has continued to reference, a copy of which is available on Consider succession planning for support the Board during the year in ensuring the Companys website haysplc.
com under directors and other senior executives: its composition has the right balance of skills, Corporate Governance.
Identify and nominate for the approval experience, independence and knowledge of the Board, candidates to fill Board to best serve the business and fulfil the The main responsibilities of the Committee vacancies: and Boards responsibility to shareholders in the are to: Keep under review the time commitment ever-changing environment in which the Review the structure, size and expected from the Chairman and the Company operates.
composition including skills, knowledge, non-executive directors.
experience, diversity and balance of An ongoing area of focus for the Committee is executive and non-executive directors succession planning.
As Chairman of both the Committee and the Company, I am acutely Membership and meetings aware of the need to ensure there are no gaps in skills or experience as Board members reach The Committee meets as required and did The Committee is appointed by the Board.
the end of their relevant terms, whether three so on four occasions during the year and all It is chaired by the Chairman of the Board years, six years, or longer.
Paul Harrison will members were in attendance except Pippa and comprises the non-executive directors, reach the ninth anniversary of his election by Wicks who could not attend two meetings all of whom are independent, save for shareholders to our Board shortly after this and Richard Smelt who could not attend the Chairman who was independent on years Annual General Meeting in November.
one meeting, due to prior commitments.
The names and qualifications The Committee have considered carefully Other regular attendees at Committee of the Committees current members are whether there are any factors, circumstances meetings include the Company Secretary set out in the directors biographies on or relationships, that could be considered to and, on invitation, the Chief Executive and pages 50 and 51. compromise Pauls independence and it Group Finance Director.
concluded that he remains independent in character and judgment.
I am therefore August October November May delighted that Paul has agreed to remain as a 2015 2015 2015 2016 non-executive director at Hays plc for a further Number of scheduled meetings in FY16 year.
Planning for his succession, and that in future years of fellow directors, continues.
Committee member Meeting attendance FY16 Alan Thomson Chairman With Richard Smelt having retired during the Paul Harrison year, the Nomination Committee worked on the profile of the individual required to be Victoria Jarman Torsten Kreindl 1 MT Rainey 2 Richard Smelt Pippa Wicks Peter Williams Ongoing succession 1 MT Rainey was appointed to the Board on 14 December 2015.
2 Richard Smelt retired from the Board on 11 November 2015. planning remains an Main Committee activities during the financial year area of focus for the Considered Board succession plans Considered the appointment of a further Committee Reviewed the composition of the Board non-executive director and its Committees Considered and recommended the Reviewed the Committees terms election and re-election of each director, of reference as appropriate, at the AGM Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 58 EFFECTIVENESS CONTINUED The Board has not set any specific Board induction and development Non-executive director appointment process aspirations in respect of gender diversity On appointment, each director takes part The Company adopts a formal, rigorous and at Board level and supports fully the Code in a tailored and comprehensive induction transparent procedure for the appointment principles in respect of diversity.
However, programme which is designed to give him or of new directors and senior executives with the Board is of the view that diversity is less her a deep understanding of the Companys due regard to diversity.
Prior to making an about quotas, and recognises the benefits business, governance and stakeholders.
appointment, the Committee will evaluate of diversity, of which gender is one aspect, Elements of the programme include: the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and it will continue to ensure that this is Senior management briefings to provide and diversity on the Board and, in light of this taken into account when considering any a business overview, current trading evaluation, will prepare a description of the particular appointment, whilst ensuring conditions and strategic commercial role and capabilities required, with a view to appointments are made on merit and ability issues: appointing the best-placed individual for the to enhance the performance of the business.
Meetings with the Companys key role.
In identifying suitable candidates, the advisers and major shareholders, where Committee uses open advertising or the Succession planning necessary: services of external advisers to facilitate the A key task of the Committee is to keep Business site visits across regions: search and considers candidates on merit and against objective criteria and ensuring under review the Companys succession A legal and regulatory briefing on the that appointees have sufficient time to plans for members of the Board over the duties of directors of listed companies: devote to the position, in light of other short, medium and longer term, to ensure Details of the Group corporate structure, significant commitments, and no conflicts the Board remains appropriately balanced Board and Committee structures and of interest.
between new and innovative thinking and arrangements, and key policies and longer-term stability.
The focus during the procedures: and A long-list of potential candidates would 2016 financial year has been on identifying The latest statutory financial reports and be drawn up, from which an appropriate a suitable replacement for Richard Smelt, as management accounts.
number would be shortlisted for interview well as planning for the succession of other based upon their fulfilment of the Board members.
The Committee would then recommend to the Board the Board appointment criteria are considered appointment of the preferred candidate automatically as part of the Committees or candidates, if there is more than one approach on succession planning.
The The Board has a considered suitable for subsequent Committee believes that limited tenure and the appointment.
subsequent enforced retirement of directors clear understanding is not always appropriate for sound business During the year the Committee retained leadership.
Accordingly, matters of director of its role and interacts The Zygos Partnership in respect of MT tenure are viewed on a case-by-case basis.
Raineys appointment and they remain effectively with engaged as further non-executive director At present, the Board has not set any specific appointments are considered.
The Zygos aspirations in respect of gender diversity management Partnership is an independent executive though it believes that refreshment of the search consultancy and it has no other Board should take into account the need to connection with the Company.
consider diversity in all forms.
In the year ahead, the Committee will Tenure of non-executive directors continue to assess the Boards composition Appointments to the Board are made for The Chairman, in conjunction with the and how it may be enhanced and will initial terms not exceeding three years and Company Secretary, ensures that directors consider diversity gender and experience are ordinarily limited to three such terms are provided with updates on changes in and geographic representation and continue in office.
the legal and regulatory environment in to use independent consultants as which the Company operates.
These are appropriate to ensure a broad search Director performance incorporated into the annual agenda of the for suitable candidates.
Having reviewed the independence and Boards activities along with wider business contribution of directors, the Committee and industry updates: the Chairman also Board composition is routinely reviewed to confirms that the performance of each of the keeps under review the individual training ensure that the balance of skills, knowledge directors standing for election or re-election needs of Board members.
The Companys and experience of the Hays Board remains at the 2016 AGM continues to be effective principal external advisers provide updates appropriate to its business.
and demonstrates commitment to their to the Board, at least annually, on the latest roles, including independence of judgment, developments in their respective fields, and Hays Group policy is to hire the best commitment of time for Board and relevant update sessions are included in the candidates for all positions at all levels Committee meetings and any other duties.
The Company throughout the business, irrespective of Secretary presents corporate governance gender, including candidates at Board level.
Accordingly, the Committee has recommended reports to the Board as appropriate, together to the Board that all current directors of with any relevant technical directives issued the Company be proposed for election by the Companys auditor.
In this way, each or re-election, at the forthcoming AGM.
director keeps their skills and knowledge current so they remain competent in fulfilling their role both on the Board and on any Committee of which they are a member.
OVERVIEWSTRATEGIC   INFORMATION Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 59 Whilst the Board calendar had undergone Board evaluation some change in recent years, it was During the 2016 financial year in accordance considered that further refinements could with Code Provision B.
6.2, the effectiveness be made to improve performance generally.
of the Board was assessed through an The Board continues to refine its approach external Board evaluation process, to risk, as identified in prior evaluations, conducted by ICSA Board Evaluation ICSA.
and the executives steps in this area had ICSA has no other connection with the brought matters more into focus for the Company the Company uses ICSA Software Board.
One area of recommendation for Limited for entity management and Board the Board as part of the evaluation was to portal solutions.
One-to-one meetings were consider what measures could be taken to held between the ICSA evaluator and the enhance its reviews of the effectiveness of directors and the Company Secretary.
During the risk management process.
Consideration the meetings, seven broad topics were was given to the further review of risk considered and the evaluator ensured that either within the Board or Audit Committee pre-defined constituent elements of each topic were covered to ensure consistency calendar or, as suggested, through the in the evaluation.
The topic areas were Board establishment of a separate Board risk responsibilities, oversight, meetings, Board committee.
The Board did not consider support, Board composition, working that this would be necessary or appropriate together and outcome and achievements.
Committee effectiveness was also assessed separately.
Results were presented to the In addition to the Board and Committee Board by the external evaluator and areas for evaluation, the Chairman evaluated the improved operation identified and agreed.
individual performance and effectiveness of each director.
The Senior Independent The outcome of the evaluation, with few Director led a separate appraisal of the recommendations being made and which Chairmans performance with his fellow are discussed below, indicated that the non-executive directors, which took into Board is performing well.
consideration both the executive and non-executive directors views.
The report noted that the Board has a clear understanding of its role and responsibilities and fulfils its oversight role effectively.
The interaction by the Board with management is effective and within the Board itself the executive and non-executive members engage well.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive are well understood and matters that are reserved to the Board are considered appropriate and regularly and properly reviewed.
Board composition was considered to be well balanced in terms of both numbers and the executive to non-executive ratio.
Whilst Board membership has evolved with the Company, the need to remain dynamic in addressing the needs of the business moving forward was acknowledged.
In terms of working together, the Board is considered cohesive, with an open style and no one individual or group dominating and displays good chemistry.
Support for the Board is considered to be a strength and the relationship between the Company Secretary and the Board is good.
Access to professional advice is readily available and Board members receive regular updates on legal and regulatory matters, with the Chairman taking a close interest in Board education and Board development generally.
