Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 60 ACCOUNTABILITY AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Committee provides oversight of the Role of the Audit Committee Companys enterprise risk management framework and continues to be satisfied that the Board maintains sound risk management The Committees terms of reference are and internal controls.
available on the Companys website haysplc.
Another aspect of the Committees work this year, also touching on the risk landscape, The key responsibilities of the Committee has been in supporting the directors in their are to: assessment of the long term viability of Monitor the integrity of the financial the Company for the purposes of the Code.
statements of the Company, including The work built on the existing robust process annual and half year reports, interim we have in place around risk assessment Victoria Jarman management statements, and other and mitigation and will hopefully provide Chairman of the Audit Committee formal announcements relating to its shareholders with further comfort in the way financial performance, and reviewing the Company is managed and operated.
and reporting to the Board on significant The Audit Committee has supported the financial reporting issues and judgments: Board in ensuring the Annual Report is fair, Where requested by the Board, review balanced and understandable: in ensuring the content of the Annual Report and the integrity of the Groups financial advise the Board whether, taken as statements and the effectiveness of internal a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the control, shareholders are in turn able to Technology is information necessary for shareholders assess the Companys performance, business to assess the Companys performance, model and strategy.
very important business model and strategy: Recommend to the Board for approval Dear Shareholder to us but can by shareholders, the appointment, I am pleased to present to you the Audit reappointment or removal of the Committee report prepared in accordance also present external Auditor: with the 2014 edition of the Code.
Monitor the relationship with the significant risk Companys external Auditor, including We have revised the Committees Terms consideration of fees, audit scope and of Reference to bring them in line with the terms of engagement: 2016 edition of the Code, under which it Review the effectiveness and objectivity is operating for future financial years.
of the external audit and the Auditors independence: You will be aware from prior years Reports In addition to discharging its financial On engagement of the external Auditor, that we committed to undertake a full tender reporting, internal control and risk review the policy for the provision of the Companys external audit contract management responsibilities, including this year, which commenced in early 2016. of non-audit services and monitor supporting the Board in ensuring the Following a comprehensive process the compliance: Annual Report, as a whole, is fair, balanced Committee recommended to the Board Monitor and review the Companys and understandable, during the course of that PwC be put forward to shareholders internal control and risk management the year the Committee also considered, for appointment at the Companys 2016 systems: amongst other matters, audit effectiveness AGM.
I would like to record my thanks to Monitor and review the effectiveness both internal and external, non-audit all those involved in the process, including of the Companys Internal Audit services policy and the Groups the unsuccessful tenderers, as the time function: and whistleblowing policy and procedures.
and effort invested by all was significant.
Ensure compliance with laws, Further detail on the Committees activities On behalf of the Company my thanks also regulations, ethical and other issues, during the year under review is provided go to Deloitte for their role as the Companys including that the Company maintains below, which I hope will provide shareholders auditor over many years.
suitable arrangements for employees with the necessary information for them to to raise concerns in confidence.
assess the Companys performance, business In some way a reflection of the world in model and strategy.
which we live, the Committee has spent time during the year assessing the potential Victoria Jarman for, and impact of, the various forms of Audit Committee Chairman cybercrime that may befall us.
As a company, 1 September 2016 technology is very important to us and the way we operate, but technology also represents a significant risk and it is important we keep on top of such risks and the Committee, along with the Board, keep this very much in focus.
On the subject of risk, I am pleased with the progress being made by the Group Risk Committee.
OVERVIEWSTRATEGIC   INFORMATION Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 61 Annual Report review Membership and meetings In addition to its work described here, the Committee has reviewed the financial and The Committee is appointed by the Board from its independent non-executive directors.
narrative disclosures in this years Annual Biographies of the Committees current members are set out on pages 50 and 51.
It has advised the Board that, in its view, taken as a whole, the Annual Report August November February May is fair, balanced and understandable and 2015 2015 2016 2016 provides the information necessary for Number of scheduled meetings in FY16 shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Committee member Meeting attendance FY16 Fair, balanced and understandable Victoria Jarman Chairman In making its recommendation to the Board Paul Harrison that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, Torsten Kreindl is fair, balanced and understandable, the 1 MT Rainey Committees robust governance approach, 2 included: Richard Smelt Comprehensive Group and subsidiary Pippa Wicks accounts process, with written Peter Williams confirmations provided by the regional 1 MT Rainey was appointed to the Board on 14 December 2015. senior management teams on the health 2 Richard Smelt retired from the Board on 11 November 2015. of the financial control environment: Reviews of the Annual Report undertaken at different levels of the Group and by the The Chairman of the Committee and its The Committee commissions reports, either senior management team that aim to financial expert, Victoria Jarman, is a from external advisers, the Head of Internal ensure consistency and overall balance: Chartered Accountant, who also chairs the Audit, or Group management, as required, External audit review: Audit Committee of Equiniti Group plc.
All to enable it to discharge its duties.
The Clear guidance and instruction of the Committee members are financially literate.
Group Finance Director and the Group Financial Controller attend its meetings, requirement provided to contributors: as do the external Auditor and the Head Written confirmation that information The Committee discharges its responsibilities of Internal Audit, both of whom have the provided has been done so on a fair through a series of scheduled meetings opportunity to meet privately with the and balanced basis: during the year, the agenda of which is linked Committee Chairman, in the absence of Additional scrutiny by senior to events in the financial calendar of the Group management.
The Chairman of the management: and Company.
The Committee met four times Board and the Chief Executive are also Additional reviews by the Committee during the financial year and all members invited to, and regularly attend, Committee Chairman of the draft Annual Report in were in attendance at all meetings during meetings.
advance of the final sign-off in the context their tenure.
of the revised Code provision.
Final sign-off is provided by the Board, on Main Committee activities during the financial year the recommendation of the Committee.
Reviewed the Groups whistleblowing Significant issues considered during Approved the annual Committee arrangements the year programme Carried out a review of the Committees In reviewing both the half and full year financial Reviewed financial results for publication effectiveness and reviewed progress statements, the following issues of significance Considered the external audit plan and on matters arising from previous were considered by the Committee and reviewed the results of the audit assessments addressed as described.
These matters are Approved the internal audit plan and Considered the Code requirements described in more detail in note 3 to the reviewed its findings concerning fair, balanced and Consolidated Financial Statements.
Reviewed the new requirements relating understandable reporting to external auditor appointments and audit Considered the Companys long-term Debtor and accrued income recoverability partner rotation viability The recoverability of trade debtors, accrued Undertook a tender process for the Recommended the Audit Committee income and the level of provisions for bad debt selection of the external audit Report for approval by the Board are considered to be areas of significant Reviewed the non-audit services provided Reviewed senior finance personnel judgment due to the pervasive nature of these by the external auditor across the Group balances to the financial statements and the Reviewed the risk management and Held discussions with the external importance of cash collection in the working controls framework and its effectiveness, together with the Groups principal risks auditor and the Head of Internal Audit capital management of the business.
The Considered all aspects of IT operations without management being present Committee considered the level and ageing of and risks including cyber debtors and accrued income, together with the Reviewed the performance and appropriateness of provisioning, by reviewing effectiveness of the external auditor previous experience of bad debt exposure and Reviewed the performance and the consistency of judgments made year-oneffectiveness of the internal audit function year.
The Committee was satisfied that the level of provision and the carrying value of debtors and accrued income is appropriate.
Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 62 ACCOUNTABILITY CONTINUED Revenue recognition As reported previously, the Committee has Deloittes fee in respect of its 2016 financial The main areas of judgment in revenue undertaken a full tender of the Companys year audit of Hays was 0.9 million.
recognition relate to i cut-off as we external audit contract.
The Committee Accordingly, the maximum value of nonrecognise permanent placement income is pleased to report that the Board has audit services that Deloitte could have been on the day a candidate starts work, and approved the proposed appointment of engaged by Hays to provide during the temporary placement income over the  LLP as the financial year 2016 was 0.7 million.
The total duration of the placement: and ii the Companys auditor for the coming financial audit fee for non-audit services provided by recognition of temporary contractual year.
This appointment remains subject to Deloitte during the 2016 financial year was arrangements where we act as principal approval by shareholders at the next Annual 0.7 million 2015: 0.4 million.
The main on a gross basis rather than net basis.
The Competition and components of the 0.7 million non-audit Committee discussed and reviewed these Markets Authority Statutory Audit Services services were as follows: areas with both management and the Order 2014 sets out certain regulations in Half year review: 0.1 million: Auditor and remains satisfied that Group respect of audit tendering and appointments Taxation compliance: 0.1 million: and accounting policies with regard to revenue and related audit committee responsibilities Tax advice and other services: 0.5 recognition have been adhered to and that which came into effect for financial years million, of which 0.3 million related judgments made remain appropriate.
commencing on or after 1 January 2015. to a transfer pricing project.
The Company has complied with the Goodwill provisions of the Order for the financial Tax advice and other services include the The Committee assessed the carrying year ended 30 June 2016. completion of a comprehensive review of value of goodwill by reviewing a report our transfer pricing framework to enhance by management which set out the values Auditor Independence and Non-Audit existing arrangements such that the Group attributable to each cash-generating unit Services Policy will continue to conform to best practice CGU, compiled using projected cash flows The Committee believes that the issue of under OECD guidelines.
The Groups existing based on assumptions related to discount non-audit services to Hays is closely related arrangements are well known to Deloitte rates and future growth rates.
The Committee to external Auditor independence and both in the UK and globally.
This, together also considered the work undertaken by objectivity.
The Committee recognises with the expertise within the firm, meant that Deloitte and managements sensitivity that the independence of the external they were best placed to partner us in this analysis on key assumptions.
In the case Auditor may reasonably be expected piece of work.
of Veredus the Committee considered the to be compromised if they also act as disclosure in respect of this CGU.
After the Companys consultants and advisers.
No single non-audit project undertaken discussion, the Committee was satisfied that Having said that, the Committee accepts by Deloitte during the 2016 financial year the assumptions used were appropriate.
that certain work of a non-audit nature is exceeded 302,000.
The Company did best undertaken by the external Auditor.
not pay any non-audit fees to Deloitte on a Pension accounting To keep a check on this, the Committee has contingent basis.
A summary of the fees paid Pension accounting is complex and contains adopted a policy to ensure that the provision to the external Auditor is set out in note 6 to areas of significant judgment, most notably of any non-audit services by Deloitte does the Consolidated Financial Statements.
those in respect of the discount and inflation not impair its independence or objectivity.
rates used in the valuation of the net deficit Having reviewed Hays non-audit services disclosed in note 22.
The Committee The key features of the non-audit services policy this year, the Committee is satisfied reviewed the pension items, including those policy are as follows: that adequate procedures are in place to relating to the adoption of IAS 19 Employee The provision of non-audit services safeguard the external Auditors objectivity Benefits Revised, by discussing a report provided by the Companys external and independence.
prepared by management based on work Auditor be limited to a value of 70% of performed by the Companys actuary the average audit fees over a three-year Effectiveness of the external Auditor which set the key assumptions used in the period: The annual effectiveness review was calculation of the deficit and related income Any non-audit project work which could conducted under the guidance of the statement items.
The Committee also impair the objectivity or independence of Committee Chairman, on behalf of the considered the work performed by Deloittes the external Auditor may not be awarded Committee, and covered amongst other specialist pension team in testing the to the external Auditor: and things a review of the audit partners, audit assumptions and was satisfied that the Delegated authority by the Committee for resource, planning and execution, Committee assumptions used and the disclosures in the approval of non-audit services by the support and communications, and Deloittes the financial statements are appropriate.
external Auditor is as follows: independence and objectivity.
Overall feedback was positive with resulting Value of services per External Auditor improvements, which were largely countryAuthoriser non-audit project Both the Committee and the Board keep specific, discussed and implemented.
On the Group Financial Up to 25,000 the external Auditors independence and basis of this review, the Committee was Controller objectivity under close scrutiny, particularly satisfied with the performance of Deloitte in in regard to its reporting to shareholders.
the fulfilment of its obligations as external Group Finance Director Up to 150,000 Deloitte LLP has been the external Auditor Auditor and of the effectiveness of the audit Audit Committee Above 150,000 of the Group since listing in October 1989. process.
Professional rules require that the Companys audit partner at Deloitte be rotated every five years: the current lead partner, Stephen Griggs, was appointed following the 2011 year-end results.
OVERVIEWSTRATEGIC   INFORMATION Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 63 The Committee believes that the Groups Audit Committee effectiveness Risk management and internal control enterprise risk management framework The Committee considered its effectiveness The Board is responsible for the adequacy needs to continue to evolve in accordance in discharging its duties during the year.
The and effectiveness of the Groups internal with the growth of the Hays business around Committee looked at the work it had carried control system and risk management the world.
Throughout the financial year the out during the year and considered that its framework, which in order to fulfil its Internal Audit team has continued to performance during the year was effective responsibilities the Board has delegated enhance the enterprise risk management when measured against its terms of authority to the Committee.
framework and work with the Group Finance reference and general audit committee best Director and the operating companies across practice.
Details of the main activities of the In order to establish an assessment from the globe to further develop and embed the Committee and its role and responsibilities both a financial and operational control framework methodology at a local level.
have been detailed earlier in this Report.
perspective, the Committee looks to the The formation of a Group Risk Committee work of the Internal Audit function, chaired by the Group Finance Director and The Chairman of the Committee will be specifically to consider whether significant comprising senior operators from each available at this years AGM to answer any process and control weaknesses are region will assist in the management of risk questions on the work of the Committee.
identified, improved and monitored and in the Group.
that risks have been identified, evaluated and managed.
Raising concerns at work The whistleblowing procedure in place The Committee considered the Groups across the Group ensures that employees are risk assessment process, which included coverage across the regions, businesses able to raise any concerns about any possible and functions within the Group, primarily improprieties in business practices, or other IT and treasury, reviewing the effectiveness matters, in confidence: this is managed and of the risk methodology employed, the risk reported through an external third party.
mitigation measures implemented and future risk management and monitoring.
The disclosures under this arrangement are investigated promptly by Internal Audit and Internal Audit escalated to the Management Board and the The Committee oversees and monitors Committee as appropriate, with follow-up the work of the Internal Audit function, action being taken as soon as practicable which reviews key controls and processes thereafter.
throughout the Group on a rolling basis, including resources, scope and effectiveness The Committee, as part of its overall review of the function.
of the Groups system of internal control, reviewed the procedures in place during the The Group Head of Internal Audit has direct reporting period and is satisfied that they are access to the Committee, and meets regularly appropriate to the size and scale of the Group.
with both the Committee and its Chairman without the presence of management to Anti-bribery and corruption consider the work of Internal Audit.
Hays has a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption.
The Group AntiThe Committee approved the programme Bribery and Corruption Policy with specific of work for the Internal Audit function in reference to the UK Bribery Act 2010 is respect of the 2016 financial year, which issued to all employees.
Overall responsibility was focused on addressing both financial and for, and oversight of, the Policy lies with overall risk management objectives across the plc Board.
Training is provided to all the Group.
During the year, 39 Internal Audit employees annually in local languages reviews were undertaken, with the findings and ongoing support is provided when reported to both the Management Board and where necessary.
In addition, risk and the Committee, with recommendations assessments are carried out on an ad hoc tracked and progress subsequently reported basis, for example when new countries are back to the Committee.
under consideration whether they are considered to be low or high risk or prior No significant weaknesses were identified to entry into new public sector markets.
The as a result of risk management and internal Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the control reviews undertaken by Internal Audit Policy during the year and concluded that it during the reporting period.
was sufficient for managing the anti-bribery and corruption risks faced by the Group.
