Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 56 RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Investor meetings held in FY16 Engagement with investors Responsibility for shareholder relations United Continental North rests with the Chairman, Chief Executive Kingdom Europe America Total and Group Finance Director.
They ensure Alistair Cox 34 18 18 70 that there is effective communication with shareholders on matters such as governance Paul Venables 78 43 23 144 and strategy, and are responsible for Investor Relations team 127 68 47 242 ensuring that the Board understands the Other senior management 17 4 5 26 views of major shareholders on such matters.
The Companys investor relations Annual General Meeting Geographic breakdown of investor meetings programme is supported by a dedicated The Board uses the Companys AGM to Investor Relations team which acts as the communicate with investors and welcomes 1. primary point of contact with the investor their participation.
All shareholders are community and is responsible for managing entitled to attend the AGM, at which the ongoing relations with investors and Board members are present.
The Board receives regular views the AGM as a good opportunity to reports from the Investor Relations team.
meet with its smaller, private shareholders.
Feedback from meetings held between A summary presentation of results is given executive management, or the Investor by the Chief Executive before the formal Relations team, and institutional business of the meeting is conducted.
shareholders is also reported to the Board.
All shareholders present can question the Chairman, the Chairmen of the Committees As a part of a comprehensive investor and the rest of the Board both during the 2. relations programme, formal meetings are meeting and informally afterwards.
scheduled with investors and analysts to 1.
United Kingdom 53% discuss the Groups interim and final results.
The Notice of AGM and related papers are 2.
Continental Europe 28% In the intervening periods, Hays continues sent to shareholders at least 20 working days 3.
North America 19% its dialogue with the investor community before the meeting.
Voting on all resolutions by meeting key investor representatives, at the AGM is by means of a poll, which, holding investor roadshows and participating reflecting the number of voting rights in conferences.
Meetings with debt providers, exercisable by each member, is considered principally the Companys banks, also take by the Board to be a more democratic place on a regular basis.
During the year, the method of voting.
As soon as practicable executive directors and senior management following the conclusion of the AGM, the met with almost two hundred institutions proxy votes cast, including details of votes around the world, interacting with withheld, are announced to the London shareholders and potential shareholders.
Stock Exchange via the Regulatory News Presentations to analysts are posted on the Service and published on our website.
com and if you would like to know more about our relations with shareholders please contact ir@hays.
As a reflection of the success of Hays investor relations efforts, Hays was ranked No.
3 in the 2016 Extel Survey for best investor relations by a listed company in the European Support & Business Services category.
Within the survey, Alistair Cox, Paul Venables and David Walker were also ranked in the top three of their respective categories of best Chief Executive Officer, best Chief Financial Officer and best IR Professional.
Additionally, the Hays investor relations team ranked No.
3 in the equivalent 2016 Institutional Investor Survey, within which Alistair Cox, Paul Venables and David Walker ranked in the top two spots of their respective categories.
