Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 16 OUR MARKET lowered.
As the year ended, there was The macroeconomic environment The stage of the a General Election in Australia and the macroeconomic cycle incumbent Government was re-elected, albeit UK & Ireland with a slim majority.
In Asia, China grew at the and outlook, and prevailing For most of the year, especially the first half, slowest rate in 25 years as the transition to the UK economic and market backdrop was sentiment in each of our move towards an economy led by consumption broadly stable and supportive.
As we started and services, rather than one driven by markets, have a direct and the second half, however, we saw increased exports, continued.
In the rest of Asia subdued caution amongst clients as geopolitical often significant impact banking markets weighed down on sentiment, instability in parts of Europe and worries about especially in the second half of the year in Hong on activity levels within the state of the Chinese economy weighed on Kong and Singapore.
Confidence was also impacted by our business.
This can be the UK Referendum on EU membership which, Continental Europe & Rest of World both positive and negative, although it did not take place until June 2016, Overall, Europe continued its broad-based created further increased uncertainty, adding particularly with respect recovery during the year, with falling to the sense that the UK was experiencing unemployment, rising incomes and supportive to the confidence levels a pause for breath.
As we exited the year, monetary policy measures from the ECB following the vote to leave the EU, this level of businesses to invest all strengthening consumer and business of uncertainty notably amongst clients confidence, which in turn supported activity in hiring, and candidates increased significantly and so remains a key levels in many markets.
In the Americas, factor in the market, though it is too early to move jobs.
We call this economic conditions were more mixed, with to tell what the longer-term impact may be.
heightened political and economic instability job churn, and it is the In the year, UK unemployment fell further, in Brazil, while in North America although employment levels hit all-time records, and primary driver of activity the Canadian economy remained subdued, the Bank of England held interest rates at hampered by falls in commodity prices, the US in the short term.
enjoyed a more robust economic performance.
This was most evident in the jobs market, Asia Pacific where non-farm payroll, a key employment In Australia, while the resources-driven parts measure, rose by an average of 206,000 per of the economy remained subdued, overall month, leading the Federal Reserve to increase sentiment improved steadily over the year interest rates for the first time in nine years.
despite some concerns over the impact of a China slowdown on the economy.
Consumer confidence levels in the non-mining regions improved, there was an uptick in public sector To see how we performed across our three backed investment and interest rates were divisions go to page 35 Key economic and political events in our major markets during FY16 UK & Ireland UK market sentiment was impacted by the EU Referendum poll and its result.
Continental Europe & Rest of World Unemployment fell further, employment levels hit all Asia Pacific Europe time records.
Continued broad-based China recovery with falling Experienced a slowdown unemployment.
in the economy which impacted consumer and business sentiment US worldwide.
The US enjoyed a stronger economic performance, notably in the jobs market.
Australia Consumer confidence levels, especially in the non-mining regions, improved.
There was a General Americas Election in Australia Economic conditions and the incumbent were more mixed in the Government was Americas, with heightened re-elected.
political and economic instability in Brazil.
OVERVIEWSTRATEGIC   INFORMATION Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 17 The structure of the global recruitment market 130k Executive search Specialist recruitment Contingent fee model focused on highly skilled roles in clear structural growth markets Hays focus Generalist blue collar sta ng 20k Net fee pool In FY16 58% of our fees came from the The main UK listed specialist recruitment The competitive environment Temp and Contracting market, although businesses we identify are PageGroup, this is weighted towards just three countries Robert Walters and SThree, all of which have We focus on the segment of the recruitment where Hays has a market-leading position: varying exposures and business mix, but do market referred to as professional, white collar Germany, Australia and the UK.
In most have a presence in many of the markets in skilled or specialist recruitment.
The salary of of the other countries in the Group we which we operate though do not have the the candidates we place ranges from roughly have historically been predominantly perm scale of Hays operations in some of the 20,000 to 130,000 p. a. and we operate focused, however where market conditions more technical recruitment markets such across 20 different areas of specialism, and local legislation have allowed it, we as Construction & Property.
We also identify including white collar professions such as have successfully been pursuing a strategy many other competitors across each of our Accountancy & Finance and IT, and more to build a meaningful temp and contractor local markets.
These include larger, so called technical disciplines such as Engineering business, which today represents one-third generalist recruiters such as Adecco, and Construction & Property.
The competitive of our business outside of the three Randstad and Manpower, who also have landscape across most of our markets is core markets.
operations in the specialist recruitment extremely fragmented and characterised by space, but are predominantly focused on a large number of companies, which are often lower-salary blue collar segment of the very small and focus on local, niche markets, market.
There are also several other sector and with a few large global players.
or region-specific businesses such as KForce Group net fees excluding Germany, in the US or Amadeus FiRe in Germany.
Australia and the UK Despite the fragmented nature of the % industry, however, in the majority of our We have deliberately built a business that is 100 78% 67% markets the main competition we face is well-balanced and exposed to both mature, from in-house recruiting teams within the cyclical markets and emerging structural HR function of corporates.
In FY16 61% of our net fees were that in more mature markets like the UK or the generated in mature markets and 39% in more US around 80% of addressable skilled jobs are 60 immature markets.
The latter have significant filled via recruitment agencies, in less mature structural growth opportunities and are less markets like Germany that figure is only impacted by the economic cycle.
We believe 40 around 20% according to our analysis.
The this balance, as well as our mix of temporary, 33% first time outsourcing of the recruitment of contractor and permanent recruitment professional staff is therefore a key driver 22% 20 combined with genuine scale across a range of of growth in many of our businesses.
20 specialist areas and 33 countries, is unique to the specialist recruitment space, adds 0 2011 2016 relative resilience to our business model through the economic cycle and acts as Perm a genuine differentiator in our industry.
Temp Indicative salary range of Hays placements Market segment Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 18 OUR MARKET CONTINUED Mega trend 2: Changing client behaviour of recruitment services.
Therefore, Longer-term market trends Many companies are increasingly employing notwithstanding our market-leading position skilled people on a contract or project basis, there we still see many growth opportunities In addition to these short-term macroeconomic introducing more flexibility in their cost base as more businesses start to outsource their conditions and competitive trends, we see and benefiting from a workforce with a wide recruitment of skilled labour.
Our services many other factors that influence our business, portfolio of relevant experience.
For an must be tailored to these different client which can represent opportunities and or risks increasing number of businesses therefore, needs, whether SMEs or large corporates or challenges to our existing business model.
contract and temporary workers make up an and the way we provide those services essential, and in some cases substantial, part has to be adapted to match those unique The emergence of structural growth of their workforce.
Hays act as intermediary requirements.
For instance we offer markets in specialist recruitment, skills for highly skilled professionals searching for Managed Service Programme MSP shortages in certain recruitment markets short-term vacancies.
services, where we manage contingent and the globalisation of the flow of labour workforces, as well as Recruitment Process all have an influence.
In addition, we identify Opportunities for Hays Outsourcing RPO services, where we four mega trends which also have an impact Work with existing clients to help them manage all permanent recruitment needs.
on the future shape and direction of our manage and shape their skilled Temp Additionally, to help clients of any size industry and inform how we run the business & Contractor workforces tracking all aspects of their contingent and develop our strategy: Establish new client relationships as more workforce we also offer technologybusinesses adopt this model enabled solutions like our 3 Story Software, Mega trend 1: Labour force evolutions Bring the expertise of our existing Temp a cloud-based vendor management and These include the rise of the digital economy & Contractor businesses to bear in new workforce management software solution.
driving new job creation in more niche areas and opening markets such as social media, increased IT spend and Mega trend 4: Evolving technology demand for more flexible, project-based Potential challenges or threats Technology is in many ways transforming work or greater mobility of experienced The risk of more in-house recruitment how people work, enabling remote working workers and globalisation of labour.
and direct sourcing of temp and and impacting on how clients and candidates contractor labour by corporates engage and interact with the jobs market Many of the factors above are why we Adverse changes in local market and with Hays.
Also, the digitalisation of both believe Contracting is a key structural regulations governing the Temp supply and demand creates vast quantities growth market and has become one of our & Contractor markets of data to be analysed and put to use.
We have made further strategic progress rolling out Mega trend 3: Changing business practices Opportunities for Hays our market-leading IT Contracting business These include increased outsourcing of Leverage our IT architecture to efficiently from Germany into other markets where recruitment in many immature markets handle the increasing volumes of data we believe the model can be successful, around the world where most professional in our business, enabling our consultants including Canada, France and Japan.
This, recruitment is still done by in-house HR to focus on the relationships with clients coupled with the established IT contracting teams, as well as the increased levels of and candidates business we now have in the US following centralised procurement seen in large Understand and manage the data within the acquisition of Veredus, means we are at corporates in more mature markets our business to drive better results for the forefront of this evolving market trend.
clients and candidates Opportunities for Hays Opportunities for Hays Open-up markets where the majority Potential challenges or threats Further build scale within our of recruitment is still performed by Invest in understanding and responding Contractor business in-house teams to new trends, routes to market and Offer a truly globally-integrated Drive growth over-and-above the disruptive technologies service to respond to increased economic cycle, capitalising on first Continue to develop our systems and candidate global mobility, capitalise time outsourcing capabilities to interact with external data on cross border client relationships sources, new routes to market and to be Continue to build our brand in new Potential challenges or threats able to offer clients and candidates the emerging country markets and Margin pressure as more recruitment products and systems they demand such industry niches purchasing decisions are actioned by as mobile and social media technologies procurement teams Potential challenges or threats The need to continue to invest in Our sector-leading technology and Sourcing highly-skilled contractors developing new tools and resources to partnerships help us drive growth by to place with clients provide first-class large-scale HR services improving our consultants productivity.
Jobs are created in new, niche specialisms The risk of disintermediation by newly We also have an Innovation team which in which Hays has limited presence developed technology tools embedded is tasked with assessing the technology Being able to quickly understand and within our clients landscape, identifying new industry trends, adapt to changing regulatory Sourcing and retaining skilled people and opportunities and threats and building environments in many local markets management depth in newer markets partnerships with key emerging players.
Technological and demographic factors which may constrain growth We operate in both mature, cyclical and less mature structural-growth markets.
We have been building a strong presence in markets like Germany which, despite being a developed economy, has a low penetration rate when it comes to the outsourcing OVERVIEWSTRATEGIC   INFORMATION Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 19 Market trends case study: Acquisition of Veredus Corp. Like many things at Hays, our German IT In 2014 Hays acquired Veredus Corp. a Contracting business is based on strong, longDRIVING MANY OF pure play IT staffing company that generates lasting relationships we build with clients and c. 80% of its net fees from Contracting and candidates.
Arno has been a business partner THESE MEGA-TRENDS Temporary assignments.
The ingredients for of Hays for more than 10 years.
He is a Senior success in the Veredus business were the IS THE WAY THAT IT Consultant, specialising in the migration same as those in our other major contracting of core banking systems.
In my previous FLEXIBLE PROJECTbusinesses around the world: acting as projects at Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank trusted long-term career advisers to I was in touch with Hays on a regular basis and BASED WORK AND highly-skilled professionals, finding them the had a personal recruitment expert who looked roles to develop and match their skills.
Bobby after me throughout my various assignments.
INCREASED GLOBAL Higbea has been a Veredus contractor for I enjoy the opportunity and the flexibility to over 10 years.
Net Developer MOBILITY OF SKILLED shape my career according to my own needs who has been placed on assignment through and I am looking forward to the new project CANDIDATES HAS Veredus with clients including Tech Data, I am about to start with Hays.
CHANGED THE WAY Arno Mathiszik Our consultants have built a real Senior IT Consultant, Germany WE WORK.
understanding for what Bobbys requirements are and how theyve changed Over the last few years the roll-out of our over time and have been successfully market-leading Contracting business into matching them with our clients evolving France has enabled us to capitalise on a needs.
Ive worked with Veredus for over macro shift in the French skilled workforce 10 years, and have a genuine two-way marketplace towards more flexible working relationship with them.
David Michelin has been part taken a genuine interest in the development of this trend.
He is an IT Project Director and of my career, which has shown with each over the last three years Hays has helped him assignment as well as the advice they are secure positions with clients including able to give.
They understand my career Publicis, Pixmania and Isobar.
Over the goals as well as the way I work and have years, I have created a strong relationship consistently offered attractive roles that with Hays, who have given me the suited my skillset and lifestyle.
opportunity to grow professionally in projects which matched my expectations.
Net Developer, USA David Michelin IT Project Director, France Hays understand my career goals as well as the way I work Bobby Higbea Senior.
