Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 10 OUR FOUR POINT INVESTMENT CASE Our business philosophy centres on the need to invest to support longterm growth, but also to generate profits and cash along the way.
In practical terms, this means we continually focus on: consultant and business productivity: profitability: strategic reinvestment of our profits to support growth: cash generation and returns to shareholders.
In addition, we believe there are four simple and compelling reasons to invest in Hays.
OVERVIEWSTRATEGIC   INFORMATION Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 11 1.
THE BREADTH OF OUR A BALANCED EXPOSURE TO BUSINESS MODEL ACROSS BOTH MATURE AND STRUCTURAL SECTOR AND CONTRACT TYPE GROWTH MARKETS We have built a global platform with unrivalled Many of the 33 countries across our global platform scale, balance and diversity.
represent clear structural growth opportunities, We have exposure across permanent, temporary where the use of agencies such as Hays to source and contractor recruitment markets at a scale, skilled employees is a relatively new practice.
which is unique amongst our peers.
39% of our Group net fees are generated in We focus on execution in each of our local these structural growth markets which include markets delivered by the best people, sectorGermany, Latin America and Japan.
leading technology, tools and a world-class The remaining 61% of net fees come from more single brand.
mature markets, such as the UK, the US or We have strong and experienced operational Australia, where the use of agencies is a longand senior regional management teams established practice in the skilled jobs market.
We focus on developing and delivering the best Group net fees 1. services and products for clients and candidates, 1.
Mature markets 61% meeting their evolving needs.
Structural growth markets 39% Sectors Countries 2.
OUR ABILITY TO DELIVER OUR POTENTIAL TO GENERATE SUPERIOR FINANCIAL SIGNIFICANT CASH FLOW PERFORMANCE THROUGH AND DIVIDENDS THE CYCLE Delivering our plan would allow us to generate material cash returns, increase our net cash Three years into our five-year plan, we are where position and grow the Groups dividend.
we expected to be in terms of our aspiration to We target core dividend cover of 3.0x earnings broadly double 2013s operating profit of 125 and are building cover towards this level, with million to 250 million in 2018. this years at 2.9x.
We have a balanced exposure across countries, It is our intention that once we have built a net specialist areas and contract forms between cash position of c. 50 million, any free cash temp, contracting and perm.
generated over and above this level will be We believe this balance adds relative resilience to distributed to shareholders annually, at year end, our earnings throughout the economic cycle and assuming a positive outlook, most likely as a drives the outperformance of our business versus special dividend, supplementing the core dividend.
This year we achieved our long-standing ambition Despite this existing balance we remain focused of eliminating net debt, a significant milestone for on further diversifying our earnings, building scale the Group.
across our existing global platform.
FY16 operating profit Earnings per share Net cash Dividend per share 181.0m 8.48p 36.8m 2.90p
