4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:19 Page 60 Section 6: Corporate Governance Statement Introduction The AIC Code of Corporate Governance The Board recognises the importance of a strong corporate As a member of the AIC, the Company has been reporting against governance culture that meets the requirements of the UK Listing the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code and the Authority as well as other relevant bodies such as the Guernsey accompanying AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Financial Services Commission the Commission and the Companies the AIC Guide.
Association of Investment Companies AIC of which the Company is a member.
The Board has put in place a framework for corporate The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of governance which it believes is appropriate for an investment the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Guide.
All Directors contribute to the Board discussions and explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in debates.
The Board believes in providing as much transparency for the UK Corporate Governance Code, as well as setting out investors and other stakeholders as is reasonably possible within the additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of boundaries of client and commercial confidentiality.
specific relevance to the Company.
Guernsey Regulatory Environment The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC The Commission has issued the GFSC Finance Sector Code of Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code, Corporate Governance Guernsey Code.
The Guernsey Code will provide better information to shareholders.
comprises principles and guidance, and provides a formal expression of good corporate practice against which shareholders, The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC boards and the Commission can better assess the governance Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance exercised over companies in Guernseys finance sector.
Code, except as set out below.
The Commission recognises that the different nature, scale and The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions relating to complexity of specific businesses will lead to differing approaches the role of the chief executive, executive directors remuneration, to meeting the Guernsey Code.
Companies which report against and the need for an internal audit function.
the UK Corporate Governance Code or the AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code are also deemed to meet this code.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK The Directors have determined that the Company will continue as Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers these provisions an Authorised Closed-Ended Investment Scheme.
are not relevant to the position of the Company, being an externallymanaged investment company.
In particular, all of the Companys AIFM Directive day-to-day management and administrative functions are The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive seeks to outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no regulate alternative investment fund managers AIFM and imposes executive directors, employees or internal operations.
The Company obligations on Managers who manage alternative investment funds has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
AIF in the EU or who market shares in such funds to EU investors.
The Company is categorised as a self-managed non EEA AIF for the The remainder of this Corporate Governance Statement addresses purposes of the AIFM Directive.
In order to maintain compliance with each of the 21 principles of the AIC Code in turn under the three the AIFM Directive, the Company needs to comply with various main areas of The Board: Board Meetings and Relationship with the organisational, operational and transparency obligations, including Manager: and Shareholder Communications.
the pre-investment disclosure information required by Article 23 of AIFM Directive.
The Chairman should be independent.
Non-Mainstream Pooled Investments The Chairman as from 1 March 2016 was Mr I Russell, who met the On 1 January 2014, certain changes to the FCA rules relating to independence criteria upon appointment and has continued to restrictions on the retail distribution of unregulated collective meet this condition throughout his term of service.
As per the AICs investment schemes and close substitutes came into effect.
recommendations the chairman has no relationships that may create a conflict of interest with shareholders.
As previously announced, the Board confirms that it conducts the Companys affairs such that the Company would qualify for Although not a requirement of the AIC Code, in accordance with approval as an investment trust if it were resident in the United guidance in Principle 1, the Board has a Senior Independent Kingdom.
It is the Boards intention that the Company will continue Director SID, Mr F Nelson, who was appointed as SID on 1 March to conduct its affairs in such a manner and that Independent 2016.
In his role as the SID, Mr F Nelson takes the lead in the annual Financial Advisers should therefore be able to recommend its evaluation of the Chairman at which the Chairmans performance Ordinary Shares to ordinary retail investors in accordance with the and continuing independence is discussed.
FCAs rules relating to non-mainstream investment products.
60 HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
A majority of the board should be independent of The Board is currently seeking to recruit up to two further the manager.
independent Directors and will announce further details when The Board consists of seven non-executive Directors, all of whom appointments are made.
are independent of the Investment Adviser.
None of the Directors sit on Boards of other entities managed by the Investment Adviser.
There should be full disclosure of information about the board.
The independence of each of the Directors is considered during The biographies of the Directors, including length of service, are set the annual self-evaluation of the Board.
Additionally, each Director out in Section 3 Board of Directors and Section 5 Report of the is required to inform the Board of any potential or actual conflicts Directors, together with a list of other public company directorships of interest prior to any Board discussion.
Finally, the most recent for each Director.
No Director has a shareholding in any company tri-annual external evaluation of the Boards performance, which in which the Company also has an investment.
was conducted by an independent consultant, Trust Associates, in February 2015 the Trust Associates Board Evaluation Report, The Directors are kept fully informed of investment and financial confirmed having observed strong challenges and independence controls, and other matters that are relevant to the business of the on the part of the Board, but also a strong sense of collegiality and Company that should be brought to the attention of the Directors.
The Directors also have access, where necessary in the furtherance of their duties, to independent professional advice at the expense Principle 3.
Directors should be submitted for re-election at of the Company.
Nomination for re-election should not be assumed but be based on disclosed procedures and continued The Board meets at least five times a year including for the annual satisfactory performance.
strategy review referred to below.
During the year, a further 12 ad The Directors are not subject to automatic re-appointment.
As a hoc Board Committee meetings were held to deal with other general policy, all Directors retire, and, if appropriate and willing to matters, principally of an administrative nature, and these were act, subject him herself for re-election by shareholders at each AGM.
attended by those Directors available.
Between meetings there is regular contact with the Investment Adviser, the Secretary and the At the AGM of 21 July 2015, all seven of the serving Directors were Companys Broker, as necessary.
re-elected with at least 98% of the votes cast in every case approving the re-election.
The primary focus at Board meetings is a review of investment performance and associated matters such as marketing investor As previously notified, Mr G Picken and Mr J Hallam intend to retire relations, risk management, gearing, general administration and from the Board on 30 June 2016.
The remaining five Directors will compliance, peer group information and industry issues.
The retire and offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM Acquisition Strategy and the Investment Policy, which are set out in on 19 July 2016.
The Board is supportive of the re-election of each the Section 2.2 Strategy and Investment Policy, are also reviewed of the Directors for the new financial year.
regularly with the Investment Adviser giving regard to market conditions and feedback from shareholders and, additionally, a Principle 4.
The board should have a policy on tenure, which is minimum of a full day is dedicated to this review annually.
disclosed in the annual report.
As the Company was formed in 2006, two Directors, Mr G Picken As well as regular Board meetings, the following committees also and Mr J Hallam, have now served in office for more than ten years, met during the course of the year as set out in the table below : and are therefore retiring on 30 June 2016.
Audit, Management Engagement, Nomination, Remuneration and Risk.
Terms of reference for each Committee have been approved The Board believes that long serving Directors should not by the Board and are on the Companys website.
automatically be prevented from forming part of an independent majority of the Board upon reaching nine years service.
As a general rule, if a Director has served more than nine years, the Board will consider the issue of independence carefully on an annual basis as part of the Board self-evaluation and will disclose its conclusions in the Directors Report.
HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 61 4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:19 Page 62 Section 6: Corporate Governance Statement continued The Chairman and members of each committee as at 31 March 2016 are as follows: Management Audit Engagement Nomination Remuneration Risk Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Chairman Mrs S Evans Mr F Nelson Mr I Russell Mr C Russell Mrs S Farnon Members Mrs S Farnon Mrs S Evans Mrs S Evans Mrs S Evans Mrs S Evans Mr F Nelson Mrs S Farnon Mrs S Farnon Mrs S Farnon Mr J Hallam Mr C Russell Mr J Hallam Mr J Hallam Mr J Hallam Mr F Nelson Mr G Picken Mr F Nelson Mr F Nelson Mr G Picken Mr C Russell Mr G Picken Mr G Picken Mr C Russell Mr I Russell Mr C Russell Mr I Russell Mr I Russell The attendance record of Directors for the year to 31 March 2016 is set out below: Formal Management Board Audit Engagement Nomination Remuneration Risk Meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 541324 Mr I Russell 431323 Mr F Nelson 541324 Mrs S Evans 541324 Mrs S Farnon 541324 Mr J Hallam 4 2 1213 Mr G Picken 501324 Mr C Russell 541324 Mr J Hallam was present for the first two audit committee meetings, before Mrs S Evans replaced him as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Mr Hallam is no longer a member of the Audit Committee.
The Board considers agenda items laid out in the notice and agenda of meeting which are formally circulated to the Board in advance of the meeting as part of the Board papers.
Directors may request any agenda items to be added that they consider appropriate for Board discussion.
The respective reports of the Remuneration Committee, the Risk Committee and the Audit Committee are set out in Sections 7, 8 and 9, respectively, of this Annual Report.
The Nomination Committee and the Management Engagement Committee are discussed in Principle 9 and Principle 15, respectively.
The formal terms of reference for each of the committees of the Board are available to view in the Investor Relations section of the Companys website.
A statement of the Directors responsibilities is set out in Section 4.
The board should aim to have a balance of skills, experience, length of service and knowledge of the company.
The Board believes that its composition with respect to the balance of skills, gender, experience and knowledge, coupled with the mixed length of service, provides for a sound base from which the interests of investors will be served to a high standard.
During the year succession plans were implemented in anticipation of the planned retirement of the Mr G Picken and Mr J Hallam.
As noted above, the Board is currently engaged in a process to recruit up to two further Directors to balance and strengthen the existing skills and knowledge.
As a general remark the Board has chosen not to adopt a definitive policy with quantitative targets for board diversity.
However, gender, knowledge, skills, experience, residency and governance credentials are all considered by the Nominations Committee when recommending appointments to the Board and in formulating succession plans.
The board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
The Board believes that the composition of the Board and its Committees reflects a suitable mix of skills and experience and that the Board, as a whole, and its Committees functioned effectively during the last 12 months.
During the last financial year, an external review was commissioned.
The Trust Associate Board Evaluation Report remarked that the Board, as a whole, and its Committees, are functioning effectively, that discussions are well informed and give valuable challenge to the investment Adviser.
