4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:19 Page 63 In the period between external performance evaluations i. e. for the Principle 11.
The chairman and the board should be brought into financial year reported the Board conducts its own internal the process of structuring a new launch at an early stage.
evaluation, considering the performance, tenure and independence As the Company was listed in March 2006 the Board do not believe of each Director.
The annual self-evaluation is completed by the it is necessary to comment on this principle.
Chairman and takes the form of one-to-one interviews with each Director holding office in the year.
The Chairman then presents a Board Meetings and the Relationship with summary of the conclusions to the Board.
Comments on the the Manager Chairman are collated by the Senior Independent Director who then Principle 12.
Boards and managers should operate in a supportive, provides feedback to the Chairman.
The Board has delegated the following areas of responsibility, Principle 8.
Director remuneration should reflect their duties, within clearly defined frameworks.
responsibilities and the value of their time spent.
The remuneration of the Directors and the Directors remuneration n The day-to-day administration of the Company has been policy are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report in Section 7. delegated to Fidante Partners Guernsey Limited formerly Dexion Capital Guernsey Limited in its capacity as Company Principle 9.
The independent directors should take the lead in the Secretary and Administrator.
appointment of new directors and the process should be disclosed n The Investment Adviser has two roles Adviser to the Company in the annual report.
and Operator of the Groups limited partnership which owns the The Board has a Nomination Committee, the terms of reference of Groups underlying investments.
which are available to view in the Investor Relations section of the Companys website.
The role of Adviser includes reporting on the performance of the investment portfolio, preparing the semi-annual valuations, the It is composed of all seven Board Directors and at 31 March 2016 statutory accounts, the management accounts, business plans, it was chaired by Mr I Russell who is also the Board Chairman.
All presenting results and information to shareholders, co-ordinating all seven members are independent.
service providers to the Group and giving the Board general advice and feedback.
The Nomination Committee had three meetings in the year to 31 March 2016.
The first recommended the start of a recruitment The role of Operator includes managing the partnership and taking process to identify suitable additional independent non-executive direct responsibility, within parameters set by the Board, for the directors in recognition of Mr G Picken and Mr J Hallams decisions relating to the day-to-day management of the Groups forthcoming retirement from the Board.
The second concerned the investment portfolio, the Groups debt facilities, swap initial stages of succession planning in relation to an orderly arrangements, and the sourcing of new investments.
Members of handover of Mr G Pickens position as Chairman and Mr J Hallams the Investment Advisers asset management team are appointed as position as SID and chair of the Audit Committee, and as Directors directors of the Groups project companies and, as part of their role of the Company.
The third meeting, in February 2016, reviewed a in actively managing the portfolio, they attend board meetings and list of potential candidates and commissioned Trust Associates, an make appropriate decisions.
Material decisions are referred back to independent consultant, to conduct the recruitment process.
Since the Investment Advisers Investment Committee for consideration the year end, interviews with candidates have commenced.
Directors should be offered relevant training Representatives of the Investment Adviser, the Company Secretary and induction.
and Administrator attend all Board meetings and, when requested Regular anti-bribery and anti-money laundering training is by the respective Chairman, meetings of the Audit, Management undertaken.
The Investment Adviser also arranged for Directors to Engagement, Nomination, Remuneration and Risk committees.
visit a number of the Companys investments during the year.
This programme of visits is ongoing.
The primary focus at regular board meetings should be a review of investment performance and associated matters During these site visits with the Investment Advisers asset such as gearing, asset allocation, marketing investor relations, peer management team, Directors had the opportunity to tour the asset group information and industry issues.
and meet various stakeholders including the client, the users, the In addition to the statutory matters discussed at each quarterly management team and the various facilities management Board meeting the principal focus is on the reports provided by the subcontractors.
Some visits included attending the project Investment Adviser, as well as those put forward by the Companys company board meeting to observe governance of the investment.
Broker and Financial PR Agent.
These are all standing agenda items.
These visits allow Directors to gain a deeper understanding of the actual operation of the investments concerned and the role of the various parties, including the Investment Advisers asset management team who are appointed directors to the investments project company boards.
HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 63 4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:19 Page 64 Section 6: Corporate Governance Statement continued Papers are sent to Directors normally at least a week in advance of the Principle 15.
The board should regularly review both the Board meetings by the Company Secretary.
Board papers include: performance of, and contractual arrangements with, the manager or executives of a self-managed company.
n A review of the infrastructure market detailing key developments The Management Engagement Committee MEC of the Board is responsible for reviewing all major service providers to the Group, n Investment activity in the period and the pipeline of potential which includes in particular the Investment Adviser.
The terms of new investment opportunities reference of this committee include a review of the relationships n A review of portfolio performance in the period with material between the Company and its main service providers, including their issues identified and discussed performance, compliance with their contracts, and levels of fees paid.
n A review of any Health and Safety matters in the period The Committee typically meets once a year and its recommendations n A detailed financial review, including detailed management are given to the Board for consideration and action.
accounts, valuation, and treasury matters The MEC met once in the year to 31 March 2016 to review the n Reports from the Broker and from the Financial PR company performance of the key service providers.
No material weaknesses were identified, some recommendations were conveyed to certain Matters relating to Companys risk management and internal control providers and the recommendation to the Board was that the systems including associated stress tests, are considered by current arrangements are appropriate and provide good quality the Risk Committee which, in turn, reports any significant services and advice to the Company and the Group.
matters findings to the Board and are covered in Principle 16 below and are set out in more detail in Section 8 Risk Committee Report.
The board should agree policies with the manager covering key operational issues.
The Board regularly request further information on topics of interest The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal to allow informed decisions to be taken.
control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
To help achieve this end, the Board has a designated Risk Committee.
It follows an ongoing On a semi-annual basis, the Board, through the Audit Committee, process designed to meet the particular needs of the Company in also considers the interim and annual reports as well as the detailed managing the risks to which it is exposed.
valuation of the investment portfolio prepared by the Investment Adviser and the third party expert opinion on the proposed The process is based on a risk-based approach to internal control valuation.
On at least an annual basis, the Board considers more through a matrix which identifies the key functions carried out by detailed analysis of the Groups Budget and Business Plan for the the Investment Adviser and other key service providers, the various prospective year.
activities undertaken within those functions, the risks associated with each activity and the controls employed to minimise and Principle 14.
Boards should give sufficient attention to overall strategy.
A scoring based on 1 to 5 for likelihood and 1 The Board considers a formal strategy report prepared by the to 5 for impact is used and these are multiplied together to give a Investment Adviser at a separate meeting at least once a year.
Mitigation is considered on a scale of 1 to 5 and this the year ended 31 March 2016, a two-day Board meeting was held leads to the derivation of a residual risk rating.
The matrix is in September, with the Investment Adviser and third parties with updated quarterly and the Risk Committee is provided with regular relevant infrastructure knowledge, which was dedicated to reports highlighting all material changes to the Groups risks and reviewing and determining the overall strategy of the Group: in their ratings and the action which has been, or is being, taken.
particular the scope and relevance of the current Acquisition Strategy.
The exercise involved a fundamental analysis of certain The key findings and updates from the Risk Committee are, as market segments to ensure they are complementary or additive to with the other committees, reported to the Board after the the existing portfolio.
The Acquisition Strategy, has been reaffirmed relevant meeting.
subject to some small changes in emphasis which were driven by market conditions.
See Section 2.2 Strategy and Investment At each Board meeting, the Board also monitors the Groups Policy, under the heading Acquisition Strategy for details.
investment performance in comparison to its stated objectives and it reviews the Groups activities since the last Board meeting to ensure In addition to the strategy day, adherence to the Acquisition Strategy that the Investment Adviser and the Operator adhere to the agreed is discussed regularly at Board meetings.
As well as considering Investment Policy and approved investment guidelines.
The pipeline acquisitions, the Board also considers disposals, portfolio of new potential opportunities is considered and the prices paid for performance, levels of gearing and likely achievable dividend growth.
new or incremental investments during the quarter are also reviewed.
