4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:19 Page 65 Further the Risk Committee receives regular reports from the Principle 18.
The board should monitor and evaluate other Company Secretary and Administrator in respect of compliance service providers.
matters and duties performed by them on behalf of the Company.
As outlined in Principle 15, the Management Engagement Committee MEC of the Board is responsible for reviewing all major The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function and it service providers to the Group at least once a year.
has decided that the systems and procedures employed by the Investment Adviser and the Secretary, including their own internal The MEC meeting for the financial year occurred in February 2016, review processes, and the work carried out by the Groups external when a review of the Investment Adviser, Administrator, PR auditors, provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal Agency, Broker, Transfer Agent, and Luxembourg Administrator control, which safeguards the Companys assets, is maintained.
Overall, the feedback on performance throughout internal audit function specific to the Group is therefore considered the year was that service had been delivered to a very high unnecessary albeit, from time to time, independent assurance standard and the committee resolved that the continued assignments may be commissioned by the Board.
appointment of all providers be recommended to the Board for approval, which was duly granted.
The Board recognises that these control systems can only be designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to Shareholder Communications achieve business objectives, and to provide reasonable, but not Principle 19.
The board should regularly monitor the shareholder absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss, and rely profile of the company and put in place a system for canvassing on the operating controls established by both the Company shareholder views and for communicating the boards views Administrator and the Investment Adviser.
The Company welcomes the views of shareholders and places The Investment Adviser prepares management accounts and updates great importance on communication with its shareholders.
business forecasts on a quarterly basis, which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities and review its performance.
Ahead of each quarterly Board meeting the Board commissions a specialist report which analyses the shareholdings, collating them The Board and the Investment Adviser have agreed clearly defined into holdings by investment group to determine the largest investment criteria, return targets, risk appetite, and exposure shareholders on the register as well as by trading activity to identify limits.
Reports on these performance measures, coupled with cash the largest buyers or sellers in the previous quarter.
projections and investment valuations, are submitted to the Board and the relevant committees at each quarterly meeting.
This analysis is discussed and, where appropriate, follow up actions are agreed.
The Companys Financial PR Agency provides Principle 17.
Boards should monitor the level of the share price the Board with a quarterly report on press and media coverage of discount or premium if any and, if desirable, take action to reduce it.
the Company and the sectors in which it invests.
All reports also Through detailed quarterly reports the Board monitors the reference the peer group for comparison purposes.
Companys share price, share register and discount premium to NAV per share.
Since April 2009 the share price has been trading The Board makes every effort to engage with shareholders and at a premium to NAV per share due to strong and sustained other stakeholders in the Company.
The Company reports formally demand from the investment community.
As a result of this to shareholders twice a year and normally holds an AGM in demand the Board has encouraged the Investment Adviser to Guernsey in July.
The Secretary and Registrar monitor the voting of source new investments which meet the Companys investment the shareholders and proxy voting is taken into consideration when criteria.
Although initially funded by borrowings under the Groups votes are cast at the AGM.
revolving debt facility, these new investments are typically refinanced within a matter of months by way of new equity The Investment Adviser produces a regular factsheet which is issuance.
The issuance of new shares is the principal tool available available on the Companys website and senior members of the to the Board to manage the premium.
However, as the Board is Investment Adviser make themselves available at all reasonable wary of the drag on returns that results from holding un-invested times to meet with principal shareholders and key sector analysts cash, new equity is only raised following an investment or when an to assist them with their understanding of the sector and the investment is imminent.
Feedback from these meetings is provided to the Board on a regular basis.
Should the Companys shares trade at a discount at some point in the future, the Boards authority to purchase shares for cancellation Two Quarterly Update Statements formerly Interim Management was renewed at the AGM on 21 July 2015.
The Directors are Statements are published each year and any material proposing that it is tabled for renewal when it otherwise expires at new information is published via a Regulatory News Release the forthcoming AGM on 19 July 2016.
HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 65 4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:19 Page 66 Section 6: Corporate Governance Statement continued The company held a Capital Markets Seminar in February 2016 Principle 21.
The board should ensure that shareholders are provided which was well attended.
The presentation from which is available with sufficient information for them to understand the risk:reward from the Companys website.
balance to which they are exposed by holding the shares.
The Board, in conjunction with the Investment Adviser, seeks to During the year Mr I Russell and Mr G Picken held individual educate shareholders and prospective investors on the Companys meetings with certain large institutional shareholders, facilitated by business and the risks and rewards associated with investing in the the Companys Broker.
It is the Boards intention to continue to Companys shares.
meet with shareholders periodically so that open two-way communication on the development of the Company is maintained.
This is an ongoing process and the Board looks to provide as much disclosure and transparency as possible about the activities of the Shareholders may contact any of the Directors via the Company Company and the associated risks and rewards, albeit within the Secretary including any in his or her capacity as chairman of one boundaries of commercial sensitivities and client confidentiality.
of the Companys committees, as appropriate whose contact details are on the Companys website.
The Board has hosted site visits and shareholder events to provide a deeper understanding of the Company and its investment Principle 20.
The board should normally take responsibility for, and portfolio.
Case studies and other materials, along with constitutional have a direct involvement in, the content of communications documents and committee terms of reference, are all available from regarding major corporate issues even if the manager is asked to the Companys website.
In line with its obligations under the Listing Rules, the Company As a regular issuer of further share capital, the Company has publishes an RNS whenever there is a material development.
All published a number of prospectuses with detailed information on Directors review and discuss the draft before publication and a the investment portfolio and the potential risks.
The most recent Director approves the final RNS for release by the Secretary.
prospectus February 2013 is available from Companys website.
All Company-related information is only published following consultation with, and approval by, the Board.
As such the Directors have full knowledge and ability to draft, comment upon and approve the content of any communication.
The Board wishes to provide sufficient disclosure and reporting of the Companys performance and strategic intentions to inform shareholders of Company activities.
The Board believe this is achieved by the detailed information provided as follows: n Annual reports n Interim statement and accounts n Detailed presentations to accompany the results n Two Quarterly Update Statements n Announcements of all material acquisitions n Meetings and lunches with shareholders, attended by the Directors and the Investment Adviser n Case studies and investor events The Companys website has further information on each investment and copies of all publications, together with prospectuses and circulars.
The disclosure of key sensitivities and risks has been developed by the Board working with the Investment Adviser and through dialogue with shareholders, the level and type of disclosure has been expanded and refined in order to assist in a full and fair analysis of the Company and its investments.
66 HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:20 Page 67 HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 67 Millburn Academy Highland Schools, UK Section 7: Directors Remuneration Report
