y t i l a u q n i a t n i a m d n a e r u t c a f u n a M M a r k e t a c r o s Our investment case DIVERSIFIED BUSINESS MODEL Our business is well-diversified by geography and product.
Our inputs Financial People Values Relationships Capabilities Capital investment in We have a highly We are committed to Strong relationships We have extensive R&D, manufacturing skilled, diverse and conducting business with regulators and manufacturing facilities and M&A effective workforce.
ethically and strive to health authorities across capabilities across enable us to expand Through continuous achieve the highestall of our markets, and our global markets our product portfolio, training of our people quality standards.
successful collaborations focused on operational technical capabilities, and by hiring new This approach helps with industry partners, excellence and efficiency.
geographic reach and talent, we secureour ensure our business enable us to achieve manufacturing capacity.
Our activities Develop and innovate: We are developing broad and differentiated portfolios of generic, branded generic and in-licensed products through internal R&D, co-development partnerships, licensing agreements and acquisitions.
Branded Manufacture and maintain quality: We are committed to maintaining the highest-quality standards in all of our manufacturing facilities.
We have 29 plants across the Group Our mission that supply our global markets with a broad range of injectable and Providing patients non-injectable products, including 12 US  and with better access nine EU-approved facilities.
to high-quality, cost-effective medicines Market across geographies: Injectables Generics We actively promote, sell and distribute our products inour markets through experienced sales and marketing teams.
In the MENA region, nearly 2,000 representatives marketour brands to doctors and pharmacists, while our sales teams in the US and Europe are selling to a broad range of customers including the leading wholesalers, pharmacy chains, governments and hospital purchasing organisations.
The value we create Patient benefits Employee benefits Shareholder returns Sustainable business Our high-quality, affordable By focusing on the Economic and financial By conducting our business well generic medicines benefit empowerment and returns are reinvested for and acting responsibly, we are patients across our markets.
development of our people, future growth.
benefiting our employees and we provide long and rewarding our communities.
careers for our talented and diverse workforce.
To find out more, see page 38 to 51.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 4 s g e o g r a p h i e s e t a v o n n i d n a p o l e v e D Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements How we are different Our commitment to quality Our global footprint Our differentiated portfolio Quality has been the founding principle of Our presence today spans more than We are continuously developing our Hikma our culture, people, processes and 50 countries across the globe.
We have large and broad global product portfolio facilities reflect this commitment and enable leading market positions in the US and the to address patients evolving needs.
Across us to ensure the safety of our products.
MENA, where our differentiated operating our businesses we are increasing our focus Embedding the highest-possible quality model, with strong, established local on products with one or more layers of standards within our business ensures our businesses in each of our markets, differentiation including innovative strategic priorities are delivered, while enables us to capture attractive in-licensed products, first-to-market maintaining a transparent and ethical growth opportunities.
generics, hard-to-manufacture culture across the Group.
