Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other remuneration matters Shareholding requirement The Committee has a minimum shareholding requirement for Executive Directors in order to ensure a long-term, locked in alignment with shareholders.
The objective is for Executive Directors to build up and maintain a minimum level of shareholding throughout their employment with the Company.
The minimum shareholding requirement is 300% of salary.
However, the Committee has discretion to increase this minimum.
The shareholding requirement operates in the following manner: Only shares unconditionally owned by the Executive Directors count towards the requirement: No shares may be sold by the Executive Director with the exception of shares sold to pay the tax due on vesting exercise until the shareholding requirement is met and no shares may be sold if the result of the sale is to reduce the Executive Directors shareholding below the shareholding requirement.
Further explanation on the Executive Directors shareholding requirement is detailed on page 131.
Malus and clawback The EIP has malus and clawback provisions to protect the Company and shareholders.
Under these provisions, the Committee can reduce or cancel awards that have not yet vested malus and can require the repayment of an award clawback under the EIP.
In addition, there is a performance based threshold condition for Element B.
In the event of any of the following situations occurring, the Remuneration Committee would apply malus or clawback under the EIP: Hikmas financial statements or results being negatively restated: participant having deliberately misled management, the Board or the market regarding Hikmas performance: participant causing significant damage to Hikma: mistake in the calculation of the level of satisfaction of the performance targets: or participants actions amounting to serious misconduct.
Terms of appointment and service Service contracts The details of the service contracts of the Executive Directors of Hikma in force at the end of the year under review, which have not changed during the year and are available for inspection at the Companys registered office at 13 Hanover Square, London, W1S1HW, were: Company Unexpired Executive Director notice period Contract date term of contract Potential termination payment Said Darwazah 12 months 1 July 2007 Rolling contract 12 months salary and benefits Mazen Darwazah 12 months 25 May 2006 Rolling contract 12 months salary and benefits The Executive Directors contracts are on a rolling basis, unless terminated by 12 months written notice.
This arrangement is in line with best corporate practice for listed companies.
The Committees policy for setting notice periods is that a maximum 12 month period will apply for Executive Directors.
The Committee may in exceptional circumstances arising on recruitment allow a longer period, which would in any event reduce to 12 months following the first year of employment.
Details of the Non-Executive Directors notice periods are provided on page 135.
The Company complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code that all directors of FTSE 350 companies be subject to annual election by shareholders.
Annual Report 2016 113 Remuneration report continued Recruitment remuneration The Committees normal approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay no more than is necessary to attract candidates of the appropriate calibre and experience needed for the role from the international market in which the Company competes.
The Committee will have regard to guidelines and shareholder sentiment regarding one-off or enhanced short-term or long-term incentive payments made on recruitment and the appropriateness of any performance measures associated with an award.
The table below summarises the adjustments to the Policy with respect to recruitment of Executive Directors: Component Policy Pension It is not the Remuneration Committees current policy for existing Executive Directors to provide executive level pension contributions or salary supplements.
However, the Committee retains the discretion if required on recruitment to be able to offer either a contribution to a personal pension scheme or cash allowance in lieu of pension benefits.
Maximum level of variable The maximum level of variable remuneration under the Companys policy is 400% of salary p. a. remuneration In exceptional circumstances, solely for the year of recruitment, this may be increased to 550%.
Share buy-outs replacement The Committees policy is not to provide buy-outs as a matter of course.
awards However, should the Committee determine that the individual circumstances of recruitment justify the provision of a buy-out, the value of any incentives that will be forfeited on cessation of a Directors previous employment will be calculated taking into account the following: the proportion of the performance period completed on the date of the Directors cessation of employment: the performance conditions attached to the vesting of these incentives and the likelihood of them being satisfied: and any other terms and conditions having a material effect on their value lapsed value.
The Committee may then grant up to the equivalent value as the lapsed value, where possible, under the Companys incentive plans.
To the extent that it was not possible or practical to provide the buy-out within the terms of the Companys existing incentive plans, a bespoke arrangement would be used.
Details of any packages would be disclosed as soon as is reasonably possible.
Payment for loss of office When considering termination payments, the Remuneration Committee takes account of the best interests of Hikma and the individuals circumstances, including the reasons for termination, contractual obligations and the rules governing certain items of pay e. g. EIP rules.
The Remuneration Committee will ensure that there are no unjustified payments for failure on termination of employment.
The Committees policy in relation to leavers can be summarised as follows: In the normal course of events, the Executive Director will work their notice period and receive contractual compensation payments and benefits during this time.
In the event of the termination of an executives contract and Hikma requesting the executive to cease working immediately, payment in lieu of notice equal to fixed pay, pension entitlements, other benefits and, on a discretionary basis and only where it is in Hikmas interest, a pro-rated performance related bonus will be payable.
In the event of termination for gross misconduct, neither notice nor payment in lieu of notice will be given and the executive will cease to perform services immediately.
On an Executive Director ceasing to hold office, the Company will announce an out-going Executive Directors remuneration arrangements around the time of leaving.
The Committee will honour Executive Directors contractual entitlements.
Service contracts do not contain liquidated damages clauses.
If a contract is to be terminated, the Committee will determine such mitigation as it considers fair and reasonable in each case.
There are no contractual arrangements that would guarantee a pension with limited or no abatement on severance or early retirement.
There is no agreement between the Company and its Directors providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation : or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of an Executive Directors office or employment.
When determining any loss of office payment for a departing individual the Remuneration Committee will always seek to minimise costs to the Company whilst seeking to address the circumstances at the time.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 114 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Application of Remuneration Committee Component Approach discretion Base salary, benefits See above policy.
Discretion to make and pension Executive Directors may be entitled to receive payment in lieu of notice.
Payment in payments in lieu lieu of notice will be equivalent to the salary payments, benefit value and pension of notice to the contributions that they would have received if still employed by the Company for same value.
EIP The treatment of awards on cessation of employment is governed by the rules of The Remuneration the EIP.
Committee has The rules of the EIP provide that on termination of employment before the discretion to performance measurement date or prior to the relevant vesting date, no award determine that the will be granted in respect of the year of cessation and any subsisting entitlements reason for termination will lapse: unless the following circumstances apply: is classified in the injury or disability: same manner as redundancy: those described in retirement by agreement with the Company: the adjacent column.
the participant being employed by a company which ceases to be a member of The Remuneration the Group: Committee will only the participant being employed in an undertaking or part of an undertaking use its general which is transferred to a person who is not a member of the Group: or discretion to any other circumstances if the Remuneration Committee decides in any determine that an particular case.
Executive Director If an Executive Director leaves in one of the above circumstances, the EIP rules is a good leaver provide for the following: in exceptional circumstances and Element A will provide a full The Remuneration Committee will calculate the amount of any payment pro-rated explanation to to the amount of the plan year completed on the Executive Directors date of shareholdersof cessation and taking into account the level of satisfaction of the performance targets the basis for its at the next performance measurement date.
Any payment shall be made as soon as determination.
practicable after the determination of the level of satisfaction of the performance targets.
Elements B and C The Remuneration Committee will calculate the amount of any payment pro-rated to the amount of the plan year completed on the Executive Directors date of cessation and taking into account the level of satisfaction of the performance targets at the next performance measurement date.
Any payment shall be made as soon as practicable after the determination of the level of satisfaction of the performance targets.
50% of the shares awarded will be subject to the sales restrictions five years from date of grant to date of sale.
Subsisting Element B and C awards will vest.
The sale restrictions on 50% of the shares awarded will continue.
It should be noted the performance conditions for the outstanding Element B and C awards will have been satisfied at the date of grant.
Other contractual There are no other contractual provisions agreed prior to 27 June 2012. n a obligations Annual Report 2016 115 Remuneration report continued Change of control Application of Remuneration Component Approach Committee discretion EIP The treatment of awards on a change of control is governed by the The Remuneration Committee has rules of the EIP.
a discretion whether to pro-rate any element to time.
It is the Remuneration Element A Committees policy in normal The Remuneration Committee will calculate the amount of any circumstances to pro-rate to time: payment pro-rated to the proportion of the plan year completed however, in exceptional circumstances on the change of control and taking into account the level of where the nature of the transaction satisfaction of the performance targets at the date of the change produces exceptional value for of control.
Any payment shall be made as soon as practicable after shareholders and provided the the determination of the level of satisfaction of the performance performance targets are met, the targets.
Remuneration Committee will consider whether pro-rating is equitable.
Elements B and C The Remuneration Committee has In respect of the year of the change of control, the Remuneration the same discretion in relation to Committee will calculate any award pro-rated to the proportion of ElementsB and C as set out above the plan year completed on the change of control and taking into for ElementA and will operate it in account the level of satisfaction of the performance targets at the the same manner.
date of the change of control.
Any award shall be made as soon as practicable after the determination of the level of satisfaction of the performance targets and shall not be subject to the sale restrictions.
Shares subject to subsisting awards shall vest on the date of the change of control and the sale restrictions shall be removed.
It should be noted that the performance targets for subsisting awards were satisfied at the date of grant.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 116 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Employment conditions The Committee takes into consideration practices for all employees across the Group when reviewing executive remuneration.
All employees receive a salary, pension and medical insurance on a similar basis to Executive Directors.
Additionally, all employees participate in a cash bonus scheme which is based on Element A of the EIP.
The majority of management level employees participate in a restricted share award scheme which is either Element B of the EIP or based upon that Element.
The Committee reviews detailed internal and summary benchmarking data, and is satisfied that the level of remuneration is proportionate across the HR grades.
The Committee does not directly consult employees on the Policy contained in this Report, but receives regular updates on employee feedback through the Group HR department and the employee engagement survey, which is conducted by an external organisation and includes views on remuneration and other matters.
Employee cost and total executive pay $m The Committee is cognisant of the importance of Total pay to Average employee cost Executive Directors $m $000 ensuring the pay of Executive Directors alignment with 58 14 the overall employee base.
Whilst the Group has increased 55.8 considerably in size and complexity over the past five years, the Committee believes the employee experience 54 12 has been reasonably aligned with executives.
50.4 10 50 48.2 11.8 9.7 45.1 8.6 46 8 44.2 6.6 6 42 5.4 4 38 34 2 0 30 12 13 14 15 16 Total pay to Executive Directors Average employee cost Shareholder views The Remuneration Committee reviews feedback received from shareholders as a result of the AGM process and throughout the rest of the year, and takes this into consideration together with the latest views of investor bodies and their representatives.
The Committee engages with shareholders and investor bodies in the event of a significant vote against the Remuneration Policy or Policy Implementation.
When any significant changes are made to the Remuneration Policy, the Remuneration Committee Chair discusses these with major shareholders in advance and may offer meetings for more detailed discussion, as it did during 2016: Steps Details Timeframe 1 Adviser We instructed our remuneration adviser to review the existing Remuneration Policy in April light of current market practice guidance.
2016 2 Development The adviser, VP for Human Resources, Company Secretary and Remuneration Committee May Chair discussed the technical review and considered the Companys specific requirements, 2016 history and strategy.
After considerate debate, a policy proposal was created.
3 Remuneration Committee The policy proposal was presented to the Remuneration Committee.
Relevant August adjustments were made.
2016 4 Strategy session The Board reviewed the management strategic plan.
The Remuneration Committee October identified the key strategic deliverables and developed them into performance targets.
2016 5 Shareholder consultation The Remuneration Committee Chair wrote to UK governance bodies and significant November shareholders authorising the minimal policy changes and enhancements to performance 2016 targets.
6 Finalisation Having taken into account the results of the consultation, the Remuneration Committee December approved the final policy proposal.
2016 Annual Report 2016 117 Remuneration report continued Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors NEDs fees are set by the Board under the leadership of the Chief Executive Officer and Executive Vice Chairman having considered the: pay practice in other FTSE 100 companies and sector peers: extensive travel required to undertake the role: and significant guidance and support required from the NEDs.
NEDs do not participate in the Groups pension or incentive arrangements.
The annual fees payable to newly recruited NEDs will follow the policy for fees payable to existing NEDs.
The table below details the current fees.
Element and purpose Operation Fees are reviewed and determined annually and paid in cash.
A basic fee for undertaking the duties of a Director Basic fee of Hikma, chiefly regarding Board, strategy and Provides a level of fees to support recruitment and retention of NED with shareholder meetings.
the necessary experience Chairman fee: 300,000 NED fee: 85,000 For a Non-Executive role.
Committee membership fee Fees are reviewed and determined annually and paid in cash.
A composite fee for taking additional responsibilities in relation to Committee Committee fee: 8,000 membership.
Usually Non-Executives are members of at least three committees.
Fees are reviewed and determined annually and paid in cash.
Committee Chair fee Audit Committee Chair fee: 16,000 The Committee Chairs undertake additional responsibilities in leading a committee Remuneration Committee Chair fee: 8,000 and are expected to act as a sounding board for the executive that reports to the Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee Chair relevant committee.
The chairmanship fee is paid in addition to the membership fee fee: 8,000 with a higher fee paid to the Audit Committee chairman to reflect the significant demands of this position.
Nomination and Governance Committee Chair fee: 8,000 The Company pays expenses incurred wholly in relation Board related expenses to the position of Non-Executive Directors and ensures that Directors do not incur a tax liability as a result.
The The Board believes that Directors should be free to perform their duties, Committee retains discretion to provide for an allowance as they see fit, without incurring personal expenses.
structure as an alternative to the latter payment.
