Committee reports: Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Letter from the Chair AN INTEGRITY AND DEVELOPMENT JOURNEY Dear Shareholders I am delighted with the significant This is my final letter to you as Chair of the Compliance, achievements of the Committee since it Responsibility and Ethics Committee.
Whilst we are continuing on a journey and there is further to go, was established in 2010 to lead, develop I am delighted with the significant achievements of and oversee our approach to business the Committee since it was established in 2010 to lead, integrity, social responsibility and ethics.
develop and oversee our approach to business integrity, social responsibility and ethics.
Since formation, the main focus of the Committee has been formalising, developing and implementing Hikmas operations, is formalised into fully implemented, an ABC business integrity programme based on a high-quality and appropriate policies, procedures and thorough risk assessment and understanding of our training programmes.
We started with our founders commitment to always doing the right thing and developed that into The Committee has had the advantage of Hikmas a global compliance department with fully implemented long-standing dedication to the communities in and externally assessed ABC procedures.
There are many which it operates, which are brought together under people who have made the ABC programme a success our Corporate Social Responsibility programme.
The and I would particularly like to thank my colleagues Committee has overseen, encouraged and supported Mazen Darwazah, Peter Speirs, Waleed Hamam, former this programme which is so clearly linked to our founders colleague, Othman Abu Gheida, and the individual desire to improve lives, particularly through educational compliance officers who have worked so hard to ensure and development opportunities for the least privileged.
that ethical integrity, which has always been the basis of The Committee has addressed a wide range of ethical considerations and developed practices to ensure that Hikma does the right thing.
Whilst we have come far, there is more work to do to further embed and enhance these programmes.
John Castellani and I have been implementing our plan to transfer my chair responsibilities during the past year and to ensure that he is best placed to lead the Committee going forward.
I would like to thank all those involved for their commitment and hard work that has made a success of the Committees vision.
Dr Ronald Goode Chair of the Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 98
