Sustainability continued MEETING HEALTHCARE NEEDS Since our founding nearly 40 years ago, we have been committed to our mission of improving the lives of people through the provision of high-quality, affordable medicines.
Reaching people in crisis Treating major health issues Over the course of 2016, we continued our legacy In 2016 we were able to reach more doctors and of donating much-needed medical products to local patients than ever before with more high-quality communities and charity organisations throughout the treatment options.
Our reach was strengthened this MENA and the US where we operate.
This included year through the significant expansion of our oncology essential medicines such as anti-infectives, as well as capabilities in MENA and the acquisition of West-Ward cardiovascular, nervous system and alimentary tract Columbus in the US, which makes us a top ten US generics products.
Our businesses in the US work with various company, providing more affordable medicines to doctors organisations and donate short-dated medicines.
US partner organisations include, but are not limited to: In addition to meeting the needs of doctors and Americares, Kingsway, Project Hope and Direct Relief.
patients through our core business, we believe we We also donated medical supplies for use at Jordanian have a responsibility to encourage health awareness military field hospitals abroad under our long-term and education, as well as helping those who might find partnership with the Jordan Hashemite Charity themselves in crisis and unable to access care through Organization for Relief and Development JHCO.
In total, the value of in-kind and cash donations across the Group in 2016 was $2.6 million.
Improving cancer care Hikma aims to support patients, oncologists, nurses and Providing affordable quality products hospitals in improving cancer care, and in establishing West-Ward Pharmaceuticals, our wholly-owned long-term partnerships with healthcare providers to meet subsidiary in the US, is a leading generic manufacturer their pressing needs in this area.
In Egypt, we launched in the competitive US market.
With an ever-expanding our new business unit Hikma Specialized Egypt which portfolio of products, investments in state-of-the-art aims to improve our ability to meet the unique and urgent manufacturing facilities and a family of committed needs of cancer patients and healthcare providers in employees, West-Ward delivers quality pharmaceuticals Egypt.
Hikma is committed to making a difference by to a variety of customers within the healthcare industry providing a broad range of affordable added-value including major wholesalers, retailers and hospitals.
medications for patients battling cancer.
West-Ward is committed to being a responsible partner and reliably supplying affordable, high-quality generic medicines to meet todays diverse healthcare needs.
West-Wards operations are carried out at three FDAapproved manufacturing facilities located in Eatontown and Cherry Hill, both in New Jersey, and Columbus in Ohio.
We also have an R&D centre in Bedford, Ohio and adistribution centre in Memphis, Tennessee.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 40 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Our employees supported other activities throughout Enhancing health awareness the year, including a social media competition to raise The health and wellbeing of our employees and those in awareness of breast cancer: fundraising for Macmillan the communities in which we operate is very important Cancer Support through its The Worlds Biggest Coffee to us.
Throughout the year, we organised several activities Morning: and a donation to DKMS, a global organisation and campaigns to raise disease awareness and promote dedicated to the fight against blood cancer.
On World Cancer Day in February, we supported the Talking Hands social media campaign On World Obesity Day, Hikmas marketing team organised which encouraged people to spread messages of support.
a campaign to raise awareness of the dangers of obesity.
We also hosted several sessions for employees to learn Hikmas employees in Jordan were given the chance to more about the disease, including visits from cancer measure their weight, BMI, fat percentage and muscle survivors who shared their personal experiences and percentage.
They were also offered tips on how to stay inspirational stories on how they overcame the disease, healthy and maintain an ideal weight and they were and a talk given by a leading consultant hematologist and served nutritious meals at lunchtime, encouraging medical oncologist.
In October, we collaborated with the them to eat well.
King Hussein Cancer Foundations Breast Cancer Program in Jordan sponsoring an employee cycling trip to raise awareness about breast cancer.
Hikmas oncology plant in Jordan Sahab, the first plant in MENA to receive MENA, EU and US FDA approval In 2016 we were proud that our Sahab facility in Jordan became the first oncology facility in the MENA to receive US FDA approval.
This state-of-the-art oncology facility, which manufactures various oncology products including tablets and hard gelatin capsules, opened its doors in 2010 and is now helping us achieve our aim of improving lives where there is limited access to high-quality therapies.
