Market review UNDERSTANDING GLOBAL HEALTHCARE The global pharmaceutical market continues to grow and is expected to 1 reach $1.5 trillion by 2021, growing at between 4% and 7% per annum.
Despite a slowdown in economic growth worldwide, long-term demographic trends and changing lifestyles are continuing to drive increased demand for healthcare globally.
At the same time, governments in both developed and emerging markets are focused on managing their healthcare budgets, which is increasing the generics share of the pharmaceutical market.
Strong demand for high-quality, affordable generics is expected to continue to grow.
An ageing population and shifting behaviours Hikma is present in over 50 countries, with the US and the MENA region being our largest markets.
The US Scientific advances and improved access to healthcare pharmaceutical market is expected to reach $612 billion are contributing to a rise in life expectancy and increasing by 2020, growing at a compound annual growth rate the proportion of elderly people worldwide.
The US generics market to United Nations projections, the worlds population is is the largest in the world and around 90% of drugs expected to grow by more than 1 billion people by 2030, 3 dispensed in the US are generics.
Generic uptake with the number of people over the age of 60 expected is being driven by patent expiries of branded drugs, to rise by 500 million to 1.4 billion.
At the same time, pro-generic policy reforms and governments focus changes in diet and activity patterns over the last 20 years, on affordable healthcare.
with lifestyles becoming more sedentary, have contributed 4 to a doubling of global obesity rates among adults and At $32 billion, the MENA region represents around tripling among children.
These changes in demographics 3% of the global pharmaceutical market.
Growth in the and lifestyles are contributing to an increase in chronic MENA pharmaceutical market slowed in 2016 due to the illnesses such as cancer, diabetes, heart disease and impact of prolonged low oil prices and political instability.
Whilst growth is forecast to pick up as oil prices continue on a gradual upward trajectory, this slow recovery is likely to impact pharmaceutical spending.
Given the importance of healthcare access for maintaining social stability and Hikmas strategy in the MENA is aligned economic diversification, the slowdown in expenditure is to the market trends.
Over the last few not expected to persist.
Cutbacks in healthcare may also pave the way for more affordable and sustainable medical years, we have been rapidly developing our solutions in the coming years.
product portfolio in the fast growing chronic disease categories, while maintaining our Below are the four key macro trends that we believe are having the most impact on the generic pharmaceutical large portfolio of anti-infective products.
Our diverse product range, strong R&D capabilities and extensive commercial presence will ensure we are well positioned to meet the changing needs of patients.
Mazen Darwazah Executive Vice Chairman, Chief Executive of MENA and Emerging Markets Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 16 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements The shift in disease patterns is especially marked in 3.
Increasing pressure on pharmaceutical the MENA region.
Whilst infectious diseases remain pricing in the US more prevalent, chronic illnesses are expected to rise Pricing pressure continued to increase across global disproportionately fast.
Diabetes is expected to be the pharmaceutical markets in 2016, and in particular in the fastest growing disease in MENA, with cancer and 5 US, as a result of customer and competitor consolidation cardiovascular diseases also forecast to grow rapidly.
Against a broader backdrop of steadily rising healthcare costs, there has also been 2.
Global rise in healthcare spending and increased scrutiny on drug pricing in the US by the government, media and consumers.
We expect this increased generic uptake scrutiny to continue in 2017 as political pressures The increased demand for high-quality healthcare mount and healthcare payers step up initiatives around the world as a result of ageing populations and to impose price cuts.
changing behaviours has translated into rising healthcare costs.
Due to the need for governments to contain these costs, generics are expected to continue taking a larger The current market environment in the US share of the total global pharmaceutical spend, increasing is creating an opportunity for companies from 27% $261 billion in 2012 to 36% $421 billion 6 by 2017, at a CAGR of 10%.
that can provide high-quality medicines at affordable prices.
This dynamic is also In the US, patent expiries, pro-generic healthcare reforms increasing the importance of scale and and increased acceptance of generic drugs by patients and healthcare professionals will continue to grow the differentiation.
It is more important than generic pharmaceutical market.
Generics already account ever to have a large and differentiated for the vast majority of prescription medicine usage and product offering, quality assurance and the percentage of all dispensed prescriptions is expected 7 a competitive cost structure: all of which to rise from 90% to 92% by 2021. allow for long-term value creation.
While many of the growth economies are improving access to healthcare, governments, healthcare insurers Mike Raya and consumers in both developed and developing Chief Executive Officer, West-Ward Pharmaceuticals countries will continue to look for ways to control spending.
Economic uncertainty in MENA In an increasingly cost-conscious environment, Many markets in the MENA region continue to be we are well-positioned to meet patient impacted by political and economic instability.
In the needs as one of the largest suppliers of Gulf Cooperation Council GCC markets, the effects of high-quality, affordable medicines.
At the a weakened oil sector have become increasingly visible and markets in North Africa have seen their currencies same time, we are working to address weaken substantially.
The long-term growth outlook is significant medical needs by focusing nonetheless still positive with the gradual rebalancing our development activities on complex of oil prices, governments prioritisation of healthcare generic products that require advanced expenditure and government initiatives to improve manufacturing technology.
pricing and speed up product registrations expected to underpingrowth.
Riad Mishlawi EU Vice President and Global Head of Injectables 1.
Quintiles IMS: Outlook for Global Medicines through 2021 December 2016 2.
Quintiles IMS: Strategic Market Review for Hikma Pharma November 2016 3.
Quintiles IMS: Outlook for Global Medicines through 2021 December 2016 4.
BMI Research: Pharmaceuticals and Healthcare outlook for 2017: MENA November 2016 5.
Deloitte: Global Life Sciences Outlook 2016 7.
Quintiles IMS: Outlook for Global Medicines through 2021 December 2016 Annual Report 2016 17
