Committee reports: Audit Letter from the Chair EMBRACING AND IMPLEMENTING CHANGE Dear Shareholders There were clear benefits from a fresh pair The completion of the West-Ward Columbus Roxane of eyes and we have developed an effective acquisition, a change in auditors and the continued development of the Enterprise Risk Management system working relationship with the PwC team.
made 2016 a busy year for the Audit Committee.
The acquisition of Roxane was completed on 29 February 2016.
Ahead of this the Audit Committee oversaw the preparation and issuance of the Class I You will recall at the AGM last year you approved the Circular and Prospectus.
After the acquisition we Boards recommendation to award the audit to PwC.
assessed the fair value, for accounting purposes, of the 2016 was accordingly a year of transition.
This involved considerable intangible their review of the interim financial disclosures in August assets as well as various co-development and contract 2016 and performed a review of our internal controls, and manufacturing agreements.
We carried out the fair value used the learnings from both exercises to plan the annual assessment at the half year and again at year end.
There were clear benefits from a fresh pair of eyes and we have developed an effective working relationship with the PwC team.
The Committee continued its oversight of the development of our Enterprise Risk Management system.
We completed a detailed review of the principal risks and approaches to mitigating them, and we reviewed the new organisational processes for measuring and managing risks in an integrated manner.
Overall, I am happy to report that the Company has made real progress in this area.
Finally, this year we welcomed Nina Henderson and John Castellani to the Committee, each of whom brings invaluable expertise and insight.
I would also like to thank Michael Ashton for his enormous contributions to the Committee over his tenure.
As ever, if you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact me.
Pat Butler Chair of the Audit Committee Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 86
