Governance Report 85 Directors Report other statutory information Principal activities and strategic report Details of the results for the year are shown on the Consolidated The Company acts as a holding company to all the Groups Income Statement on page 92 and the business segment subsidiaries.
information is given on pages 103 and 104.
During 2016 the principal activities of the Group comprised the Dividends manufacture and supply of: The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 17.9p per ordinary share 2015: 13.6p per ordinary share which, together - Infrastructure Products Roads and Utilities with the interim dividend of 8.5p per ordinary share 2015: 7.1p per - Galvanizing Services ordinary share paid on 5 January 2017, makes a total distribution for the year of 26.4p per ordinary share 2015: 20.7p per ordinary share.
Pages 2 to 34 contain further details of these areas of the business Subject to shareholders approving this recommendation at the AGM, and the principal subsidiaries operating within them are set out on the final dividend will be paid on 3 July 2017 to shareholders on the pages 154 to 156. register at the close of business on 26 May 2017.
The latest date for The Chairmans Statement and the Directors Strategic Report receipt of Dividend Re-investment Plan elections is 12 June 2017. include: Share capital An analysis of the development and performance of the There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company Companys business during the financial year: provided they are fully paid up and the Company does not hold any lien over them and as the shares rank equally none of them carry Key performance indicators used to measure the Groups any special rights with regards to control of the Company.
Such performance: equal rights apply to shares acquired through any of the Companys The position of the Companys business at the end of the employee share schemes and those shares so acquired carry no financial year: lesser or greater rights than shares acquired in the Company in any other way.
Accordingly there are no restrictions on voting rights A description of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the attaching to any shares, whether relating to the level of shareholding Group: and or otherwise.
Main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, The Company is not aware of any arrangements between performance and position of the Companys business.
shareholders of the Company that may result in restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or voting rights.
Future development An indication of likely future developments in the Group is given in In relation to the purchase by the Company of its own shares the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 43. the rules relating thereto are set out in the Companys Articles of Association which state that the Directors powers to authorise Statement on corporate governance such purchase by the Company are subject to the provisions of the The Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2016 relevant statutes and also the UK Listing Authority requirements, as comprises sections of the Annual Report referred to under Strategic the Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Report, and Governance Report, which are incorporated into the Directors Report by reference.
No shares were held in treasury.
Results The Group profit before taxation for the year amounted to 48.3m 2015: 33.2m.
Group revenue at 540.1m was 16% higher than the prior year.
Operating profit at 51.8m was 39% higher than for the previous year 2015: 37.3m.
Share capital summary Exchange trade The Companys ordinary shares are listed on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange Class Single class of ordinary shares of 25p each Issued share capital 1 January 2016 78,237,724 Total new ordinary shares issued during the year 304,867 Issued share capital 31 December 2016 78,542,591 Rights and obligations All issued shares rank equally.
Rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association Further details can be found in note 21 on pages 127 and 128 of the Group Financial Statements.
com | Stock Code HILS Governance Report 86 Directors Report other statutory information continued Articles of Association Appointment and replacement of Directors The rules relating to amendment of the Companys Articles of The appointment and replacement of Directors of the Company is Association are that any change must be authorised by a special governed by its Articles of Association, the UK Corporate Governance resolution of the Company in a general meeting.
Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation.
Directors can be appointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting or by the Accordingly the following resolutions are to be put to the members of Board.
If a Director is appointed by the Board, such Director will hold the Company at the Companys AGM each year: office until the next AGM and shall then be eligible for election at that meeting.
The authority for making market purchases of shares greater than 5% of the Companys then issued share capital is limited Conflicts by the resolution of the 2016 AGM and will be limited by the Under the Companies Act 2006 and the provisions of the Companys resolution to be put to the 2017 AGM.
The prices to be paid Articles of Association, the Board is required to consider potential for such purchases must be a minimum price of 25 pence per conflicts of interest.
The Company has established formal procedures ordinary share the nominal value and a maximum price of 5% for the disclosure and review of any conflicts, or potential conflicts, above the average of the middle market quotations for ordinary of interest which the Directors may have and for the authorisation of shares derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official such conflict matters by the Board.
To this end the Board considers List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on and, if appropriate, authorises any conflicts, or potential conflicts, of which any such purchase takes place.
interest as they arise and reviews any such authorisation annually.
New Directors are required to declare any conflicts, or potential The Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 conflicts, of interest to the Board at the first Board meeting after provide that a company can reduce the notice period for his or her appointment.
The Board believes that the procedures calling meetings to the shorter period of 14 clear days on established to deal with conflicts of interests are operating two conditions: firstly that the company offers a facility for effectively.
shareholders to vote by electronic means and secondly that there is an annual resolution of shareholders approving such Directors and officers liability reduction in the required minimum notice period.
Approval to The Company maintains an appropriate level of Directors and the calling of general meetings other than AGMs on 14 clear Officers insurance whereby Directors are indemnified against days notice was approved at the AGM on 17 May 2016 to assist liabilities to third parties to the extent permitted by the Companies the Company in conducting its business and subject to any Act 2006. necessary matters being put to shareholders promptly.
This approval remains effective until the earlier of the Companys Financial instruments next following AGM or 11 August 2017.
The financial risk management objectives and policies are detailed in note 21 on pages 121 to 126.
Substantial shareholdings As at 28 February 2017, the Company had been notified in Research and development accordance with Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of During the year, the Group spent a total of 2.0m 2015: 1.6m on the Financial Conduct Authority of the following voting rights of the research and development.
Company: Political and charitable donations Number of % of issued Charitable donations amounting to 42,000 2015: 36,000 Shareholder ordinary shares share capital were made in the year principally to local charities serving the Standard Life Investments 5,146,485 6.55 communities in which the Group operates.
There were no political contributions.
Hargreave Hale 3,587,876 4.57 Employment policies Charles Stanley 3,283,900 4.18 Details of the Groups employment policies are available on the BlackRock Investment Management 2,886,340 3.67 Companys website.
JPMorgan Asset Management 2,827,297 3.60 Change of control significant agreements Legal & General Investment Management 2,511,675 3.20 There are no agreements between the Group and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or Directors employment that occurs because of a change of control, other than revised notice periods and termination payments for D W Muir and The names of the Directors of the Company who served throughout the year, including brief biographies, are set out on pages 48 and 49.
M Pegler set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 75.
Directors interests The Group has a multi-currency revolving credit facility which The interests of the Directors in the share capital of Hill & Smith includes a change of control provision.
Under this provision, a change in ownership control of the Company could result in withdrawal of Holdings PLC as at 31 December 2016 are set out on page 73. these facilities.
All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change in control.
Outstanding options and awards normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
com | Stock Code HILS Governance Report 87 The Directors consider that there are no contractual or other arrangements, such as those with major suppliers, which are likely to materially influence, directly or indirectly, the performance of the business and its values.
Furthermore, there are no contracts of significance subsisting during the financial year between any Group undertaking and a controlling shareholder or in which a Director is or was materially interested.
Disclosure of information to auditor The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware: there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and has established that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Events since 31 December 2016 There were no post-Balance Sheet events.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 11.00 a. m. on Thursday 11 May 2017 at The Village Hotel, The Green Business Park, Shirley, Solihull, B90 4GW.
Notice is sent to shareholders separately with this Report, together with an explanation of the special business to be considered at the meeting and is also available on the Companys website at www.
Other important dates can be found in the Financial Calendar on page 152.
By order of the Board Alex Henderson Company Secretary 8 March 2017 www.
