Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Corporate governance Message from our Chair EVER STRONGER GOVERNANCE Dear Shareholders We owe Michael more than I have detailed Your Board has continued to develop and grow during here and I would like to thank him on behalf 2016, continuing to improve our governance and oversight of the Group.
Earlier in 2016 several investors wrote to Hikma regarding succession for Independent Directors and Our response to these points leads me into the certain remuneration matters.
I was pleased that Board and Committee changes that are underway.
our Nomination and Governance Committee and We welcomed Nina Henderson to the Board in October Remuneration Committee addressed both of these issues and I am delighted that we have further enhanced our in a considered and consultative manner.
You will find US and global corporate experience with such a strong further information in the respective Committee reports.
The implementation of the medium-term succession plan results in Michael Ashton stepping down from the Board in May 2017.
Michael has guided the development of our remuneration practice and development of a Human Resources function from their nascent early days on listing in 2005 to the very strong position that we are in today.
We owe Michael more than I have detailed here and I would like to thank him on behalf of all of us.
As we announced during the year, John Castellani is in the process of assuming responsibility for the Compliance, Ethics and Responsibility Committee chair.
This is a very important Committee for the Group and I am delighted that we have the right person to build on Ron Goodes excellent achievements.
Over the last five years we have made a significant number of directors appointments and have passed on the leadership of all four Board Committees.
We feel that, by taking time to ensure we have the right people and do not lose knowledge, our succession process has greatly assisted in the continued enhancement of the Board.
I would like to thank shareholders for their patience as we have gone through this exercise.
Said Darwazah Chairman and Chief Executive Annual Report 2016 63
