Remuneration report continued Performance-based remuneration Executive Incentive Plan The Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 2014 Executive Incentive Plan EIP, was first approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and is due to expire in 2019.
The Company intends for the EIP to remain the sole incentive arrangement available to Executive Directors for the policy period expiring in 2020.
Shareholder approval is being sought at the 2017 AGM to extend the life of the EIP from 5 to 10 years resulting in the EIP expiring in 2024 rather than before the expiry of the current policy period.
The EIP supports the Companys objectives by allowing the setting of annual targets based on the businesses strategic objectives at that time, meaning that a wider range of performance metrics can be used that are relevant and suitably stretching.
Rationale The Remuneration Committee considers that the EIP remains appropriate because: Global focus: Approximately 30% of the Companys business is located in the MENA and 60% in the US, which requires the Company to compete with local practices, including: US: to offer sufficient leverage in the incentives to be reasonably competitive compared to US pharmaceutical companies.
MENA: the strong short-term remuneration focus by executives in the MENA which is partly reflective of the political and economic environment.
US and MENA: equity based incentives are generally subject to time based vesting following grant, not multi-year performance conditions.
Business dynamics: Expansion in the MENA and emerging markets is a key strategic component.
Political and economic change may cause a short-term lack of visibility of revenues and profits that could discourage longer-term investment and development.
As a result, the application of conventional metrics used by more traditional incentive plans would likely fail to reward the successful execution of the Companys strategy, one that has been widely supported by investors.
The Company has experienced this in practice when dealing with the impact of the Arab Spring on incentive arrangements and the constant change in key markets.
Given such evolving and in some cases highly volatile market conditions, it is difficult to establish testing but realistic multi-year targets which the participant associates with their own performance.
TSR: Comparative total shareholder return targets are inappropriate as even other industry comparators have a very different business mix in terms of product, geographic spread and business model, implying very different risk exposure.
Operational overview The EIP is composed of three elements: Maximum Treatment under award % Payout the Remuneration Element of salary mechanism Vesting period Risks after award Additional requirements Regulations A 150% Cash bonus Immediate Clawback None Cash bonus B 150% Deferred 2 years Forfeiture Share award Shares Clawback 50% of the total share award is Share price subject to a holding period after Employed vesting.
These shares may not be C 100% Restricted 3 years Clawback Bonus deferred sold until 5 years after grant.
Shares Share price in shares Employed The Regulations require Element C to be treated as a cash bonus, although it is an award of shares that will vest three years after grant.
The level of award made under the EIP depends on the achievement of performance conditions: 60% Financial metrics Core PBT and Core Revenue 40% Strategic targets sub-conditions apply For each condition or sub-condition, four levels are established: Forfeiture: at which 0% is awarded in respect of the current year and 50% of outstanding Element B Deferred Shares lapse Threshold: at which awards of up to 100% of salary may be granted Target: at which awards of up to 250% of salary may be granted Maximum: at which awards of up to 400% of salary may be granted Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 112
