Corporate governance continued Board of Directors continued Around the table Executives Non-Executives Independent Non-Executives 1.
Robert Pickering Chairman and Chief Executive Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Chair Nomination and Strategic vision Financing and capital markets Governance Committee Acquisitions and financing MENA region Listed environment and governance US pharmaceuticals Business development Capital markets Governance and leadership Pharmaceuticals 6.
Dr Jochen Gann Chair Remuneration Committee Executive Vice Chairman, Non-Executive Director US and UK pharmaceuticals Chief Executive of MENA Acquisitions and business development and Emerging Markets Human resources and people Treasury and capital management MENA pharmaceuticals EU pharmaceuticals 7.
Michael Ashton Regulatory and reputational Independent Non-Executive Director Strategy and operations North American, European and African Business integrity and ethics manufacturing and distribution Human resources and people 8.
Chair Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee US and international pharmaceuticals 3.
Pat Butler Chair Audit Committee 4.
Financial affairs and audit Strategy and risk 11.
John Castellani Full biographies are included on pages 71 to 73 Chair elect Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee 5.
US pharmaceutical market Regulatory and legislative 6.
Strategy and risk US and international general management Company Secretary 12.
Peter Speirs Company Secretary Listing and governance Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 70 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 1.
Ali Al-Husry Chairman and Chief Executive Executive Vice Chairman, Chief Executive Non-Executive Director of MENA and Emerging Markets Age: 59 Appointed: 1 July 2007 Age: 59 Appointed: 14 October 2005 Joined Hikma: 1981 Nationality: Jordanian Age: 58 Appointed: 8 September 2005 Joined Hikma: 1981 Nationality: Jordanian Joined Hikma: 1985 Nationality: Jordanian Skills and experience: Said has served Skills and experience: Ali joined Hikma as as Chief Executive since July 2007 and Skills and experience: Mazen was Director of Hikma Pharma Limited in 1981 Chairman since May 2014.
Said was appointed Group Executive Vice Chairman and has held various directorships within Chairman and Chief Executive of Hikmas and MENA Chief Executive in 2005 and the Group.
Ali brings great financial group holding company from 1994 to became President and Chief Executive of experience to the Board as well as an 2003 and Minister of Health for the MENA and Emerging Markets in 2014. in-depth knowledge of the MENA region Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan from During his 31 years service at Hikma he and Hikma Pharmaceuticals.
Ali was a 2003 to 2006. has held an extensive range of positions founder of the Capital Bank of Jordan, within the Group starting as a medical which offers commercial and investment During his 35 years at Hikma, Said representative and working in different banking services, and served as Chief has undertaken several executive roles capacities including Chairman and Chief Executive of the Bank until 2007. which have provided him with extensive Executive of Hikma Pharmaceuticals experience in each functional area of Ali has a degree in Mechanical Engineering Limited, a major group operational Hikmas global generic pharmaceuticals from the University of Southern California and holding company.
business and in the broader strategic and an MBA from INSEAD.
leadership of an international and Mazen is responsible for the strategic Other appointments: Ali is the founder entrepreneurial organisation.
Said has led and operational direction of the MENA and a Director of Endeavour Jordan, a the development of the Group strategy, business.
He is also responsible for the not for profit organisation that assists in the Injectables business in Europe and the expansion of the Group into emerging the development of entrepreneurs, and MENA region and acquisitions including markets outside the MENA region, global a Director of the Microfund for Women, West-Ward Pharmaceuticals and Baxters alliances, business relationships, CR and which provides microfinance to lowinjectable business.
He is also leadership, Hikmas facilities in the US, Mazen holds a BA in Business atrustee for the Jordanian University of Jordan and Portugal received US FDA Administration from the Lebanese Science and Technology.
Additionally, Ali approval, the leading international American University and an AMP from isa Director of the Capital Bank of Jordan.
He has served as the President Ali is also a Board member of DASH Said has a degree in industrial engineering of the Jordanian Association of Ventures Limited.
from Purdue University and an MBA Manufacturers of Pharmaceuticals from INSEAD.
Dr Jochen Gann Other appointments: Said holds various Other appointments: Mazen holds various Non-Executive Director public and charitable positions.
He is public and charitable positions.
He is Vice Age: 52 Appointed:29 February 2016 the Chairman of the Queen Rania Chairman of the Capital Bank of Jordan Joined Hikma: 2016 Nationality:German Foundation, a major charitable project, anda trustee of the St. Louis College of Skills and experience: Jochen is Global and a Director of Endeavour Jordan, a Pharmacy, Birzeit University and Kings Head of Corporate Finance M&A and charitable organisation that assists in Academy.
Mazen is also a member of the Corporate Vice President at Boehringer the development of entrepreneurs, and King Abdullah Policy Board.
He is on the Ingelheim GmbH.
In his M&A role he a Trustee of Jordan River Foundation, Advisory Board for the Lebanese American leads Boehringer Ingelheims mergers and a charitable organisation that aims to University LAU, Lebanon.
acquisitions activities across all businesses.
Said is also Committee membership: He is also responsible for Business a trustee of the American University CRE Committee Development & Licensing Strategic of Beirut.
Said is a Board member of Transaction and Alliance Management the Central Bank of Jordan and DASH Corporate Responsibility Committee for Boehringers prescription medicine Ventures Limited.
He is also Chairman of Chair division.
In addition, in his role as Royal Jordanian and the Dead Sea Touristic Executive Committee Corporate Treasurer he is responsible for & Real Estate Investments.
Nomination and the groups financing, asset management, Committee membership: Governance Committee risk management, and liquidity and credit Executive Committee Chair management activities as well as the corporate banking strategy.
Jochen is also managing director of the Corporate Venture Fund.
Annual Report 2016 71 Corporate governance continued Board of Directors continued Jochen has held several senior roles at Committee membership: Michael has a Bachelor of Pharmacy Boehringer Ingelheim including Head of degree from Sydney University, and an Audit Committee Controlling Subsidiaries and Head of Tax.
MBA degree from Rutgers University, Nomination and Governance Prior to joining Boehringer Ingelheim in New Jersey.
Committee Chair 2007, Jochen held the positions of Head Other appointments: Michael is Chairman Remuneration Committee of Corporate Treasury at Cognis GmbH, of Komixx, a private childrens educational Managing Director at Degussa Bank company.
GmbH, Head of Treasury Controlling 6.
Dr Pamela Kirby Committee membership: at Hoechst AG and Consultant at Independent Non-Executive Director Metzler, Germany.
Audit Committee Age: 63 Appointed: 1 December 2014 Jochen holds a Doctorate Degree Nomination and Joined Hikma: 2014 Nationality: British International Finance from University Governance Committee Skills and experience: Dr Pamela Kirby was of Hohenheim, Germany and a Masters Remuneration Committee Chief Executive of Quintiles Transnational Degree in Business Administration and Corp and has held senior executive Science from University of Karlsruhe, 8.
DrRonald Goode positions in F Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd Germany.
Dr Kirby has chaired Independent Non-Executive Director Other appointments: Jochen currently Scynexis Inc and was Senior Independent Age: 73 Appointed: 12 December 2006 holds a number of board positions at Director of Informa plc.
Dr Kirby has Joined Hikma: 2006 Nationality: American companies of the Boehringer Ingelheim previously held Non-Executive Director group.
He is also currently Chairman of Skills and experience: Ron has spent positions with Smith & Nephew plc, Novo the Finance committee at Verband Der over 30 years in the international Nordisk A S, Curalogic A S and Oscient Chemischen Industrie e. V. Germany and pharmaceutical industry, including roles Pharmaceuticals Corp. a Member of the Advisory Board KfW as President of International Operations Dr Kirby holds a first-class Bachelor of IPEX-Bank GmbH, Germany.
at Searle and Vice President of Clinical and Science degree in Pharmacology and a Scientific Affairs at Pfizer.
Rons extensive PhD in Clinical Pharmacology from the experience includes leading companies as 5.
Robert Pickering University of London.
Chief Executive and acting as an adviser to Senior Independent Director Other appointments: Dr Kirby is a companies in the pharmaceutical industry.
Age: 57 Appointed: 1 September 2011 Non-Executive Director of DCC plc, Victrex Ron also advises companies involved in Joined Hikma: 2011 Nationality: British plc and Reckitt Benckiser Group PLC.
She nanotechnology and in the information is also a Supervisory Board Member for technology business sectors.
Skills and experience: Robert joined Akzo Nobel NV and a Non-Executive the Board as a Non-Executive Director Ron was formerly President and Chief member of the board of the Kings in September 2011 and became Senior Executive of Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Health Partnership, an academic Independent Director in May 2014.
Inc. and eXegenics Inc. Ron was a health-science centre.
Robert spent 23 years at Cazenove and Trustee of Thunderbird School of Global Co. becoming the first Chief Executive Committee membership: Management, which was ranked by of Cazenove Group PLC in 2001.
He the Financial Times as the premier Audit Committee subsequently served as Chief Executive of international business school.
JP Morgan Cazenove, until his retirement CRE Committee Ron has a PhD from the University in 2008.
He has extensive experience of Remuneration Committee Chair of Georgia and a MS and BS from the capital raising, mergers and acquisitions University of Memphis.
He is a recipient and of the relationship between quoted 7.
Michael Ashton of the University of Georgia distinguished companies and investors.
Independent Non-Executive Director alumni award.
Robert is a qualified solicitor with a law Age: 71 Appointed: 14 October 2005 Other appointments: Ron is the Chairman degree from Lincoln College, Oxford.
Joined Hikma: 2005 Nationality: Australian of The Goode Group, advisers to the Other appointments: Robert is a pharmaceutical industry, a Director of Skills and experience: Michael has over Non-Executive Director of CLSA UK, a Mercy Ships International, a medical 30 years experience in the pharmaceutical branch of CLSA Limited, an independent services charity, and a Senior Business industry, holding senior executive positions brokerage and investment group and Itau Advisor to The Kinsella Group, an with Pfizer and Merck.
Michael was Chief BBA International PLC, the investment investment banking company.
Additionally Executive of Puricore until June 2015, bank of the Ita Unibanco group.
He he is a member of Private Access, Inc. SkyePharma PLC from November 1998 is Chairman of the Trustees of Lincoln a medical record software developer.
to March 2006 and prior to that was College Oxford 2027 Trust.
Chairman, President and Chief Executive of Faulding.
He has held a number of non-executive and advisory positions across the pharmaceutical industry.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 72 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Committee membership: 10.
John Castellani Nina has served as a Director of Royal Dutch Shell PLC, AXA Financial Inc.
Independent Non-Executive Director Audit Committee The Equitable Companies, Del Monte Age: 66 Appointed: 1 March 2016 CRE Committee Foods Company, Hunt Corporation, Joined Hikma: 2016 Nationality: American Chair until 19 May 2017 Pactiv Corporation and Walter Energy Remuneration Committee Skills and experience: John J. Castellani Inc. with service on Audit, Investment, was President and Chief Executive Nomination and Governance, Corporate 9.
Pat Butler Officer of Pharmaceutical Research and Social Responsibility and Remuneration Manufacturers of America PhRMA from Committees.
She has served as a Lead Independent Non-Executive Director 2010 to 2015.
Prior to that, he was the Director and committee Chair.
Age: 56 Appointed: 1 April 2014 President and Chief Executive of Business Nina is an honours graduate of Drexel Joined Hikma: 2014 Nationality: Irish Roundtable, an association of leading University and holds a Bachelor of Science.
Skills and experience: Pat is a former US company chief executives.
During his A member of the Drexel 100, she received Senior Director at McKinsey & Co. During career John has also held senior positions the Anthony J. P. Drexel Distinguished his 25 years at McKinsey, he focused on with Burson-Marsteller, Tenneco, Inc. and Alumni Award in 2010. advising large corporations in the EU, US General Electric Corp. amongst others.
Other appointments: Nina is a Director and MENA on strategic, acquisition and John holds a Bachelor of Science Degree of IWG PLC formerly Regus PLC, CNO organisational issues.
Pat is a partner at Biology from Union College Schenectady, Financial Group Inc. a life and healthcare the Resolution Group, a financial services New York.
insurance products company, the Foreign investment and restructuring company.
Policy Association and the Visiting Nurse Other appointments: John is a member of Pat has extensive experience in strategy Service of New York Inc. the largest home the board of trustees of The Johns Hopkins implementation, integrating acquisitions, healthcare provider in the United States.
Medical System Sibley Memorial Hospital, performance improvement and a range of She is a Trustee of Drexel University, Washington, DC.
He is also a Director finance functions including treasury and th including the Drexel College of Medicine.
Pat is considered to Nina is a President of the Kent Land Trust have recent and relevant Committee membership: Foundation, a nature conservancy.
Audit Committee Committee membership: Prior to McKinsey, Pat qualified as a CRE Committee chartered accountant with the audit and Audit Committee Chair from 19 May 2017 tax practice of Arthur Andersen.
He has Nomination and Remuneration Committee a first class honours degree in Commerce Governance Committee and a postgraduate diploma in Accounting Remuneration Committee 11.
Nina Henderson and Corporate Finance from University College Dublin.
Peter Speirs Other appointments: Pat is a NonAge: 67 Appointed: 1 October 2016 Company Secretary Executive Director of the Bank of Ireland, Joined Hikma: 2016 Nationality: American Towergate Group and Res Media Limited.
Appointed: 3 April 2012 Skills and experience: Nina is a former He is also a Governor of the British Film Joined Hikma: 2010 Nationality: British Corporate Vice President of Bestfoods Institute and a trustee of the where she held numerous international Skills and experience: Peter joined Resolution Foundation.
general management and executive Hikma as a Deputy Company Secretary in Committee membership: marketing positions for global consumer 2010 and assumed the role of Company branded and food service businesses.
Peter is responsible for Audit Committee Chair During a 30 year career, her positions advising the Board and Committees on CRE Committee included President Bestfoods Grocery governance matters.
Prior to joining Hikma North America Consumer Division, he worked for Barclays and Pool Re, Nomination and Governance Corporate Vice President Business the UK terrorism re-insurer.
Committee Development Global Food Service Peter is a Fellow of the Institute of Remuneration Committee Division, President Bestfoods Specialty Chartered Secretaries and Administrators Markets Division and Vice President and holds a Law degree from the Bestfoods Baking until 2001.
