Committee reports: Nomination and Governance Letter from the Chair DIVERSITY AND BALANCE ACROSS THE BOARD Dear Shareholders Having made a significant number of changes As in previous years, the Nomination and Governance over the past three years, our succession Committee has focused on succession planning for Independent Directors and executive management, arrangements for Independent Directors governance, Board structure and Board effectiveness.
are in place for the foreseeable future.
During the year we communicated our medium-term succession plan for Independent Directors, which involves the retirement of Michael Ashton in May 2017 and Ron Goode in May 2018.
In accordance with our approach The Committee continues to give due consideration that has been in place for several years, we have allowed to succession for the Executive Directors, including time for the orderly transfer of Rons CREC responsibilities reviewing the development needs of internal candidates to the new chair, John Castellani.
We also completed and considering the critical aspects of undertaking an the process for identifying and appointing an additional external search.
Whilst executive succession is not an Independent Director, which resulted in Nina Henderson immediate concern, it is something that we monitor joining the Board.
Having made a significant number carefully and for which we have made appropriate plans.
of changes over the past three years, our succession The Committee has undertaken extensive governance arrangements for Independent Directors are in place activities during the year, including the annual review for the foreseeable future.
of our entire governance framework and extensive procedural changes and enhancements resulting from the Market Abuse Regulation.
Following a review, we decided that the Board evaluation process should be enhanced through externally facilitated interviews and more in-depth assessment of the Chairmans performance.
We implemented changes to our appraisal process early in 2017.
As Senior Independent Director, I am available at any time to discuss with shareholders any matter of concern.
Robert Pickering Chair of the Nomination and Governance Committee Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 92
