Corporate governance continued Governance report continued Effectiveness Hikma knowledge Board members frequently visit the business units and Skills and experience meet management teams to fully understand and advise on the important issues facing the Group.
During the year, The Board keeps the skills and experience of its Non-Executive Directors visited facilities in Jordan, Portugal members under constant review.
The Directors believe in and the US including the newly acquired site, West-Ward the necessity for constructive challenge and debate in the Columbus.
The Executive Directors and Ali Al-Husry have boardroom and consider that existing Board dynamics and extensive experience of Hikma from its earliest days to processes encourage honest and open debate with the today.
The Directors maintain regular contact with senior Executive Directors.
management and the Company Secretary ensures that Directors are kept up to date with major developments in the Groups business.
Board experience Training Business ethics and integrity 73% The Chairman considers the development needs of Listed environment 73% Directors as part of his ongoing assessment of Board effectiveness and ensures that these requirements are met Pharmaceutical 73% by the Company Secretary organising appropriate training Manufacturing 82% opportunities.
The Board training and development activities this year were: Sales 82% External advisers provided the Board with training sessions on governance, anti-bribery and antiFinance 82% corruption, and financial reporting requirements Governance 91% Directors attended several externally provided seminars and discussion forums.
Further training is scheduled Commercial 100% for 2017 Regulatory and political 100% Hikmas brokers and financial advisers presented industry and market updates to the Board on Strategy and risk 100% several occasions Human resources 100% The Company Secretary made regular updates to the Directors on relevant regulatory and governance matters Country of origin Independent advice The Board Governance Manual provides for any Director to have access to independent professional advice at Hikmas expense.
Geographical experience External commitments The Directors external commitments are detailed in MENA 55% their profiles on pages 71 to 73.
The Nomination and Governance Committee operates, monitors and reviews UK 73% the conflicts of interest procedures, which have operated Europe 82% effectively during the year.
A register of external commitments is maintained by the Company Secretary US 91% and is reviewed at each Nomination and Governance Committee and Board meeting.
Where new commitments Global 100% are proposed, these are reviewed in advance by the Nomination and Governance Committee and, where appropriate, recommendations on necessary controls are made to the Board.
The Board considers that a degree of outside commitments enhances a Directors ability to perform the role.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 80 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Time Elements assessed The Directors commit an appropriate amount of time Board Composition, Expertise and Dynamics to their roles and are readily available at short notice.
Time Management The Independent Non-Executive Directors are required Board Support and Committees to commit at least 20 days during each year to the Strategic Oversight execution of their duties.
However, all of the Independent Non-Executive Directors devote at least 30 days per Risk Management annum to their Hikma responsibilities.
In addition, the Succession Planning and Human Committee Chairs spend a significant amount of time on Resource Management their respective areas of responsibility and Non-Executive Priorities for Change Directors take time to meet with management and visit operations where there are particular areas of interest.
Progress on previously identified issues Consequently, the Independent Non-Executive Directors dedicate substantially more time to Hikma than their Observations Actions taken appointment requires.
The duties of the Chairman and Independence and Following extensive work by the Chief Executive, Directors and Committee Chairs tenure Nomination and Governance are detailed in the Board Governance Manual.
Committee, the Company announced the appointment of additional independent directors Evaluation and performance and confirmed the tenure of The Board re-assessed its approach to evaluation during longer serving directors.
The conclusion from this exercise was that a full, Time The schedule of committee and externally moderated, interview-based evaluation should board meetings was extended be conducted every three years.
in order to allow further time for important business.
Process Strategic focus An extensive strategic review The process is co-ordinated by the Senior Independent was conducted and presented Director at the request of the Chairman to the Board for challenge and Lintstock, an external moderator which has no other insight.
The strategic review led connection with the Company, led the process with to the development of a new, a thematic questionnaire and interview process detailed business plan.
Lintstock reported independently to the Chairman and Committee structure The membership of board the Senior Independent Director committees was extended to ensure that all relevant skills Lintstock presented the results and findings to the and experiences were available.
full Board and provided their independent feedback The remit of the Nomination on the results Committee was extended A similar process was followed for each Committee to provide closer oversight of the Board of governance.
The results of the evaluation process formed part of Timeliness Management reviewed their the Chairmans appraisal of the overall effectiveness processes for board papers to of the Board and its members ensure that directors had more Regularly during the year, the Directors fed back to the time for considering issues Company Secretary improvements and enhancements in advance.
that they considered should be progressed outside the evaluation timetable Annual Report 2016 81
