Corporate governance continued Governance report continued Conclusions and actions Responsibilities The Board demonstrated particular strengths in the Board responsibility following areas: The Board is the ultimate decision-making oversight and Board composition control authority in Hikma.
The Board sets the strategic Understanding of the key markets direction, monitors financial performance and challenges in North America and the MENA region management ideas and performance.
The Board promotes Interaction and atmosphere providing for good, good governance within the Group, and seeks to ensure healthy discussions and challenges that Hikma meets its responsibilities to shareholders, employees, suppliers, customers and other stakeholders.
Non-Executive Directors provide support and The Board is assisted in the delivery of its responsibilities constructive challenge to management by internal and external advisers: Oversight of risk management Internal advisers Areas where further work is being undertaken by Executive Vice Chairman, Chief Executive of MENA management and the Company Secretary: and Emerging Markets Knowledge of European and emerging markets Chief Financial Officer Review of past decisions CEO West-Ward Pharmaceuticals Length of reports and presentations Chief Strategy and Corporate Development Officer Training and development opportunities for directors VP Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations Executive development VP Human Resources and MENA Operations VP EU and Global Head of Injectables Chairmans appraisal General Counsel The Independent Non-Executive Directors regularly meet Company Secretary in private during the course of the year.
The performance of the Chairman and the Board is discussed during these meetings.
Additionally, the Senior Independent Director External advisers Nature of advice met with the Independent Non-Executive Directors to Bank of America Broker undertake a formal appraisal of the performance of the Merrill Lynch Chairman and subsequently fed back comments to him.
CenterView Partners Investment adviser This review addressed: Citigroup Broker Board efficiency and openness EY Internal auditor The effectiveness of the Chairmans leadership Lintstock Board evaluation The setting of the Board agenda PwC External auditor Communication with shareholders Slaughter and May Lawyers Willis Towers Watson Remuneration advisers Internal communication and board efficiency The conclusion of this process was that the Chairman gave clear leadership and direction to the Board, and that Matters reserved to the Board the Board is run in an appropriate and effective manner.
Hikma maintains a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board in the Board Governance Manual, which is reviewed annually.
The Chief Executive is responsible for delivering Hikmas strategic and operational objectives and has authority from the Board to deliver those objectives through matters which are not reserved and where authority has been delegated specifically.
The Chief Executive reports on operational progress and corporate actions to the Board at each meeting.
Where appropriate, the Chief Executive is assisted by internal and external advisers in presenting operational progress and key strategic decisions to the Board.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 82 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements The formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board Dialogue with stakeholders includes the following items: During the year the Board reviewed communications from Operational management: Approval of strategy, shareholders regarding the tenure of certain Independent operations oversight, performance review Directors and the disclosure and challenge in the performance targets.
The Board and its committees took Structure and capital: Approval of changes to account of these comments through clarifying succession Group structure or changes to capital structure arrangements, strengthening performance targets and Banking and leverage: Approval of principal bankers consulting with shareholders on the action taken.
and major lending arrangements Hikma is committed to clear and open communication Financial reporting and controls: Approval of financial with shareholders and stakeholders.
If there are matters announcements, accounts, dividends and significant on which additional explanation is required, Hikma changes to treasury and accountancy practice is always happy to discuss them.
Please contact the Internal controls: Assessing the effectiveness of Company Secretary in the first instance by writing the Groups risk and control processes to cosec@hikma.
Contracts: Approval of significant contracts, The Board maintains regular dialogue with shareholders investments and projects which meet pre-set through its investor relations programme, directed monetary thresholds towards ensuring a mutual understanding of objectives.
Communication: Approval of certain press releases, The principal ongoing communications with shareholders and all circulars and prospectuses are through the publication of Hikmas Annual Report and Accounts, interim results and trading statements.
The Board membership and other appointments: Approval Chairman meets major shareholders periodically to discuss of changes to Board structure and composition, governance and strategy issues in order to understand succession, auditors and Company Secretary their views on the Company and to ensure their views Remuneration: Determining remuneration policy for are communicated to the Board as a whole.
Shareholders senior management and Directors and officers and are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting amending or introducing share incentive plans AGM and if unable to do so are encouraged to vote Corporate governance: Annually reviewing Board, by proxy.
Copies of presentations made at the AGM are Committees and individual Director performance, available on the website after the event, together with the and reviewing corporate governance arrangements results of the voting.
All Directors are expected to attend the AGM and full attendance has been achieved other Capital expenditure: Approval of significant than when exceptional personal circumstances capital projects have intervened.
Indemnities and insurance For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Hikma maintains an appropriate level of Directors and Officers insurance.
The Directors benefit from qualifying third-party indemnities made by Hikma that were in force during the year and as at the date of this report.
These indemnities are uncapped in amount in relation to losses and liabilities which Directors may incur to third parties in the course of the performance of their duties.
Peter Speirs Company Secretary 14 March 2017 Annual Report 2016 83
