Corporate governance continued Executive Committee Manager at Hikma Investment, General Manager of Hikma Farmacutica and Vice President of Injectables.
In February 2009, Majda assumed her current position as Corporate Vice President, Human Resources and she took on additional responsibility for MENA operations in January 2015.
She has been responsible for establishing a central human resource practice and leading the development of several Group-wide initiatives, including the grading structure, performance evaluation process and the Group bonus scheme.
Majda has completed the Advanced Management Program AMP at INSEAD, holds a BA from the American University of Beirut and a Masters degree from Hochschule Fur Okonomie in Berlin, Standing left to right: Michael Raya, Hussein Arkhagha, Bassam Kanaan, Majda Labadi, Mazen Darwazah, Germany.
Other appointments: Majda is currently Seated left to right: Riad Mishlawi, Said Darwazah, Susan Ringdal a member of the Board of Trustees of the Al Hussein Technical University.
is responsible for delivering the expansion Said Darwazah vision of the Chief Executive.
Committee membership: Chairman and Chief Executive Bassam is qualified as a US Certified Please refer to page 71 for full Executive Committee Public Accountant CPA and Chartered biographical details.
Bassam has a BA Khalid Nabilsi from Claremont McKenna College and an Mazen Darwazah Chief Financial Officer International Executive MBA from Kellogg Executive Vice Chairman, Chief Executive Appointed: 2011 Recanati Schools of Management.
of MENA and Emerging Markets Joined Hikma: 2001 Nationality: Jordanian Other appointments: Bassam currently Please refer to page 71 for full Skills and experience: Prior to assuming holds a Non-Executive Directorship in Arab biographical details.
his current role, Khalid held several senior Bank.
Bassam has served on the Boards positions in the Hikma finance department of Aqaba Development Co. Jordan Dubai Bassam Kanaan including Corporate Vice President, Properties, Zara Holding, Capital Bank Finance and was a key member of the Chief Strategy and Corporate of Jordan, CEGCO and Paltel.
Following qualification Development Officer is active in several non-profit and charity as a CPA he held a variety of roles in organisations and is currently a member Appointed: 2014 financial accounting, reporting and of the Board of Trustees of the Welfare Joined Hikma: 2001 Nationality: Jordanian financial advisory services, and with Association in Jordan.
Skills and experience: Bassam joined Atlas Investment Group now AB Invest, Committee membership: Hikma as Chief Financial Officer in 2001 where he was involved in mergers and and played a leading role in preparing for Executive Committee acquisitions advisory services.
Prior Hikmas IPO in 2005 and in its subsequent to Atlas, Khalid had managed several Global Management Committee Chair M&A activity.
In January 2011, Bassam multinational audit engagements at was promoted to the position of Arthur Andersen in Amman, Jordan.
Majda Labadi President and Chief Operating Officer As Chief Financial Officer, Khalid has Corporate Vice President for Human for the MENA and EU regions, where integrated several acquisitions into Resources and Head of Operations, he led the implementation of important the financial reporting structure, MENA organisational and operational developed the Group internal control improvements.
In 2014, he was promoted Appointed: 2009 framework and implemented new to the newly created role of Chief Strategy Joined Hikma: 1985 Nationality: Jordanian leverage arrangements to fund and Corporate Development Officer, with acquisitions and capital investment.
Skills and experience: During her 31 years Group-level responsibility for strategic at Hikma, Majda has held a variety of roles Khalid qualified as a US Certified Public development, acquisitions, alliances including Purchasing Manager at Hikma Accountant and has an MBA from the and product development.
Bassam Pharmaceuticals Limited, Strategy University of Hull.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 74 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other appointments: Khalid is a founder Michael is also a graduate of INSEADs Brian worked for L. E. K. Consulting as of the Jordan Association for Management International Executive Program.
a management consultant in their Boston Accountants and a Board member of the office.
He led engagements for clients Committee membership: Jordan Armed Forces and Security in a wide variety of areas including Executive Committee Apparatuses Credit Union.
growth strategy, merger evaluation and integration, new product launches, Committee membership: Riad Mishlawi and strategic alliances.
Executive Committee EU Vice President and Global Head of Brian holds a Bachelors Degree Injectables in Business Administration from Susan Ringdal Appointed: 2011 Boston University Questrom School Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Joined Hikma: 1990 Nationality: Lebanese of Management and an MBA from the Investor Relations University of Chicago Booth School of Skills and experience: Riad joined Hikma Appointed: 2012 Business with concentrations in strategic as a Project Engineer in the engineering Joined Hikma: 2005 Nationality: American management, finance, and marketing.
department where he was involved in the Skills and experience: Susan joined Hikma construction of Hikmas facility in Portugal.
Committee membership: as Investor Relations Director, having He spent a significant period in the Executive Committee previously worked for the pharmaceutical manufacturing operations of many distribution and retail pharmacy group Hikma sites, was General Manager Hussein Arkhagha Alliance UniChem plc as Investor Relations of Hikma Italy and became Head of General Counsel Manager.
She also has experience as an Injectables Manufacturing Operations Equity Analyst at Morgan Stanley in before assuming his current role.
In early 2012 Susan assumed was an Executive Director at Watson Joined Hikma:2001 Nationality: responsibility for corporate strategy.
Pharmaceuticals from 1998 to 2005, Jordanian responsible for Injectables operations.
Susan holds a BA in History from Cornell Skills and experience: Hussein Riad has led Hikmas Injectables division University and an MBA from London joinedHikma as Legal Counsel in July through a period of rapid growth and Business School.
Since then, he has established and has integrated operations into a global developed the global legal department, Committee membership: operation.
aligning its mission and strategy with Executive Committee Riad has a BSc in Engineering and a those of Hikma.
Hussein is a key member Masters in Engineering and Management of the team that prepared for Hikmas IPO Global Management Committee from George Washington University.
on the London Stock Exchange in 2005, in addition to Hikmas major acquisitions.
Michael Raya Committee membership: Prior to his appointment as General Chief Executive Officer, West-Ward Executive Committee Counsel, he held several positions at Pharmaceuticals Hikma, includingHead of MENA Legal, Appointed: 2008 Brian Hoffmann Head of the Shareholders Department Joined Hikma: 1992 Nationality: American and Head of Tax.
President, West-Ward Pharmaceuticals Skills and experience: Michael joined Appointed: 2015 Hussein is a qualified lawyer in Hikmas US subsidiary West-Ward Joined Hikma: 2009 Nationality: American Jordan and holds a Masters degree Pharmaceuticals from Vitarine in International Business Law from Skills and experience: Brian was appointed Pharmaceuticals where he had worked the University of Manchester, under President of West-Ward Pharmaceuticals from 1984 until 1992 in various roles, a UK Chevening Scholarship.
in 2015 with responsibilities for two of including Vice President, Quality Control.
Other appointments: Hussein is an active Hikmas facilities, supply chain, business Prior to this, Michael worked at Scheringmember of charity associations, sports and development, and product selection.
Brian Plough and Hoffman LaRoche.
He currently sits on originally joined West-Ward in 2009 to Michael was responsible for all West-Ward the Board of Trustees for Prince Hamza Bin develop a strategy function and was later Pharmaceuticals operations as well as Al Hussein Schools in Jordan.
promoted to VP Corporate Development quality compliance for all worldwide and SVP & General Manager.
Brian has led Hikma facilities until his appointment Committee membership: many strategic initiatives including the as President and Chief Executive of Executive Committee acquisitions and integrations of Baxters West-Ward Pharmaceuticals in 2008.
Multi-Source Injectables business and Michael holds a Masters degree in Boehringer Ingelheims Roxane Laboratories.
Industrial Pharmacy from Long Island University and a Bachelors degree in Chemistry from St. Francis College.
