Remuneration report Letter from the Chair REMUNERATION, PERFORMANCE AND STRATEGIC ACHIEVEMENT Dear Shareholders The Committee considered that 2016 was I am delighted to be writing to you for the first time solid, but in certain aspects challenging from in my role as Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
My first year has been focused on assessing the existing a Group financial performance view, but that remuneration arrangements, developing the remuneration significant progress was made in integrating policy for the future and building the internal team.
West-Ward Columbus and positioning the We spent significant time and resource assessing the adequacy of our existing remuneration arrangements Group for future growth.
and considering whether our remuneration policy should be adjusted.
We concluded that the policy, which has been developed over the past few years, is tailored to The Committee has reviewed the overall level of executive the Company and we are, therefore, recommending packages and considers that the existing packages are minimal changes.
appropriate, taking into account comparable positions, performance, the business environment and the Groups The main area of policy change, which was raised by approach to remuneration below the Board level.
The shareholders and we have addressed in these disclosures, is Committee is not proposing to adjust packages significantly.
improving the linkage between performance remuneration outcomes and the Groups strategic objectives, as well The Committee considered that 2016 was solid, but as enhancing the stretch in those targets.
The targets in certain aspects challenging from a Group financial that impact this years and future years performance performance view, but that significant progress was made remuneration have been set to direct the executives to in integrating West-Ward Columbus and positioning the achieve the matters of greatest importance identified in Group for future growth.
Therefore, the performance the strategic review, which centres on product development remuneration outcomes were measured on target in and aligning the organisational structure with that strategy.
relation to the financial metrics, but considered above target overall for the strategic measures.
Nina Henderson and Pat Butler joined the Committee during the year, ensuring that all the Independent Directors contribute towards remuneration discussions.
I welcome them to the Committee.
Over the course of the next year we will embed the executive policy and review incentivisation for management below the Executive Committee level.
As an organisation, Hikma is committed to clear and open communication.
I remain open to discussion with shareholders should there be any matters that they wish toraise directly.
Dr Pamela Kirby Chair of the Remuneration Committee Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 104
