Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Donations Directors During the year the Group made charitable donations of It is the Boards policy that all Directors should approximately $2.3 million 2015: $1.8 million : retire and, should the Director wish to continue in office, seek re-election on an annual basis.
Amount Amount donated in donated in Accordingly, Mr Said Darwazah, Mr Mazen Darwazah, Type of donation 2015 $ 2016 $ Mr Robert Pickering, Mr Ali Al-Husry, Dr Ronald Goode, Local charities serving Mr Patrick Butler, Dr Pamela Kirby, Dr Jochen Gann, communities in which Mr John Castellani and Ms Nina Henderson will seek the Group operates 1,622,628 1,611,657 election or re-electionat the AGM.
Mr Michael Ashton will retire from the Board at the close of the AGM.
Medical donations in kind 127,399 665,851 Political donations and expenditure Nil Nil Auditors Total 1,750,027 2,277,508 Each person who was a Director of Hikma at the date when this report was approved confirms that: Group policy prohibits the payment of political donations So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit and expenditure within the meaning of the Act.
information of which Hikmas auditors are unaware The Director has taken all the steps that he or she Research and development ought to have taken as a Director to make himself The Groups investment in research and development or herself aware of any relevant audit information R&D during 2016 represented 7.7% of Group revenue and to establish that Hikmas auditors are aware 2015: 2.8%.
Additionally, the Group invested extensively of that information in the purchase of certain products and West-Ward Columbus.
Further details on the Groups R&D This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in activities can be found on page 10. accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Interest Indemnities The interest capitalised during the year under review was $0.3m 2015: $0.3m.
The tax relief related to The Directors benefit from qualifying third-party the capitalised interest was $0.1m 2015: $0.1m.
indemnities made by Hikma which were in force during the year and as at the date of this report.
These indemnities are uncapped in amount in relation to losses Significant contracts and liabilities which Directors may incur to third parties Due to the nature of the Groups business, members in the course of the performance of their duties.
of the Group are party to agreements that could alter or be terminated upon a change of control of the Group Employment following a takeover.
However, none of these agreements During this year, the Company continued to operate is individually deemed to be significant in terms of its its existing employee engagement mechanisms which potential impact on the business of the Group taken as include intra-group communications, social networking, a whole.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements an open door policy for legitimate union representatives between Hikma and its Directors or employees that and the operation of share incentive arrangements.
The provide for compensation for loss of office or employment Company does not discriminate against a potential that occurs because of a takeover bid, other than as employee on grounds of disability and will make follows.
The Company has an agreement with one reasonable adjustments to employ and develop senior executive, below Board level, which allows for such persons.
compensation for loss of office with an estimated value of $6.6m, based on share and foreign exchange values on 31 December 2016.
There are no persons, with whom Hikma has contractual or other arrangements, who are deemed to be essential to the business of Hikma.
