Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Our Environmental Health & Safety EHS department Waste reduction and recycling continuously seeks opportunities to positively impact We continuously seek to minimise our impact on the the environment.
By listening to employee feedback, environment through pollution prevention, resource attending focus groups, or simply working with our conservation and waste minimisation initiatives.
This waste disposal partners, much success has been year our various sites have proactively taken steps realised to achieve green results.
towards preserving the environment by working with waste disposal partners, launching awareness campaigns Environmental preservation efforts with our employees and participating in local level environmental sustainability programmes.
An emphasis Earth Hour campaign on recycling and beneficial use programmes has become a standard within Hikma and future expansion of these Earth Hour is celebrated worldwide on the last Saturday programmes will remain a focus in the years to come.
Our employees participated in efforts to raise awareness of environmental threats due to the wasteful use of energy.
Many environmental activities Drug take back took place around the Hikma locations such as a candleFor the past five years, our team in Columbus, Ohio lit walk, lectures and childrens face painting and games.
hasparticipated in biannual Drug Take Back events which are designed to provide a safe, convenient and We also collaborated with the Royal Society for the responsible way for disposing of all types of medicines, Conservation of Nature RSCN to organise the eighth including prescription, OTC, liquids, ointments and annual Clean Up the World campaign, held under the inhalers.
The teams efforts in 2016 resulted in a record slogan Our Place Our Planet Our Responsibility, total of 4,946 pounds, equivalent to over six million which seeks to shed light on the importance of cleaning tablets, being collected.
Overall, these events account up and conserving natural parks while discouraging for a total of 16,610 pounds of medicines, equivalent people from littering.
to over 25.4 million tablets, being collected and safely disposed of.
