Strategic Report 8 Our Business Model 1.
Margins Our two divisions of infrastructure All our subsidiaries are tasked with products and galvanizing services provide achieving an acceptable operating margin services and products to the worlds on sales.
Businesses that fail to achieve utilities and power generation industries this margin are given a period of grace to and to international businesses within the develop a plan for margin improvement infrastructure of roads and rail, together to the targeted level.
with corrosion protection services in the form of zinc and other coatings, to both external customers and Group companies.
Margins We seek to deliver superior shareholder returns by holding 4.
1. leading positions in the niche Delivering sustainable Services and markets of infrastructure profitable growth and Products products and galvanizing shareholder return services, diversified over different geographies and focusing on the following: 3.
Delivering sustainable profitable A key feature of the Groups chosen growth and shareholder return markets is the influence of heightened See page 12 and 13 for more details.
levels of regulation and health and safety considerations on development and growth.
All our products are developed and designed to strict specifications and tested according to applicable world standards.
com | Stock Code HILS Strategic Report 9 Our Strategy Five strategic priorities drive our business model.
Portfolio Management Our businesses employ people local to their communities, and the We continually seek organic growth from our existing operations and success of each business is reliant on the quality of management and monitor our lower performing Group businesses to ensure overall employees.
We aim to ensure that each business is resourced with a growth targets are maintained.
See our strategy in action on capable, engaged and productive workforce working in such a way as page 10. to ensure the health, safety and well-being of all employees.
See our strategy in action on page 36.
Revenue growth and Portfolio targeted returns Management 1.
Revenue growth and targeted returns 3.
Entrepreneurial Management By targeting returns at each individual Whilst continually driving our existing Group senior management encourages businesses we seek to supplement this organic an entrepreneurial culture at business business unit the Board ensures that revenue growth is achieved which flows growth by acquiring sustainable businesses unit level, ensuring businesses are agile, around the world in niche markets that responsive and competitive.
See our through to sustainable profitable growth.
See our strategy in action on page 11. complement our existing activities.
See our strategy in action on page 11. strategy in action on page 10. www.
com | Stock Code HILS Strategic Report 10 Our Strategy in Action Portfolio management Our objective is to achieve at least mid single-digit organic revenue growth by developing substantial businesses in each of our chosen sectors through both organic and acquisitive revenue growth.
Consequently, this leads us to continually examine the smaller and lower performing units within the portfolio, along with rationalisation of production facilities and business transfers.
Key activities We continue to actively manage our corporate portfolio and dispose of or rationalise operations that are non-core to our market strategy, incapable of achieving our target returns, or insufficiently cash generative.
Key events in 2016 Rationalisation of the non-US Pipe Supports business into one site of manufacturing excellence in Andhra Pradesh, India.
Commencement of Carpenter & Patersons site rationalisation programme.
Geographical diversification Our acquisition strategy is to buy and develop businesses in markets we understand through our existing activities.
Our objective is to identify opportunities in our major developed markets of the UK, France and USA, whilst recognising that there is further potential in emerging markets.
Our overall geographic mix will be dictated by developing these opportunities together with the performance of our businesses in emerging markets.
Key activities The majority of our acquisition targets are likely to be privately owned.
We also look at acquiring distressed businesses in the UK which complement our existing operations and therefore enable us to consolidate our market position.
This in turn will allow us, in some instances, to develop our smaller business units into larger and more effective businesses within their markets.
Overseas acquisitions must have a high quality management team in place and a proven earnings stream as it is more demanding to manage businesses from a distance effectively.
Key events in 2016 Purchase of E. T. Techtonics, Inc. 20 January 2016.
Purchase of FMK Trafikprodukter AB, a business operating in the Swedish and Norwegian roads market 1 April 2016.
Purchase of Hardstaff Barriers Ltd, a business specialising in the sale and rental of temporary and permanent concrete barriers 13 May 2016.
Purchase of Technocover Ltd, a business dedicated to high quality steel security solutions for protecting and preventing unauthorised access 13 July 2016.
Purchase of Signature Ltd, manufacturers of street furniture and LED traffic products 3 August 2016.
Barkers StronGuard crash tested palisade fencing.
com | Stock Code HILS Strategic Report 11 Entrepreneurial management We encourage an entrepreneurial culture in our businesses through a decentralised management structure.
We provide our management teams the freedom to run and grow their own businesses, supported by the resources available through being part of a larger group, whilst adhering to the levels of governance and controls appropriate for a quoted company.
Key activities Each subsidiary is managed by its local board of directors who are all empowered to operate their businesses in accordance with Group-approved policies and delegated authorities.
This management culture ensures that decisions are made close to the market and that our businesses are agile and responsive to changes in their competitive environment and, through the international spread of the businesses, opportunities are identified and taken through Group collaboration.
Key events in 2016 Successful integration of Bowater Doors into the Birtley Group.
Premier Galvanizing Limited acquired 25 November 2015 contibuted 2.8m underlying operating profit to the UK Galvanizing division.
Integration of E. T. Techtonics, Inc. into Creative Pultrusions contributing 23% of the combined businesses 2016 operating profit.
Integration rationalisation of Signature Ltd and Hardstaff Barriers Limited.
Expansion of Hardstaff Barriers Limiteds product range.
Revenue, growth and targeted returns Capturing sustainable profitable growth through the supply of infrastructure products and galvanizing services from business units that are focused on profitable growth.
Operating margins are an integral measure of the Groups success and one which we continue to drive for improvement through product mix and value-added customer-focused solutions, as well as high levels of operational efficiency.
Our objective is to operate with an efficient balance sheet by maintaining debt at between 1.5 and 2.0 times EBITDA, which in turn allows us to complement balanced organic growth with value enhancing acquisitions.
Key activities Our target operating margin for a business unit is 10%, although a lower margin profile may be acceptable if that business Return on Capital Employed ROCE is above 20%.
A period of grace will be granted to business units which can demonstrate a plan for margin improvement to the targeted level.
We aim to create value by consistently exceeding this 20% benchmark for ROCE at an individual business unit level.
At a Group level capital returns are assessed by measuring Return on Invested Capital ROIC, where invested capital includes acquired goodwill and intangible assets in order to take into account the amounts invested in acquired businesses.
The Groups target ROIC is 20%.
Key events in 2016 Underlying operating margins 2016 Target range % ROIC 2016 Infrastructure Products 8.7% 8 11 Infrastructure Products 18.6% Utilities 6.3% 7 11 Utilities 15.3% Roads 11.7% 9 13 Roads 21.7% Galvanizing 23.1% 18 21 Galvanizing 20.2% Group 13.1% 11 14 Group 19.4% Hardstaff Barriers Multibloc at Edinburgh Airport.
com | Stock Code HILS Strategic Report 12 Our Strategy in Action Sustainable Profitable Growth - Value Creation Strategic focus To create long-term sustainable profitable growth and through this growth create value for all stakeholders.
We aim to combine organic revenue growth with selective acquisitions, thereby delivering growth in earnings per share.
A strong focus on cash generation supports this growth strategy and enables a progressive dividend policy.
Key activities We address long-term markets by focusing on markets driven by Government spend on infrastructure, particularly with strong regulatory and health and safety dynamics, and by growing demand for power generation in emerging markets and the replacement of ageing power infrastructure in developed economies.
By encouraging a decentralised management structure we incentivise and enable the operators of our businesses to respond to opportunities and challenges in their markets supported by the resources of a larger group.
In order to be truly sustainable we must grow revenues and profits, whilst focusing on customer service, margins, product development, and enhancing our relationships with other stakeholders, including our employees, our suppliers and the communities in which we operate.
At the same time we must be cognisant of the effect our operations have on the environment.
More details can be found in our Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 36 to 43.
Key events in 2016 Underlying Group operating profit up 26% at 70.6m.
Underlying earnings per share up 27% at 65.9p.
Dividend per share 26.4p, up 28% year-on-year.
Underlying earnings per share pence 70.0 60.0 50.0 40.0 30.0 20.0 10.0 - 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Opportunities for growth US galvanizing market, opportunities through organic growth, plant investment and acquisition.
The introduction of Smart Motorways, driven by the UK Governments promised 15.2bn investment in the UK road network.
Continued expansion of the Groups US composites business.
Priorities for 2017 Selective acquisitions to consolidate our market position or increase our geographical representation.
Investing in increased capacity and product development to capture potential opportunities.
Continuation of the structural and operational improvements in both infrastructure products and galvanizing services.
com | Stock Code HILS Strategic Report 13 Our Strategy in Action Our Investment Proposition We believe in providing superior shareholder returns by doing business in the right way in markets where we have global expertise.
We are an international group with leading positions in the supply of infrastructure products and galvanizing services and we aim to deliver strong returns and sustainable value through a focus on strong positions in niche markets.
Investment Proposition KPIs A Globally Organised Group We have leading positions in the niche markets of infrastructure 29 subsidiaries products and galvanizing services, diversified over different geographies with a focus on service, margins and innovative 60 sites product development.
7 countries Organic & Acquisitive Growth We aim to deliver consistent organic growth complemented by 5% organic revenue growth regular, value enhancing acquisitions in markets that supplement or complement our existing operations.
3 UK acquisitions 1 US acquisition 1 Swedish acquisition Strong Operating Cash Flow We focus on underlying cash conversion and a disciplined approach 2016: 93% to each business units return on capital employed.
Over the past seven years the Group has achieved an average rate of over 90% 2015: 100% the ratio of underlying operating cash less capital expenditure to underlying operating profit.
Progressive Dividend 30.00 We have increased dividend payments by a compound annual 25.00 growth rate of 13.1% since 2007.
20.00 15.00 10.00 5.00 - 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 500 Increased Shareholder Value 450 In the last seven years our total shareholder return has 400 consistently outperformed the FTSE All Share.
350 300 250 200 150 100 50 Jan 10 Jan 11 Jan 12 Jan 13 Jan 14 Jan 15 Jan 16 Hill & Smith FTSE 250 FTSE SmallCap FTSE All Share as at the date of this report.
com | Stock Code HILS Total Shareholder Return rebased to 100 Strategic Report 14 Case Study Barkers Engineering - Vehicle Incursion Barkers Engineering, established in 1865, is now one of the UKs largest manufacturers and designers of high security perimeter systems and has developed an extensive service related to security infrastructure projects.
Manufacturing high performance fencing for every application, including boundary demarcation and safety, multi-use games areas, sports enclosures, high security fencing, maximum security gates and fully implemented anti-terrorist installations.
Understanding the importance of security in todays world, Barkers now provide ultimate perimeter security systems and can ensure confidentiality on all projects entrusted to them.
Looks like a standard fence with the additional benefit of an impact system.
TM During 2016 Barkers were approached to develop their StronGuard RCS PAS68 crash tested palisade fencing to protect sensitive infrastructure on the railway.
A major issue facing highway and rail infrastructure is the threat of unauthorised vehicle incursion, whether criminal or accidental.
Barkers StronGuard is a crash tested palisade fence, designed and accredited to stop up to 7.5 ton vehicles travelling at 30mph.
The basic design was modified to meet the clients operational requirements and the company worked closely with the contractor to ensure vegetation clearing, the removal of existing fencing, traffic management and site supervision were all maintained.
The project encountered several challenges for the Barkers design team as there were restrictions on what could be connected to the existing infrastructure and the difficulty encountered with the lack of footprint available.
By working closely with their client these issues were overcome by way of innovative design solutions.
The outcome was a redesigned palisade, StronGuard RCS75.
An aesthetically pleasing palisade, which looks like standard fencing whilst affording the added benefit of an impact system.
Find out more about the company at www.
com Images Top - StronGuard crash testing at the Transport Research Laboratory.
Bottom - 38m of Stronguard RCS75 palisade system at Wythall Station road junction.
