Risk and control continued Viability period Viability The Directors have made their assessment of the Assessment mechanism viability of the Company over a period of three years.
This is the timeframe for new acquisitions and greenfield The Directors assess the position and prospects of opportunities to become fully mature and integrated the Company at each Board meeting and at the end of businesses, to be ready to market products that have the financial year by taking account of the strategic and been transferred or developed and is considered to be operational update from the Chief Executive and financial the maximum over which forecasts can be made to a reporting and forecasting from the Chief Financial Officer.
The Board acknowledges The Directors also receive regular updates on operational, that the accuracy is greater in the nearer term than it strategic and financial matters from executives.
The Board is towards the end of the viability period.
has considered the potential impact of the principal risks detailed on pages 54 to 57 and has modelled the Qualifications and assumptions following scenarios which are designed to take into account those principal risks: The Board undertook a robust assessment of the Groups principal risks, as outlined on pages 54 to 57.
Product quality: Prolonged closure of one of our This statement highlights the broad business environment major US FDA approved facilities variables that the Board considers could have a significant MENA & emerging markets: Escalation of political impact on the viability of the Company.
or social instability in one of our major MENA markets The Board acknowledges that financial modelling over the Industry earnings: Significant changes to the pricing viability period is subject to a number of assumptions by environment in the US management.
The most significant assumptions in the These scenarios were designed to be severe but view of the Directors are: plausible.
They take full account of the availability and Introduction and commercialisation of new products likely effectiveness of mitigating actions that could be Market growth and product demand rates taken to avoid or reduce the impact or occurrence of the underlying risks and that would realistically be Foreign exchange consistency open to them in the circumstances.
Continuation of elevation of certain product prices The Directors consider that this stress-testing of the Political and social stability in the markets Companys prospects is reasonable and the results showed Ability to re-finance existing debt on similar terms that the Company would be able to withstand the impact of these scenarios by making the necessary adjustments Cash flow generation from newly acquired businesses to its operating plans within the normal course Ability to increase operational efficiency and reduce of business.
central costs The effective tax rate being within the current guidance range Statement The Directors, having considered the above matters, have a reasonable expectation over the viability period that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due.
