e c n a n r e v o G d r a o B Corporate governance continued Governance report continued Roles The division of Board responsibilities can be summarised as follows: Chairman and Chief Executive The Board has approved separate statements of the Chairman and the Chief Executive responsibilities in writing, which are reviewed annually and include: Chairman Chief Executive Being an ambassador for the Group Providing the strategic vision and implementation capability to ensure the Company achieves its Providing an appropriate environment for the Board full potential to scrutinise and challenge the actions of management in a constructive manner Leading the executive team and supporting the business heads in the delivery of the divisional strategies Setting the agenda for the Board, in consultation with the Senior Independent Director Identifying and executing new business opportunities inside and outside the current core activities Ensuring that the opinions of Directors and executives are fully taken into account Ensuring effective implementation of Board decisions Keeping the Senior Independent Director fully informed of all matters of importance to the Group Ensuring that the Board considers all matters that are relevant to it and has appropriate information Roles and responsibilities Senior Group Independent Functions Director CEO Branded Chairman Committee and Chairs Chief Executive CEO Generics and US Global Head Company Secretary of Injectables Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 78 t n e m e g a n a m e v i t u c e x E Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Senior Independent Director Company Secretary The Senior Independent Directors responsibilities include: The Company Secretary reports to the Chairman and Chief Executive and supports him and the Senior In consultation with the Chairman and Chief Executive, Independent Director in the delivery of their roles, setting the Board agenda, actions points and particularly in relation to information flow and setting the minutes the Board agenda.
The Company Secretary keeps the Leading the Board in matters of board composition, Board apprised of matters of governance and policy effectiveness and evaluation, particularly in relation to and all Directors have access to his advice and services.
the performance of the Chairman and Chief Executive The Company Secretary also acts as secretary to the Providing a communication channel between Board Committees, supporting the Committee Chairs the Chairman and Chief Executive and the in the governance aspects of their responsibilities.
Non-Executive Directors The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
Leading the bi-annual meetings of Independent Non-Executive Directors to assess the appropriateness Board Committees of the governance structure and safeguards for shareholders The Board has an extensive workload and, therefore, has Providing a sounding board for the Chairman, delegated the detailed oversight of certain items to four executive management and the Company Secretary Board Committees: Audit: Nomination and Governance: Remuneration: and Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Acting as an alternate point of contact for shareholders Committee CREC.
Each Committee has terms of and maintaining contact with principal investors and reference which were reviewed during the year.
Copies representative bodies are published on the Hikma website and are available for inspection at the registered office at 13 Hanover Square, Executive Vice Chairman London, W1S 1HW or by contacting cosec@hikma.
When required, the Executive Vice Chairman acts as uk.
The Chairs of each Board Committee report on alternate to the Chairman and Chief Executive and that Committees business at every Board meeting.
The is another point of contact and sounding board for minutes of each Committee are made available to the management and Directors.
The Executive Vice Chairman entire Board.
Each Committee is empowered to request advances the executive agenda and supports the information from management and the advice of any Chairman and Chief Executive in setting and delivering employee or officer, and obtain independent professional strategy.
The Executive Vice Chairman has Board level advice at Hikmas expense.
executive responsibility for Hikmas Anti-Bribery and Corruption ABC, business integrity and ethics and corporate social responsibility programmes.
Non-Executive Directors The Independent Non-Executive Directors scrutinise the strategy, risk planning and operations of executives, providing advice and external perspective.
They engage with management across the Group to ensure they are fully aware of the Groups activities and issues it faces.
The Independent Non-Executive Directors also keep Hikmas governance structure under review and ensure that appropriate safeguards are in place.
The Board holds meetings without the executive management present to discuss issues affecting the Group.
