Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Remuneration report continued Changes to operation in FY16 and FY17 To support the strategy of sustainable long-term earnings growth, an Earnings Per Share EPS performance condition was re-introduced alongside TSR for the FY16 awards.
This approach will also be applied in FY17.
In addition, a post vesting holding period was introduced for awards granted in FY16 onwards.
There will be a minimum period of five years from the date of grant of an award before shares can be sold.
To the extent that nil cost options are exercised after the three year vesting point, but before five years, the net of tax value of the vested shares must continue to be held.
The dividend roll up on unexercised nil cost options will continue until five years from grant.
This five year view provides a longer-term perspective to the incentive programme than the three year performance period.
Clawback The Committee has the power to reclaim some, or all, of a cash bonus and vested LTIP awards performance and matching in exceptional circumstances, such as misstatement of financial results, an error in assessment of performance, the use of misleading information and or gross misconduct on the part of the individual.
Legacy arrangements Details of the outstanding share awards held by directors are set out in the annual report on remuneration.
These include vested but unexercised awards granted to Richard Harpin under the Executive Share Option Plan ESOP and Deferred Bonus Plan DBP which may be exercised at any time until the tenth anniversary of grant and unvested awards granted to the Executive Directors under the LTIP which for the 2011 awards, include an earnings per share performance condition for 50% of the awards.
No further awards may be granted under the ESOP or DBP.
For the avoidance of doubt, these outstanding share awards will be allowed to be paid out under the approved policy providing that the terms on which the awards have been granted are satisfied.
FY16 Update Any remaining outstanding legacy share awards were exercised during FY16.
