Financial additional Home Retail Group Strategic report Governance StatementS inFormation Annual Report 2016 53 Directors report The directors present their report and the audited consolidated financial Profit and dividends statements for the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2016 the year.
The Groups consolidated income statement on page 63 shows a loss for Home Retail Group plc the Company is the ultimate parent company the year of 807.8m.
An interim dividend of 1.0p per ordinary share was of Home Retail Group the Group, which operates in the UK and the paid on 21 January 2016.
The final dividend has not been declared as a Republic of Ireland.
result of the 2.8p element of the proposed capital return component of the Sections required to be included in this Annual Report and Financial Board-recommended offer by J Sainsbury plc, which reflects a payment in Statements in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 are set out below.
lieu of the FY16 final dividend.
The full-year dividend is therefore This section together with sections of the Annual Report incorporated by represented by the interim dividend of 1.0p per ordinary share.
reference form part of the directors report which is presented in accordance with, and with reliance upon, applicable English company law.
directors The liabilities of the directors in connection with that report shall be subject The names and biographical details of the directors are shown in the Board to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
of Directors section on page 30.
Particulars of directors remuneration are shown in the remuneration report on pages 41 to 52.
In accordance with s. 414C 11 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has chosen to include certain information in the strategic report as follows: During the year and up to the date of this report, the Group maintained Particulars of important events affecting the Group since the last liability insurance and third-party indemnification provisions for its financial year.
directors, under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the directors Indication of likely future development of the business of the Group.
to the extent permitted by law in respect of all liabilities to third parties arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of their powers, duties Other information, which forms part of the directors report, can be found and responsibilities as directors of the Company and any of its associated in the following sections and locations within this annual report: companies.
These indemnities are Qualifying Third-Party Indemnity Provisions as defined in Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 and copies information Page nos note are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during business hours on any weekday except public holidays.
Group Audit and Risk Committee report Page 37 Board and committee membership Page 30 Shareholder rights, appointment, removal of directors and directors powers Chairmans statement Page 7 The internal regulation of the Company is set out in its Articles of Corporate governance Page 31 Association which cover such matters as the rights of shareholders, the Corporate responsibility, including appointment or removal of directors and the conduct of the Board and greenhouse gas emissions Page 20 and 21 general meetings.
Copies are available upon request and are displayed on the Groups website at homeretailgroup.
In accordance with the Directors biographies Page 30 Articles of Association, directors can be appointed or removed by the Board Directors responsibilities statement Page 56 or shareholders in general meeting.
Subject to company law and the Diversity Page 33 Articles of Association, the directors may exercise all the powers of the Company and may delegate authorities to committees.
Details of the Financial results and dividends Pages 24 and 86 principal Board committees can be found in the corporate governance Nomination Committee report Page 36 section on page 32.
The Companys Articles of Association can be amended by a special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
Post balance sheet events Financial Statements Note 36 on page 107 Share capital and control Risk management As at 27 April 2016, the Companys issued share capital comprised a single Principal risks and uncertainties Pages 22 and 23 class of shares, referred to as ordinary shares.
Details of the ordinary share Strategic report Pages 4 to 29 capital can be found in note 27 to the financial statements on page 101.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Publication of unaudited financial Company and ordinary rights to dividends.
information Group financial review Pages 25 to 29 Details of long-term incentive schemes Directors remuneration report Pages 41 to 52 Shareholder waiver of dividends Financial Statements Note 28 on page 101 Shareholder waiver of future dividends Financial Statements Note 28 on page 101 Viability statement Page 55 Interest capitalised and tax relief Not applicable Profit forecast disclosure Page 54 MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 53 20 05 2016 17:59 Home Retail Group 54 Annual Report 2016 Directors report continued The rights and obligations attached to the shares are more fully set out in The Group has a policy in place for giving full and fair consideration to the Articles of Association of the Company.
There are no restrictions on the applications for employment made by disabled persons, having regard to transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than the following: their particular aptitudes and abilities, and for continuing the employment Certain restrictions may, from time to time, be imposed by laws and of, and for arranging appropriate training for, employees of the Group who regulations such as insider trading laws.
have become disabled persons during the period when they were Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the FCA, the Company requires certain employed by the Group.
The policy also covers the training, career employees to seek the Companys permission to deal in the Companys development and promotion of disabled persons employed by the Group.
employee share plans The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders which Some of the Companys employee share plans include restrictions on the may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
transfer of shares while the shares are subject to the plan.
As described in There are no shareholdings which carry special rights relating to control of the directors remuneration report, non-executive directors use part of the Company.
A change of control of the Company following a takeover bid their fees to purchase shares, which may not normally be transferred during may cause a number of agreements to which the Company or its trading a directors period of office.
subsidiaries is party to take effect, alter or terminate.
Where, under an employee share plan operated by the Company, participants are the beneficial owners of the shares but are not the Purchase of own shares registered owners, the voting rights are normally exercised by the At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 1 July 2015, registered owner, at the direction of the participant.
authority was given for the Company to purchase, in the market, up to All of the Companys share plans contain provisions relating to a change 81,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each.
At the Annual General Meeting to of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and be held on 29 June 2016, shareholders will be asked to give the Company become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of authority to purchase, in the market, up 81,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p any performance conditions at that time.
each, details of which are contained in the Notice of Meeting.
Financial risk management Details of the Companys interests in its own shares are set out in note 28 to The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group and the the financial statements on page 101. exposure of the Group to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risk are set out in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
Substantial shareholdings As at 27 April 2016, the Company had been notified under Rule 5 of the Political donations FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following holdings of voting The Group has made no political donations and incurred no items of rights in the issued share capital of the Company: political expenditure during the year.
total number of Percentage of Homebase sale-related profit forecast voting rights total voting On 2 February 2016 the Group issued a circular to shareholders in respect ordinary shares rights % of the sale of Homebase.
This circular included the following statement: Schroders plc 146,324,734 17.99 On 14 January 2016, the Company released its Trading Statement for the 18 weeks from 30 August 2015 to 2 January 2016 which updated the Sanderson Asset Management LLP 59,246,016 7.28 statement it made on 21 October 2015 to state that the Group expects that Group benchmark profit before tax for the financial year ending RBC cees Trustee Limited 28,049,821 3.45 27 February 2016 will be around the bottom of the current range of market expectations of 92 million to 118 million.
This statement constituted a Norges Bank 24,613,598 3.03 profit forecast for the purposes of the Listing Rules.
The actual results for the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2016 were employees consistent with this profit forecast as benchmark profit before tax The Group has in place measures to provide its employees with information was 94.7m.
on matters of concern to them as employees, including consulting employees or their representatives on a regular basis so that the views of relevant audit information employees can be taken into account in making decisions which are likely to As at 27 April 2016, so far as each director is aware, there is no relevant affect their interests.
Various communication routes are made available to audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and each employees to give them awareness of the financial and economic factors director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director affecting the performance of the Group and employees are also in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information encouraged to be involved in the Groups performance through a SAYE and to ensure that the auditors are aware of that information.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 54 20 05 2016 17:59 Financial additional Home Retail Group Strategic report Governance StatementS inFormation Annual Report 2016 55 going concern The strategic report and financial highlights reviews on pages 4 to 29 The strategic report and the directors report were each approved by the contain information on the performance of the Group, its cash flow and net Board and authorised for issue on 27 April 2016. cash position, capital structure and liquidity and funding.
Further information relating to the Groups financial risk management is set out in By order of the Board note 4 to the financial statements and the principal risks and uncertainties that could impact the Groups performance are set out on pages 22 and 23.
After making enquiries, the directors confirm that they consider it gordon Bentley appropriate to prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis.
Company Secretary 27 April 2016 viability statement In accordance with the Code, the directors have assessed the prospects of Registered Office: the Company over a longer period than the 12 months required for the Avebury purpose of the going concern assessment.
The Board conducted this 489499 Avebury Boulevard review for a period of two years.
This period was considered to be the most Milton Keynes appropriate as it is aligned to a detailed working capital review covering the MK9 2NW same period for the Retained Group which was prepared as part of the Homebase sale.
5863533 In making their assessment, the directors took account of the Groups current financial and operational position and also assessed the potential financial and operational impacts, in severe but plausible scenarios, of the principal risks and uncertainties set out on pages 22 and 23 as well as any likely mitigating actions.
After completing this assessment, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due up to 3 March 2018. independent auditors Subject to the outcome of its consultation with the Competition and Markets Authority as referred to in the committees report on page 39, the Group Audit and Risk Committee has recommended the reappointment of  LLP as auditors of the Company for FY17.
 LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office as auditors of the Company, and, if appropriate, a resolution proposing their reappointment will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
annual general meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Holiday Inn Milton Keynes, 500 Saxon Gate West, Milton Keynes MK9 2HQ, commencing at 11.00 am on Wednesday 29 June 2016.
The Notice of Meeting is included in a separate circular to shareholders which is available on the Groups website at homeretailgroup.
Paper copies will have been posted to shareholders who have elected to receive documents in that format.
