Home Retail Group 30 Annual Report 2016 Board of Directors John coombe 71 ian durant 57 Chairman Non-Executive Director John held a number of senior financial roles Ian is Chairman of Capital & Counties within Charterhouse Group and Charter Properties and Chairman of Greggs.
He is a Consolidated before joining Glaxo Holdings former Finance Director of Liberty in 1986.
Appointed to the Board in 1992, he International renamed Intu Properties and was ultimately Chief Financial Officer a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of of GlaxoSmithKline for five years before retiring in 2005.
He joined the GUS the Audit Committee of Greene King.
In his earlier career he worked for board in 2005 and became the Senior Independent Director of Home Retail Hanson and Jardine Matheson and was Finance Director of Hongkong Group in October 2006 and Chairman in July 2012.
He was Chairman of Hogg Land, Dairy Farm International and Thistle Hotels and Chief Finance Officer Robinson Group until April 2016 and is a former Non-Executive Director of of SeaContainers.
He joined the Home Retail Group Board in July 2011.
HSBC Holdings and a former member of the Code Committee of the Panel of Takeovers and Mergers and of the UK Accounting Standards Board.
cath Keers 51 Non-Executive Director John Walden 56 Cath started her retail career with Thorn EMI Chief Executive and, after marketing and business John started his retail career in the US with development roles at Sky TV, Avon and Next, Peapod.
He joined Best Buy in 1999 as joined the BT Group in 1996, holding a President of its internet and direct-channels number of commercial roles, including division and also served as Executive Vice Marketing Director of O2, Chairman of Tesco Mobile and Customer President, Human Capital and Leadership, Director of O2.
She is a Non-Executive Director of the Royal Mail Group and ultimately as Executive Vice President of its Customer Business Group.
and LV and an advisory board member of The Foundation, a growth John later moved to Sears where he led marketing, merchandising and the innovation consultancy.
Cath was previously a Non-Executive Director of internet, catalogue and home services divisions.
He joined Argos as Telefonica Europe and of the Childrens Mutual.
Cath joined the Home Managing Director in February 2012 and was appointed Chief Executive of Retail Group Board in September 2011.
Home Retail Group in March 2014.
Jacqueline fide rojas 53 richard ashton 49 Non-Executive Director Finance Director Jacqueline is Vice President and General Richard started his career at Manager of Citrix Northern Europe.
Her  where he trained career has focused on the digital sector and as a chartered accountant, and joined GE in she has held leadership roles within major 1994, spending eight years in a variety of enterprise software businesses including CA, positions including Chief Financial Officer of McAfee, Novell, Business Objects and Informix.
She is President of techUK, GE Capitals pan-European equipment-financing business, assistant to GE the trade body representing technology businesses across the UK, is an Capitals Chief Financial Officer in the US and various finance roles in the advisor to the board of Digital Leaders and is a judge on the everywoman UK.
He joined Argos Retail Group as Finance Director in 2001 and, in July Women in Technology annual awards.
Jacqueline joined the Home Retail 2006, became Finance Director of Home Retail Group.
Group Board in December 2012. mike darcey 50 BOard cOmmitteeS Non-Executive Director Mike joined Home Retail Group in April 2010 group audit and risk committee: and was appointed Senior Independent Ian Durant Chair, Mike Darcey, Cath Keers, Jacqueline fide Rojas Director in July 2012.
He was previously Chief remuneration committee: Executive Officer of News UK following 15 Cath Keers Chair, John Coombe, Mike Darcey, Ian Durant, years with BskyB, where he had been Chief Jacqueline fide Rojas Operating Officer since 2006.
Prior to that, Mike was an economic advisor nomination committee: with a number of consulting companies including Lexecon, Putnam Hayes John Coombe Chair, Mike Darcey, Ian Durant, Cath Keers, & Bartlett and KPMG working across a wide range of industries, with Jacqueline fide Rojas, John Walden particular focus on entertainment and telecommunications.
grOUP eXecUtive BOard John Walden Chief Executive, Richard Ashton Finance Director, Martyn Beauchamp Chief Operating Officer, Financial Services, Ella Bennett Human Resources Director, Gordon Bentley Company Secretary, Bertrand Bodson Chief Digital Officer, George Goley Chief Technology Officer, Steve Carson Director of Retail and Biographies of the Group Executive Board can be found on our corporate Customer Operations, David Robinson Chief Operating Officer, Argos, website homeretailgroup.
com Maria Thompson Group Commercial and Supply Chain Director MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 30 20 05 2016 17:59
