Governance Senior Management Ramn Bara Isac Burstein Eduardo Landin Jos Augusto Palma Eduardo Villar Chief Financial Officer Vice President, Chief Operating Officer Vice President, Legal & Vice President, Exploration & Business Corporate Affairs Human Resources Development Ramn Bara was appointed Isac Burstein joined the Group Eduardo Landin was Jos Augusto Palma joined Eduardo Villar has been with CFO of Hochschild Mining on as a geologist in 1995.
Prior to appointed COO of Hochschild Hochschild in July 2006 after the Group since 1996.
Prior to his his current position, Isac Mining on 25 March 2013, a 13-year legal career in the his current position, he served appointment, he served as served as Manager for Project having previously served as United States, where he was a as Human Resources CEO of Fosfatos del Pacifico Evaluation, Exploration General Manager of the partner at the law firm of Manager, Deputy HR S. A. owned by Cementos Manager for Mexico, and Companys operations in Swidler Berlin, and Manager and Legal Counsel.
Pacasmayo, an associate Exploration Geologist.
In 2011, he subsequently at the World Eduardo holds a law degree company of the Hochschild assumed responsibility for became General Manager of Bank.
He also served two from the Universidad fide Lima Group.
During 2008, Ramn the Groups exploration Projects with direct years in the Government of and an MBA from the was the General Manager for activities in February 2014. responsibility over the Peru.
Jos has law degrees Universidad Peruana fide Hochschild Minings Mexican Isac holds a BSc in Geological development of Inmaculada from Georgetown University Ciencias Aplicadas.
operations, having previously Engineering from the and Crespo.
Before joining the and the Universidad worked as Deputy CEO and Universidad Nacional fide Company, Eduardo held the Iberoamericana in Mexico CFO of Cementos Pacasmayo.
Ingeniera, an MSc in Geology position of Corporate and is admitted to practise as Prior to joining Hochschild, from the University of Development Manager at a lawyer in Mexico, New York Ramon was a Vice President Missouri and an MBA from Cementos Pacasmayo and, and the District of Columbia.
of Debt Capital Markets with Krannert School of prior to that, he served in the Prior to his current role, Jos Deutsche Bank in New York Management, Purdue Government of Perus served as VP Legal.
for four years and a sales University.
Ministry of Energy and Mines.
analyst with Banco Santander Eduardo holds a B. Eng in in Peru.
Ramn is an Mechanical Engineering from economics graduate of Imperial College London and Universidad fide Lima and an Executive MBA from the holds an MBA from Columbia Universidad fide Piura, Peru.
TENURE OF INDEPENDENT BOARD INDEPENDENCE NONEXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 2 7 3 7 3 10 7 10 2 7 0-3 Years Independent Directors 3-6 Years Non-Independent Directors 6 Years www.
