Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a three year period to 31 March 2019.
The Directors believe that a three year forward looking period is appropriate as it is aligned to the timeframe that management focus upon, the performance period in respect of long-term incentive schemes for senior management and it is the period of assessment for recoverable values of cash generating units.
The Group has a formalised process of budgeting, reporting and review along with procedures to forecast its profitability, capital position, funding requirement and cash flows.
These plans provide information to the Directors which are used to ensure the adequacy of resources available for the Group to meet its business objectives, both on a short-term and strategic basis.
The plans for the period commencing on 1 April 2016 were reviewed by the Executive Committee in February and then approved by the Board in March 2016.
In making this statement, the Board carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity as set out in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties.
The Group has an embedded risk management framework and all major risks are scored based on their significance and likelihood and these are reviewed regularly by the Audit & Risk Committee.
Various stress tests have also been performed on scenarios such as the impact of losing an affinity partnership or a lowering of retention in a given country.
The Directors assessment has been made with reference to geographical spread of the Group operations and its strong financial position resulting from a combination of commercial partnerships and high customer retention.
The business is geographically spread across the UK, Continental Europe and North America: in each established territory the business has long-term contractual relationships with utility businesses providing access to in excess of 92m households under affinity partner brands.
Retention rates are high across all established businesses, resulting in stable and recurring cashflows from a large diverse customer base.
Considering the Groups current position, the principal risks and the Boards assessment of the Groups future, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over a period of at least three years to 31 March 2019.
