Governance Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Remuneration report Remuneration policy FY17 No changes are being made to the policy in FY17.
In line with the policy and the award levels granted last year, the FY17 Performance Share award for Executive Directors will be at 200% of salary.
We consider that granting an award at the maximum policy level continues to remain appropriate given the stretching performance conditions applied and the desire to maintain the current momentum in the delivery of our strategic plan.
Performance conditions in respect of the initial 150% of salary will be the same as last year but a more stretching EPS target will apply to the additional 50% of salary.
The additional 50% of salary will only vest in full if annual EPS growth of 20% per annum is achieved over the three year performance period.
We have consulted with our major shareholders in advance of making this change.
A two year post vesting holding period will apply to the FY17 grants, providing a 5 year perspective to the incentive programme.
In addition, the Executive Directors are also subject to a requirement to build and maintain shareholdings in the Company equivalent to 200% of salary.
Recovery and withholding policies are in place and we are comfortable that our approach is robust and workable should these provisions ever need to be operated.
There are no significant changes to the other elements of the remuneration policy.
Salaries will increase by 1.25% with effect from 1 July 2016 in line with the average increase for the UK workforce and the maximum bonus opportunity remains unchanged at 100% of salary.
The performance measures in respect of the bonus scheme have been reviewed and reduced in order to simplify the scheme but the bonus remains strongly linked to customer measures in line with the business strategy, subject to affordability underpins.
Details of the performance targets used and performance against them will be disclosed in next years report.
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the remuneration policy continues to work effectively and supports our strategy as an entrepreneurial, customer focused business.
Stella David Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 24 May 2016 HomeServe plc | 61
