Directors report The Directors present their report for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Relationship agreement Pelham Investment Corporation the Major Shareholder, Eduardo Information in directors report Hochschild who, together with the Major Shareholder are collectively The Directors Report comprises the Corporate Governance Report from referred to as the Controlling Shareholders and the Company entered pages 44 to 53, this Report on pages 42 and 43, and the Supplementary into a relationship agreement the Relationship Agreement in Information on pages 54 to 56.
Other information that is relevant to the preparation for the Companys IPO in 2006 and which was amended Directors Report, and which is incorporated by reference comprises: and restated during 2014.
Greenhouse gas emissions included in the Sustainability Report on The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure page 34: and that the Group is capable of carrying on its business for the benefit Policy on Financial Risk Management in Note 36 to the Consolidated of the shareholders of the Company as a whole, and that transactions Financial Statements.
and relationships with the Controlling Shareholders and any of For the purposes of compliance with paragraphs 4.1.
8R of their respective associates are at arms length and on normal the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules, the Strategic Report commercial terms.
and this Directors Report including the other sections of the Annual Further details of the Relationship Agreement with regard to the report incorporated by reference comprise the Management Report.
conduct of the Major Shareholder are set out in the Corporate Governance report on page 45 and, with regard to the right to Dividend appoint Directors to the Board, are set out on page 46.
The Directors declared an interim dividend of 1.38 US cents per ordinary share in the year ended 31 December 2016 and is recommending a final As required by the FCA Listing Rules, the Directors confirm that, with dividend of 1.38 cents per ordinary share subject to approval at the respect to the year under review: forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM 2015 total dividend: nil.
i. the Company has complied with the independence provisions Dividend waiver included in the Relationship Agreement: and ii.
so far as the Company is aware: The trustee of the Hochschild Mining Employee Share Trust the Employee Trust has waived, on an ongoing basis, the right to dividend a. the independence provisions included in the Relationship payments on shares held by the Employee Trust.
Agreement have been complied with by the Controlling Shareholders or any of their associates: and Directors b. the procurement obligation included in the Relationship The names, functions and biographical details of the Directors serving at Agreement has been complied with by the Controlling the date of this report are given on page 40.
Eileen Kamerick and Sanjay Sarma were appointed to the Board on 1 Conflicts of interest November 2016 and 1 January 2017 respectively and all other Directors were in office for the duration of the year under review.
The Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts of interest of directors where With the exception of Roberto Daino and Nigel Moore, who will be the Companys Articles of Association contain a provision to that effect.
retiring at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM, each of the Directors Shareholders approved amendments to the Companys Articles of will be retiring and seeking re-election by shareholders at the AGM in Association at the AGM held on 9 May 2008, which included provisions line with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
giving the Directors authority to authorise matters which may result in Directors and officers liability insurance the Directors breaching their duty to avoid a conflict of interest.
The Companys Articles of Association contain a provision whereby each The Board has established effective procedures to enable the Directors of the Directors is indemnified by the Company in respect of liability in to notify the Company of any actual or potential conflict situations and relation to: i any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust for those situations to be reviewed and, if appropriate, to be authorised relating to the Company or any associated company: ii execution of by the Board, subject to any conditions that may be considered his her duties as Director of the Company: and iii the activities of the necessary.
In keeping with the approach agreed by the Board, Directors Company or any associated company as trustee of an occupational conflicts were reviewed during the year under review.
For these purposes, associated company has the Directors of the Company who have an interest in matters under meaning given to it by Section 256 of the Companies Act 2006. discussion at Board meetings are required to declare this interest and to However, a Director will not be indemnified for any liability incurred by abstain from voting on the relevant matters.
Any related party him her to the Company or Group companies: any criminal or transactions are approved by a committee of the Board consisting solely regulatory fines: the costs of defending any criminal proceedings in of Independent Directors.
In addition, the Directors will be able to which he is convicted: or the costs of defending any civil proceedings impose limits or conditions when giving any authorisation, if they think brought by the Company in which judgment is given against him her.
The Company has purchased and maintains liability insurance for its Directors and officers as permitted by law.
Political and charitable donations The Company does not make political donations.
During the year, the 1 Group spent US$4.389m on social and community welfare activities surrounding its mining units 2015: US$3.971m.
1 Including at San Jose, the Groups joint venture in which it has a 51% interest 42 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2016 42 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Going concern Statement of directors with respect to the annual report and financial statements The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the As required by the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors confirm Strategic Report from the Inside Front Cover to page 39.
The financial that they consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowings balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary are described in the Financial Review on pages 24 to 28.
In addition, note for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model 36 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and strategy.
and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management Statement of directors responsibilities objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable As described in the Market experience on pages 12 and 13, 2016 saw set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, continued volatility in precious metal prices which experienced steady liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and the and significant increases by the early part of the second half of the year undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and which subsequently trended downwards by the year-end.
the Management Report includes a fair review of the development The Group has reported record levels of production of 35.5 million and performance of the business and the position of the Company attributable silver equivalent ounces and successfully reduced costs and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, across its operations with Inmaculada, in particular, performing together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties significantly better than anticipated.
As part of its risk management responsibilities, the Board continually Disclaimer reviews a list of contingency measures that could be implemented in the event that price conditions deteriorate.
Neither the Company nor the Directors accept any liability to any person in relation to this Annual Report except to the extent that such liability In conclusion, having considered financial forecasts and projections could arise under English law.
Accordingly, any liability to a person who which take into account i possible changes in commodity price has demonstrated reliance on any untrue or misleading statement or scenarios: and ii the contingency measures that could be taken to omission shall be determined in accordance with Section 90A of the alleviate pressure on the balance sheet in the event of a fall in prices, the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources, including access to contingent On behalf of the Board resources, that would see it continue in operational existence for the Raj Bhasin foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Company Secretary 7 March 2017 AGM The eleventh AGM of the Company will be held at 3 pm on 11 May 2017 at the offices of Linklaters LLP.
The shareholder circular incorporating the Notice of AGM will be sent separately to shareholders or, for those who have elected to receive electronic communications, will be available for viewing at www.
com The shareholder circular contains details of the business to be considered at the meeting.
Auditor A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as Auditor will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
Statement on disclosure of information to auditor Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the Companys Auditor, each Director confirms that, to the best of his her knowledge and belief, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor are unaware.
Furthermore, each Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given, and should be interpreted, in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006. www.
