Governance Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Remuneration report Long-term incentives Performance criteria Our long-term incentive plan is a mix of a Performance Share award up to 200% of salary and a Matching Share award 2:1 match on up to 75% of salary bonus invested in shares.
In line with the policy and the award levels granted last year, the FY17 Performance Share award for Executive Directors will be at 200% of salary.
We consider that granting an award at the maximum policy level continues to remain appropriate given the stretching performance conditions applied and the desire to maintain the current momentum in the delivery of our 5 year strategic plan.
Last year, we reintroduced earnings per share targets as the core performance measure for our LTIP awards.
75% of the Performance and Matching Share awards were based on challenging earnings per share EPS targets with 25% of awards based on relative Total Shareholder Return TSR.
This approach will continue for FY17 supporting our growth strategy.
For Performance Share awards up to 150% of salary and all Matching Share awards, the performance targets for FY17 grants will be: FY17 weighting 3 year performance target Change from FY16 75% based on EPS 6% to 15% per annum EPS growth for 25% to 100% vesting.
No change 25% based on 25% vesting for TSR equal to that of the FTSE 250 Index increasing No change relative TSR on a straight-line basis to full vesting for out-performance of the Index by 15% per year or more For Performance Share awards between 150% and 200% of salary the performance targets for FY17 grants will be: FY17 weighting 3 year performance target Change from FY16 100% based 15% to 20% per annum EPS growth More challenging performance targets applied to on EPS for 0% to 100% vesting.
top-slice of the performance share awards, with focus on earnings, reflecting our profit growth ambitions.
When setting the EPS target range for the FY17 grants, the Committee took into account internal projections and external forecasts.
Having considered these projections and forecasts, the Committee believes that the EPS targets are appropriately stretching.
Holding period for vested shares The net of tax value of any share vesting under the LTIP must be held for a further two years, providing a long-term perspective to the incentive programme.
