Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Our strategic framework Our business is built on developing Strategic priority Progress and future development Key performance indicators long-term relationships with We have over 90 affinity partners across the geographies in Affinity partner households Extend long-term our affinity partners, offering our which we operate.
During the year we renewed six partnerships During FY16 we added 3m affinity partnerships in the UK business and signed 11 new partnerships in the USA affinity partner households, customers home assistance in adding a total of 2.8m households.
now serving 92m households respect of plumbing, heating and across our five businesses.
On 31 March 2016 we entered an agreement to acquire Utility electrical-related emergencies Service Partners Inc. in the USA, a business with around 300 and repairs.
partners and 0.4m customers across 9.4m partner households.
Having invested in business development across our businesses We have extended our services we plan to continue to add new affinity relationships during FY17.
to include provision of heating We offer a range of plumbing, heating and electrical home Customers Innovate product range installations.
We provide our assistance products and continue to innovate to improve our During FY16 we added 0.7m services through the use of and extend our products for todays customer.
We continue to work with Tado customers now serving and Nest installing smart thermostats and during the year 7m customers with home directly employed, franchised and installation services we developed and tested a unique water leak detector with assistance products.
functionality to automatically notify the home owner who can then book a repair with us.
With the customer clearly at the Heating services is the most established of the home emergency services and during FY16 we acquired a heating business.
The heart of the business, we have business has a solid customer base and 150 directly employed developed strategies to enable us engineers thereby increasing our heating services capacity.
to fulfil our vision and mission.
We have developed a franchised heating installation network which we expect to extend in FY17.
We are committed to improving efficiency in all aspects Group profit margin Drive efficiency of our business while ensuring we continue to deliver great The Group delivered 97.3m customer service.
adjusted operating profit, a 15% profit margin.
We have a strong balance sheet and continue to invest in technology solutions to make us more efficient and to improve customer satisfaction.
We have established a digital hub to develop an end to end, New Markets Deliver digital innovation consistent, user friendly digital experience for our customers.
including digital innovation A new Chief Digital Officer has been appointed to lead this In line with the prior year, activity and to enhance self-serve functionality at all stages of we invested 5.9m in our the customer journey and enable more effective product sales.
New Markets segment which includes our investment We have commenced the appraisal of extending our services in digital innovation and Expansion into new markets to other international markets with a view to entering the home expansion into new markets.
services market in partnership with local utilities, similar to the initial successful joint ventures with South Staffordshire Water in the UK and Veolia in France.
We have identified a number of attractive markets where, we believe, we can partner with local utilities.
4 | HomeServe plc Strategic report Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Our business model Strategic priority Progress and future development Key performance indicators We have over 90 affinity partners across the geographies in Affinity partner households Extend long-term which we operate.
During the year we renewed six partnerships During FY16 we added 3m affinity partnerships in the UK business and signed 11 new partnerships in the USA affinity partner households, adding a total of 2.8m households.
now serving 92m households across our five businesses.
On 31 March 2016 we entered an agreement to acquire Utility Service Partners Inc. in the USA, a business with around 300 partners and 0.4m customers across 9.4m partner households.
Having invested in business development across our businesses we plan to continue to add new affinity relationships during FY17.
We offer a range of plumbing, heating and electrical home Customers Innovate product range assistance products and continue to innovate to improve our During FY16 we added 0.7m and extend our products for todays customer.
We continue to work with Tado customers now serving and Nest installing smart thermostats and during the year 7m customers with home installation services we developed and tested a unique water leak detector with assistance products.
Heating services is the most established of the home emergency services and during FY16 we acquired a heating business.
The business has a solid customer base and 150 directly employed engineers thereby increasing our heating services capacity.
