Risk management & viability continued Sustainability risks continued Risk Impact Mitigation Commentary The Group may be liable for The Group has a team responsible for Environmental permitting and oversight have become Environmental losses arising from environmental management more rigorous, leading to delays in project execution and Change in risk environmental hazards increases in fines from the environmental regulator.
The Group has adopted a number of profile vs 2015: associated with the Groups policies and procedures to limit and In 2016, the Group has taken a series of measures to a In relation to activities and production monitor its environmental impact mitigate this risk, including: those risks methods, ageing establishing a Permitting Committee, with the arising from infrastructure, or may be participation of all relevant departments, that meets the Groups required to undertake bi-weekly to assess the status of all permitting environmental corrective actions or applications and ensure that the process is carried out performance extensive remedial clean-up as efficiently as possible: infrastructure: action or pay for LOWER the launch of new Environmental Key Performance governmental remedial Indicators: clean-up actions or be b In relation to subject to fines and or those risks implementation of state-of-the-art water quality penalties.
arising from management tool that allows for real time monitoring the increased of all water discharges from the operations: oversight of the completing the staffing of the environmental team with environmental professionals working in related operational and regulator: environmental management roles: HIGHER strengthening our environmental culture, improving overall housekeeping throughout our operations, reducing water consumption and solid waste generation: continuing to improve water treatment infrastructure, at Pallancata, Inmaculada, Arcata and the closed Sipan mine: and reviewed and updated Mine Closure Plans, in some cases with the support of internationally renowned environmental consultants Communities living in the Constructive engagement with local The higher risk profile vs 2015 reflects the increase in the Community areas surrounding communities incidence of social conflicts in the areas surrounding the Relations Hochschilds operations may Groups operations.
Such conflicts have led to temporary Community Relations strategy focuses on Change in risk oppose the activities carried stoppages at other mining operations such as Las Bambas promoting education, health and nutrition, profile vs 2015: out by the Group at existing and Constancia.
and sustainable development HIGHER mines or, with respect to Protests by a community close to the Pallancata mine Allocation of budget and personnel for the development projects and resulted in a blockade by community members from provision of community support activities prospects, may invoke their November 2016 until mid-January 2017.
Even though the rights to be consulted under Policy to actively recruit workers from local mine stopped producing from 1 December, Pallancatas new laws.
communities targeted production was not impacted.
Government These actions may result intervention resulted in the lifting of the blockade after an in loss of productions, informal mediation between the Company and the increased costs and relevant community representatives.
decreased revenues and in Working groups with stakeholders groups near Inmaculada longer lead times and continue to meet periodically.
additional costs for In addition, the Group continues to actively engage with exploration and bringing other local communities to fully understand their needs assets into production and and to implement an action plan, to the extent possible.
lead to an adverse impact on The risk of additional stoppages or blockades will continue the Groups ability to obtain to be present if the working groups do not reach long-term the relevant permissions for agreements between the parties involved.
Further details on the Groups activities to mitigate sustainability risks can be found in the Sustainability report on pages 29 to 34 38 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report The viability statement analysis has also taken into account other Viability mitigating actions available to the Group upon the occurrence of one In accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, the Directors have or more of the principal risks.
Such actions include: assessed the viability of the Group taking into account the Groups current position and the potential impact of the principal risks which Hedging the price at which sales contracts are settled: could threaten the business model, future performance, solvency or Operational strategies to anticipate, minimise and overcome liquidity of the Group.
production-related risks: The implementation of cost and capital expenditure reduction Period of Viability Statement programmes: As per provision C2.2 the Directors have reviewed the length of time to Working capital management: and be covered by the Viability Statement, particularly given its primary Active debt financing management.
purpose of providing investors with a view of financial viability that goes beyond the period of the Going Concern statement.
For examples of the mitigating actions taken by the Board during the year under review, please refer to the Commentary in the Risk It has been concluded that three years is the appropriate time horizon Management section of this report.
in light of: Conclusion i. the inherent uncertainty of longer-term forecasting in a cyclical industry which, in the case of precious metals, is largely driven by While it is always possible that combinations of weak precious metal global macro-economic factors: and prices and adverse operational risks could threaten the solvency and ii.
the large number of external variables that need to be taken into liquidity of the Company over the next three years, the Directors have a account in establishing any meaningful forecast of the reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in Groups business.
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over three years being the period of their assessment.
Approach to Assessing Viability The Strategic Report, as set out from the inside front cover to page 39 In assessing the Groups viability, the Directors have considered the has been reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors and signed principal risks to which the Group is exposed as set out in the earlier on its behalf by: part of this report.
This includes those where either the likelihood of the risk has increased, or the impact of the risk has become more Ignacio Bustamante severe.
In particular, the Directors have considered forecasts which reflect the impact of: Chief Executive Officer 7 March 2017 Depressed precious metal price scenarios.
This is a key input for stress-testing and involved the preparation of forecasts using i lowest metal prices over the past five years for both gold and silver $1,100 Au oz and $14 Ag oz respectively : and ii below-spot prices of $1,100 Au oz and $16 Ag oz.
Should prices fall further than the lowest of these scenarios, the Board would oversee the implementation of contingency actions, such as the elimination of discretionary expenditure, the reduction if not the elimination of dividend distributions and other initiatives to reduce costs across the business so as to maximise the production of profitable ounces.
Risks that severely threaten forecast production levels.
The principal risks that could jeopardise production are those arising from a geological risk that could result in the variability of our reserves and production volume and grades: b community unrest that could result in temporary stoppages: c environmental incidents that could also temporarily affect an operations production schedule: and d delays in obtaining operational permits.
Management prepares operational and financial forecasts based on a life of mine plan assuming only reserves and resources which have an adequate degree of certainty.
For this reason, forecasts do not reflect the potential of incremental resources added as a result of exploration activity which could be easily converted to actual production given the availability of spare capacity at its plants.
This state of preparedness, together with the mitigating actions described above, have been designed to control the impact of production risks or facilitate the swift recovery from the impact of those risks: and Plausible future contingencies for example, governmental regulatory action such as environmental liabilities, controls against which are described in the table above.
