s u c o f r e m o t s u C Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Our business model Strategic report Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Our business model Our vision Our mission To become the worlds favourite plumbers, To provide home assistance membership, which heating engineers and electricians.
frees our customers from the worry and inconvenience of emergencies, repairs and installations.
Global scalable model offering innovative home assistance solutions enabled through systems and technology Inputs Value added Relationships Affinity with our partners partnerships We have developed long-term affinity partnerships with partners whose brands are relevant to our home assistance product range.
Our partnerships extend beyond utilities to financial services, heating manufacturers and specialist service providers.
Comprehensive Our products are underwritten by third party products underwriters, independent of HomeServe.
We act as an insurance intermediary and do not take any material insurance risk.
Marketing expertise Product design and marketing expertise We design a range of comprehensive water, Claims & network heating and electrical related home assistance products.
Through relentless innovation, we capability offer up to date connected home solutions.
We use our expertise in data analytics to optimise our direct marketing across a number of channels including direct mail, call centres, and more recently, through digital channels.
Technology & systems Strong governance and capital management 2 | HomeServe plc s u c o f r e m o t s u C s u c o f r e Strategic report m o t s u C Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Our business model Global scalable model offering innovative home assistance solutions enabled through systems and technology Value added Value shared Partners: Excellent service Provides solution to at point of need customers emergency Reduces customer churn Our local call centres are available to handle Revenue stream customers claims, many offering a 24 7 service.
We manage networks of employed, sub-contract and franchise engineers to Customers: provide timely resolutions for our customers ensuring excellent service when they Peace of mind in event experience a home emergency.
We achieve of home emergency this by engaging great people in all of our Excellent customer service businesses and providing them with the Innovative Smart Home systems and technology to do a great job.
solutions Employees: Expanding global business Financial Marketing Opportunity, training model expertise and development Employee engagement Customers pay an annual premium for their score is 81% across the Group home assistance product which funds the product underwriting, partner commission payments, and other direct and indirect costs Investors: of providing the service.
Typically, on completing a customer claim the underwriter funds the job An attractive cash generative cost.
We invest in business development and business model marketing to deliver future customer growth.
Significant growth potential internationally Growth is supported by a strong balance sheet Strong governance and capital management HomeServe plc | 3 s u c o f r e m o t s u C
