Corporate responsibility Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Customers Community Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Corporate responsibility 4.
Environment Reduce our carbon emissions per employee Use resources efficiently Support and educate customers and employees to reduce emissions, specifically in their homes.
These corporate social responsibility principles are part of the way we operate on a daily basis and reflect in the way we deal with customers, employees, partners and the community.
Customers We continue to promote a customer focused culture in all of our businesses.
Customer Charters, or Promises, which are now in place in each territory outline our commitment to our customers: well make things easy for customers and treat them fairly, every step of the way.
Our charters have been committed to by all of our colleagues, from the management teams to those on the front line and are now fully embedded in all of our businesses.
We undertake ongoing customer satisfaction surveys and actively monitor customer satisfaction, net promoter scores and customer effort.
Community The UK business has continued its long-term support for Marie Curie through schemes such as Pennies for Patients, charity holiday, clothes collections for local shops and site specific fundraising events.
On a local level we supported over 100 community groups through our partnership with Midlands newspaper, the Express & Star in respect of its Cash For Your Community initiative.
Groups supported ranged from a disability charity to a youth drama club.
We have continued our support for Midland Langar Seva Society which helps the homeless in the West Midlands.
Our People volunteered 700 hours, served 8,300 meals and supplied 6,900 food bags this year, with different teams volunteering each week.
At Christmas we supported local causes near to our operations, such as the Salvation Army in Banbury and the Manchester Childrens Hospital with donations of presents and food.
Over 300 volunteers across the UK business gave over 1,750 hours of volunteer time for the 2016 Sport Relief campaign.
We answered a phenomenal 2,369 donation calls and raised over 70,000.
Both Walsall and Preston took part this year, a first for Preston and the twelfth year for Walsall.
We are also proud to have been recognised for our community initiatives by winning the prestigious Community Champions award at the 2015 Express & Star Business Awards.
