Financial additional Home Retail Group Strategic report Governance StatementS inFormation annual report 2016 5 Our strategy Home Retail Groups strategy is to create long-term value by offering leadership in convenience and choice for customers in an emerging digital age.
The strategy positions Argos to build Home delivery options are equally important to This plan has four principal components: contemporary, market-leading retail capabilities customers.
Argos operates a nationwide More choice available faster and a leading customer offer across the many distribution network across multiple distribution Provide high levels of availability to our ways customers shop, purchase and obtain centres and 845 stores.
customers goods including digital online and mobile, Our logistics network is based on a wellExploit the strategic advantage of having store formats and home delivery.
developed infrastructure that allows us to efficient distribution and collection The Group strategy is built around five continue to focus on improving the speed at points in local markets across a variety of elements of a competitively advantaged and which products can be delivered to our different formats differentiated customer proposition: Product customers, through whichever channel they Introduce market-leading fulfilment choice: Digital: Convenience: Human: and choose to shop with us.
options to complement the immediacy Financial Services.
In October 2015, Argos introduced Fast of in-store collection Track: market-leading nationwide propositions Reposition channels for a digital future Product choice offering c. 20,000 products for immediate store Create market-leading digital customer The scale and strength of our business drives collection or same-day home delivery to c. 95% experiences market leadership in general merchandise of UK mainland households.
Argos also offers an Invest in systems to drive online sales product categories.
The Group offers over express two-man home delivery service offering growth 57,000 products through its Argos brand, leading large item delivery across a broad range Innovation of the store experience, including a substantial element of exclusive and of products.
including Fast Track Collection and tablet own-brand lines such as Habitat, and is browsers continually expanding its offer to build Human Shift the paper catalogue in Argos to a credibility, choice and differentiation.
We utilise Our 30,000 colleagues working in stores, home supporting role for the digital offer, and our scale advantage to source products for our delivery, distribution, contact centres and develop a market-leading digital customers, enabling us to offer them a broad central functions are fundamental to how our catalogue choice of products at competitive prices.
They are a key Universal customer appeal factor in building trust with customers, Ensure competitive pricing and value digital particularly in an increasingly technology-driven Extend product ranges to build both Retail has seen technology drive a fundamental environment.
authority and choice and permanent shift in the way customers shop.
Strengthen both exclusive and Increasingly customers choose to shop online or Financial Services own-brand offer through fewer, on the move through mobile devices.
The Group Argos is supported by an in-house financial cross-category own brands strives to develop digital customer experiences services offer.
Our Financial Services business Enhance product quality and design to that are intuitive, inspiring and consistent across offers a range of credit products which make it meet the needs of new customer many devices, and provide information to easy for our customers to buy the products they segments customers that is helpful in their purchase want, when they want.
Reposition brand and customer decision such as an up-to-the-minute view of experiences stocking levels for each product.
Multi-channel argos transformation Plan Expand customer reach and build loyalty experiences are core to what we do, and the The Group strategy is underpinned by a Develop large-scale customer data reason we have an ongoing focus on developing comprehensive Argos strategy.
In 2012 Argos collection, insight and personalisation our successful internet and mobile commerce announced its five-year Transformation Plan to capabilities channels.
reinvent itself as a digital retail leader.
Maintain a lean and flexible cost base convenience In a digital world, convenience is being redefined to mean the ability for customers to obtain our products at the location and the time they desire.
The presence of a local store remains critical for many customers, to meet traditional shopping needs and as locations from which to click & collect items previously ordered online.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 5 20 05 2016 17:58 Home Retail Group 6 Annual Report 2016 Our strategy continued Financial management You can read more about our progress in all We have a strong track record of delivering areas of the Argos strategy in the business significant organisational and infrastructure review on pages 12 to 15.
There are areas of changes which improve the flexibility and risk and uncertainty associated with our operational efficiency of our business, while strategy that you can read about in the maintaining or improving our operational principal risks and uncertainties section on standards.
This means we will maintain a lean pages 22 and 23. and flexible cost base through: Ongoing cost-reduction programmes Negotiating improved store lease terms as existing leases expire Continuing to re-shape the store estate, including the development of different format options in Argos The Group has strong operational cash flow characteristics and it has 623m of net cash as at 27 February 2016.
In addition, we have a 250m committed borrowing facility which is undrawn and which expires in March 2019.
This financial strength will enable us to deliver on the investment plans incorporated in the Argos Transformation Plan.
