Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Remuneration report continued The performance and matching awards would be granted on a consistent basis to the other Executive Directors.
In the case of the annual bonus, different performance measures may be set for the first year, taking into account the responsibilities of the individual and the point in the financial year at which they joined.
If it is necessary to buy-out incentive pay which would be forfeited on leaving the previous employer in order to secure the appointment, this would be provided for taking into account the form cash or shares, timing and expected value i. e. likelihood of meeting any existing performance criteria of the remuneration being forfeited.
The LTIP permits the grant of restricted share awards to Executive Directors in the case of recruitment to facilitate this, although awards may also be granted outside of this scheme if necessary, and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
The service contract for a new appointment would be in accordance with the policy for the current Executive Directors and in line with the contract for Johnathan Ford which is the most recent.
In the case of an internal hire, any outstanding variable pay awarded in relation to the previous role will be allowed to pay out according to its terms of grant.
Fees for a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director will be set in line with the approved policy.
Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment Non-Executive Directors serve under letters of appointment for periods of three years.
The Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman have a notice period of three months but no liquidated damages are payable.
Fees are determined by the Executive Directors within the limits set by the Articles of Association, and are based on information on fees paid in similar companies and the skills and the expected time commitment of the individual concerned.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to bonus payments or pension arrangements, nor do they participate in the Companys long-term incentive plans.
Details of their current three year appointments are as follows: Name Date of contract J M B Gibson 1 April 2016 S David 23 November 2013 C Havemann 1 December 2015 B Mingay 1 January 2015 M Morris 27 February 2015 Outside Appointments Executive Directors may hold one outside appointment and can retain any fees received.
