Strategic report e s F i o t d r c e u n p s a l x o a e n n Business model and investment case Our business model driveslongterm sustainablegrowth Experienced management team Corporate Consistent governance financial framework strategy Creating value Commitment to sustainability We believe that our consistent and sustainable business model will This has been supported by the depth of our managements notonly create long-term value for our stakeholders but also sets experience in the Americas as well as a disciplined but flexible financial Hochschild Mining apart, offering an attractive investment proposition.
We recognise that, at all levels of our business, the contribution of our talented workforce and their commitment to our During the last decade, we have emphasised that a key attribute of corporate values is a fundamental aspect of this model.
These values thismodel is our focus on exploration.
Our operational assets and the promote an ethical approach and good corporate governance as well projects that we have advanced through our pipeline depend on our acknowledging our responsibilities to our wider stakeholders.
in-house geological expertise and the resulting ability to enhance their resources and hence their value through exploration success.
com 7 l o e a i x c t p i a r l g e o o p r l a O o t i e o g n Business model and investment case continued With an investment casethatsetsus apart We believe we have an attractive portfolio of assets which can deliver long-term profitable growth.
Operational World class Focus on Consistent andgeological flagship mine exploration financial strategy expertise We primarily operate Inmaculada is a world class The Group has continuously With volatile underlying markets, underground epithermal deposits precious metal mine located placed a strong emphasis on the Companys financing in the Americas.
For over half inthe Groups Southern Peru exploration as a key component initiatives are a key underpin to acentury, we have developed a Cluster close to several of our of its business model to secure our business strategy.
Hochschild unique in-depth knowledge base other mining assets.
The long-term sustainability of the has long-standing and flexible of the regional business presence of high grades of gold core producing assets as well as financial relationships, allowing environment and legislative and silver in a single vein, Angela, finding new projects to expand itto invest in near-term growth, framework where we operate.
characterised by its impressive its portfolio.
To this end, in 2016 manage the current operations Historically, we have been able width and favourable rock quality, the Company launched a new and provide access to further toconsistently meet annual allows the mine to achieve a brownfield exploration liquidity should the need arise.
production targets, increase our highly competitive cost position.
programme aimed at achieving What sets us apart?
resource base and achieve However, whilst the deposit has five years of mine life in reserves positive results from brownfield amore than adequate reserve and an additional five years of Whilst the Company enjoys exploration at existing mines.
life, there is significant mine life in resources by 2020. robust existing global banking This has been achieved despite exploration potential in the relationships and has raised both What sets us apart?
periods of significant volatility in district including probable debt and equity to fund project precious metal markets as well as extensions to the main Angela The value of ounces discovered construction, our long-standing dynamic political and vein as well other vein systems atthe Company in less than Peruvian presence also allows us economic environments.
identified in the Companys 10years exceeds $5 billion in favourable access to significant concession area.
revenue and the brownfield team local sources of finance.
believe that, following a long What sets us apart?
We have a particular expertise period of prospection, there is still inmining mid-sized, narrow, The brownfield exploration team potential at all our assets to find epithermal veins in complex have identified geological upside low cost ounces.
geological conditions, remote in the surrounding area which is areas and changing expected to allow the Company political environments.
to potentially expand this world class operations capacity and drive costs still lower.
8 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Experienced Commitment Results management tosustainability We have already delivered 75% production growth since 2012 and a 48% reduction in costs.
team The Groups management team We have a historical commitment ATTRIBUTABLE PRODUCTION has extensive experience in to safety as well as social and m oz Ag Eq sustainable mining, developing environmental sustainability, with successful projects and adding operational safety being one of economic mineral reserves.
In addition, the 37.0 experience has enabled us to Group considers its surrounding 35.5 operate efficiently and profitably communities as its long-term 27.0 through volatile commodity price business partners and commits 22.2 20.5 20.3 cycles for more than 50 years.
skilled professionals as well as Hochschilds team has also financial resources to support managed joint venture programmes in three different operations and successfully categories: health, safety and integrated several acquisitions sustainable development.
result of these programmes, the Group has been able to operate Gold What sets us apart?
collaboratively with its neighbours Silver The management team has in the Southern Peru Cluster for considerable experience in the more than 50 years.
Americas: operating different What sets us apart?
types of deposits: driving ALLIN SUSTAINING COSTS successful cost reduction Our mines are located in remote $ oz Ag Eq programmes: planning and parts of Peru where Hochschild building high value projects in isamongst the very few short spaces of time: acquiring organisations with a meaningful 21.7 and divesting companies: and presence in the area.
Wetherefore look to form partnerships with regional 12.9 12.212.7 11.2 authorities to provide much needed support to the local communities focusing on education, health and promoting sustainable economic 12 13 14 15 16 17e development.
As a mining operator, we have a zero tolerance to incidents relating tosafety and the environment supported by recognised management information systems and controls.
