Home Retail Group 4 Annual Report 2016 Our business model We aim to provide outstanding value and convenience for our customers by building an infrastructure of market-leading retail capabilities, which can be employed by Argos to provide leading customer offers across multiple channels.
Customers are at the heart of our business, with around 120m transactions during the year.
We use the insight that our many customers provide to add value to our business model.
Financial services Financial mobile devices strength digital development Building Online Store formats Delivering market-leading leading multi-channel retail technology convenience infrastructure capabilities click & engaged contact collect colleagues centres Partnerships Products Sourcing & distribution Following the sale of Homebase, our business engaged colleagues multi-channel retailer in that we offer our model relates only to our retained businesses, Our ability to deliver our business model is customers a number of convenient ways in which which are Argos and Financial Services.
underpinned by our 30,000 dedicated they can both purchase and physically obtain colleagues who serve our customers every day their products.
Building market-leading retail capabilities and we are committed to their ongoing training We are taking advantage of developments in Sourcing and distribution and development.
digital technology that have brought about a We source our products both locally and fundamental and permanent shift in the way our globally.
The sourcing scale of Argos allows us to Financial Services customers shop.
Our successful online and offer great choice and value to our customers.
Argos is supported by an in-house financial mobile channels help make us a market leader in We have a strong supply chain which, together services offer, which provides a range of credit multi-channel retailing.
This is supported with a with our logistics infrastructure, enables us to products for our customers.
national network of 845 Argos stores across a provide products for our customers costrange of formats.
Our store network can offer effectively through a national distribution Financial strength not only a selection of shopping options, but also network.
The Group has strong operational casha leading Click & Collect service for customers generating characteristics and is in a strong who order a product on a digital channel and Products financial position, with 623m of cash.
We offer a comprehensive range of over 57,000 supports our strategy for growth.
In October 2015, Argos introduced Fast products across home and general merchandise.
Track, a market-leading nationwide proposition We support our offer of well-known product digital development offering c. 20,000 products for immediate store brands with a portfolio of own and exclusive The internet has inspired a revolution in the way collection or same-day home delivery to c. 95% brands such as Habitat, Heart of House, Bush, customers shop, with digital channels such as of UK mainland households.
In addition to this, Alba and Chad Valley.
online and mobile representing a growing share Argos offers an express two-man home delivery of business.
Our business model prioritises the service offering leading large item delivery across technology infrastructure rapid development of customer features on a broad range of products and contact centres to Many modern and innovative retail capabilities these digital channels.
provide our customers with personalised service.
Technology is Increasingly, we are entering into central to our multi-channel business model, delivering leading multi-channel partnerships to help us access new customers where information of interest to customers must convenience online or through store concessions.
be maintained securely and be available Argos is one of the UKs leading general whenever and wherever a customer needs it.
