Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Remuneration report continued This report has been prepared in accordance with the new disclosure requirements for directors pay Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The report also satisfies the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules and describes how the Board has applied the principles and complied with the provisions relating to directors remuneration in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Directors remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and is not subject to a shareholder vote this year.
The policy is set out below for information only.
In order to assist shareholders, the remuneration scenario charts later in the report have been updated to reflect the proposed remuneration levels for FY17 and we have added additional commentary, where relevant, to explain how the policy will be operated in FY17.
Remuneration policy The Committees remuneration policy for the remuneration of Executive Directors and other senior Executives is based on the following principles: to align rewards with the Groups financial and operational performance to ensure that remuneration, in particular, variable pay, supports the Groups strategy as a customer focused operation to provide a remuneration package that is sufficient, but no more than necessary, to attract, retain and motivate high calibre executives.
To that end, the Committee structures executive remuneration in two distinct parts: fixed remuneration of basic salary, pension and benefits and variable performance-related remuneration in the form of a cash bonus and long-term incentive arrangements.
Remuneration for Executive Directors is structured so that the variable pay element forms a significant portion of each Directors package.
The Committee is satisfied that neither the structure of the remuneration packages, with the high weighting on variable pay, nor the performance measures targeted under the annual bonus and long-term incentive arrangements, encourages inappropriate risk taking.
The remuneration arrangements are designed so as to provide a strong alignment of interest between the Executives and shareholders and to support the growth and performance aspirations of the Company.
The Committee is satisfied that the current arrangements meet these objectives.
Furthermore, a clawback provision to annual bonuses and long-term incentive awards was introduced in 2011 which helps to guard further against excessive risk taking.
