Board of Directors Eduardo Hochschild Roberto Daino Ignacio Bustamante Dr Graham Birch Enrico Bombieri Chairman Deputy Chairman Chief Executive Officer Independent NonSenior Independent Executive Director Director Experience: Eduardo Experience: Roberto Daino Experience: Ignacio Experience: Dr Graham Birch Experience: Enrico Bombieri Hochschild joined the joined the Board in 2006 as Bustamante joined the Board joined the Board in 2011.
He Hochschild Group in 1987 as an Executive Director and as CEO in April 2010 having until his retirement in 2009, previously served as Head of Safety Assistant at the Arcata assumed his current role in previously served as Chief Graham was a Director of Investment Banking for unit, becoming Head of the 2011.
Roberto served in the Operating Officer and General BlackRock Commodities Europe, Middle East and Hochschild Mining Group in Peruvian Government as Manager of the Groups Investment Trust plc and Africa EMEA at JP Morgan 1998 and Chairman in 2006.
Prime Minister and thereafter Peruvian operations.
Ignacio manager of BlackRocks World and was a member of the Eduardo is the Companys as the Peruvian Ambassador served as Chief Financial Mining Trust and Gold and Executive Committee, the majority shareholder with a to the United States.
He Officer of Cementos General Unit Trust.
He Investment Banks Operating c. 54% interest.
previously served as General Pacasmayo S. A.
A. an affiliate previously worked at Committee and the European Counsel of the World Bank of the Company, between Kleinwort Benson Securities Management Committee.
Other Directorships: Group and Secretary General 1998 and 2003, and as a and Fleming Ord Minnett Prior to joining JP Morgan, Commercial: Cementos of ICSID having been a Board member from 2003 before joining Mercury Asset Enrico worked for Guinness Pacasmayo S. A.
Chairman, partner at the US law firm to 2007.
Management in 1993, where Mahon in London and COMEX Peru, Banco fide Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering.
he launched a number of Lehman Brothers in New York Crdito del Per Other Directorships: mining and natural resources and London.
Other Directorships: Commercial: Profuturo AFP.
In 1997, Mercury Asset Commercial: Fosfatos del Other Directorships: None.
TECSUP, Sociedad Nacional fide Management was acquired C Pacifico S. A.
Chairman, Minera y Petrleo, Conferencia by Merrill Lynch Investment N R Goldman Sachs Advisory Episcopal Peruana.
Managers which was itself Board and Uber Technologies eventually acquired by Advisory Board.
Graham has a PhD in mining geology C from Imperial College London.
Other Directorships: Commercial: ETF Securities Limited.
C R Jorge Born Jr. Eileen Kamerick Nigel Moore Michael Rawlinson Sanjay Sarma Independent NonIndependent NonIndependent NonIndependent NonIndependent NonExecutive Director Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director Experience: Jorge Born Jr.
Experience: Eileen joined the Experience: Nigel Moore Experience: Michael Experience: Sanjay joined the joined the Board in 2006.
Board on 1 November 2016 joined the Board in 2006.
Rawlinson joined the Board in Board on 1 January 2017 and Previously, Jorge served as a having formerly served as Nigel is a Chartered 2016.
He is the Global is Professor of Mechanical Director and Deputy CFO of ConnectWise.
Accountant and was a Partner Co-Head of Mining and Engineering at Massachusetts Chairman of Bunge Limited Previously Eileen held senior at Ernst &Young from 1973 to Metals at Barclays investment Institute of Technology having served as Head of executive roles in finance in 2003 during which time he bank and prior to 2013 MIT and the Vice President European operations from various industries including was responsible in particular worked at a number of banks for Open Learning at MIT.
1992 to 1997 and as Head of healthcare consultancy Press for the provision of audit as a corporate financier and Sanjay was the founder and its UK operations from 1989 Ganey Associates, investment services for several of the research analyst.
Most Chief Technology Officer of to 1992. bank Houlihan Lokey and BP firms significant clients.
He recently he helped found the OATSystems subsequently Amoco Americas.
Eileen also served as the firms boutique investment bank, acquired by Checkpoint Other Directorships: lectures on corporate finance Regional Managing Partner Liberum Capital, in 2007.
Prior Systems and has worked at Commercial: Consult & Co. and governance at several for Eastern Europe and Russia to that Michael worked at Schlumberger Oilfield President and CEO, Caldenes US universities.
Services and at the Lawrence S. A. Dufry AG Zurich.
served as Chairman of JKX Oil Berkeley Laboratories.
Sanjay Non-Profit: Bunge and Born Other Directorships: Other Directorships: None.
& Gas plc and as Nonalso advises several national Charitable Foundation Commercial: Associated Bank Executive Director of several governments and A C President.
Chair of the Corporate companies including The global companies.
Governance Committee and Vitec Group plc and The TEG N member of the Audit Other Directorships: Group plc.
Committee and certain listed Commercial: Top Flight closed-end funds advised by Other Directorships: Technologies and ESSESS Legg Mason Partners Fund Commercial: Ascent Non-Profit: G1S US and edX, Advisors, LLC Chair of the Resources plc.
the entity set up by MIT and Audit Committee Harvard to facilitate the A R Non-Profit: Eckerd distribution of free online Alternatives for Youth.
A A Audit committee C CSR committee N Nominations committee R Remuneration committee Chairman 40 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2016
