Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Remuneration report Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Remuneration report Stella David Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the Remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2016.
Performance and reward The Group has delivered good customer and profit growth in FY16.
Particularly pleasing has been the step change in the USA where the business has delivered 89% profit growth, added 2.8m new partner households and entered into an agreement to acquire Utility Service Partners Inc. which will extend the household reach in the USA to 42m.
The stretching commercial and customer targets for the Group have been met with improved performance in respect of customer satisfaction and complaints.
In the UK, the cash target was not met and the target in respect of core renewable customers was only partially met.
The other commercial and customer objectives were met in full.
In respect of longer-term performance, the LTIP awards granted in 2012 vested in full during the year with HomeServes TSR at the end of the performance period being 217.9% compared to the FTSE 250 Index TSR of 80.6%.
Based on TSR performance to 31 March 2016, which is 70% above the FTSE 250 Total Return Index it is expected that the awards granted in 2013 will also vest in full.
The Committee is satisfied that the remuneration paid to the Executive Directors in the year fairly reflects both corporate and individual performance during the year.
Remuneration policy FY16 The remuneration policy was approved at the 2014 AGM and payments made in FY16 were in line with the policy.
Some operational changes in respect of how the policy was applied were made during the year.
These related primarily to the performance conditions and grant levels in respect of the LTIP and were described in last years report.
Details are also included in this report.
The Committees activities during the year are described in more detail later in this report.
