Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Remuneration report continued Rationale behind performance metrics and targets The Remuneration Committee works hard to ensure that the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors supports the business strategy, and that the level of remuneration received is reflective of the overall business performance and the returns received by shareholders.
A significant proportion of the remuneration package comes from variable pay c. 60% at target performance with careful consideration given to the choice of performance metrics to ensure that the executives are not encouraged to take inappropriate risks.
Annual bonus The annual bonus is designed to drive and reward excellent short-term operating performance of the Company and encourage real year-on-year growth in profitability.
No annual bonus is paid unless a very high level of performance is achieved.
The Committee reviews the bonus plan measures annually in order to ensure that they are aligned with the Groups strategy and so that bonus arrangements are consistent amongst the senior executive team.
Performance targets are set at the start of the financial year and are linked to the Groups strategic and operational objectives.
The transition to a more customer focused culture across our business is reflected in the use of customer metrics in the annual bonus scheme.
These are based on measures relating to customer complaints and customer satisfaction.
This is balanced by the use of commercial and personal objectives to reflect other strategic priorities.
The commercial objectives included metrics relating to profit before tax and the number of core renewable customers.
The Committee retains the discretion to alter the choice and weighting of the metrics for future bonus cycles to reflect the changing needs of the business.
The payment of any bonus is at the discretion of the Committee and bonuses will only be paid once a minimum level of customer and financial performance is achieved.
Changes to operation in FY16 and FY17 Targets relating to net debt and employee engagement were introduced to the bonus for FY16.
These operated alongside the customer and commercial measures and the personal performance objectives.
For FY17, the number of measures will be reduced with employee engagement being removed and the customer measure being customer satisfaction only rather than customer satisfaction and complaints.
66 | HomeServe plc Governance Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Remuneration report LTIP Long-term incentive awards will be granted in accordance with the rules of the shareholder approved HomeServe 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP and the discretions contained therein.
The performance measures for the matching and performance awards are set using a sliding scale of targets and no more than 25% of the award under each measure will vest for achieving the threshold performance hurdle.
The current performance measure used for LTIP awards is relative total shareholder return performance TSR.
The performance period runs for three years and requires HomeServes TSR to match that of the FTSE 250 Index for 25% of the shares to vest, rising on a straight-line basis so that full vesting requires out-performance of the Index by 15% per annum.
TSR is deemed to be the most appropriate metric to measure sustained long-term performance, is aligned with shareholder interests and does not encourage inappropriate risk taking.
However, the Committee retains the discretion to set different measures for future LTIP awards as set out below.
Some past LTIP awards have been subject to a performance condition requiring growth in earnings per share EPS in excess of inflation over the performance period with 50% of the award subject to the EPS condition and 50% to the TSR condition.
A split EPS and TSR condition may be reintroduced for future LTIP grant cycles, if a suitably robust earnings growth measure can be determined and the Committee considers it is appropriate to do so.
The Committee would inform its major shareholders in advance of such a measure being set but considers that this would not constitute a change in policy, and therefore would not require a revised vote on the policy report.
Under the rules of the plan, the Committee has the discretion to adjust the targets applying to existing awards in exceptional circumstances providing the new targets are no less challenging than originally envisaged.
The Committee also has the power to adjust the number of shares subject to an award in the event of a variation in the capital of the Company.
Awards under the LTIP may be granted as conditional allocations or nil or nominal cost options with, or as, forfeitable shares.
The Committee may also decide to grant cash based awards of an equivalent value to share based awards or to satisfy share based awards in cash, although it does not currently intend to do so.
Awards are satisfied through a mixture of either market purchase or new issue shares.
To the extent new issue shares are used, the 2008 LTIP will adhere to a 5% in 10 year dilution limit.
