Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 17 These cost increases, the larger proportion of which GROUP DEVELOPMENTS will affect the first half of 2017, are in addition to Pension scheme funding higher costs that will arise from the on-going growth In July 2015, we announced that agreement of the business and inflation.
had been reached in relation to the schedule of payments towards the funding of the Groups defined Our supply operations encompass our own UK benefit pension schemes deficit from April 2015. manufacturing of around one third of the products At that time, it was agreed that the Group would that we sell, primarily cabinets and worktops, continue to make deficit contributions equivalent to and warehousing and delivery to our depots of 35m per annum until 30 June 2017.
However, in manufactured and bought-in products.
Investment light of movements seen in discount rates since this in the resilience and capacity of manufacturing agreement was reached, it has been agreed that the and warehousing means that capital expenditure is Group will also make an interim payment of 25m expected to be around 65m in 2017.
Thereafter, over the period June 2017 to March 2018.
This will given the opportunities we see ahead, we expect mean a deficit contribution of 30m in 2017. to continue to invest in the profitable growth of the business and will provide more detail in due course.
CURRENT TRADING AND OUTLOOK FOR 2017 CONCLUSION Our 2017 financial year will include a 53rd week, As we sit today, market conditions seen so far in which will increase operating costs by around 10m 2017 appear broadly unchanged from the softer but will not contribute to revenue.
ones seen in the second half of 2016, with volumes having weakened slightly.
We are seeing weakness Current trading in London being offset by performance elsewhere.
At Howden Joinery UK depot sales in the first two this early stage, we are encouraged by the progress periods of 2017 to 18 February were up 3.6% on our price increase has made.
the same period last year this excludes the first While we are on track with our plans and our trading week, which had one fewer trading days in expectations are unchanged, we are mindful of the 2017 than in 2016.
Along with the evidence we risks to the UK economy and we are well positioned have of trading prospects, this would suggest that to respond to changing conditions.
the softer market conditions seen in the second half of 2016 have continued, with volumes having KEY FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE weakened slightly in the early part of this year.
To offset cost pressures, a price increase was put INDICATORS through towards the end of 2016, and the early We measure the Groups performance and signs are encouraging.
progress of our strategic priorities against four key performance indicators KPIs as we aim to deliver Outlook growth, profitability, cash and depot expansion.
The Group remains committed to its view that the As we execute our strategic priorities, we look to number of depots in the UK can be increased from create sustainable value for the Group and its the 642 operating at the end of 2016, seeing the stakeholders.
Our financial highlights are shown on opportunity for up to 800 depots.
During the course the inside cover of this Annual Report, while our nonof 2017, we are currently planning to open around 30 financial indicators are discussed in the corporate depots in the UK, one already having been opened.
As already mentioned, 2016 saw us take Total sales growth possession of a new warehouse and invest in our Growth in sales of the UK Howden Joinery depots is manufacturing operations.
As well as impacting key to enhancing shareholder value.
We believe that operating costs in 2016, we anticipate that there remain considerable opportunities to grow operating costs will rise by around 15m in 2017 the Company based on the long-term opportunities as a result of these developments and a larger for the business.
In addition, we believe there are new product introduction programme.
In addition, economies of scale in the business which will allow the pension cost charged to the P&L account will us to grow long-term profitability as we grow sales.
increase by around 5m, around half of this relating This measure, along with monitoring our programme to the pension interest expense.
of depot openings, tracks our ability to grow the business.
We saw total sales of 1,307m in 2016, 2016 also saw the pound weaken against both the representing a growth of 7% compared to 2015. euro and US dollar.
At rates of 1.15 and $1.25 to the, this would increase our costs of goods sold in 2017 by around 20m relative to 2016, other things being equal.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
