44 Corporate Governance Report BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board is structured to ensure that there is a clear distinction between the strategic functions of the Board and the operational management of the Company.
The Board currently comprises two Executive Directors, the Chairman and six Non-Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors have been selected for the diversity of their backgrounds as well as their personal attributes and experience.
The current Board members bring a wide range of skills and experience to the Board.
MATTHEW INGLE MARK ROBSON RICHARD PENNYCOOK MICHAEL WEMMS Chief Executive Officer Deputy Chief Executive Chairman Senior Independent Director and Chief Financial Officer SID Length of Tenure Length of Tenure Length of Tenure Length of Tenure Executive Director: 18.9 years DCEO: 2.8 years Chairman: 0.8 years SID: 10.0 years CEO: 11.4 years CFO: 11.9 years NED: 3.4 years NED: 10.3 years Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Matthew set up Howdens in 1995 Mark is a Chartered Accountant Richard was a public company Michael was Chairman of House and has been responsible for its and qualified with Price Waterhouse.
He is of Fraser plc from 2001 until growth into a successful business currently Chief Executive Officer of November 2006 and was an Prior to joining Howdens, he spent today.
Prior to joining the Company the Co-operative Group, but will step Executive Director of Tesco plc six years as Group Finance Director he had been Managing Director of down from this role at the beginning from 1989 to 2000.
He was at Delta plc and between 1985 and the Magnet Trade operation.
From May 2017, he will Chairman of the British Retail 1998 he held a number of senior was elected to the Board of the serve as Non-Executive Chairman Consortium from 2004 until financial positions with ICI.
Richard has previously 2006 and has also held Nonheld Finance Director roles at Wm Executive Director positions with Morrison Supermarkets plc, RAC Moneysupermarket.
com plc, Group plc, H P Bulmer Holdings plc, Majid al Futtaim, A&D Pharma Laura Ashley Holdings plc and J D and Coles Myer Ltd. Wetherspoon plc.
His other past roles include Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Persimmon plc, NonExecutive Director of Richer Sounds plc, President of Allders International North America and Chief Executive Officer of Welcome Break Holdings Ltd.
He is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Current External Current External Current External Current External Appointments Appointments Appointments Appointments None None Non-Executive Chairman Chairman of the Board of The Hut Group Limited.
of Trustees of E-ACT, the independent academy sponsor.
Chairman of the Institute For Turnaround.
DIRECTORS INDEMNITY & INSURANCE Howdens has provided indemnities to the Directors to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006 in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
Howdens also maintains appropriate insurance cover against legal action brought against it or its subsidiaries, Directors and Officers.
Neither the indemnity nor insurance provides cover in the event that the Director is proved to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 45 INDEPENDENCE In compliance with Provision B.
1.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, at least half of the Directors were independent throughout the year.
The Board considered that all of the Non-Executive Directors were deemed to be independent for the duration of the period.
The Board considered that Richard Pennycook was independent upon his appointment as Chairman on 5 May 2016.
MARK ALLEN ANDREW CRIPPS GEOFF DRABBLE TIFFANY HALL DEBBIE WHITE Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Length of Tenure Length of Tenure Length of Tenure Length of Tenure Length of Tenure NED: 5.7 years NED: 1.2 years NED: 1.6 years NED: 6.8 years NED: 0.1 years Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience After a period at Shell, Andrew qualified as a Geoff was appointed Tiffany was previously Debbie is currently Global Mark joined Dairy Crest Chartered Accountant with Chief Executive Officer of Managing Director at BUPA Chief Executive Officer in 1991 as a general KPMG.
Ashtead Group Plc, the Home Healthcare, UK of Sodexo Healthcare, manager and, after being FTSE100 international Marketing Director at BUPA Defence and Justice His consumer product promoted through a variety equipment rental company, and Head of Marketing at Services.
She has held experience includes of roles including Sales & in January 2007, having British Airways.
She has various positions within Executive Director roles Operations Director and served as Chief Executive also served as Chairman of Sodexo since 2004, in the UK and Europe with two divisional Managing Designate from October Airmiles and BA Holidays.
including CFO in the UK Rothmans International, Director roles, he was 2006 and as a NonPrior to that, she held & Ireland, CFO of Sodexo where he was Corporate appointed to Dairy Crests Executive Director since various positions at Inc. the North American Finance Director.
British Airways including subsidiary of Sodexo, More recently, he has been became Chief Executive Head of Global Sales and and later CEO for Sodexo Geoff was previously an Non-Executive Director Officer in2006.
Distribution and Head of UK & Ireland.
Debbie Executive Director of The of a number of public UK Sales and Marketing.
started her career with Laird Group plc where he companies with consumerTiffany was previously a Arthur Andersen in the UK was responsible for its facing and manufacturing Non-Executive Director of before joining AstraZeneca Building Products division.
where she held a range of Prior to joining The Laird financial roles.
She later Group, he held a number became a director at PwC of senior management Consulting where she positions at Black & Decker.
worked across a number of sectors in a globalcapacity.
Current External Current External Current External Current External Current External Appointments Appointments Appointments Appointments Appointments Chief Executive Officer Deputy Chairman of Chief Executive Officer None Global Chief Executive of Dairy Crest Group plc.
Officer of Sodexo Healthcare, Defence Trustee for The Princes Non-Executive Director of and Justice Services.
Trustee and Chairman of Non-Executive Director of Senior Independent the Audit Committee of Warburtons Limited.
Director and Chairman of Wellbeing of Women.
the Audit Committee at Director for The GLF the 2 Sisters Food Group.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
