18 Review of finance and operations continued Profit before tax USE AND MANAGEMENT OF We target profit before tax as it captures how much FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS, AND profit we have generated after taking account of EXPOSURE TO FINANCIAL RISK major expenditure items such as costs of sales, The Group holds financial instruments for one selling and distribution costs, administrative principal purpose: to finance its operations.
The expenses and finance costs.
We grew profits before Group does not currently use derivative financial tax from 219.6m in 2015 to 237.0m in 2016, instruments to reduce its exposure to interest or representing a growth of 7.9%.
The Group finances its operations by using cash flows from operations, Cash and it has access to an asset-backed loan facility if We are committed to generating cash flow additional financing is required.
Treasury operations performance through the operating cycle.
Our are managed within policies and procedures aim is to retain at least one years requirement for approved by the Board.
The main potential risks working capital after capital expenditures and after arising from the Groups financial instruments are paying a dividend in line with our stated dividend foreign currency risk, counterparty risk, funding policy, which is outlined in more detail on page 14. and liquidity risk and interest rate risk, which are We ended 2016 with 226.6m of cash and cash discussed below.
equivalents, in line with this KPI.
No speculative use of derivatives, currency or Depot openings other instruments is permitted.
The Treasury Our business model is based on individual depots function does not operate as a profit centre and providing kitchens to small builders within a local transacts only in relation to the underlying business community.
We believe that there is some way to go requirements.
before the UK market is saturated and therefore the continuing drive to open new depots in new localities Foreign currency risk is a key driver to the Groups prospects.
We opened The most significant currencies for the Group are 23 new UK depots in 2016 and continue take the US dollar and the Euro.
It is the Groups current account of economic conditions in order to phase policy that routine transactional conversion between our growth taking account of our other KPIs.
currencies is completed at the relevant spot exchange rate.
This policy is reviewed on a regular basis.
The net impact of exchange rates on currency transactions in the year was 22.9m.
The Group does not have many overseas assets liabilities, so the impact of currency translation on these items is not material.
The principal exchange rates affecting the profits of the Group are set out in the table on the next page.
Counterparty risk Group Treasury policy on investment restricts counterparties to those with a short-term credit rating at least equivalent to Standard and Poors A-1 or Moodys P-1.
It also places limits on the maximum amount which can be invested with a single counterparty.
Investments mainly consist of bank deposits, UK Treasury bills and liquidity funds.
The Group continuously reviews the credit quality of counterparties, the limits placed on individual credit exposures and categories of investments.
