Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 79 Directors report The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report and the audited financial statements for the 52 week period ended 24 December 2016.
Comparative figures relate to the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2015.
In order to make our Annual Report and Accounts more accessible a number of the sections traditionally found in this report can now be found in other sections of this Annual Report and Accounts where it was deemed that the information would be presented in a more connected and accessible way.
The Directors report comprises the sections detailed below, including the statement on political donations.
Any sections that have been moved have been cross-referenced below for ease of reference: Located in the Nominations Committee Report: Located in the Strategic Report: Directors: Information with regard to the appointment Principal Group activities, business review and results: and replacement of Directors is located on page 59.
The principal activities of Howden Joinery Group Plc and its subsidiaries can be found on pages 3 to 41.
Employees: Information about the total number of employees and gender diversity statistics are located Dividend: Information about the final dividend can be found on page 57.
The average number of employees in the Chairmans Statement on page 5 and the Review of and their remuneration are shown in note 7 to the Finance and Operations on page 14 financialstatements.
Going Concern, Viability and other Statements of the Directors: These statements may be found on pages 20 to 21.
Located in the Corporate Governance Report: Share capital, substantial shareholdings and acquisition of the Companys own shares: Information in Located in the Corporate Social Responsibility this regard can be found on page 51.
Report: Directors: Details of Directors and their interests are on Greenhouse Gas Emissions: Details of the Groups pages 44 to 45 and details of Directors Indemnity and greenhouse gas emissions, as required by Schedule 7 Insurance on page 44. of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulation 2008 SI 2008 410 Annual General Meeting: Information about the Annual as amended by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report General Meeting, including reappointment of the Groups and Directors Report Regulations 2013 SI 2013 1970, auditor, can be found on page 51.
A copy of the UK are set out on page 39.
Corporate Governance Code can be accessed at www.
Employees: Information about employee participation in the Howden Joinery Share Incentive Plan can be found on page 33.
POLITICAL DONATIONS The Group made no political donations during the current and previous period.
By order of the Board Forbes McNaughton Secretary 22 February 2017 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 80
