36 Our suppliers Sustainable sourcing, long-term relationships, active monitoring KPI Sustainable kitchens Other themes in 2016 100% of wood-based material 74% of kitchen ranges Working together with used in our manufacturing FSC or PEFC certified suppliers for mutual processes from FSC benefit certified sources 74% 72% Risk-based 68% 64% independent testing to check that our timber 55% 50% is what it says it is Completed our 100% assessment of the CSR processes of 100% of our direct suppliers 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Sustainable sourcing Timber management and chain of custody, shared values throughout the supply chain Over 75% of our products are wood or wood-based, and were We aim to source our bought-in products to the same standards responsible for making sure that it is legally harvested and as the products we manufacture ourselves.
One of the metrics comes from sustainable sources.
we use to monitor our progress in this area is the percentage of kitchen ranges which are entirely FSC-compliant.
A typical In 2016 we used 225,000 cubic metres of chipboard and 33,000 kitchen range will consist of a combination of items which we cubic metres of MDF in our factories.
All of this came from FSC have manufactured ourselves and other items which we have the Forest Stewardship Council certified sources and all of the bought in.
A range is only entirely FSC-compliant if every individual products that we manufacture ourselves hold the FSC chain of component in that range is FSC certified.
At the end of 2016, 74% custody certification license code FSC-C019676.
This means of our kitchen ranges met this standard, which is an increase of that the wood comes from responsibly managed forests and that 24% since 2011. we have independent documented evidence of an unbroken chain of ownership all the way from the forest to us, via the mill, the We only want to work with suppliers who share our ethical values.
We are clear about our expectations and our standards and our aim is that they run through our whole supply chain.
Every year 74% of our total timber products are from certified sources we gather our main suppliers together at a conference to talk FSC or PEFC the Programme for the Endorsement of about the issues that affect us and them.
As well as talking to Forest Certification with 100% of our internally manufactured them about product development, we use this as an opportunity timber products made from FSC certified materials.
We have to repeat and reinforce our expectations for sustainability and been approved by the Timber Trade Federation as having an ethical behaviour.
We tell them what we need from them and environmental due diligence system in place which complies we work together to come up with solutions.
with their Responsible Purchasing Policy.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 37 Long-term relationships Worthwhile for all, built on respect, securing supply As a purchaser of goods and services, we have a big impact on respect as we worked together to solve problems and come up the livelihoods of our supplier network.
We recognise that our with a door technology which is unique to Howdens, sells at a relationships across the business need to be worthwhile for all premium price, and is still in our product range five years after concerned, and this includes our suppliers.
We look to develop its development.
long-term relationships with our suppliers which are built on A second example was the award-winning work we have done mutual respect and which allow us all to develop our businesses with another of our suppliers in 2016 to develop the technology and prosper together.
We work with our suppliers to set an agenda to produce a quick-fit internal door.
This is a door which allows for the next few years.
This might involve projects to improve the builder to adjust the width of the door without needing to quality, reliability and cost of production, or it might be developing trim it, thus saving him time.
We trialled this door in some of our and testing new products.
In all cases, these projects will only depots in 2016 and have already extended the trial in 2017 due work in the long-term if they bring benefits to both parties.
Over the last five years, two of our collaborations with suppliers We also work with our suppliers with the aim of securing our future have resulted in us jointly winning the prestigious British supply.
As an example, our packaging supplier set up a factory next Woodworking Federation product innovation award for developing to our Runcorn site which provides us with just-in-time deliveries groundbreaking new door technologies that we hope will benefit at 30 minutes notice.
They were able to make this investment both us and our suppliers for years to come.
in their own business because we had committed to a long-term The first example was the project behind our unique Burford door.
This benefits the supplier, benefits This involved a significant financial investment from our supplier our shareholders, and benefits the environment as it reduces in order to develop new tooling.
It also required mutual trust and transport miles.
Active monitoring Supplier assessments, training our people, risk-based testing We take care to select suppliers with high ethical standards and them an understanding of the fundamentals of ethical behaviour we make it clear that we expect them to uphold those standards.
when selecting and managing suppliers.
At the end of the training We require them to confirm that they are operating ethically, and they had to pass a comprehensive assessment as well as making we gather evidence to support what they say.
a personal commitment to upholding the CIPS Code of Conduct.
We have a self-assessment process for our suppliers which includes Our due diligence systems rely on suppliers accurately declaring assessing their corporate and social responsibility practices.
As what types of wood are being used and where that wood comes part of this we ask them how they manage areas such as health and from.
To give us extra assurance, we carry out additional checks.
safety, the environment, sustainability, ethical sourcing and product We select samples of wood and send them for independent compliance.
They have to provide evidence to substantiate their microscopy testing at a leading independent research institute.
answers and we have a dedicated compliance team who validate the This analysis can prove what type of wood it is.
We are currently answers and the evidence.
In 2016 we have validated all of our 180 evaluating the use of an emerging technology which, when it is direct manufacturing suppliers.
developed and ready for use, could tell us both the species of wood and also where in the world it comes from.
Our own people have a personal responsibility to understand and demonstrate best practice and integrity, so weve given them There is more information about the work we do to safeguard training to support them in their dealings with suppliers.
During against human rights violations in both our own business and 2016 all of our buyers and our compliance team have taken our supply chain in our modern slavery statement at http: www.
the Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supplys Ethical .
This training is designed to give statement.
asp Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
