20 Going Concern, Viability Statement and other Statements of the Directors in connection with this Annual Report and Accounts The Directors also considered that the Companys GOING CONCERN strong cash position plus the availability of the The Group meets its day-to-day working capital 140m committed banking facility, the operational requirements through cash generated from flexibility afforded by the depot opening programme operations.
If required, the Group also has access and the robust disaster recovery and business to an asset-backed lending facility of 140m which continuity management frameworks supported expires in July 2019. the prospect of long-term viability.
The Groups forecasts and projections have been The Directors also undertook a robust assessment stress-tested for reasonably possible adverse of the Companys principal risks and the potential variations in economic conditions and trading impacts these risks would have on the Groups performance.
The results of this testing show that business model, future performance, solvency and the Group should be able to operate within the level liquidity over the assessment period.
These risks of its current net cash balances and its committed are set out on pages 24 to 26. bank facility, and that it would not breach the facility covenants.
Having taken into account the Companys current position, strategic plans and principal risks in their After making due enquiries the Directors have a evaluation of the prospects of the business, the reasonable expectation that the Company and Directors concluded that they have a reasonable the Group have adequate resources to continue in expectation that the Company will continue to operational existence for the foreseeable future.
operate and to meet its liabilities as they fall due Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going during the three year period to December 2019. concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS VIABILITY STATEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES In accordance with provision C2.2 of the UK The Directors are responsible for preparing the Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have Annual Report, Directors Remuneration Report assessed the viability of the Company over a period and the financial statements in accordance with longer than the period of twelve months from the applicable law and regulations.
date of the approval of the financial statements as provided in the Going Concern statement above.
The Company law requires the Directors to prepare Directors have assessed whether the Company will financial statements for each financial year.
Under continue to operate and to meet its liabilities as they that law, the Directors are required to prepare fall due during the three year period to December Group financial statements in accordance with 2019.
A three year period was agreed to be the most International Financial Reporting Standards appropriate time period to ensure alignment with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and the Companys existing rolling three year strategic Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have chosen to planning process, as detailed below.
prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally The review of the Companys long-term viability was Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom undertaken with reference to the Companys work Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under on strategic planning in 2016 which covered the company law, the Directors must not approve the three year period to December 2019.
This included accounts unless they are satisfied that they give sensitivity analysis of the Companys strategic plans a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the and considered downside income, margin and Company and of the profit or loss of the Company cash flow scenarios.
This analysis was modelled on for that period.
the biggest downturn in sales and margin that the Company has experienced over a three year period.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 21 In preparing the parent company financial AUDIT INFORMATION AND AUDITORS statements, the Directors are required to: Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts select suitable accounting policies and then confirm that: apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates so far as each of the Directors is aware, there that are reasonable and prudent: is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed subject to any the Directors have taken all the steps that they material departures disclosed and explained in ought to have taken as Directors in order to the financial statements: and make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys prepare the financial statements on the going auditors are aware of that information.
concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue The confirmation is given and should be interpreted inbusiness.
in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires t DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY hat directors: STATEMENT properly select and apply accounting policies: We confirm to the best of our knowledge: present information, including accounting policies, the financial statements, prepared in accordance in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, with the relevant financial reporting framework, comparable and : give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, provide additional disclosures when compliance financial position and profit or loss of the Group with the specific requirements in IFRSs is and Company, and the undertakings including the insufficient to enable users to understand the consolidation taken as a whole: impact of particular transactions, other events the Annual Report and Accounts includes a fair and conditions on the entitys financial position review of the development and performance and financial performance: and of the business and the position of the Group make an assessment of the Companys ability and Company and the undertakings including to continue as a going concern.
the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate uncertainties they face: and accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial whole, is fair, balanced and understandable position of the Company and enable them to ensure and provides the information necessary for that the financial statements comply with the shareholders to assess the Groups and Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for Companys performance, business model safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence and strategy.
for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and This responsibility statement was approved by the detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Board of Directors and is signed on its behalf by: The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing Matthew Ingle Mark Robson the preparation and dissemination of financial Chief Executive Deputy Chief Executive statements may differ from legislation in Officer and Chief Financial Officer otherjurisdictions.
22 February 2017 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
