Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 19 Funding and liquidity Interest rate risk The Groups objective with respect to managing The Group has not had any borrowings during capital is to maintain a balance sheet structure 2016 and does not consider interest rate risk to that is both efficient in terms of providing longbe significant at present.
term returns to shareholders and safeguards the NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
As appropriate, the Group can choose to adjust its None of the new accounting standards that came capital structure by varying the amount of dividends into effect during 2016 had a material implication paid to shareholders, the returns of capital to for the Group.
shareholders, the level of capital expenditure, or by issuing new shares.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT Certain statements in this Annual Report are The Group has an asset-backed bank facility which forward-looking.
Although the Group believes allows borrowing of up to a maximum of 140m, that the expectations reflected in these forwarddependent on the actual levels of stock and trade looking statements are reasonable, we can give debtors held at any time.
The facility was not used no assurance that these expectations will prove at any point during 2016 and is due to expire to have been correct.
Because these statements in July 2019. contain risks and uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by The Groups committed borrowing facility contains these forward-looking statements.
We undertake no certain financial covenants which have been met obligation to update any forward-looking statements throughout 2016.
The covenants are tested every whether as a result of new information, future events four weeks and are based around: i fixed charges: or otherwise.
ii tangible net worth: and iii earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation By order of the Board EBITDA for Howden Joinery Limited.
In addition, our pension trustees, who carry a charge over the share capital of Howden Joinery Limited, Mark Robson have a separate covenant test around the EBITDA Deputy Chief Executive of Howden Joinery Limited.
and Chief Financial Officer The Groups latest forecasts and projections have 22 February 2017 been stress-tested for reasonably possible adverse variations in trading performance and show that the Group will operate within the terms of its borrowing facility and covenants for the foreseeable future.
At the 2016 year end, the Group had 139m of cash, 87m of short term investments, and 138m of funds available to borrow under the committed borrowing facility in line with the levels of stock and trade debtors at the year end.
Principal exchange rates 2016 2016 2015 2015 versus UK pound Average Year-end Average Year-end United States dollar US$ 1.35 1.23 1.53 1.49 Euro 1.22 1.18 1.38 1.36 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
