Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 29 Howdens worthwhile for all concerned At the heart of every house is the kitchen.
Big or Howdens now employs 8,900 people across small, its a welcoming space to meet morning or 642 depots, two factories, our warehouse and night to relax or busily prepare food and entertain distribution operation and our IT and support family and friends.
No longer simply used for functions.
We supply around 50 kitchen ranges as cooking, the kitchen is now capable of housing well as appliances and joinery items to 400,000 anything from morning coffee with friends, to a small builders across Great Britain and with a small weekend dinner party.
number of sites in Europe.
We are continuing to invest in this market that demands more choices, At the heart of our business is a commitment to better quality, better availability, better planning creating first class kitchens and joinery and in and better service.
doing so to help everyone we work with, in every community, to do well.
And we are investing in the people that are helping us to grow.
These are the people who work in our SO HOW DO WE DO THIS?
factories: who work in our depots: who work in our distribution network.
We work for the small builder As a Board we ensure that value creation benefits across the country to ensure that they have the broader society and is well understood.
We note right product at the right price at the right time for the new governments response has been to theircustomer.
reinvigorate industrial strategy and challenge companies to reconnect and to ensure all interests We are part of the local community.
This includes adopting values that over 2.5 million of donations, and we work with provide the foundation for a corporate culture that a wide range of charities on a local, national and respects its responsibilities to all stakeholders, international basis.
We are a long-term business with considerable For 21 years, we have been growing a sustainable opportunity for growth and we continuously business that delivers value for shareholders, assess how we can operate more effectively and employees, builders and communities.
We live, sustainably: where we can make the difference.
breathe and dream our values and are in tune In the next pages you will find lots of stories and with the societies where we operate.
We always examples both big and small or how Howdens act responsibly.
Our approach to sustainability ensures that it is worthwhile for all concerned.
helps us to maximise long-term value socially, environmentally and financially.
And we continue to do this day in day out.
Matthew Ingle Chief Executive Officer 22 February 2017 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 30 THE VALUE CREATED 290m of tax generated BY HOWDENS IN 2016 Corporation Tax, NI, PAYE, and VAT 350m 8,900 300 of wages, salaries full-time jobs with prospects and benefits paid to employees apprentices currently in UK manufacturing, in training in our local trade depots Over 250 apprentices and in distribution, systems completed their training and support in 2016 63m 145m of capital investment in the year paid out to shareholders Investing in UK manufacturing, in dividends and buybacks and expanding our depot network 100% of UK employees Significant support in share ownership for a sustainable UK schemes forestry industry 3 Over 55m 225,000m of rent paid to around 600 of chipboard from managed commercial landlords forests in the UK Timber Trade Federation-certified responsible purchaser Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 31 Responsible for all or part of the pensions of over 220m of working capital extended to 17,000 people 270m contributed to, 400 000 Over 590m pension funding since 2012 spent with suppliers small businesses in our peak trading period of goods and services No fees, up to 8 weeks to pay 100% of kitchen cabinets manufactured by us in the UK 12th Over 3,700 anniversary of partnership with other donations, 98% Leonard Cheshire Disability 1.5m given to local charities of manufacturing waste and community activities Doubling our donations in 2016 recycled or reused Supporting young, disabled adults to 12,000 tonnes of sawdust converted find valuable roles within their to energy to heat our factories communities 165,000 pallets recovered or repaired Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
