Strategic Report How we do business We conduct our business intent on supporting the sustained success of our customers, people and communities.
Building lasting business relationships We serve more than 37 million unarranged overdraft charges.
In the Complaint types customers around the world, ranging UAE, we automated pricing for foreign RBWM from individuals to the largest exchange to provide clients with 24% companies.
We are committed to consistent and competitive rates for 34% conducting our business in a way cross-currency payments.
We also that delivers fair value to customers enhanced our investment advice and supports them in realising processes and introduced tools 11% their ambitions.
and guidelines to make all our customer communication clear Conduct and ensuring and easy to understand.
31% fair outcomes Key These and related initiatives are guided Product features and policy Operating with high standards of Product fees and charges by our Conduct Framework, which Other product-related complaints conduct is central to our long-term focuses on delivering fair customer Service complaints success and ability to serve outcomes and improved market customers.
In 2016, we continued to integrity through our behaviours.
The embed good conduct practice across Conduct Framework guides activities to all our businesses, with a range of strengthen our business, and increases initiatives to further improve the our understanding and awareness of service and experience we offer how the decisions we make affect to customers.
For example, in the UK we have Additional detail on the Conduct Framework is available online at www.
For introduced a simplified overdraft further details on regulatory compliance risk and charging structure with real time on conduct-related costs included in significant notifications to prompt customers items, see pages 81 and 62, respectively.
whenever they are at risk of incurring 22 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 How we do business Our values Our values define who we are as an organisation and make us distinctive.
Open We are open to different ideas and cultures, and value diverse perspectives.
Connected We are connected to our customers, communities, regulators and each other, caring about individuals and their progress.
Dependable We are dependable, standing firm for what is right and delivering on commitments.
Increasing quality of service Innovation and technology retail customers manage all of their finances more effectively through We rely on customer feedback to Our customers increasingly use digital a single interface.
help determine where we can make channels to interact, including mobile improvements.
In RBWM, we conducted banking.
We are investing in innovation Sustainable finance more than 1.6 million customer surveys in and technology to serve customers We recognise that reducing global 2016 across multiple points of customer better and enhance security around carbon dioxide emissions is a critical interaction, including live online chat.
financial transactions and customer challenge for society.
We seek to be We also improved the speed and quality data.
In 2016, we introduced voice a leader in managing climate change of complaint resolution with more than biometric identification technology risk while developing opportunities two-thirds of retail customer complaints for retail customers globally.
We continue to resolved on first contact, an improvement is one of the first large-scale global facilitate investment in areas such as of 9% compared with 2015. users of this technology.
infrastructure and renewable energy that Customer feedback helps us to identify In the UK, we also launched a mobile help lower carbon dioxide emissions.
and address root causes of complaints.
application for commercial banking In 2016, for example, we helped issue For example, we increased capacity in customers that allows them to digitally the largest-ever renewable energy bond our call centres in response to concerns verify their identity.
Since its launch, in Canada to support a solar power about long waiting times in the UK.
nearly 80% of the customers able to farm.
In the UK, we provided financing We also addressed the most common use this digital channel have chosen and asset management expertise to complaints related to fees and charges to do so.
We have also adjusted our support deployment of energy smart through increased staff training and branch network to reflect changing meters throughout the country.
As a result, customer needs and concluded our retail December, we established a team complaints of this type reduced branch review in the UK, with a further dedicated to sustainable finance within significantly in a number of our markets, reduction of 117 branches in 2016. the business in order to engage clients including a 35% reduction in Hong Kong In Hong Kong, we launched a research more effectively in assessing and and a 27% reduction in France.
and development lab in partnership with responding to potential impacts from the government to promote technology climate change.
development for the financial sector.
Areas of focus include biometrics, data analytics, cybersecurity and internet finance.
Separately, we are developing a mobile application to help HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 23 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Strategic Report | How we do business 255,000 $137m workday hours charitable giving volunteered in 2016 Empowering people Valuing diversity The programme is supported through Employees FTEs by region a behaviour recognition scheme and 7% Building a more diverse and inclusive the launch of Our Charter, a framework 9% workforce is critical to developing a for good decision-making.
5% Our approach aims to increase and To further strengthen our culture and leverage diversity of thought to improve promote positive behaviours, we have 53% workforce agility, enhance our risk developed culture change plans that are management capability, drive innovation regularly discussed in global and local and grow markets.
The plans 26% emphasise enabling a speak-up culture, Our diversity and inclusion ambitions principles-based judgement and other focus on attracting, developing and behaviours that are key to supporting retaining talent that reflects our the Groups strategic objectives such as Key customers and the communities where Asia managing financial crime risk.
In 2016, we do business, and deploying that Europe our employees completed more than talent effectively to anticipate and Middle East and North Africa eight million courses in person or through North America address expectations.
Our seven global online learning in order to build skills and Latin America employee networks support this reinforce behaviours more broadly.
strategy and focus on gender, age, ethnicity, LGBT, faith, working parents We have a wellbeing programme that Exchange meeting insights and carers, and ability.
We have provides benefits and services to support % of employees who believe Exchange continued our focus on improving employees wellness.
For example, we allows them to talk freely about issues gender balance within senior leadership.
offer free, confidential counselling to important to them address personal issues at home or Supporting our employees work.
We also allow employees who have been at HSBC for five years or more We believe that if someone is worth 84% to apply to take a sabbatical.
Above talking to, they are worth listening to.
Employee retention all, we aim to provide a working Exchange meetings are our way of environment where colleagues can talk doing that: meetings with no agendas openly about wellbeing issues, including and where managers are participants 81.7% anxiety and stress.
Such measures are rather than leaders.
These meetings particularly valuable amid the demands bring people together to listen to each Gender diversity statistics of multiple change programmes and other, and allow people to express Male Female financial crime remediation initiatives.
themselves without interruption or Holdings Board 14 70% rebuttal.
Our employee surveys indicate Whistleblowing 6 30% that Exchange participants respond Group Management 11 92% positively by 11% more than others We operate a global whistleblowing Board 1 8% when asked if there is honest, platform, HSBC Confidential, which Senior 6,551 75% employees 2,230 25% two-way communication.
allows staff to report matters of concern 116,077 All employees 48% confidentially.
During 2016, employees Similarly, our At Our Best programme 125,230 52% have raised more than 1,100 cases.
reinforces the habits required for a Common themes among the cases strong culture, including asking for raised included concerns regarding staff feedback, being mindful of ones own behaviour and recruitment practices, emotions and deploying tools for allegations of fraud perpetrated by staff, making better decisions.
In 2016, nearly and weaknesses in incentive 100,000 employees attended an At Our arrangements and information security.
Best training course, and a further 18,000 managers attended similar training centred on managing teams.
24 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 How we do business Ensuring sustainable outcomes Tax Our Global Sustainability function works electricity we use from new wind Taxes paid by region with our global businesses, global and solar sources.
In total, we have $0.9bn functions and our regions to manage agreements in place to meet 23% of $0.3bn environmental and social issues that our global electricity needs from these $2.4bn $0.2bn affect the Group and on which we can sources by 2018. have an impact.
Key issues are reviewed We report our carbon dioxide emissions $7.4bn below and further details are available on page 62. online at www.
Sustainable investment Sustainability performance data for 2016 $2.8bn will be available in spring 2017.
Our Global Research team has expanded $0.8bn its environmental, social and governance Key Climate change UK research offering, hiring analysts to Rest of Europe specifically cover social and governance We have committed to supporting the Asia drivers, and to cover the fast-growing Middle East and North Africa global shift to a low-carbon economy.
North America green bond market.
Our award-winning Global Research Latin America team published 60 reports on Our Global Asset Management Taxes paid by HSBC relate to HSBC's own sustainability topics in 2016.
These business published a new climate tax liabilities including tax on profits earned, included the implications of the Paris employer taxes, bank levy and other change policy to encourage the duties levies such as stamp duty.
transition to a low-carbon economy and increase the climate resilience In light of the Paris Agreement, we of clients investments.
reviewed our mining and metals policy, Our approach to tax and included restrictions on lending to Human rights We apply the spirit and the letter of the new thermal coal mines, in addition to law in all territories where we operate.
our existing policies on coal-fired power We have issued our first statement We have adopted the UK Code of plants and deforestation.
We also added as required by the UKs Modern Practice for the Taxation of Banks.
As a more specific guidance on human Slavery Act, which can be found consequence, we pay our fair share of rights impacts that could arise in the at www.
tax in the countries in which we operate.
We updated our supplier code of We continue to strengthen our For more information about our sustainability conduct to take account of revised processes to help ensure our banking risk policies see page 84. legislation on modern slavery and services are not associated with any We completed a number of GB&M and human rights.
More than 240 of our arrangements known or suspected to largest suppliers have already accepted CMB client transactions that help lower facilitate tax evasion.
HSBC continues carbon dioxide emissions in areas this code.
to apply global initiatives to improve including infrastructure and renewable tax transparency such as: Community investment energy.
In 2016, HSBC was the thirdthe US Foreign Account Tax ranked bookrunner for green, social In 2016, we contributed $137m to Compliance Act FATCA : and sustainability bonds that exceeded charitable programmes, and our the OECD Standard for Automatic $250m excluding self-led transactions employees volunteered 255,000 Exchange of Financial Account by Dealogic.
We also published a report hours in community activities during Information also known as the on our own green bond, issued in 2015. the working day.
Common Reporting Standard : We scored the highest grade in a global Our flagship environmental partnership, the Capital Requirements Directive IV index run by CDP, a not-for-profit the HSBC Water Programme, exceeded CRD IV Country by Country organisation that rates companies and its five-year targets at the end of 2016.
Reporting: and governments on how they are tackling Building on this success, we are the OECD Base Erosion and Profit the climate change challenge.
We also extending the programme for a further Shifting BEPS initiative.
published an HSBC Statement on three years.
Climate Change, providing a summary We do not expect BEPS or similar In 2016, we renewed our commitments of our approach and initiatives.
initiatives adopted by national to our two flagship global education governments to adversely impact We are reducing the amount of energy programmes, the HSBC Youth HSBCs results.
Further financial we consume, and increasing the Opportunities Programme and Junior and tax information for the countries proportion from renewable sources.
Achievement More than Money, for in which we operate will be published By the end of 2016, more than 17% of another three years.
These programmes in 2017 in a CRD IV Country by Country our electricity was from wind or solar help young people access education report at www.
We and realise their potential.
signed additional agreements in 2016 to increase the percentage of the HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 25 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
