Strategic Report Global businesses Commentary is on an adjusted basis, which is the GAAP measure for our We manage our products and services globally global businesses.
The comparative period has been through our global businesses.
restated to reflect changes to reportable segments, as described on page 44.
Retail Banking and Wealth Management RBWM RBWM serves close to 36 million customers Banking revenue was more than offset by offset by transformation and other worldwide through four main business a fall in Wealth Management.
areas: Retail Banking, Wealth Management, in Wealth Management down 0.5bn was Key events: Asset Management and Insurance.
driven by decreased investment distribution revenue as a result of lower mutual fund Our retail banking revenue rose by 1%, RBWM provides services to individuals and retail securities turnover due to weaker with increases in current account and under the HSBC Premier and Advance market sentiment.
This compared with savings partly offset by falls in credit card propositions aimed at mass affluent and a strong performance in the first half of and mortgage revenue, reflecting spread emerging affluent customers who value 2015.
In addition, insurance manufacturing compression, mainly in the UK.
international connectivity and benefit from revenue fell, reflecting adverse market In the UK, growth in mortgage balances our global reach and scale.
For customers impacts $345m, although this was partly who have simpler everyday banking needs, was facilitated by our expansion into the offset by the value of new business.
mortgage intermediary market, with 12 RBWM offers a full range of banking However, in Retail Banking revenue rose brokers added in 2016, which accounted products and services reflecting local $0.2bn or 1%, as revenue increased in requirements.
for 7% of our new mortgage originations current accounts and savings up $0.4bn during 2016. from growth in balances, notably in Higher Retail Banking revenue, Hong Kong and the UK.
We also benefited but challenging market conditions profit before tax $bn from wider deposit spreads in Hong Kong in Wealth Management 2016 2015 2014 and Mexico.
By contrast, revenue in Adjusted Adjusted profit before tax of $5.3bn was 5.3 personal lending fell down $0.2bn, despite $0.4bn or 6% lower compared with 2015. growth in balances of $9bn or 3%, notably 5.7 This was driven by lower revenue in Hong Kong, the UK and Mexico, driven 6.2 in our Wealth Management business, by spread compression mainly in the UK.
By contrast, LICs increased by $0.1bn, notably in Change in adjusted lower operating expenses reflected our Mexico, reflecting growth in unsecured continued focus on cost management.
profit before tax lending balances.
Adjusted revenue of $18.9bn was Operating expenses were 1% lower as $0.3bn or 2% lower, as growth in Retail inflation and investments were more than -6% Commercial Banking CMB CMB serves approximately two million driven by increased balances and wider Key events: customers in 54 countries and territories.
Revenue inCredit Despite the fall in global trade, we gained Our customers range from small enterprises and Lending also increased up $0.1bn, market share in key markets, including trade focused primarily on their domestic markets reflecting continued loan growth in finance in Hong Kong and Singapore, and through to corporates operating globally.
This was partly offset by lower Receivables Finance in the UK.
revenue in Global Trade and Receivables It supports our customers with tailored HSBC was named 2016 Best Trade Bank Finance GTRF.
financial products and services to allow in the World by Trade and Forfaiting Review, LICs reduced by $0.4bn as 2016 included them to operate efficiently and to grow.
and won the Best Global Cash Manager lower levels of individually assessed LICs, as for Non-Financial Institutions at the Services provided include working capital, well as a net release of collective allowances Euromoney Awards 2016. term loans, payment services and primarily relating to charges made in the international trade facilitation, among other fourth quarter of 2015, notably in the oil profit before tax $bn services, as well as expertise in mergers and gas sector.
2016 2015 2014 and acquisitions, and access Operating expenses reduced compared with Adjusted to financial markets.
6.1 2015 as the effect of inflation was more than 5.4 offset by ongoing cost discipline and the Revenue growth in a challenging impact of our transformation initiatives.
This 6.1 market helped us achieve positive jaws of 2.1%.
Adjusted profit before tax of $6.1bn Management initiatives drove a further Change in adjusted was 12% higher than in 2015 primarily reduction in RWAs of $23bn in 2016, leading profit before tax because of lower LICs, and revenue to a cumulative reduction of $46bn since growth despite challenges in global trade.
our Investor Update in 2015, $18bn above Adjusted revenue rose by $0.1bn or 1%.
12% This included growth of $0.2bn in GLCM 18 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Global businesses Global Banking and Markets GB&M GB&M serves approximately 4,100 clients relating to movements on our own credit Key events: in more than 50 countries and territories.
Excluding Through 2016, we continued to focus It supports major government, corporate these, revenue rose $650m or 5%, mainly on delivery of our RWA reductions, and and institutional clients worldwide.
Our in Rates and Credit, as we gained market achieved a reduction of $8bn, which product specialists continue to deliver a share in Europe.
In GLCM, revenue included $39bn through management comprehensive range of transaction banking, increased as we grew average balances initiatives, partly offset by business growth.
financing, advisory, capital markets and risk and benefited from wider spreads.
By Worlds Best Investment Bank management services.
contrast, revenue fell in Equities, reflecting Euromoney Awards for Excellence 2016 lower trading volumes in Europe and Asia.
Markets revenue up despite challenging LICs increased up $0.4bn, predominantly profit before tax $bn market conditions driven by a small number of individually 2016 2015 2014 assessed exposures within the oil and gas, Adjusted profit before tax of $5.6bn was Adjusted 5.6 $63m higher than in 2015, as revenue and metals and mining sectors, notably 5.5 in the first half of 2016 in the US.
increased and operating expenses decreased, reflecting transformational cost 4.9 Operating expenses fell by $93m, reflecting savings, partly offset by an increase in LICs.
reduced performance-related pay, disciplined cost management, efficiency Change in adjusted Adjusted revenue of $14.9bn rose $353m or 2%, despite adverse movements in improvements including technology profit before tax delivery rationalisation, and FTE reductions.
Credit and Funding valuation adjustments compared with favourable movements in These reductions more than offset the 2015 net effect, down $297m, primarily investments we made in the business.
1% Global Private Banking GPB GPB serves high net worth individuals and Adjusted revenue of $1.8bn fell by $0.2bn We recognised a $3.2bn write-off relating families, including those with international or 11%, as brokerage and trading activity to the goodwill of the business in Europe, banking needs, through 13 booking centres in both Europe and Asia decreased.
This which is not reflected in the adjusted covering our priority markets.
reflected the continued impact of client performance.
For additional information, repositioning, in addition to adverse market refer to Note 20 on page 238.
Our products and services include Investment sentiment and unfavourable market Management, incorporating advisory, profit before tax $bn conditions throughout the year.
2016 2015 2014 discretionary and brokerage services: Private Operating expenses decreased by $0.1bn, Wealth Solutions, comprising trusts and estate Adjusted 0.3 primarily as a result of reduced FTEs and planning, designed to protect wealth and 0.4 cost-saving initiatives.
preserve it for future generations: and 0.5 a full range of private banking services.
Key events: Lower revenue reflecting repositioning There was negative net new money of $17bn, Change in adjusted and adverse market conditions reflecting the repositioning of the business.
profit before tax However, we attracted positive net new Adjusted profit before tax of $0.3bn fell money in key markets targeted for growth, by $0.1bn as revenue decreased, partly notably in the UK, Channel Islands offset by a reduction in costs.
Corporate Centre During 2016, we established the Corporate $0.5bn as a result of lower average lending Key events: Centre, to better reflect the way we manage balances and portfolio sales.
Revenue Completed asset sales of $10bn from our businesses.
Corporate Centre comprises also fell in Central Treasury as a result our US CML run-off portfolio.
As at Central Treasury, including Balance Sheet of higher adverse fair value movements 31 December 2016, gross lending Management BSM, our legacy businesses, relating to the economic hedging of balances in this portfolio were $5.7bn.
interests in associates and joint ventures, our long-term debt $0.2bn and higher profit before tax $bn central stewardship costs that support our interest expense $0.2bn.
2016 2015 2014 businesses and the UK bank levy.
LICs were broadly unchanged as increased Adjusted 2.0 charges in the US CML portfolio were Lower revenue due to continued disposal broadly offset by higher releases of credit 2.5 of legacy portfolios and Central Treasury, risk provisions in the legacy credit portfolio.
3.8 partly offset by a reduction in costs Operating expenses were $0.8bn lower, Adjusted profit before tax of $2.0bn was partly reflecting the benefits of Change in adjusted $0.5bn or 19% lower, driven by a fall in transformational savings in our technology, profit before tax revenue and lower income from associates, operations and other functions, and a lower partly offset by lower operating expenses, UK bank levy charge down $0.5bn.
notably a reduced charge relating to the Income from associates was $0.1bn UK bank levy.
-19% lower, primarily in Saudi Arabia.
Revenue fell by $1.2bn, partly driven For further details on the financial performance by reductions in our US CML portfolio of our global businesses, see pages 45 to 51.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 19 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
