appointments include director of Hang Seng Bank Limited: Executive Directors Chief Financial Officer, HSBC Asia-Pacific.
Before joining HSBC, Iain worked at General Electric GE, serving as Controller of its Global Consumer Finance Unit, Chief Financial Officer of GE Douglas Flint, CBE, 61 Consumer Finance Americas, and Chief Financial Officer of GE Group Chairman Healthcare Global Diagnostic Imaging.
Iain is a member of the Appointed to the Board: December 1995 Group Chairman since December 2010 Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Current appointments include: Member of the Board of Trustees of the British Heart Foundation and chairman of its audit and risk committee.
Marc Moses, 59 Skills and experience: Douglas has extensive board-level Group Chief Risk Officer experience and knowledge of governance primarily having Appointed to the Board: January 2014 served on the boards of HSBC and BP plc, and as a partner of KPMG.
He has expertise in finance and risk management in banking, multinational financial reporting, treasury and securities trading operations.
He joined HSBC as Group Finance Director in 1995 and, prior to becoming Chairman in 2010, his responsibilities broadened to Chief Financial Officer, and Executive Director for Risk and Regulation.
Skills and experience: Marc joined HSBC in 2005 as Chief He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Financial and Risk Officer for Global Banking and Markets, and Scotland and a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management in December 2010 became Group Chief Risk Officer.
extensive risk management and financial experience.
Marc is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Current appointments include: Board member of the Wales.
He was European chief financial officer at J. P. Morgan Institute of International Finance, member of the International and an audit partner at .
Business Leaders Advisory Councils of the mayors of both Beijing and Shanghai, a UK Business Ambassador at the invitation of the UK Prime Minister, non-executive Chairman of Independent non-executive Directors the Just Finance Foundation, trustee of the Royal Marsden Cancer Charity Board and a member of its Investment Committee.
Phillip Ameen, 68 Independent non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: January 2015 Stuart Gulliver, 57 Group Chief Executive Appointed to the Board: May 2008 Group Chief Executive since January 2011 Member of the Group Audit Committee.
Skills and experience: As a Certified Public Accountant with Skills and experience: Stuart has more than 36 years extensive financial and accounting experience, Phillip served as international banking experience, having joined HSBC in 1980.
Vice President, Comptroller, and Principal Accounting Officer of He played a leading role in developing and expanding Global GE.
Prior to joining General Electric, he was a partner of KPMG.
Banking and Markets, and has held key roles in the Groups He also served on the International Financial Reporting operations worldwide, working in London, Hong Kong, Tokyo, Interpretations Committee of the International Accounting Kuala Lumpur and the United Arab Emirates.
Former Standards Board, the Accounting Standards Executive appointments include Chairman of HSBC Bank plc, HSBC Bank Committee of the American Institute of Certified Public Middle East Limited, HSBC Private Banking Holdings Suisse Accountants and the Financial Accounting Standards Board SA and HSBC France.
He was also Deputy Chairman of HSBC Emerging Issues Task Force.
He was also Chairman of the Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG and a member of its supervisory Committee on Corporate Reporting of Financial Executives board.
International, Chairman of Skyonic Corporation and a trustee of Current appointments include: Chairman of the Group the Financial Accounting Foundation.
Management Board, and The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Current appointments include: A non-executive director of Corporation Limited.
HSBC North America Holdings Inc. HSBC Bank USA N. A. HSBC Finance Corporation and HSBC USA Inc. Iain Mackay, 55 Group Finance Director Kathleen Casey, 50 Appointed to the Board: December 2010 Independent non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: March 2014 Skills and experience: Iain has extensive financial and international experience, having worked in London, Paris, the Member of the Group Audit Committee and the Financial System US, Africa and Asia.
He joined HSBC in 2007 as Chief Financial Vulnerabilities Committee.
Officer of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. Other former HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 133 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Corporate Governance Skills and experience: Kathleen has extensive financial Lord Evans of Weardale, 59 regulatory policy experience.
She is a former Commissioner of Independent non-executive Director the US Securities and Exchange Commission, and acted as its Appointed to the Board: August 2013 principal representative in multilateral and bilateral regulatory dialogues with the G-20 Financial Stability Board and the International Organisation of Securities Commissions.
Other former appointments include Staff Director and Counsel to the United States Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: Chair of the Alternative Investment Management Association: and Legislative Director and Chief of Staff for a Chairman of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee, USSenator.
anda member of the Conduct & Values Committee and the Current appointments include: Senior adviser to Patomak Philanthropic & Community Investment Oversight Committee.
Global Partners and to a number of public bodies in the US.
Skills and experience: Jonathan has extensive experience innational security policy and operations.
He was formerly Laura Cha, GBS, 67 Director General of the UKs Security Service MI5 with Independent non-executive Director responsibility for its leadership, policy and strategy, and areas Appointed to the Board: March 2011 including international and domestic counter-terrorism, counterespionage and  activities, and cybersecurity.
Jonathan held various positions during a 30-year career in the Security Service, which included responsibility forthe oversight of the Joint Terrorist Analysis Centre and the Centre for the Protection of National Infrastructure, and attending the National Security Council.
Chair of the Philanthropic & Community Investment Oversight Current appointments include: A non-executive director of Committee, and a member of the Conduct & Values Committee Ark Data Centres and an adviser to various cybersecurity and and the Nomination Committee.
Skills and experience: Laura has extensive regulatory and policy making experience in the finance and securities sector in Joachim Faber, 66 Hong Kong and mainland China.
She is the former Vice Independent non-executive Director Chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission.
Other Appointed to the Board: March 2012 former appointments include serving as a non-executive director of Bank of Communications Co. Limited: Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited: and Tata Consultancy Services Limited.
She also served as chair of the University Grants Committee in Hong Kong, and was Deputy Chairman of the Securities and Futures Commission in Hong Kong.
Current appointments include: A non-executive Deputy Chairman of the Group Risk Committee.
Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Skills and experience: Joachim has extensive international Limited, Chairman of Hong Kongs Financial Services experience in banking and asset management.
He is a former Development Council and a non-executive director of China Chief Executive Officer of Allianz Global Investors AG and is Telecom Corporation Limited, Unilever PLC and Unilever N. V. amember of the management board of Allianz SE.
He spent 14years with Citicorp, holding positions in Trading and Project Henri fide Castries, 62 Finance, and as Head of Capital Markets for Europe, North Independent non-executive Director America and Japan.
He was also chairman of various Allianz Appointed to the Board: March 2016 subsidiaries.
He was previously a member of the supervisory board and chairman of the audit and risk committee of OSRAM Licht AG.
He was also a member of the German Council for Sustainable Development and a member of the advisory board of the Siemens Group Pension Board.
Current appointments include: Chairman of the supervisory board of Deutsche Brse AG and the Shareholder Committee of Skills and experience: Henri has more than 25 years Joh.
A. Benckiser SARL, and a director of Coty Inc. and Allianz international experience in the financial services industry.
He France S. A. joined AXA in 1989 and his roles included responsibility for thegroups asset management, financial and real-estate Sam Laidlaw, 61 businesses, the oversight of North American and UK operations, Independent non-executive Director and the preparation and execution of all the groups major Appointed to the Board: January 2008 mergers and acquisitions undertaken in the 1990s.
Henri retiredas Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of AXA SA on 1September 2016.
Other former appointments include serving as a director of AllianceBernstein Corporation.
Current appointments include: Chairman of Institut Montaigne, a French think-tank: non-executive director of Nestl S. A. and a non-executive director of the French National Chairman of the Group Remuneration Committee and the Foundation for Political Science.
Skills and experience: Sam has had responsibility for businesses in four continents and has particular experience in the energy sector.
He was Chief Executive Officer of Centrica plc and lead non-executive board member of the UK 134 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Department for Transport.
He was also an Executive Vice Skills and experience: Rachel was Deputy Governor of the President of Chevron Corporation and a member of the UK Bank of England, and Permanent Secretary at the UK Prime Ministers Business Advisory Group.
He is a qualified Government Departments for Transport and Work and Pensions, solicitor with a Masters in business administration.
She was a non-executive director of Reinsurance Group of America Inc. and The Scottish American Current appointments include: Chair of the National Centre Investment Company P. L. C. for Universities and Business, Chair of the Global Leadership Council for the Sad Business School and Executive Chairman of Current appointments include: A director Neptune Oil & Gas Limited.
Sam was also appointed as a nonofArcus European Infrastructure Fund GP LLP, Heathrow executive director of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited on 10 Airport Holdings Limited, SETL Development Limited and Serco February 2017.
Group plc, as well as Chairman of the latters corporate responsibility committee.
Irene Lee, 63 Independent non-executive Director Heidi Miller, 63 Appointed to the Board: July 2015 Independent non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: September 2014 Skills and experience: Irene has more than 30 years finance industry experience, having held senior investment banking and Member of the Group Risk Committee.
fund management positions in the UK, the US and Australia, Skills and experience: Heidi is a former President of including positions at Citibank and the Commonwealth Bank International at JP Morgan Chase, and was responsible for ofAustralia.
Other former appointments include serving as a leading the global expansion and the international business member of the Advisory Council of J. P. Morgan Australia and strategy across its investment bank, asset management, and the Australian Takeovers Panel.
treasury and securities services divisions.
She was also a nonCurrent appointments include: Executive Chairman of Hysan executive director of Merck & Co. Inc. and Progressive Corp. : Development Company Limited and a non-executive director of Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Bank The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, One Corporation: Senior Executive Vice President of Hang Seng Bank Limited, Cathay Pacific Airways Limited, CLP Priceline.
com Inc. : and Executive Vice President and Holdings Limited and Noble Group Limited.
ChiefFinancial Officer of Citigroup Inc. Current appointments include: Chair of HSBC North John Lipsky, 70 American Holdings Inc. a non-executive director of First Data Independent non-executive Director Corporation and General Mills Inc. and an advisory director of Appointed to the Board: March 2012 SRS Acquiom LLC.
David Nish, 56 Independent non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: May 2016 Member of the Group Risk Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Group Remuneration Committee.
Skills and experience: John worked for J. P. Morgan in Chile, New York, Washington and London, and interacted with financial institutions, central banks and governments in many Member of the Group Audit Committee.
He served at the International Monetary Fund as First Skills and experience: David served as Chief Executive Officer Deputy Managing Director, Acting Managing Director and of Standard Life plc between 2010 and 2015, having joined as Special Adviser.
Other former appointments include serving as a Finance Director in 2006.
David led its investment in technology, trustee of the Economic Club of New York, a Global Policy complementary acquisitions and the disposal of the groups Adviser for Anderson Global Macro, LLC and Chairman of the Canadian operations.
Other former appointments include Group World Economic Forums Global Agenda Council on the Finance Director of Scottish Power plc, non-executive director of International Monetary System.
HDFC Life India and partner of Price Waterhouse.
He is a Current appointments include: Senior appointments and qualified chartered accountant.
advisory positions in international economic research Current appointments include: A non-executive director of organisations.
Vodafone plc, London Stock Exchange Group plc, UK Green Investment Bank plc and Zurich Insurance Group.
Rachel Lomax, 71 Senior Independent Director Jonathan Symonds, CBE, 57 Appointed to the Board: December 2008 Independent non-executive Director Senior Independent Director since April 2015 Appointed to the Board: April 2014 Chair of the Conduct & Values Committee, and a member of theGroup Risk Committee and the Nomination Committee.
Chairman of the Group Audit Committee and a member of the Conduct & Values Committee.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 135 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Corporate Governance Skills and experience: Jonathan is a former Chief Financial Paul Walsh, 61 Officer of Novartis AG and AstraZeneca plc.
He was also a Independent non-executive Director partner and Managing Director of Goldman Sachs, a partner Appointed to the Board: January 2016 ofKPMG, and a non-executive director and chair of the Audit Committee of Diageo plc.
He is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Current appointments include: Chairman of HSBC Bank plc, Innocoll AG and Proteus Digital Health Inc. and a non-executive director of Genomics England Limited.
Member of the Group Remuneration Committee and the Group Jackson Tai, 66 Nomination Committee.
Independent non-executive Director Skills and experience: Paul was Group Chief Executive of Appointed to the Board: September 2016 Diageo plc for 12 years, having originally joined the Board of its predecessor, Grand Metropolitan plc, in 1995.
He was also a non-executive director of Unilever PLC, United Spirits Limited and Centrica plc.
Paul is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Current appointments include: Non-executive Chairman of Member of the Group Risk Committee and the Financial System Compass Group PLC, Avanti Communications Group Plc and Vulnerabilities Committee.
Chime Communications Limited, and a non-executive director of FedEx Corporation and RM2 International S. A.
Skills and experience: Jackson was formerly Vice Chairman and Chief Executive of DBS Group and DBS Bank Ltd, having served the group as Chief Financial Officer and then as Group Company Secretary President and Chief Operating Officer.
He previously worked at JP Morgan & Co.
Incorporated as an investment banker in New York, Tokyo and San Francisco.
Other former appointments Ben Mathews, 49 include non-executive director of Bank of China Limited, Group Company Secretary Singapore Airlines, NYSE Euronext, ING Groep N. V. CapitaLand Ltd, SingTel Ltd. and Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. Jackson also served as Vice-Chairman of Islamic Bank of Asia.
Current appointments include: Non-executive director of EliLilly and Company, Koninklijke Philips Electronics N. V. MasterCard Incorporated and the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board.
Ben joined HSBC in June 2013 and became Group Company Pauline van der Meer Mohr, 57 Secretary in July 2013.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Independent non-executive Director Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Former appointments Appointed to the Board: September 2015 include Group Company Secretary of Rio Tinto plc and of BGGroup plc.
Role of the Group Company Secretary All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures and all applicable rules and Member of the Group Remuneration Committee, the Group regulations are complied with, and for advising the Board on Nomination Committee and the Conduct & Values Committee.
Skills and experience: Pauline has extensive legal and human Under the direction of the Group Chairman, the Group Company resources experience across a number of different sectors, and Secretary is responsible for ensuring good information flows contributed to the Dutch Banking Code Monitoring within the Board and its committees and between senior Commission.
Former appointments include President of management and non-executive Directors, as well as facilitating Erasmus University Rotterdam: Senior Executive Vice President induction and assisting with professional development as and Head of Group Human Resources at ABN AMRO Bank NV: required.
Group Human Resources Director at TNT NV: HR Director, Information Technology, Royal Dutch Shell Group: and Senior Legal Counsel, Shell International.
Current appointments include: President of the supervisory board of EY Netherlands and member of the supervisory boards of ASML Holding N. V. and Royal DSM N. V. 136 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group Managing Directors Stuart Levey, 53 Chief Legal Officer Samir Assaf, 56 Stuart joined HSBC and became a Group Managing Director in Chief Executive, Global Banking and Markets 2012.
Former appointments include: Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence in the US Department of the Samir joined HSBC in 1994 and became a Group Managing Treasury: Senior Fellow for National Security and Financial Director in 2011.
He is Chairman and a non-executive director of Integrity at the Council on Foreign Relations: Principal Associate HSBC France: a director of HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG and Deputy Attorney General at the US Department of Justice: and a The Saudi British Bank.
Former appointments include: a director Partner at Miller, Cassidy, Larroca & Lewin LLP and at Baker of HSBC Bank plc: HSBC Global Asset Management Limited Botts LLP.
and HSBC Bank Egypt S. A. E. : and Head of Global Markets for Europe, Middle East and Africa.
Andy Maguire, 50 Group Chief Operating Officer Peter Boyles, 61 Chief Executive Officer of Global Private Banking Andy joined HSBC in 2014 as Group Chief Operating Officer and became a Group Managing Director in 2015.
He is Chairman of Peter joined HSBC in 1975 and became a Group Managing HSBC Global Services UK Limited: a director of HSBC Global Director in 2013.
He is Chairman of HSBC Private Bank Services Limited and HSBC Group Management Services Monaco SA and a director of HSBC Global Asset Management Limited.
He was formerly a Managing Partner UK and Ireland Limited and HSBC Private Bank UK Limited.
Former of the Boston Consulting Group.
appointments include: Chief Executive of HSBC France: a director of HSBC Bank plc, HSBC Bank Malta p. l. c. and HSBC Paulo Maia, 58 Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG.
Chief Executive, Latin America Patrick Burke, 55 Paulo joined HSBC in 1993 and became a Group Managing President and Chief Executive Officer of HSBC USA Director on 1 February 2016.
He is Chairman of Grupo Financiero HSBC Mexico S. A. fide C. V. HSBC Argentina Holdings Patrick joined HSBC in 1989 and became a Group Managing S. A. and a Director of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. Director in 2015.
He is Chairman of HSBC Bank USA, N. A.
Former appointments include: Chief Executive of HSBC Bank HSBC Finance Corporation, HSBC USA Inc. and HSBC Global Canada and HSBC Bank Australia Limited.
Asset Management USA Inc. Noel Quinn, 55 John Flint, 48 Chief Executive, Global Commercial Banking Chief Executive Officer, Retail Banking and Wealth Management Noel joined HSBC in 1992 when the Group acquired Midland John joined HSBC in 1989 and became a Group Managing Bank and became a Group Managing Director on 1 September Director in 2013.
Former appointments include: a director of 2016.
Former appointments include: Head of Specialised and Equity Finance, Director of Strategy & Development for HSBC Private Banking Holdings Suisse SA, a director of HSBC Bank Canada, Chief of Staff to the Group Chief Executive and Commercial Banking, Head of Commercial Finance Europe, Group Head of Strategy and Planning, Chief Executive Officer Head of Commercial Banking UK and Head of Commercial HSBC Global Asset Management, Group Treasurer and Deputy Banking Asia.
Antonio Simoes, 41 Pierre Goad, 55 Chief Executive, HSBC Bank plc Group Head of Employee Insight and Communications Antonio joined HSBC in 2007 and became a Group Managing Director on 1 February 2016.
He is a director of HSBC Bank plc Pierre first joined HSBC in 2001.
In 2010 he left and joined Zurich Insurance Group as Head of Communications.
Former appointments include: Chief rejoined HSBC in 2011 and became a Group Managing Director Executive of HSBC UK: Head of Retail Banking and Wealth in 2015.
He is a director of HSBC Bank Canada.
Former Management, Europe: and Chief of Staff to the Group Chief appointments include: Global Head of Communications: and Executive and Group Head of Strategy and Planning.
He is the Chairman of the Practitioner Panel of the FCA.
He was formerly Head of Corporate Development, Europe, Middle East and Global Businesses.
Peter Wong, 65 Pam Kaur, 53 Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive, Group Head of Internal Audit The Hongkong andShanghai Banking Corporation Limited Pam joined HSBC and became a Group Managing Director in Peter joined HSBC in 2005 and became a Group Managing 2013.
She is a co-opted member of The Institute of Chartered Director in 2010.
He is Chairman of HSBC Bank China Accountants in England and Wales.
Former appointments Company Limited and HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad, and a noninclude: Global Head of Group Audit for Deutsche Bank AG: executive director of Hang Seng Bank Limited.
He is also nonChief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer of the executive Vice Chairman of Bank of Communications Co Ltd Restructuring and Risk Division, Royal Bank of Scotland Group and an independent non-executive Director of Cathay Pacific plc: Group Head of Compliance and AML, Lloyds TSB: and Airways Limited.
Former appointments include: Vice Chairman Global Director of Compliance, Global Consumer Group, of HSBC Bank Vietnam Ltd: a director of HSBC Bank Australia Citigroup.
Limited: and a director of Ping An Insurance Group Company of China, Ltd. HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 137 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
