Report of the Directors | Corporate Governance Principal subsidiaries Board Committees The GRC works closely with the GAC to strengthen alignment The Board has seven standing committees and a Chairmans with the major regional and global business risk and audit Committee.
In the case of the FSVC and the Philanthropic & committees.
Community Investment Oversight Committee, membership The GAC and GRC make a number of recommendations to the includes co-opted non-Director members as well as nonBoard in relation to the preparation of the financial statements executive Directors.
which are supported by certificates from the principal The Chairs of each Committee report matters of significance to subsidiaries.
the Board after each meeting and the minutes of the meetings Whistleblowing are made available to all Board members.
The GAC and the CVC are responsible for reviewing the Groups The detailed roles and responsibilities of each Committee are whistleblowing procedures and received regular updates on set out in its terms of reference, which can be found on the relevant concerns raised under these procedures, together with website at www.
com about-hsbc corporate-governance management actions taken in response.
Committee effectiveness Committee interaction The effectiveness of the Committees is evaluated as part of the The Board places significant reliance on its Committees and overall performance evaluation of the Board as referred to delegates a broad range of responsibilities to them.
In addition, the Committees review the papers and the therefore important that, while unnecessary duplications effectiveness of each meeting as a standing agenda item to between each remit of the Committees should be avoided, ensure that they continue to be effective, challenging and welleffective links should exist between Committees and the managed, and review a rolling planner of proposed committee Board where required.
2016 Board and Committee attendance Financial Group Group System Conduct & Philanthropic & Audit Group Risk Remuneration Nomination Vulnerabilities Values Community Investment AGM Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Oversight Committee Number of meetings 1 8 8 9 9 7 7 6 3 Group Chairman Douglas Flint 1 8 Executive Directors Stuart Gulliver 1 8 Iain Mackay 1 8 Marc Moses 1 8 Non-executive Directors Phillip Ameen 1 8 7 Kathleen Casey 1 8 8 7 Laura Cha 1 8 7 6 3 1 Henri fide Castries 1 5 5 Lord Evans of Weardale 1 8 7 6 3 Joachim Faber 1 8 9 2 Rona Fairhead 1 4 4 3 4 1 2 Sam Laidlaw 1 8 9 7 Irene Lee 1 8 John Lipsky 1 8 9 8 7 3 Rachel Lomax 1 8 2 2 8 7 6 Heidi Miller 1 8 9 4 David Nish 1 4 4 3 4 2 Sir Simon Robertson 1 4 4 4 4 Jonathan Symonds 1 8 8 5 5 Jackson Tai 2 2 2 2 1 2 6 Pauline van der Meer Mohr 1 7 9 3 3 6 7 Paul Walsh 1 7 8 3 3 Board meetings in 2016 were held in London and Hong Kong.
In addition to the Board meetings listed there were also 11 Chairmans Committee meetings held in 2016.
1 Appointed to the Board 1 March 2016.
2 Resigned from the Board 22 April 2016.
3 Resigned from the Group Audit Committee 20 April 2016.
4 Appointed to the Board 1 May 2016.
Attended AGM as part of his induction.
5 Appointed to the Board 12 September 2016.
6 Appointed to the Group Nomination Committee 22 April 2016.
7 Appointed to the Board 1 January 2016 and to the Group Nomination Committee 1 May 2016.
140 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Compliance with Regulatory Requirements Group Audit Committee The Board is satisfied that each member of the GAC is Members independent according to SEC criteria, may be regarded as audit committee financial experts for the purposes of section Jonathan Symonds Chairman 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and has recent and relevant Phillip Ameen financial experience for the purposes of the UK and Hong Kong Kathleen Casey Corporate Governance Codes.
David Nish appointed on 1 May 2016 Rachel Lomax resigned on 20 April 2016 The Committee has complied with the relevant parts of the Competition and Markets Authority Final Order on the statutory Role and responsibilities audit market for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The GAC has non-executive responsibility for matters relating to Principal activities and significant issues considered financial reporting, including Pillar 3 disclosures and internal during 2016 control over financial reporting.
External auditor Governance The Committee assessed the effectiveness of PwC as the The Group Finance Director, Group Chief Accounting Officer, Groups external auditor, using a questionnaire which focused Group Head of Internal Audit and other members of senior on the overall audit process, its effectiveness and the quality of management routinely attend meetings of the GAC.
It concluded that PwC had performed a high-quality and external auditor, PwC, also attended all meetings.
The Chairman effective audit in 2016. of the GAC had regular meetings to discuss agenda planning and specific issues as they arose during the year.
Fees payable to PwC for the year ended 31 December 2016 totalled $111.1m, of which $39.8m or 35.8% was payable in How the Committee discharges its responsibilities respect of non-audit services.
A further breakdown of the fees Financial reporting paid to the auditors for each of the last three financial years can be found inNote 6 on the Financial Statements.
The GAC reviews HSBCs financial and reporting judgements and their application to the Groups financial reporting, The GAC considered PwC to be independent and PwC, in including Pillar 3 disclosures.
It also reviews presentations to accordance with professional ethical standards, provided the external analysts including the key financial metrics relating GAC with written confirmation of its independence for the toHSBCs strategic actions.
The GAC assesses the adequacy of resources of the accounting The GAC has therefore recommended to the Board that PwC and financial reporting function.
It also monitors the legal and bereappointed as auditor.
Resolutions concerning the regulatory environment.
reappointment of PwC and their audit fee for 2017 will be proposed to shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
Internal controls Internal Audit The GAC assesses the effectiveness of the internal control system for financial reporting and any developments affecting The GAC concluded that the Internal Audit function remained itin support of the Boards assessment of internal control over effective.
financial reporting in accordance with section 404 of the Finance transformation project Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Finance function has embarked on a large scale three-year The GAC has received confirmation that executive management transformation project to respond to the future needs of a has taken or is taking the necessary actions to remedy any changing industry facing increased regulatory demands.
failings or weaknesses identified through the operation of the The project also included embedding internal controls and Groups framework of controls.
improving the consistency of critical financial processes across Further detail of how the Board reviews the effectiveness of the Group.
keyaspects of internal control can be found on page 145.
Internal control framework External audit The GAC continued to monitor the progress being made to The GAC meets privately with the external auditor at every upgrade entity level controls and remediate issues identified Committee meeting and the GAC Chairman maintains regular in2015.
contact with the audit partner throughout the year.
In particular, the GAC continued to monitor the remediation of The GAC reviews the external auditors approach and strategy controls over access management in IT and the next phase in for the annual audit.
terms of the enhancement of strategic controls.
The GAC was All non-audit services provided by PwC are pre-approved by encouraged by the progress being made.
theGAC in accordance with the auditor independence policy Changing regulatory landscape toensure that services do not create a conflict.
The auditor Given the changing legal and regulatory landscape, the GAC independence policy has been revised with effect from continued to receive detailed presentations and updates from 1January 2017 to take account of the UK implementation of new EU audit rules.
Details of the significant engagements for management on the Groups readiness to implement IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and the revised Basel frameworks Pillar 3 non-audit services are contained in Note 6. disclosure requirements.
A policy is in place and monitored by the GAC on hiring employees or former employees of the external auditor.
Internal Audit The GAC approves Internal Audits annual plan, resource and budget, and reviews the performance of the Group Head of Internal Audit and the performance and effectiveness of its head.
The Group Head of Internal Audit reports to the Chairman of the GAC and the Committee regularly meets with the Group Head of Internal Audit without other management present.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 141 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Corporate Governance Significant accounting judgements considered during 2016 included: Key area Action taken Appropriateness of The GAC received reports from management on the recognition and amounts of provisions, the existence of contingent provisioning for legal liabilities, and the disclosures relating to provisions and contingent liabilities for legal proceedings and regulatory proceedings and matters.
Specific areas addressed included provisioning arising from investigations by US regulators and law regulatorymatters enforcement agencies relating to trading activities in the foreign exchange market and competition law investigations relating to foreign exchange activities in a number of jurisdictions: and managements judgement regarding provisions and contingent liabilities in connection with investigations of HSBCs Swiss Private Bank by a number of tax administration, regulatory and law enforcement authorities.
The GAC also considered managements assumptions and judgements relating to the disclosure of a contingent liability in respect of investigations into historical sales of US mortgage securitisations by The United States Attorney for the District of Colorado for potential violations of The Financial Industry Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989, 12 U. S. C. 1833a.
Quarterly and annual The GAC considered key judgements in relation to quarterly and annual reporting.
In addition, it considered external reporting analysts presentations and key financial metrics included in HSBCs strategic actions.
Loan impairment, The GAC considered loan impairment allowances for personal and wholesale lending.
Significant judgements and estimates for personal lending included a review of loss emergence periods across the retail loan portfolios and the allowances and charges potential impact of the UK electorate's vote to leave the EU.
For wholesale lending, the GAC considered managements judgements and assumptions in respect of the recognition of judgemental collective impairment allowances for oil and gas exposures, and judgements relating to impairment allowances recognised for individual identified cases, as at 31December 2016, and noted the ongoing monitoring for signs of credit deterioration that could result from the UK electorate's vote to leave the EU.
Valuation of financial The GAC considered the key valuation metrics and judgements involved in the determination of the fair value of financial instruments instruments.
The GAC considered the valuation control framework, valuation metrics, significant year-end judgements and emerging valuation topics.
Viability statement Under the obligations of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks for the Group and parent company.
The GAC has considered the Directors' judgement in concluding that theGroup and parent company will be able to continue in operation and meet liabilities as they fall due, and that it is appropriate that the viability statement covers a period of three years.
UK customer remediation The GAC considered the provisions for redress for mis-selling of payment protection insurance PPI policies, inthe UK, including managements judgements regarding the effect of the proposed time-bar for claims ending June 2019.
The GAC also considered provisions in relation to the implications of a 2014 UK court case Plevin for the non-disclosure of levels of commission regarding the historical sales of PPI products, pending finalised guidance from the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
Bank of Communications During the year, the GAC considered the regular impairment reviews of HSBCs investment in BoCom.
When testing Co. Limited BoCom investments in associates for impairment, IFRS requires the carrying amount to be compared with the higher of fair value impairment testing and value in use.
The GAC reviewed a number of aspects of managements work in this area, including the sensitivity of the result of the impairment review to estimates and assumptions of projected future cash flows and the discountrate.
It was concluded that the investment was not impaired.
Goodwill impairment The GAC noted the process and results of the 1 July 2016 annual goodwill impairment test and the review of impairment testing indicators at 30 June 2016 and 31 December 2016.
During the year, impairment indicators were noted for GPB Europe and GBM Europe.
No impairment was recognised for GBM Europe.
The GAC considered managements judgements in respect of the impairment charge of $0.8bn relating to GPB Europe goodwill in H1 2016, and the further impairment charge of $2.4bn in Q4 2016, resulting in the impairment of the entire balance of goodwill for GPB Europe in 2016.
There were two main factors which led to indicators of impairment being identified: during the year, revised forecast cash flows became available: and management adjusted the discount rates used in the goodwill tests due to the results of the UK EU Referendum decision.
Hedge accounting The GAC considered managements judgements relating to the partial discontinuation of a hedging relationship in France in December 2016.
The GAC discussed the control weaknesses, which were limited to France, and noted managements actions to address them.
Recognition of deferred In considering the recoverability of the Groups deferred tax assets, the GAC reviewed the recognition of deferred tax taxassets assets in the US and, in the first half of 2016, in the Brazil operations which were sold in July 2016, and the associated projections of future taxable income.
Operating segments The GAC considered the change in reportable segments during the year under IFRS 8, from regions to global businesses, and the introduction of a Corporate Centre segment.
financial crime, cyber-crime and information security, antiGroup Risk Committee bribery and corruption, and culture and conduct.
These risks are overseen by the FSVC and the CVC.
Members Governance Joachim Faber Chairman John Lipsky The Group Chief Risk Officer, Group Finance Director, Chief Rachel Lomax Legal Officer, Group Head of Internal Audit, Global Head of Heidi Miller Regulatory Compliance, Global Head of Financial Crime Jackson Tai appointed on 12 September 2016 Compliance, Group Head of Financial Crime Risk and other members of senior management attended meetings of the Role and responsibilities GRCby invitation to contribute to discussions relating to their The GRC has non-executive responsibility for the oversight of areas of expertise.
risk-related matters and the principal risks impacting the Group, The GRC works closely with the GAC to ensure that any areas risk governance and internal control systems other than ofsignificant overlap are appropriately addressed and to internal financial control systems.
The GRC is updated on, but improve inter-committee communication.
is not directly responsible for, overseeing risks relating to 142 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Further detail of how the Board reviews the effectiveness of keyaspects of The GRC holds meetings with the Group Chief Risk Officer and, internal control can be found on page 145. separately, with the Group Head of Internal Audit without management present.
Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee How the Committee discharges its responsibilities As a standing item on the rolling planner the GRC reviews the Members Group Risk Appetite Statement RAS, the risk map which Lord Evans of Weardale Chairman describes the Groups risk profile by risk type across the global Kathleen Casey businesses and a report on the top and emerging risks Jackson Tai appointed on 12 September 2016 together with mitigating actions for the identified risks.
This Rona Fairhead resigned on 22 April 2016 also identifies any areas where management needed to assess Nick Fishwick, CMG non-Director member vulnerabilities via stress testing.
Dave Hartnett, CB non-Director member Page 64 provides further information on the top and emerging William Hughes, CBE QPM non-Director member risks, the risk map and the risk appetite for the Group.
Nehchal Sandhu non-Director member Leonard Schrank non-Director member The GRC receives presentations on a range of topics, including The Honourable Juan Zarate non-Director member stress testing and briefings on developments in the regulatory Sir William Patey non-Director member appointed environment.
In addition, the GRC requests reports and updates 1 November 2016 from management on risk-related issues for in-depth David Irvine non-Director member appointed consideration and receives regular reports on matters discussed 1 November 2016 at the Risk Management Meeting of the Group Management Board GMB.
It has continued to invite senior management The eight non-Director members support the Committees work from the global businesses and functions to present their risk and between them have extensive experience in geopolitical control frameworks, which has led to enhanced discussions of risk, financial crime risk, international security, cybersecurity the risk environment.
Any revisions to the RAS are reviewed bi-annually by GRC and Role and responsibilities any changes are recommended to the Board.
The GRC regularly The Committee has non-executive responsibility for the reviews the Groups risk profile against the key performance oversight of matters related to financial crime and system metrics set out in the RAS.
It reviews managements abuse, in particular anti-money laundering: sanctions: terrorist assessment of risk and provides scrutiny of managements financing and proliferation financing: anti-bribery and proposed mitigating actions.
It is also responsible for Regular reports are received on legal and regulatory risks.
monitoring, reviewing and advising the Board on the Management actions to mitigate these risks are reviewed effectiveness of the policies and procedures established by andthe potential impact of future developments in this area Management to ensure that HSBC meets its obligations to onthe Group are considered.
regulatory and law enforcement agencies.
Principal activities and significant issues considered Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2016 during 2016 The Group Risk Appetite Statement RAS and Financial crime monitoring of the Group risk profile against the RAS During the year, the Committee monitored the Groups progress There were no significant changes to the RAS in 2016. on the implementation of Global Standards and reviewed and Stress testing discussed findings from country visits conducted by the Monitor.
The PRA and EBA stress testing exercises and the results of stress testing were closely monitored and reviewed prior to Anti-bribery and corruption submission.
Reports were received over the course of the stress The Committee reviewed the activities underway to address key testing exercise and the Committee met an additional four times bribery and corruption risks and managements progress with during the year solely to consider stress testing related matters, the implementation of a more robust anti-bribery and corruption including additional stress tests specific to oil and gas compliance framework.
exposures and the UK electorate's vote to leave the EU.
Engaging with the Monitor Execution risk The Committee was responsible for liaising with the Monitor to Regular reports were received from the Group Chief Operating ensure his recommendations were acted on.
Officer, who updated each meeting on the progress and status The information security environment and cybersecurity of the Groups highest-priority programmes and mitigating risk measures being introduced to manage the identified risks appropriately.
During the year, the Committee reviewed HSBCs progress towards improving the Groups cybersecurity and the actions Monitoring of this risk and challenging managements being taken to mitigate exposure to cyber risk.
It also monitored assessment of execution risk and corresponding mitigating significant developments in the information security actions remains a priority for the GRC.
environment and progress delivering strategic financial crime Internal control and risk management risk management IT solutions.
The GRC reviewed the Groups risk management framework Further information on key activities of the Committee can be and system of internal control other than internal financial found in the Financial crime risk management section on control systems, which were covered by the GAC and the page81.
developments affecting them over the course of 2016, as part ofthe Boards assessment of internal control.
In 2016 the Group Risk Committee appointed an external independent expert to assess the effectiveness of the committee.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 143 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Corporate Governance Conduct & Values Committee Nomination Committee Members Members Rachel Lomax Chair Sam Laidlaw Chairman Laura Cha Laura Cha Lord Evans of Weardale John Lipsky Jonathan Symonds Rachel Lomax Pauline van der Meer Mohr Pauline van der Meer Mohr appointed on 22 April 2016 Paul Walsh appointed on 1 May 2016 Role and responsibilities Rona Fairhead resigned on 22 April 2016 The CVC has non-executive responsibility for oversight of Role and responsibilities culture and conduct risk.
It is responsible for HSBCs policies, procedures and standards and ensuring that the Group The Nomination Committee has non-executive responsibility for conducts business responsibly and consistently adheres to leading the Board appointment process and for identifying and HSBC Values.
The CVC is also responsible for Group policies nominating potential candidates for appointment to the Board.
and procedures for capturing and responding to whistleblowing The Committee is responsible for succession planning for both reports.
Reporting to the GAC where necessary in relation to executive and non-executive Directors and membership of allegations relating to accounting, internal controls over Board committees.
financial reporting or audit matters.
The Nomination Committee regularly reviews the Boards structure, size and composition including skills, knowledge, Principal activities and significant issues considered experience, independence and diversity.
It recommends any during 2016 changes to the Board.
Conduct An external search consultancy is used in relation to the During the year the Committee reviewed the implementation of appointment of non-executive Directors.
It has no additional the Groups conduct approach and, in particular, how effectively connection with HSBC.
A separate external search consultancy global programmes were being cascaded through the is primarily used for certain senior executive hires.
Principal activities and significant issues considered Sustainability during 2016 The Committee was responsible for reviewing how effectively Succession planning the Group sought to satisfy itself that it was meeting its sustainability commitments.
A committee was established with specific responsibility for succession planning for the Group Chairman, comprising all Modern Slavery Act theNomination Committee members plus Jonathan Symonds, The Committee and Board reviewed and approved the Groups Jonathan Evans and Joachim Faber, being the chairs of the Human Rights and Modern Slavery Act statement.
GAC, FSVC and GRC respectively.
Further information on conduct can be found in the How we do Diversity business section of the Strategic Report and in the Financial The Committee took responsibility for the implementation of Review.
theBoards diversity policy against two objectives: at least 30% of candidates being women and only using external search consultants signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Group Remuneration Committee Executive Search Firms.
Members Sam Laidlaw Chairman Philanthropic & Community Investment Oversight John Lipsky Committee Pauline van der Meer Mohr Paul Walsh Members Sir Simon Robertson resigned on 22 April 2016 Laura Cha Chair Role and responsibilities Lord Evans of Weardale Sir Malcolm Grant non-Director member The Committee is responsible for setting the over-arching Stephen Moss non-Director member principles, parameters and governance framework of the Lord Janvrin non-Director member Groups remuneration policy, and the remuneration of executive Directors and other senior Group employees.
The Committee Role and responsibilities regularly reviews the Groups remuneration policy in the context The Philanthropic & Community Investment Oversight of consistent and effective risk management and the regulatory Committee has non-executive responsibility for HSBCs requirements of multiple jurisdictions.
No Directors are involved philanthropic and community investment activities in support of in deciding their own remuneration.
the Groups corporate sustainability objectives.
The Committee A full report on the role and activities of the Committee is set was established as a committee of the Board in 2014 to oversee out on pages 153 to 172. activity which includes both the Groups monetary contributions and also employee volunteering.
Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2016 Charitable giving The Committee was responsible for reviewing the Groups risk appetite for charitable donations and the budget for future years and long-term committed funds.
144 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
