Report of the Directors | Corporate Governance Operation of the Board Board of Directors The Board regularly reviews reports on performance against Appointment, retirement and re-election of financial and other strategic objectives, key business Directors challenges, risk, business developments, and investor and external relations.
During 2016, it also considered presentations Appointments to the Board are made on merit and candidates on strategy and performance by each of the global businesses are considered against objective criteria, having due regard to and across the principal geographical areas.
the benefits of diversity on the Board.
A rigorous selection process, overseen by the Nomination Committee and based All of HSBCs activities involve the measurement, evaluation, upon agreed requirements using an external search acceptance and management of risk or combinations of risks.
consultancy, is followed in relation to the appointment of nonThe Board, advised by the Group Risk Committee GRC, executive Directors.
Conduct & Values Committee CVC and the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee FSVC, promotes a strong risk During the year Henri fide Castries, David Nish, Jackson Tai and governance culture which shapes the Groups attitude to risk.
Paul Walsh were appointed to the Board.
Their biographies can The Board and these committees oversee the development and be found on pages 133 to 136. maintenance of a strong risk management framework.
The number of Directors must not be less than five nor exceed The Group Company Secretary will ensure that agenda and 25.
The Board may at any time appoint any person as a Director, supporting papers are distributed in advance of Board and either to fill a vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board.
Board committee meetings to allow reasonable time for review The Board may appoint any Director to hold any employment and to facilitate full discussion at the meetings.
orexecutive office and may revoke or terminate any such appointment.
Shareholders may, by ordinary resolution, appoint The Chairman met with the non-executive Directors without the a person as a Director or remove any Director before the other executive Directors in attendance.
The SID also facilitated expiration of his or her period of office.
meetings of the non-executive Directors without the attendance of executive Directors, including that of the Group Chairman.
Newly appointed Directors retire at the Annual General Meeting AGM following appointment and are eligible for election.
All The Directors are encouraged to have free and open contact Directors are nominated for annual re-election by shareholders with management at all levels and full access to all relevant subject to continued satisfactory performance based upon an information.
When attending off-site Board meetings and assessment by the Group Chairman and the Nomination whentravelling for other reasons, non-executive Directors are Committee.
encouraged to visit local business operations and meet local management.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial three-year term and, subject to re-election by shareholders at AGMs, are Directors may take independent professional advice, if typically expected to serve two three-year terms.
The Board may necessary, at HSBC Holdings expense.
invite a Director to serve additional periods.
Any term beyond Conflicts of interest, indemnification of Directors six years is subject to particularly rigorous review.
and contracts of significance The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive The Board has established a policy and procedures relating to Directors are set out in a letter of appointment, which includes Directors conflicts of interest.
Where conflicts of interest arise, the expectations of them and the time estimated for them to the Board has the power to authorise them.
A review of those meet their commitment to the Group.
The current anticipated conflicts which have been authorised, and the terms of those minimum time commitment, which is subject to periodic review authorisations, is undertaken by the Board annually.
and adjustment by the Board, is 30 days per year.
Non-executive Directors are also advised that the time they need to devote to The Articles of Association state that Directors are entitled to be the Group may be considerably more if they serve on Board indemnified out of the assets of HSBC Holdings against claims Committees or as other matters require.
All non-executive from third parties in respect of certain liabilities.
All Directors Directors have confirmed they can meet this requirement, have the benefit of directors and officers liability insurance.
taking into account any other commitments they have at the None of the Directors had, during the year, a material interest, time of appointment, and most devote considerably more time.
directly or indirectly, in any contract of significance with any During their term of appointment, non-executive Directors are HSBC company.
Each Director is routinely reminded of their expected to consult the Group Chairman or the Group Company obligations in respect of transacting in HSBC Group securities Secretary if they are considering whether to accept or vary any and has confirmed that he or she has complied with regulatory commitments outside the Group.
The agreement of the Group requirements.
Chairman is required if any additional or changed commitment Board performance evaluation might affect the time that a Director is able to devote to his or her role with the Group.
The Board is committed to regular, independent evaluation of its own effectiveness and that of its committees.
For 2015 16, an Letters setting out the terms of appointment of each nonindependent review was undertaken by Heidrick & Struggles executive Director are available for inspection at the registered JCA Group, an independent third-party firm that has no other office of HSBC Holdings.
The Board diversity policy is available connection with HSBC Holdings.
The process involved an at www.
com investor-relations governance corporateextensive series of interviews and meetings with the nongovernance-codes.
executive Directors, together with input from members of the Induction Group Management Board.
Actions arising from the review were presented and discussed in detail with the Board in Formal induction programmes are arranged for newly appointed February 2016 and then tracked throughout the remainder of Directors, based on the individuals needs, skills and experience.
the year and reported to the Board.
Typically, these consist of a series of meetings with other Directors and senior executives, as well as local site visits, to Given the ongoing nature of these actions, a follow-up review provide familiarity with the business.
Directors also receive isto be conducted during the first half of 2017, the outcome comprehensive guidance from the Group Company Secretary on ofwhich will be published in the 2017 Annual Report.
In the the Groups governance framework and associated policies, as interim period, the performance evaluation of the individual well as their duties as Directors on the Board.
During the year Directors was conducted internally, as provided for under the Henri fide Castries, David Nish, Paul Walsh and Jackson Tai UKCorporate Governance Code, by the Group Chairman and completed a formal induction programme.
138 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Set out below are areas of particular focus from the 2015 16 review that the Board has addressed during the year: Theme Action taken Agenda management Board agendas were revised to allow for a greater focus on business strategy and financial and operational performance.
A rolling cycle of annual deep dives across each of the four global businesses and the Groups principal geographical regions was established.
A detailed presentation of the technology and digital opportunities facing the Group was also arranged with an explanation of how the Group is currently responding to them and the Groups longer-term strategic response.
Improvements were made to the process for the preparation, submission and distribution of management information and Board and Committee papers.
Committee efficiency The operation of the Committees was reviewed to improve efficiency and address overlaps and any gaps in their responsibilities.
Continued development of the cohesive More opportunities were created for senior management to interact with non-executive Directors both inside relationship between non-executive and outside formal Board meetings, and to increase Board exposure to other high potential managers in the Directors and senior management Group.
Succession planning There has been a continued focus by the Board, through the Nomination Committee, on executive and nonexecutive succession planning.
A committee has been established to oversee succession planning for the Group Chairman.
To compliment these, there is regular dialogue with institutional Director performance evaluation investors.
Enquiries from individuals on matters relating to their Non-executive Directors individual performance evaluation is shareholdings and HSBCs business are welcomed.
undertaken annually by the Group Chairman.
This involves a Directors are encouraged to develop an understanding of the discussion about a Directors individual contribution, explores views of major shareholders.
Non-executive Directors are invited individual training and development needs, and the time to attend analyst presentations and other meetings with commitment that is required to continue to deliver the role institutional investors and their representative bodies.
The Group Chairman has confirmed that all nongovernance breakfast is also held, which gives institutional executive Directors continue to perform effectively, contribute investors an opportunity to engage with the non-executive positively to the governance of HSBC and are able to fully Directors and senior management on governance matters.
All commit the time required for their roles.
executive Directors hold regular meetings with institutional Executive Directors individual performance evaluation is investors and feedback from these meetings is routinely undertaken as part of the performance management process provided to the Board.
The results are considered by the Group As SID, Rachel Lomax is available toshareholders if they have Remuneration Committee when determining variable pay concerns that cannot be resolved or for which the normal awards each year.
She may be contacted via The Group Chairmans performance is evaluated by the nontheGroup Company Secretary at 8 Canada Square, London executive Directors, led by the SID.
Training and development The AGM and other general meetings Training and development is provided for each Director, and is The 2017 AGM will be held at theQueen Elizabeth II Conference regularly reviewed by the Group Chairman supported by the Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on Group Company Secretary.
All executive Directors develop Friday 28 April at 11.00am and a live webcast will be available andrefresh their skills and knowledge through day-to-day on www.
A recording of the proceedings will be interactions and briefings with senior management of the available on www.
com shortly after the conclusion of the Groups businesses and functions.
An informal meeting of shareholders A two-day forum for all of the Groups non-executive Directors will be held at 1 Queens Road Central, Hong Kong on Monday was held during the year.
Awareness and discussion sessions 24 April at 4.30pm.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend were conducted by senior executives and subject matter experts these meetings.
Shareholders may send enquiries to the Board on emerging technologies, financial crime compliance, in writing via the Group Company Secretary, HSBC Holdings regulatory initiatives and other business developments.
The plc, 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ or by sending an email following Directors attended these sessions: David Nish, to shareholderquestions@hsbc.
Joachim Faber, John Lipsky, Jonathan Symonds, Kathleen Shareholders may require the Directors to call a general Casey and Paul Walsh.
Jonathan Symonds and Joachim Faber meeting other than an AGM as provided by the UK Companies hosted a separate forum for the Chairs of the Groups audit and Act 2006.
Requests to call a general meeting may be made by risk committees globally.
members representing at least 5% of the paid-up capital of In addition, all members of the Group Audit Committee GAC HSBC Holdings that carries the right of voting at its general received refresher training in IFRS 9 and the Committee Chairs meetings excluding any paid-up capital held as treasury received training in the requirements of the Senior Managers shares.
A request must state the general nature of the business Regime.
As part of their induction programme, David Nish, to be dealt with at the meeting and may include the text of a Henri fide Castries and Paul Walsh received training on the resolution that may properly be moved and is intended to be Volcker Rule.
A request may be in hard copy form or inelectronic form and must be authenticated by the person or Shareholder engagement persons making it.
A request may be made in writing to HSBC Communication with shareholders is given high priority by the Holdings at its UK address, referred to in the paragraph above Board and a copy of its policy is available at www.
or by sending an email to shareholderquestions@hsbc.
At Extensive information about HSBC and its activities is provided any general meeting convened on such request, no business to shareholders in the Annual Report and Accounts, the Strategic shall be transacted except that stated by the requisition or Report and the Interim Report as well as at www.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 139 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
