Report of the independent auditors to the members of HSBC Holdings plc Report of the independent auditors to the members of HSBC Holdings plc 1 Report on the financial statements Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion HSBC Holdings plcs HSBC Group financial statements and parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and parent company's affairs at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups and parent companys profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS : and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Performing the audit On behalf of  LLP PwC, it is my responsibility to form these opinions.
This was the second year that you have appointed PwC as HSBCs auditors, and I have therefore provided information on how PwC approached the audit, how it changed from the previous year and details of the significant discussions on key audit matters that I, and my senior colleagues, had with the Group Audit Committee GAC.
How the audit approach was structured The audit approach was structured to reflect how HSBC is organised.
1 Risk assessment and audit planning at a Group level, having regard to HSBCs global businesses and its key legal entities: In 2015 I appointed partners to lead the audits for each global business.
These partners continued in their roles and met regularly with the relevant HSBC management to understand strategy and matters which arose throughout the year that could have impacted financial reporting.
The partners are specialists in the nature of the relevant businesses and were best placed to design the appropriate audit approach for that part of HSBC.
They oversaw each PwC member firm involved in the audit of that global business and assisted me in my review of their work.
2 Audit work performed at global shared service centres: A significant amount of HSBCs operational processes which are critical to financial reporting are undertaken in global shared service centres across 10 individual sites in 6 countries.
Additionally, many financial reporting processes required to produce the financial statements are performed in HSBCs Global Finance Centre based in Gurugram and Hyderabad, India.
Working closely with me, a partner coordinated the audit work performed by PwC member firms in each of the global shared service locations.
This work established an end-to-end picture of the key processes that supported material balances, classes of transactions and disclosures within the HSBC financial statements.
We then evaluated the effectiveness of the controls over these processes and considered the implications for the remainder of our audit work.
3 Audit work executed on individual legal entities: We received opinions from PwC member firms which have been appointed as the external auditors of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, HSBC Bank plc, HSBC North America Holdings Inc, HSBC Mexico S. A. HSBC Bank Argentina S. A. HSBC Bank Middle East Limited, HSBC Bank Canada and HSBC Private Banking Holdings Suisse S. A. I was in active dialogue throughout the year with the partners responsible for these audits: this included consideration of how well they planned and performed their work.
My senior colleagues and I visited these subsidiaries, and attended Audit Committees meetings for most of them.
We also visited businesses in a further 5 countries.
I also attended meetings with management in each of these key subsidiaries at the year-end.
The audits of these key subsidiaries relied upon work performed by PwC member firms in Bahrain, China, France, Germany, India, Qatar and Turkey.
I considered how my subsidiary audit teams instructed and reviewed the work undertaken in these locations in order to ensure the quality and adequacy of their work.
Collectively, the PwC member firms completed procedures covering 85% of assets, 85% of total operating income and 92% of profit before tax.
4 Audit procedures undertaken at a Group level and on the parent company: I ensured that appropriate further work was undertaken for the HSBC parent company.
This work included auditing, for example, the consolidation of the Groups results, the preparation of the financial statements, certain disclosures within the Directors' Remuneration Report, litigation provisions and exposures, and managements entity level and oversight controls relevant to financial reporting.
A consideration was also made of all changes to, and pending changes to, financial reporting standards and requirements.
As an example, we considered the parent companys decision to adopt the provisions of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments relating to the fair value of its own debt, and work continues to be performed as part of wider preparations for the full implementation of the standard.
In aggregate, these four areas provided me with the evidence required to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements of HSBC.
1 HSBC Holdings plcs financial statements comprise the consolidated and parent company balance sheets as at 31 December 2016, the consolidated and parent company income statements and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended, the consolidated and parent company statement of cash flows for the year then ended, the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended, and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts 2016, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
174 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Changes to the approach in 2016 In March, I chaired a two-day meeting in London of the partners and staff from PwC member firms who undertake audits of the most significant HSBC subsidiaries.
This meeting provided an opportunity for those partners and staff to hear directly from HSBC management and the Chair of the GAC.
We considered during this meeting how our view of significant audit risks had changed.
In doing so, we used our experience in 2015 and considered how the strategic actions and their related targets may influence areas of significant judgement.
The amount of work required to perform the audit was lower because of the audit knowledge that we had acquired during the previous 18 months, and many of the transition processes were not repeated.
More detailed changes in the approach arose because of 4 areas: 1 Changes in the structure and strategy of the HSBC Group The presentation of the financial statements has been amended to reflect the new operating segments adopted by HSBC.
Audit work has been completed to ensure that this change is both appropriate, and that previously reported information has been represented correctly.
During the year, HSBC Bank Brazil was sold.
As a consequence the audit work undertaken on this business was limited to detailed procedures on the loss on disposal and an assessment of whether it is appropriately classified in the Groups income statement.
In assessing the subsidiaries which were significant in 2016, I concluded that HSBC Insurance Bermuda Limited was no longer material, and therefore the scope of the audit was changed.
2 Changes to HSBC processes and controls As part of the efforts to streamline controls and reduce costs, more activities continued to be migrated to the global shared service centres.
This resulted in work moving between PwC member firms.
In July, a workshop was held in Paris for significant subsidiaries and service centre teams so that they could understand the impact of these changes.
The other objective was to further standardise controls tested and understand the end to end process for significant classes of transaction.
3 Assessment of controls I reported to the GAC detailed observations on controls over financial reporting in relation to our work in 2015.
The audit was designed to consider the work that HSBC management undertook to address these observations.
For example, in my 2015 report to you I referenced the improvements management was making to controls around privileged access to systems.
During 2016, my team performed extensive work on managements actions in this area.
4 Changes in the macro environment I considered other macro factors to determine if changes in the approach were required, for example the impact of the United Kingdoms decision to leave the European Union, the devaluation of the Mexican Peso and changes in the credit environment.
I reported to the GAC in December that I did not believe that these changed my original risk assessment.
The purpose and scope of the audit An audit has an important role in providing confidence in the financial statements that are provided by companies to their members.
The audit opinion does not provide assurance over any particular number or disclosure, but over the financial statements taken as a whole.
It is the Directors responsibility to prepare the financial statements and to be satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
These responsibilities have been recognised on behalf of the Board of Directors on page 173.
The scope of an audit is sometimes not fully understood.
I believe that it is important that you understand the scope in order to understand the assurance that my opinion provides.
My responsibility is to undertake my work and express my opinion in accordance with applicable law and the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland as issued by the Financial Reporting Council of the United Kingdom.
These standards also require me to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
A description of the scope of an audit is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
uk auditscopeukprivate: I recommend that you read this description carefully.
It is also important that you understand the inherent limitations of the audit which are disclosed in this description, for example the possibility that an approach based upon sampling and other audit techniques may not identify all issues.
In order for me to perform my work, I had regard to the concept of materiality.
I determined materiality as follows: Overall Group materiality $950m.
How I determined it 5% of adjusted profit before tax excluding the debit valuation adjustment and non-qualifying hedges.
Why I believe this is Given the geographically dispersed nature of HSBC and the diversity of its banking activities, I believe a standard appropriate benchmark of 5% of adjusted profit before tax is an appropriate quantitative indicator of materiality, although of course an item could also be material for qualitative reasons.
I selected adjusted profit before tax, because as discussed on page 48, management believes it best reflects the performance of HSBC.
I excluded the debit valuation adjustment and non-qualifying hedges as they are recurring items that in my view form part of ongoing business performance.
When planning the audit, I considered if multiple errors might exist which, when aggregated, could exceed $950m.
In order to reduce the risk of multiple errors that could aggregate to this amount, I used a lower level of materiality, known as performance materiality, of $710m to identify the individual balances, classes of transactions and disclosures that were subject to audit.
I asked each of the partners reporting to me on the subsidiaries of HSBC to work to assigned materiality levels reflecting the size of the operations they audited.
These ranged from $67m HSBC Mexico S. A. to $760m The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 175 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the independent auditors to the members of HSBC Holdings plc Where the audit identified some items that were not reflected appropriately in the audited financial information, I considered these items carefully to assess if they were individually or in aggregate material.
I reported any such items which exceeded $50m to the GAC.
The Directors have concluded that all items which remained unadjusted were not material to the financial statements, either individually or in aggregate.
Matters discussed with the GAC I attended each of the 8 GAC meetings held during the year.
Part of each meeting involved a discussion with me without management present.
I also met with members of the Committee on an ad hoc basis.
During these various conversations we discussed my observations on a variety of accounting matters and observations on controls over financial reporting.
During the April meeting, the audit plan was presented to the Committee.
The plan included the matters which I considered presented the highest risk to the audit and other information, such as our approach to the audit of journals, interest income and financial instrument valuation, and where the latest technology would be used to obtain better quality audit evidence.
Throughout the year, this plan was refreshed and revised to account for changes in the external and internal environment at HSBC.
As a result of operational issues in the US we changed our view of the risks associated with the accounting for pensions.
This change led to a change in our audit approach which was discussed with the GAC.
In December, the GAC held a meeting with a particular focus on control matters.
We also discussed their impact on our audit approach, for example we explored how our audit approach would be amended to focus more on the controls used by management over key spreadsheets and system-generated information used in financial reporting.
The areas of highest audit risk, where I focused most effort and resource, were: IT access management: impairment of loans and advances: goodwill: investment in Bank of Communications Co. Ltd BoCom : application of hedge accounting: litigation and regulatory enforcement actions: impact of the deferred prosecution agreement DPA : and pension liabilities.
To help you understand their impact on the audit, I have listed them in order of decreasing audit effort.
Some of them are common to other international banks, and some are specific to HSBC.
I have included at the end of this report an explanation of each item, why it was considered an area of audit focus and how the audit approach was tailored to address the risk of misstatement.
Going concern The Directors have made a statement on page 146 regarding going concern.
This statement is based on their belief that the Group and parent company intend to, and have sufficient resources to, remain in business for 12 months from the date of this report.
I am required to review this statement, and in doing so I have considered HSBCs budgets, cash flows, capital plan and stress tests.
I have nothing to report as a result of my review.
I also have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to the statement.
Other reporting The Annual Report and Accounts 2016 also contains a considerable amount of other information that is required by various regulators or standard setters.
In respect of this information, my responsibilities and my reporting are set out in the table below.
176 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Area of the Annual Report and Accounts 2016 My responsibility My reporting Directors Remuneration Report on pages 153 to 172 Those parts of which are clearly marked as Consider whether the information is properly prepared.
In my opinion, this information has audited.
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Consider whether certain other disclosures specified by the The other required disclosures have Companies Act have been made.
Other areas Strategic Report and the Directors Report Consider whether they are consistent with the audited In my opinion, the information in these as defined on page 30. financial statements.
reports is consistent with the audited financial statements and prepared in Consider whether they are prepared in accordance with accordance with applicable legal applicable legal requirements.
Report if I have identified any material misstatements in either I have no material misstatements to report.
This is based on my knowledge and understanding of report.
the Group and parent company that was obtained during the audit, and the environment they operate in.
Viability statement on page 146 which Review the statement in the light of the knowledge gathered I have nothing material to draw considers the longer term sustainability of during the audit.
attention to or to add to the statement.
Directors confirmation of their robust Review the confirmation and description in the light of the I have nothing material to draw assessment of principal risks, and knowledge gathered during the audit.
attention to or to add to the disclosures describing those risks and how confirmation or description.
they are managed or mitigated on page 146.
Consider whether it deals appropriately with those matters No exceptions to report.
that I reported to the GAC.
Directors statement on page 173 that they Consider whether any information found during the course of No disagreements to report.
consider the HSBC Annual Report and the audit would cause me to disagree.
Accounts 2016, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for you to assess HSBCs position and performance, business model and strategy.
Corporate governance report on pages 132 Review the remaining 10 provisions of the UK Corporate Nothing to report following our review.
Governance Code specified for our review by the UK Listing Rules.
All other information in the Annual Report Consider whether it is materially inconsistent or materially No exceptions to report.
and Accounts 2016 aside from the audited incorrect based on the knowledge gained in my audit, or financial statements.
Consider whether it is materially inconsistent with the audited financial statements.
In addition, I am required to report to you if: I have not received all of the information and explanations required for my audit: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company: returns adequate for my audit have not been received from branches not visited by PwC: and the parent company financial statements and the audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report do not agree with the accounting records and returns.
I have no exceptions to report as a result of any of these responsibilities.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for you, the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006, and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come except where expressly agreed by our prior written consent.
Richard Oldfield Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London, United Kingdom 21 February 2017 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 177 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the independent auditors to the members of HSBC Holdings plc Appendix: Key audit matters discussed with the Group Audit Committee GAC Those areas which presented the greatest risk of material misstatement in the financial statements are required to be discussed with the GAC.
They had the greatest effect on the audit, including the allocation of resources and effort and are discussed below together with an explanation of how the audit was tailored to address these specific areas.
IT Access Management Nature of area of focus Matters discussed with the GAC All banks are highly dependent on technology due to the significant number of The original approach discussed with the GAC was based transactions that are processed daily.
The audit approach relies extensively on automated on the control enhancements proposed by management, controls and therefore procedures are designed to test access and control over IT and involved the testing of new and improved control systems.
This was supplemented with other control and substantive procedures required for the periods of the year As reported in the prior year, controls over individuals access rights to operating when the changes would not yet have been effective.
As systems, applications and data used in the financial reporting process required the timing of the enhancements to controls changed improvement.
Access rights are important as they ensure that changes to applications during the year, we reflected this in the nature and extent and data are authorised and made in an appropriate manner.
Ensuring staff only have of testing, and our final approach was discussed with the appropriate access, and that the access is monitored, are key controls to mitigate the GAC in October.
potential for fraud or error as a result of a change to an application or underlying data.
At each GAC meeting, there was a discussion on the status A number of enhancements to the control environment have been made by management of the control remediation programme, work performed by since our last report but some controls were not fully remediated by the year end and we management and results of testing performed.
continued to assess the risk of a material misstatement arising from access to technology as significant for the audit.
Procedures performed to support our discussions and conclusions Access rights were tested over the various aspects of technology relied upon for financial reporting.
Specifically, the audit tested that: new access requests for joiners were properly reviewed and authorised: application user access rights were removed on a timely basis when an individual left or moved role: access rights to applications were periodically monitored for appropriateness: and highly privileged access was restricted to appropriate personnel.
Other areas that were independently assessed included password policies, security configurations, controls over changes to applications and databases and that business users, developers and production support did not have access to change applications, the operating system or databases in the production environment.
As a consequence of the deficiencies identified a range of other procedures were performed: where inappropriate access was identified, we understood the nature of the access, and, where possible, obtained additional evidence on the appropriateness of the activities performed: additional substantive testing was performed on specific year-end reconciliations i. e. custodian, bank account and suspense account reconciliations and confirmations with external counterparties: testing was performed on other compensating controls such as business performance reviews: and a list of users with access to systems was obtained and manually compared to other access lists where segregation of duties was deemed to be of higher risk, for example users having access to both core banking and payments systems.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GAC Report, page 141.
Effectiveness of internal controls, page 145.
Impairment of loans and advances Nature of the area of focus Matters discussed with the GAC Impairment allowances represent managements best estimate of the losses incurred At each GAC and Group Risk Committee meeting there within the loan portfolios at the balance sheet date.
They are calculated on a collective was a discussion on changes to risk factors and other basis for portfolios of loans of a similar nature and on an individual basis for significant inputs within the collective allowance models as well as loans.
The calculation of both collective and individual impairment allowances is discussions on individually significant loan impairments.
inherently judgemental for any bank.
We discussed a number of specific risks that changed or Collective impairment allowances are calculated using models which approximate the emerged during the course of the year, including the impact of current economic and credit conditions on large portfolios of loans.
The inputs impact of the UKs decision to leave the European Union: to these models are based on historical loss experience with judgement applied to the economic slowdown in China: volatility in the oil price determine the assumptions used to calculate impairment.
Model overlays are applied which impacted individual credits: and the increased where data driven parameters or calculations are not considered representative of macroeconomic uncertainty in North America.
Inall of current risks or conditions of the loan portfolios.
these cases we discussed the performance of the existing For specific impairments, judgement is required to determine when an impairment event credit exposures, and the potential need for changes to has occurred and then to estimate the expected future cash flows related to that loan.
The audit was focused on impairment due to the materiality of the loan balances and We also discussed any significant changes made to the associated impairment allowances and the subjective nature of the impairment inputs or models impacting the collective impairment calculation.
allowance as well as changes in the control environment.
The largest loan portfolios are in Europe and Asia with the more significant impairment These included key assumptions over the retail impairment allowances being in Europe, North America and Latin America.
models and improvements in the way higher risk loans were identified and escalated within the organisation.
178 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Impairment of loans and advances Procedures performed to support our discussions and conclusions The controls management has established to support their collective and specific impairment calculations were tested.
For collective impairment, this included controls over the appropriateness of models used to calculate the charge, the process of determining key assumptions and the identification of loans to be included within the calculation.
For specific impairment charges on individual loans, this included controls over the monitoring of the credit watch list, credit file review processes, approval of external collateral valuation vendors and review controls over the approval of significant individual impairments.
For collective allowances, the appropriateness of the modelling policy and methodology used for material portfolios was independently assessed by reference to the accounting standards and market practices.
Model calculations were tested through reperformance and code review.
Specifically with respect to the collective impairment models for the retail portfolios, we reviewed the enhancements made to the models and methodology to ensure they were appropriate.
The appropriateness of managements judgements was also independently considered in respect of calculation methodologies, segmentation, economic factors and judgemental overlays, the period of historical loss rates used, loss emergence periods, cure rates for impaired loans, and the valuation of recovery assets and collateral.
For specific allowances, the appropriateness of provisioning methodologies and policies was independently assessed for a sample of loans across the portfolio selected on the basis of risk.
An independent view was formed on the levels of provisions booked based on the detailed loan and counterparty information in the credit file.
Calculations within a sample of discounted cash flow models were reperformed.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Impaired loans, page 90.
Note 1 d : Financial instruments measured at amortised cost, page 198.
Goodwill Nature of the area of focus Matters discussed with the GAC The Group had goodwill of $15.5bn from a number of historical We discussed the conclusions of goodwill assessments with the GAC when they acquisitions across cash-generating units CGUs.
considered the annual test and at each reporting period when they considered An assessment is required annually to establish whether whether indicators of impairment existed.
aCGUs goodwill should continue to be recognised, or if any At 30 June, indicators of impairment were identified in GPB Europe and GB&M impairment exists.
At each reporting period, management is also Europe, which prompted a full impairment test for these two CGUs.
This led to an required to identify any potential indicators, and to perform an impairment of $800m of goodwill in GPB Europe.
impairment assessment if any are identified.
The annual assessment was performed in the third quarter based on 1 July data.
The impairment assessment calculation used for the tests were This assessment concluded no further impairment of goodwill was required.
The based on estimated future cash flows for each CGU discounted discussions with the GAC focused on the key assumptions, both individually and at an appropriate cost of equity rate.
HSBC used its Annual when combined together.
During these discussions, management confirmed their Operating Plan as the basis for the first five years of cash flows view that the forecasts for each CGU remained appropriate.
and then extrapolated returns into perpetuity using a terminal Subsequently, we discussed with the GAC the impact of changing segments on the growth factor.
Cost of equity rates were based on the investment CGUs, particularly the decision to change the CGU associated with GB&M, as rates used within the global business and approved by the disclosed on page 240.
The discussion also covered the decision not to change the Board.
The estimation of future cash flows and the level to which they At 31 December, management identified further indicators of impairment in the are discounted is inherently uncertain and requires significant GPB - Europe CGU.
A retest was performed and it was concluded that all remaining judgement.
The extent of judgement and the size of the goodwill for the CGU should be written off.
In reaching this conclusion, a view was goodwill, resulted in this matter being identified as an area of taken on the future performance of the business, and the risk associated with these focus.
We discussed the approach and adjustments with the GAC.
Procedures performed to support our discussions and conclusions Goodwill was assessed immediately before and after the new reporting segments were established.
Both bases of the assessment were considered in the audit.
PwCs independent valuation experts critically assessed the discount rate and terminal growth rates used in the discounted cash flow models.
The focus was on the methodology used to estimate discount rates of a CGU: and whether the use of the nominal GDP growth rates was the most appropriate in estimating the terminal growth rates into perpetuity for each CGU.
The calculations used in the model were reperformed to check accuracy and the key inputs in the model were agreed to underlying sources.
Managements future cash flow forecasts used in the model were assessed by: testing that the forecasts agreed to the latest Annual Operating Plan approved by management: considering current year performance against plan and the reasons for any deviation, and key drivers or strategies underlying the plan.
These were discussed with management of the Global Businesses for each sensitive CGU: reviewing the historical achievement of the Annual Operating Plan.
Given the uncertainties in forecasting, this identified that forecasts have been less accurate for prior periods, and we considered if this was appropriately factored into the valuation model: independent sensitivity analysis was performed to identify any further CGUs with a risk of impairment.
The reasonableness of managements threshold of sensitive CGUs was assessed: and the appropriateness of disclosures made in relation to goodwill was also considered.
Note 20: Goodwill and intangible assets, page 239.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 179 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the independent auditors to the members of HSBC Holdings plc Investment in associate Bank of Communications Company, Limited BoCom Nature of the area of focus Matters discussed with the GAC HSBC's investment in BoCom is accounted for as an associate, using the equity Discussions with the GAC were focused on: method.
the continued appropriateness of the value in use model given the This is the fourth consecutive year end that the market value of BoCom has been period of time that the carrying value has been in excess of market below the carrying value.
At 31 December, the market value based on the share value: price was $11.1bn compared with the carrying value of $15.8bn.
the key assumptions used in the model with a particular focus on This is considered an indicator of potential impairment under IFRS.
An impairment the assumptions with the highest level of uncertainty including the test was performed by HSBC using a value in use model to estimate the long-term growth rate and the long term loan loss rate: investments value assuming it continues to be held in perpetuity rather than sold the reasonably possible alternative assumptions that were $16.1bn.
On this basis no impairment was recorded and the share of BoComs considered to identify those assumptions to which the value in use profits has been recognised in the consolidated income statement.
was most sensitive and to demonstrate the impact on the value in The value in use model determines the present value of HSBCs share of BoComs use of a movement in those assumptions: and future cash flows.
The model is dependent on many assumptions, both short-term the overall justifications for the divergence between the value in and long-term in nature.
These assumptions are derived from a combination of use and market value.
management estimates, analysts forecasts and market data, and are highly During these discussions, HSBC confirmed its view that the model, judgemental.
assumptions and cash flow forecasts remained appropriate.
Procedures performed to support our discussions and conclusions The conclusions on the appropriateness of the model were reviewed and the discount rate used within the model was independently recalculated with the assistance of our valuation experts.
Inputs used in the determination of assumptions within the model were challenged and corroborating information was obtained with reference to external market information, third-party sources, including analyst reports, and historical publicly available BoCom information.
The controls in place over the model were tested.
The year-end meeting between management and senior BoCom executive management, held specifically to identify facts or circumstances impacting management assumptions, was observed.
The mathematical accuracy of the model was tested.
Disclosures made in the Annual Report and Accounts 2016 in relation to BoCom were reviewed.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Note 1.1 f : Critical accounting estimates and judgements, page 196.
Note 17: Interests in associates and joint ventures, page 232.
Application of hedge accounting Nature of the area of focus Matters discussed with the GAC To qualify for hedge accounting, certain criteria must be met including We discussed with the GAC during the year, the progress made by documenting the nature and purpose of the hedge and performing regular management in the implementation of the new controls.
During December 2016, management in France identified a further Due to the complex nature of the hedge accounting rules this is often an area of issue with an established hedging relationship, which resulted in a significant risk for banks.
partial discontinuation of the hedge.
A discussion was held with the GAC regarding both the root cause of the matter, the period in In our prior report to you, we noted that audit testing had identified a number of which the adjustment should be recognised and over which controls instances where hedging was applied, but the accounting rules had not been that had not operated effectively.
This resulted in the remediation of existing controls and the implementation of new controls in the last quarter of 2015.
As indicated by the above matter, not all of the hedge accounting controls operated effectively in the year.
The exceptions noted were In light of the prior year matters, we determined this to be an area of significant limited to France.
Procedures performed to support our discussions and conclusions For all significant macro cash flow hedges, documentation was examined and the relationships assessed to determine if the hedges had been appropriately designated.
This included consideration of the hedge objectives and specific compliance with IFRS.
A sample of new hedging relationships was examined and the relationships assessed to determine if they had been appropriately designated.
Thisincluded consideration of the hedge objectives and specific compliance with IFRS.
Managements hedge effectiveness reviews, and the measurement and recording of hedge ineffectiveness, were tested for a sample of hedge relationships.
Understood and tested controls over the documentation and review of the hedge relationships and their initial and ongoing effectiveness.
Additional substantive audit procedures were performed over the partial discontinuation of the hedging relationship in France.
180 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Litigation and regulatory enforcement actions Nature of the area of focus Matters discussed with the GAC HSBC, like other global banking institutions, is exposed to a significant Group Legal provided to each GAC meeting an update on the status of number of open legal cases and regulatory investigations in a number of legal cases.
These updates considered whether all related litigation or its markets.
Given the business is geographically dispersed, the same investigations about a specific matter had been identified.
matter could be subject to investigation in multiple jurisdictions.
Material matters were discussed during each meeting and the need for Provisions of $2.4bn have been established to account for legal changes to provisions considered.
We participated in these discussions, settlements and regulatory fines.
The most significant provisions relate to including consideration of whether any constructive obligation had arisen tax-related investigations and foreign exchange market manipulation.
There are a number of legal and regulatory matters for which no provision has been established, as discussed on page 257.
There is an inherent risk that legal exposures are not identified and considered for financial reporting purposes on a timely basis.
Importantly, the decision to recognise a provision and the basis of measurement are judgemental.
Procedures performed to support our discussions and conclusions Controls designed to ensure the completeness and adequacy of current legal and regulatory provisions were tested.
Regulatory correspondence from material markets was also read, and a sample of legal expenses were reviewed.
Open legal cases were discussed with Group Legal and in certain instances we obtained and reviewed the relevant regulatory and litigation documents in order to assess the facts and circumstances.
The range of reasonably possible outcomes was considered for material provisions to independently assess the appropriateness of the judgement made by HSBC.
The disclosures of legal exposures and provisions were assessed for completeness and accuracy.
Note 35: Legal proceedings and regulatory matters, page 257.
Impact of the deferred prosecution agreement DPA Nature of the area of focus Matters discussed with the GAC HSBC and HSBC Bank USA, N. A. HBUS entered into a DPA with the In considering going concern as the basis of preparation of the financial US Department of Justice DoJ, Federal Reserve Board and Financial statements, a discussion was held with the GAC about the progress being Conduct Authority in 2012 regarding non-compliance with the US Bank made in responding to the requirements of the DPA.
The conversation Secrecy Act, anti-money laundering rules, and sanctions laws.
The specifically considered the 2016 report of the Monitor.
duration of the DPA is five years.
In the report, he expressed significant concerns about the pace of If the DOJ were to conclude that a breach of the DPA had occurred, there progress, instances of potential financial crime and systems and control are a number of potential penalties that could be imposed that could have deficiencies, whether HSBC is on track to meet its goal to the Monitors a material adverse effect on HSBCs business.
Thiscould include loss of satisfaction within the five-year period and, pending further review and business and withdrawal of funding, restrictions on US dollar clearing discussion with HSBC, didnot certify as to HSBCs implementation of, functions through HSBC Bank USA or revocation of bank licences.
The and adherence to, remedial measures specified in the DPA.
loss of this ability could have a significant adverse impact on the going Assurances were sought from the Directors that they were not aware of concern status of HSBC and its individual subsidiaries in the future.
any information to suggest that the DoJ had concluded that the DPA had been breached.
Procedures performed to support our discussions and conclusions The likelihood of the DPA being breached and a restriction to US dollar clearing imposed was independently assessed through: inquiry with the Monitor, whose role is explained on page 82, to understand the status of his work, the outcome of his most recent country reviews, his assessment of managements progress against the requirements of the DPA and his reporting to the DoJ and FCA: reading the 2016 Monitor annual report and the 11 country reports issued during the year: and reading a sample of reports produced by the compliance function that undertook a Global Standards operational effectiveness exercise, and an assessment of the findings.
Each Group Risk Committee meeting was attended during the year.
At each meeting a report was provided by Group Risk on the status of the Global Standards programme, which aims to address the DPA recommendations.
The related discussion was observed.
The papers supporting the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee meeting at the year-end were read.
This meeting discussed the 2016 Monitor report and managements response.
Compliance with the DPA was discussed with Group Legal and other members of senior management.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Top and emerging risks, page 64.
Areas of special interest: the Monitor, page 82.
Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee, page 143.
Going concern and viability statements, page 146.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 181 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the independent auditors to the members of HSBC Holdings plc Pension liabilities Nature of the area of focus Matters discussed with the GAC HSBC has $39.8bn of pension liabilities as a result of defined benefit The change in the assessment of risk was discussed and agreed with the pension schemes.
The calculation of these pension liabilities is complex and HSBC uses third We focused our testing response and our discussions with GAC on the party actuaries to provide support in the process to ensure appropriate largest schemes in the UK and US, which made up 84% of the overall expertise is applied to the calculation.
The use of these actuaries also liability balance at 31 December 2016.
Our increased testing was focused increases the risk of error as data is passed to third parties for analysis on the transfer and use of data by third parties to form the calculation.
Considering all of these factors, our initial assessment of the risk of misstatement did not identify pension liabilities as an area of significant focus as there was no history of error and the pension funds were in surplus reducing the risk of fraud.
During the year management identified errors in the transfer and use of data by third parties for one of the schemes in the US.
As a result of this error, we reconsidered our assessment of the audit risk surrounding pension liability valuations and increased our scope of testing in this area.
Procedures performed to support our discussions and conclusions The controls over the review and approval of actuarial assumptions, the completeness and accuracy of data provided to external actuaries, and the reconciliation to data used in experts calculation were tested.
Controls over the third party vendors were tested and the third party assurance reports covering controls operated by the vendors were reviewed.
The output from external actuaries was inspected and an independent view was formed of key actuarial assumptions.
Data used by the actuary in the calculation and the system to ledger reconciliations was independently tested.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Note 5: Page 208 182 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
