Report of the Directors | Corporate Governance In so doing the Committee is empowered to i determine the areas of greatest risk.
As mentioned previously, the Group whether a new event or circumstances should be disclosed, Head of Internal Audit reports to the Chairman of the GAC and including the form and timing of such disclosure and ii frequent meetings are held between them during the year.
review all material disclosures made or to be made by the Administratively the Group Head of Internal Audit reports to the Group.
The membership of the Disclosure Committee Group Chief Executive.
Executive management is responsible includes the Group Finance Director, Group Chief Risk for ensuring that issues raised by the Global Internal Audit Officer, Chief Legal Officer, Group Chief Accounting Officer, function are addressed within an appropriate and agreed Global Head of Public Affairs, Global Head of Investor timetable.
Confirmation to this effect must be provided to Relations, Group Head of Strategy and Planning and Group Global Internal Audit.
The integrity of disclosures is underpinned by structures and processes within the Global Going concern and viability Finance and Global Risk functions that support rigorous analytical review of financial reporting and the maintenance The Directors considered it appropriate to prepare the financial of proper accounting records.
statements on the going concern basis.
Financial reporting: the Groups financial reporting process Under the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors must is controlled using documented accounting policies and also provide a viability statement.
They must state whether reporting formats, supported by detailed instructions and theGroup will be able to continue in operation and meet its guidance on reporting requirements, issued to all reporting liabilities, taking into account its current position and the entities within HSBC in advance of each reporting period principal risks it faces.
They must also specify the period end.
The submission of financial information from each covered by, and the appropriateness of, this statement.
reporting entity is subject to certification by the responsible The Directors have specified a period of three years to financial officer, and analytical review procedures at 31December 2019.
They are satisfied that a forward-looking reporting entity and Group levels.
assessment of the Group for this period is sufficient to enable Subsidiary certifications to the GAC: half-yearly areasonable statement of viability.
In addition, this period is confirmations are provided to the GAC from the audit covered by the Groups stress testing programmes, and its committees of principal subsidiary companies regarding internal projections for profitability, key capital ratios and whether their financial statements have been prepared in leverage ratios.
Notwithstanding this, our stress testing accordance with Group policies, present fairly the state of programmes also cover scenarios out to five years and our affairs of the relevant principal subsidiary and are prepared assessment of risks are beyond three years where appropriate.
Based upon their assessment, the Directors have a reasonable The internal control responsibilities of the GRC and GAC were expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation complemented by the activities of the CVC and the FSVC which, and meet liabilities as they fall due over the next three years.
respectively, oversaw internal control over conduct-related In making their going concern and viability assessments, the matters and financial crime compliance.
Collectively, these Directors have considered a wide range of detailed information controls are designed to provide effective internal control within relating to present and potential conditions, including the Group.
projections for profitability, cash flows, capital requirements and The GRC and the GAC have received confirmation that executive capital resources.
management has taken or is taking the necessary actions to The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of each remedy any failings or weaknesses identified through the riskfacing the Group to determine the principal risks to the operation of the Group's framework of controls.
In 2015, long-term viability of the Group, including those that would deficiencies in the design and operational effectiveness of a threaten its solvency and liquidity.
They have determined that number of controls associated with IT privileged access were the principal risks are the Groups top and emerging risks as set identified.
Significant improvement in the control environment out on pages 64 to 67, which includes the status of the Deferred has been observed as a result of managements progress on the Prosecution Agreement as described on page 66. execution of the IT privileged access remediation programme.
Management has assessed the effectiveness of relevant IT, The Directors have assessed that all of the top and emerging risks identified are considered to be material and, therefore, business, monitoring and period-end mitigating controls for 2016. appropriate to be classified as the principal risks to be considered in the assessment of viability.
They also appraised The Directors, through the GRC and the GAC, have conducted the impact that these principal risks could have on the Groups an annual review of the effectiveness of the Group's system risk profile, taking account of mitigating actions planned or ofrisk management and internal control covering all material taken for each, and compared this with the Groups risk controls, including financial, operational and compliance appetite, as approved by the Board.
At 31 December 2016, controls, risk management systems, the adequacy of resources, there were five heightened top and emerging risks: economic qualifications and experience of staff of the accounting and outlook and capital flows, geopolitical risk, cyber threat and financial reporting function and the Global Risk function, and unauthorised access to systems, IT systems infrastructure and their training programmes and budget.
The annual review of the resilience, and enhanced model risk management expectations.
effectiveness of the Groups system of risk management and internal control over financial reporting was conducted with In carrying out their assessment of the principal risks, the Directors considered a wide range of information including: reference to the COSO framework.
The annual review of other controls was undertaken using the Groups risk management Details of the Groups business and operating models, and framework, further details of which can be found on pages 68 strategy.
Based on the assessment performed, the Directors Details of the Groups approach to managing risk and concluded that for the year ended 31 December 2016, the allocating capital.
Groups internal controls were effective.
A summary of the Groups financial performance, and its capital position and annual operating plan.
Internal audit Enterprise-wide risk management reports, including the The Global Internal Audit function, which is centrally controlled, Groups risk appetite profile see page 68, top and emerging provides independent and objective assurance of the design risks see page 64 and risk map see page 70. andoperating effectiveness of the Groups framework of risk management, control and governance processes, focusing on 146 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
