DIRECTORS REPORT For the purpose of section 415 of the Companies Act 2006, In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are theDirectors present their report and the audited financial required to: statements of Hunting PLC for the year ended 31 December 2016. select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: The Strategic Report, incorporating the Chairmans Statement, make judgements and accounting estimates that are Chief Executives Review and Outlook, Business Model and reasonable and prudent: Strategy, Key Performance Indicators, Risk and Management, state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU have Group Performance and Development, Group Funding and been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed Position, is located on pages 2 to 49. and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis, As permitted by legislation, the Board has chosen to set out unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will within the Strategic Report some of the matters required to continue in business.
bedisclosed in the Directors Report which it considers to be complementary to communicating Huntings performance and The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting position, as follows: records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and Companys transactions, disclose with reasonable accuracy at changes in the Group and its interests pages 7 and 8 : any time the financial position of the Group and the Company future developments page 8 : and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements risk management, objectives and policies pages 30 to 37 : andthe Remuneration Committee Report comply with the inclusion and diversity page 17 : and Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial greenhouse gas emissions pages 18 and 19. statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors are alsoresponsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and Up to the date of this report, there have been no events after the Company and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention thereporting period that require disclosure.
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
In addition, information relating to the Directors indemnity The Directors are also responsible for the maintenance and provisions, substantial shareholder interests and dividend integrity of the Groups website, www.
waivers, as required by legislation, are disclosed within the Legislationin the United Kingdom governing the preparation and Corporate Governance report on pages 53 to 55. dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation inother jurisdictions.
Investor-related information and further disclosures incorporated into the Directors Report, such as information relating to the Pursuant to the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules, AGM, dividends, Directors powers and interests, share capital, Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook and political donations, research and development and significant the UK Corporate Governance Code, each of the Directors, agreements, can be found within the Shareholders Information whose names and responsibilities are listed on pages 50 and 51, section located on pages 147 to 149. confirm that, to the best of their knowledge and belief: Statement of Directors Responsibilities the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, the Audit and Remuneration Committee Reports, and the liabilities, financial position and loss of the Group and profit of financial statements in accordance with applicable laws the Company: and regulations.
the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 49 includes a fair review of the development and performance of the Groups Company Law requires the Directors to prepare financial operations and the year end position of the Group and the statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors Company, together with a description of the principal risks have prepared the Group and parent Company financial and uncertainties they face.
The Strategic Report also details statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting the Groups policies on human rights, gender balance and Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU.
itsScope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions: and the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and Under Company Law, the Directors must not approve the understandable and provides the information necessary financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true for shareholders to assess a Companys performance and and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company position, business model and strategy.
and of the results of the Group for the year.
By Order of the Board BEN WILLEY COMPANY SECRETARY 2 March 2017 Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 56
