Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 36 Risk management continued Principal risks continued Description Mitigation 8 Product quality The nature of the Groups business may expose it to warranty claims and The Group operates comprehensive quality control procedures across to claims for product liability, construction defects, project delay, property its sites.
damage, personal injury and other damages.
Any damage to the Groups The Groups Technical teams carry out regular testing of all of our brands, including through actual or alleged issues with its products, could products to provide full technical data on our product range.
harm our business, reputation and the Groups financial results.
9 Financial risk management In addition to the input cost risks outlined above, the Group is subject to n Foreign exchange risk The Group undertakes limited foreign the following other financial risks: exchange transactions, with the UK and US businesses selling domestically with largely local input costs.
Some capex requires foreign n Foreign exchange risk As the Group has operations in the UK and exchange purchases and management considers foreign exchange the US, exchange rate fluctuations may adversely impact the Groups hedging strategies where significant exposures may arise.
n Credit risk Customer credit risk is managed by each subsidiary subject n Credit risk Through its customers, the Group is exposed to a to the Groups policy relating to customer credit risk management.
The counterparty risk that accounts receivable will not be settled leading to Group principally manages credit risk through management of customer a financial loss to the Group.
The credit limits are set for each customer based on the n Liquidity risk Insufficient funds could result in the Group being unable creditworthiness of the customer and the anticipated levels of business to fund its operations.
These limits are initially determined when the customer account is first set up and are regularly monitored thereafter.
n Interest rate risk Movements in interest rates could adversely impact the Group and result in higher financing payments to service debt.
n Liquidity risk The Groups policy is to ensure that it has sufficient funding and facilities in place to meet any foreseeable peak in borrowing requirements and liabilities when they become due.
In March 2017, the Group entered into new facilities of 250 million.
n Interest rate risk The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits and bank borrowings.
The Groups bank borrowings, other facilities and deposits are in Sterling and at floating rates.
No interest rate derivative contracts have been entered into at the period end.
10 Pension obligations The Group has obligations to its employees relating to retirement and other The Company plays an active role in the pension scheme nominating up obligations and any changes in assumptions or in interest rate levels could to half of the Trustees and the Group Chief Financial Officer attends and have adverse effects on its financial position.
The defined benefit scheme was closed to future accrual following consultation with members.
The Pension Trustees and their external advisers, as well as the internal pensions team, have significant expertise in the area and provide oversight.
Following the closure, our agreed Statement of Investment Principles, operated to provide appropriate security and achieve an appropriate balance between risk and return, is under review.
new risk 11 Cyber security Recent high-profile attacks on companies across a number of industry The Group does not operate in a high risk sector, yet the Group is sectors have highlighted the damage that can now be caused by hackers committed to ensure that its network, applications and data are protected.
As a result, and as the Group continues to evolve, During the year, the Group has completed a review using an external cyber operational risks such as cyber security risk have increased in focus.
security programme framework, which provides coverage across the key Such IT security risks have the ability to significantly disrupt the Groups areas of cyber security and aligns with industry standards.
business, resulting in financial loss.
new risk 12 Brexit The UK Referendum on EU membership in June 2016 introduced a The Group established a Brexit Committee shortly after the Referendum degree of uncertainty and may give rise to longer-term macroeconomic result was announced.
As part of this, management has developed changes, which as outlined in Risk 1, could reduce demand for the contingency plans to mitigate risks arising from macroeconomic changes Groups products.
The Group has limited exposure to foreign currency risk and as a result the recent devaluation of Sterling has had minimal impact.
Movement of risk: Increase Decrease No change Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 37 therefore reduced volume of product sold, Viability Statement Lookout period as well as a benign environment of In determining the lookout period to prolonged price stagnation on sales.
Background assess the prospects of the Group, the These scenarios reflect the previous Directors decided that three years was The Directors, have undertaken a challenging market conditions of the the appropriate period over which to comprehensive assessment of the Groups 2008 09 downturn, a period over which assess longer-term viability.
The nature of viability as a business rigorously UK construction output fell 13% Source: the building products industry is that it is assessing its markets, the strength of its Office of National Statistics, Construction particularly sensitive to the level of business model and the potential risks that Products Association with sharp economic activity, which is influenced by could impact its ongoing success.
This reductions also in the US market.
These factors outside of the Groups control, process involved carefully reviewing and scenarios have been modelled alongside such as demographic trends, the state of assessing extensive evidence, from both input cost inflation outside of the Groups the housing market, mortgage availability, internal and external sources, to evaluate control, notably for energy costs.
mortgage interest rates and changes in the prospects for the Group over a household income, inflation and long-term horizon.
Based on the evidence available, the Directors believe that it is In determining the viability of the Group, the Assessment reasonable to expect continued growth, Board made the following assumptions: The Directors assessment of the longerand consider that a three-year period n The economic climate in the term viability of the business, as part of the provides the most appropriate horizon geographies in which the Group year-end review for the preparation of this over which to assess viability.
The Directors operates remains in line with a broad Annual Report & Accounts, has assessed have also considered the financing the consensus of external forecasts: the business model, strategy, market Group has in place, which is agreed for conditions, business planning, risks and a period in excess of the lookout period n There is no material change in the legal the liquidity and solvency of the Group.
Following the facilities refinancing and regulatory frameworks with which subsequent to the year-end, described in the Group complies: The Group has a strong position in the Note 34 to the Group consolidated markets in which it operates, as noted on n There are no material changes in financial statements, refinancing is pages 6 and 7, and its strategy see pages construction methods used in the therefore not considered a significant 11 to 17 is aimed at continuing to markets in which the Group operates: factor in this current assessment, but is strengthen its position in those markets monitored on a continuous basis.
n The Groups risk mitigation strategies and create value for its shareholders.
continue to be effective: and The Groups global operations see pages Stress testing 26 and 27 exposes it to a number of risks n The Groups past record of successfully and the Groups principal risks and mitigating significant construction During the challenging market conditions of uncertainties are noted on pages 34 to 36. industry declines can be replicated.
the recent past, the Group performed well, The Directors continually review those risks remaining cash positive and implementing and determine the appropriate controls Conclusion a number of mitigating actions that allowed and further actions.
They have further it to remain viable.
These mitigating actions In summary, the Directors reasonably reviewed the impact within the context remain available to the Directors today.
expect, based on the evidence available, of the Groups viability.
The Group has The budget has been stress tested that the Group will continue in operation limited exposure to interest rate risk and against a severe and prolonged reduction and meet its liabilities as they fall due over foreign exchange rate risk as described in demand for its products, on the basis the three-year period of their assessment.
on page 36. of reduced house building activity and Strategic report Our Strategic report from pages 1 to 37 has been reviewed and approved by the Board.
Wayne Sheppard Chief Executive Officer Kevin Sims Chief Financial Officer 7 March 2017
