Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 72 Directors Remuneration Report continued Element Description Minimum On-target Maximum 1 2 Fixed Salary, benefits and pension.
Annual bonus Annual bonus including deferred shares.
50% of maximum 100% of maximum Maximum opportunity of 125% of salary.
3 LTIP Award under the LTIP.
Maximum annual award No multiple year 50% of the maximum 100% of the maximum of 100% of salary.
2 Based on 2016 benefits payments and pension values as per the proposed 2017 implementation of policy.
The actual benefits and pension contributions for 2017 will only be known at the end of the financial year.
3 In accordance with the regulations share price growth has not been included.
In addition, dividend equivalents have not been added to the deferred share bonus and LTIP share awards.
Participation in the SAYE scheme has been excluded, given the relative size of the opportunity levels.
Pay at risk The charts below set out the single figure of each Executive Director based on whether the elements remain at risk.
For example: n payment is subject to continuing employment for a period deferred shares and LTIP awards : n performance conditions have still to be satisfied LTIP awards : or n elements are subject to clawback or malus for a period, over which the Company can recover sums paid or withhold vesting.
Figures have been calculated based on on-target performance fixed elements plus 50% of maximum annual bonus and 50% of the maximum LTIP.
The charts have been based on the same assumptions as set out above for the illustrations of the application of the Remuneration Policy.
Pay at risk Chief Executive Of cer Wayne Sheppard 488,644 Annual bonus 434,350 271,469 LTIP 217,175 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 102,699 Chief Financial Of cer Kevin Sims 333,428 Annual bonus 296,380 185,238 LTIP 148,190 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 77,991 At risk Subject to malus Pension and bene ts Subject to clawback Salary Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 73 Executive Directors Notice periods Compensation provisions Name Date of service contract Nature of contract From Company From Director for early termination Wayne Sheppard 22 October 2015 Rolling 12 months 12 months None Kevin Sims 22 October 2015 Rolling 12 months 12 months None Non-Executive Directors Name Date of letter of appointment Jamie Pike 22 September 2015 Jonathan Nicholls 22 September 2015 Lynn Minella 3 February 2016 Tracey Graham 3 February 2016 Michel Plantevin 22 October 2015 Matthias Boyer Chammard 22 October 2015 Justin Read 19 December 2016 The Committees policy for setting notice periods is that a 12-month period will apply for Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors of the Company including the Chairman do not have service contracts.
The Non-Executive Directors are appointed by letters of appointment.
Each independent Non-Executive Directors term of office runs for a three-year period.
The initial terms of the Non-Executive Directors positions are subject to their re-election by the Companys shareholders at the AGM and to re-election at any subsequent AGM at which the Non-Executive Directors stand for re-election.
All Directors will be put forward for re-election by shareholders on an annual basis.
Lynn Minella Chair of the Remuneration Committee 7 March 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 74 Directors Report The Directors present their report for the year ended Dividends 31 December 2016.
Subject to shareholder approval, the Directors have proposed a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 of 5.3 pence Cautionary statement per ordinary share.
If approved, combined with the interim This Annual Report & Accounts has been prepared for, and only dividend of 2.4 pence per ordinary share paid in September 2016, for, the members of the Company, as a body, and no other the total dividend payment for the year would be 7.7 pence per persons.
The Company, its Directors, employees, agents or ordinary share.
advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it Directors may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly The names of the Directors who served during the year and up to disclaimed.
By their nature, the statements concerning the risks the date of this report are on pages 38 and 39.
Of those Directors, and uncertainties facing the Group in this Annual Report & Justin Read was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of the Accounts involve uncertainty, since future events and Company since the year-end.
Details of the Directors interests in circumstances can cause results and developments to differ the share capital of the Company are set out in the Directors materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements Remuneration Report on page 65. reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report & Accounts and the Company There have been no movements in the Directors shareholdings undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking post the year-end.
Nothing in this Annual Report & Accounts should The powers given to the Directors are contained in the Companys be construed as a profit forecast.
Articles of Association and are subject to relevant legislation and, in certain circumstances, including in relation to the issuing or buying Corporate Governance Statement back by the Company of its shares, subject to authority being The information that fulfils the requirements of the Corporate given to the Directors by shareholders in general meeting.
The Governance Statement for the purposes of the Disclosure Articles of Association also govern the appointment and Guidance and Transparency Rules can be found in the corporate replacement of Directors.
governance information on pages 38 to 76 all of which forms part of this Directors Report and in this Directors Report.
Articles of Association The Articles of Association may be amended in accordance with Information included in Strategic Report the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way of a special The Companys Strategic Report is on pages 1 to 37 and includes resolution of the Companys shareholders.
the following information that would otherwise be required to be disclosed in this Directors Report: Share capital and control Subject matter Page reference Details of the Companys share capital are contained in Note 24 to Important events since the financial period end page 31 the Group consolidated financial statements.
The rights attaching to the shares are set out in the Articles of Association.
Likely future developments in the business pages 5 and 10 Research and development pages 24 and 25 The Company has established a trust in connection with the Groups Share Incentive Plan the SIP, which holds ordinary Employment of disabled persons page 22 shares on trust for the benefit of employees of the Group.
The Employee involvement page 24 trustees of the SIP trust may vote in respect of Ibstock shares held Disclosures concerning Greenhouse Gas Emissions page 25 in the SIP trust, but only as instructed by participants in the SIP in accordance with the SIP trust deed and rules.
The trustees will not otherwise vote in respect of shares held in the SIP trust.
Disclosure of information under LR 9.8.
4R The information that fulfils the reporting requirements relating to the following matters can be found on the pages identified.
Subject matter Page reference Information about the relationship agreement with page 42 Diamond BC S. r. l. Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 75 After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable Substantial shareholdings expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate As at 31 December 2016, the Company had been notified, in resources to continue in operational existence for a period of accordance with the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial Rules, of the following interests in its ordinary share capital.
The Board has concluded that the Going Concern basis of accounting of its financial statements is appropriate.
Number of % interest in shares issued share Nature of Name of shareholder disclosed capital holding Viability Statement Diamond BC S. r. l. 150,200,435 36.97% Direct The Groups Viability Statement is set out on page 37 of the Franklin Templeton 20,400,000 5.02% Indirect Strategic Report.
Fund Management Limited Disclosure of information to auditors J O Hambro Capital 20,364,772 5.01% Indirect Management Limited Each person who is a Director of the Company as at the date of approval of this report confirms that: In the period from 31 December 2016 to the date of this report, a so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit no further notifications were received.
information of which the Companys auditors are not aware: and Information provided to the Company under the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules is publicly available via the b the Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have regulatory information service and on the Companys website.
taken as a Director in order to make him herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Significant agreements change of control auditors are aware of that information.
The Company is required to disclose any significant agreements Directors Responsibility Statement that take effect, alter or terminate on a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
The Directors Responsibility Statement is included on page 47.
The Company has committed debt facilities all of which are directly Directors and Officers liability insurance or indirectly subject to change of control provisions, albeit the and indemnities facilities do not necessarily require mandatory prepayment on a change of control.
The Company has purchased and maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of Directors and Officers liabilities.
The Company In the event of a takeover or other change of control usually has also entered into qualifying third party indemnity arrangements excluding an internal reorganisation, outstanding awards under the for the benefit of all its Directors, in a form and scope which comply Groups incentive plans vest and become exercisable including with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
These ADBP cash awards, ADBP share awards and LTIP, to the extent indemnities came into force on 22 October 2015 and remain in any performance conditions if applicable have been met, and force as at the date of this Annual Report & Accounts.
subject to time pro-rating if applicable unless determined otherwise by the Board in its discretion, in accordance with the rules of the plans.
In certain circumstances, the Board may decide Financial instruments with the agreement of the acquiring company that awards will Details of the financial instruments used by the Group are set out instead be cancelled in exchange for equivalent awards over in Note 23 to the Group consolidated financial statements, which shares in the acquiring company.
are incorporated into this Report of the Directors by reference.
The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies are Going concern included in the Risk management overview on pages 32 to 36, and in Note 23 of the Group consolidated financial statements.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 37.
The financial position of Political donations the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities No political donations were made during the period ended are described in the Financial Review on pages 28 to 31.
In 31 December 2016. addition, Note 23 to the Group consolidated financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group regularly reviews market and financial forecasts, and has reviewed its trading prospects in its key markets.
