Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 18 Key performance indicators Our KPIs are used consistently throughout our business from assessing our strategic objectives to remunerating our key employees.
Revenue represents the value Delivery of profitable revenue Represents profit before As with all businesses, we for the sale of our building growth is important to the interest, taxation, depreciation measure our financial success products, exclusive of local Groups success.
and amortisation after adjusting by the profits we make.
sales tax and trade discounts.
2 Cash flow before major projects Net Promoter Score 98m 42% 1 6% 2015: 92m -2%pt 2015: 44% What is it?
Represents the net cash As part of our capital As part of our annual There is a well-documented flow after adjusting for management, we focus on satisfaction survey, customers correlation between high capital expenditure on the cash available to the are asked how likely they are customer loyalty and superior major projects.
business in order to achieve to recommend the Group to long-term financial the Groups capital structure friends and colleagues.
The NPS is a and allocation objectives.
Responses are between zero means of measuring this.
The Net Promoter Score NPS is derived from the proportion of our customers scoring 9 or 10 less those scoring 6 or lower.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 19 3 Adjusted EPS Return on capital employed ROCE 18.1 p 19.0% 1 12% 2015: 16.5p -0.6%pt 2015: 19.6% What is it?
Basic earnings per share This helps us ensure that The ratio of profit before ROCE reflects the returns adjusted for exceptional items, we maintain a progressive interest, taxation and available for investment in the amortisation and depreciation dividend policy and deliver amortisation, after adjusting business, and servicing of on fair valued uplifted assets annual growth in returns to for exceptional items and fair debt and equity.
This is also and non-cash interest, net of our shareholders.
value uplift amortisation and a measure for our investors tax at the Groups effective depreciation, to net assets as to how well we are using tax rate.
Net debt to adjusted EBITDA Lost Time Accidents 1.19x 16 1 1 -0.16x 2015: 1.35x -5 LTAs 2015: 21 What is it?
Net debt, comprising short This is a key measure of The number of Lost Time Safety is a priority of Ibstock and long-term borrowings balance sheet strength and Accidents LTAs exceeding plc and we constantly strive less cash, over adjusted financial stability.
It helps us one day across our Groups to improve our performance.
to ensure that our debt is workforce during the year.
The KPI helps us to provide A reduction in the ratio conservatively managed.
a safe workplace as a strong represents a positive safety culture is a key element performance.
See Chief Executives Statement and Financial review statements for discussion of KPIs.
1 Movements compare to the 12-month trading result for the year ended 31 December 2015 see Note 3 to the Group consolidated financial statements and the Financial review on page 28.
2 Net Promoter, Net Promoter Score and NPS are registered trademarks of Bain & Company, Inc. Satmetrix Systems, Inc. and Fred Reichheld.
3 Our definition of adjusted EPS has been amended in 2016.
The comparative has not been updated for the change in definition, see Note 11 to the Group consolidated financial statements for details.
