Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 11 Our strategy Our key strategic priorities The Groups aim is to continue to develop and invest in its Safety market-leading building products Continuing to focus on a safe working environment that has development businesses and to be its of employees and customer service at its core.
customers partner of choice by Working Safely 12 providing consistent, high-quality, See pages 12 and 13 reliable and innovative products.
Invest Maintain existing capacity and invest in new capacity to optimise output and take advantage of structural imbalances in the Groups markets.
Continuing to Invest 14 See pages 14 to 15 Innovate Penetrate markets through innovative products.
Driving Innovation 16 See pages 16 to 17 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 12 Safely Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 13 The launch of our new Concerns initiative in the UK during 2016 is a further step to proactively address Health & Safety risks.
What we achieved in 2016 Our objectives for 2017 n A reduction in the number of Lost Time n Continuing to identify and improve work 16 Accidents year-on-year to 16 incidents.
Lost Time Accidents n The introduction of a new Concerns initiative aimed at identifying risk and The launch of our new Concerns near misses with the ultimate objective Relevant KPIs initiative in the UK during 2016 is a further of minimising accidents.
step to proactively address Health & Safety n The completion of external audit training H&S risks across the Ibstock Group.
n Lost Time Accidents for the UK H&S team improving the The greater focus across all operational standard of assessments completed.
sites placed on the reporting and Read more: Safe working environment investigation of near misses should form 22 See page 22 the next stage in reducing accidents.
Working Safely Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 14 Continuing to Inve st This 54 million investment will be the most efficient brick factory in the UK.
What we achieved in 2016 Relevant KPIs n The commissioning of the new roof n Revenue 43m tile line at our Forticrete factory in n Net Promoter Score Leighton Buzzard.
Capital expenditure n Return on capital employed n Progressed the construction of our to date once operational new brick factory in Leicester in line with plans.
n Adjusted EBITDA Construction of our new soft mud brick factory in Leicester is well n Completion of our larger investments n Cash flow before major projects advanced.
When complete, this 54 million at the Supreme Barnwell and Ibstock investment will be the most efficient brick n Lost Time Accidents Ravenhead locations.
Read more: Other investment activity 27 See page 27 Our objectives for 2017 n Commissioning of our major capital project of a soft mud brick factory at our Leicester site in 2H 2017. n Investment in new kiln facilities at the Ibstock Lodge Lane factory.
Inve st 42km of piling used in its construction 6 football pitches equals total area of new factory More than 20,000 tonnes of steel in its production to date Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 15 st
