Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 7 Our reputation is founded on our people, their knowledge, their expertise and the culture in which they operate ICAPS BUSINESS all of which are driven from the very top.
Our people are a vital asset in our business.
The balance of skills needed is MODEL changing, with an increased emphasis on those with technical expertise, and we are ahead of this curve.
Another of our major assets is the symbiotic relationship between our extensive understanding of the financial markets and their functioning and the deep technical expertise we ICAP has developed an efficient have developed.
Our ability to transfer this knowledge throughout the Group gives us a distinctive advantage.
business model, concentrating We understand that trusted relationships are built through on scalability in certain asset the best customer service combined with leading products.
At the heart of what we do are our relationships with our classes and geographies, customers and with the governmental organisations regulating based on organic growth.
These are mutually beneficial, with customers and officials looking to us for insight and advice and helping us to understand better the problems and issues in the market so we can tailor appropriate responses.
We have also developed important relationships with the suppliers of our hardware and connectivity and close associations with those organisations with which we share our data, and with our joint venture partners.
Our joint ventures provide us with Creating long-term value access to specific regional expertise and also help us to ICAP provides trade execution platforms and technologymeet local regulatory requirements.
based workflow risk mitigation solutions to the global ICAP has developed an efficient model, concentrating on financial markets.
Our services connect market participants scalability in certain asset classes and geographies.
Our value and facilitate the flow of money and assets safely through creation process starts by being highly cash generative due the systems needed to make economies work efficiently.
to the rapid turnaround of fees in our high-volume trading We are focused on providing our customers with innovative activities.
We use this cash flow to reinvest in the development products that enhance their efficiency, reduce their risk and of new products and technologies, differentiated through improve their cost effectiveness.
leveraging our existing infrastructure and our extensive Our customers trust us to provide consistent and efficient experience.
These products and services have higher margins, access to the right product at the right price.
The barriers to which generate the sustainable returns that allow us to invest entry in this arena appear low, but our hard-won and rigorously in the people and technology which make it possible and maintained reputation gives us a competitive advantage.
to deliver returns to our shareholders.
Our value creation process GENERATE INVEST RETURN REPUTATION CUSTOMERS SUPPLIERS JOINT VENTURES TECHNOLOGY SENIOR MANAGEMENT Cash generated revenue from We use this cash flow to reinvest These products and services commissions and subscriptions.
in the development of new products generate the sustainable TRAINING AND and technologies, differentiated returns that allow us to invest DEVELOPMENT through leveraging our existing in people and technology.
infrastructure and our extensive experience.
Shareholder returns Resources and relationships ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 8 STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW continued What other highlights What is ICAPs dividend this year Q Q has this year provided?
and the outlook for the coming year?
This years Charity Day was another tremendous success.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 15.4p per A A W e were proud to welcome Their Royal Highnesses the share which will result in a full-year dividend of 22.0p per Duke and Duchess of Cambridge and other celebrity patrons share 2014 15: 22.0p.
If approved, the final dividend will be of our chosen charities to our London office.
The event raised paid on 22 July 2016 to shareholders on the register at the 7.5 million supporting 200 charities globally, which is equivalent close of business on 1 July 2016.
The shares will be quoted to approximately 4% of ICAPs full-year pre-tax trading profit.
I would like to thank all those involved for their fantastic support.
Despite ongoing subdued market conditions this has been a Since we began our Charity Day in 1993, ICAP has donated year of good progress and positive strategic change for ICAP.
nearly 127 million to charities worldwide.
Trading activity since the start of the new financial year, however, The ICAP Charity Day has become a fixture in the financial continues to be challenging.
The ICAP board is confident that services industry calendar and I hope that it will become even the transformation of the Group and the continued investment bigger and better within TP ICAP.
We will develop a brand-new in new products and technology will result in long-term growth charitable initiative for Newco.
and improvement in profitability driving sustained shareholder value creation.
ICAP has grown and flourished over its 30 year history into the successful leader that it is today and our 30th anniversary is a poignant moment for me personally.
But we all must be prepared to change and I am excited about the future opportunities for both Newco and TP ICAP.
As ever, I am grateful to and would like to thank our employees for their commitment and hard work in this year of change.
I know their efforts will propel the business to even greater success in the coming years.
This years Charity Day was another Michael Spencer Group Chief Executive Officer tremendous success and the event raised 7.5 million supporting 200 charities globally.
