ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 10 STRATEGIC REPORT KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Definition Trading operating profit by division Trading operating profit split between ICAPs divisions of Electronic Markets, PTRI and Global Broking.
35% 37% 37% Performance ICAPs long-term strategy is to grow the Electronic Markets and PTRI divisions.
2015 16 saw the Electronic Markets and PTRI 44% contribution to the Groups trading operating profit increase 33% 38% to 79%, their highest contribution in the Companys history.
Electronic Markets 30% Post Trade Risk 25% 21% and Information Global Broking 2014 2015 2016 Source of revenue Definition Percentage of ICAPs revenue derived from bank and non-bank transaction revenue and total subscription fees.
62% 66% 65% Performance ICAP aims to reduce the volatility of earnings through growth in businesses whose revenue is less susceptible to fluctuations in market volumes.
Bank execution remains ICAPs largest revenue contributor but 2015 16 saw it reduce to 62%.
Subscription revenue continues to increase its share of ICAPs revenue reflecting the 18% 16% 14% continued growth in our PTRI division which generates a majority of Bank execution its revenue through recurring subscription-fee income sources.
Subscription 20% 20% 19% Non-bank execution 2014 2015 2016 Trading operating profit margin Definition Trading operating profit divided by revenue from trading operations.
Performance 21% 20% The Groups overall trading operating profit margin fell by 18% 2 percentage points to 18% reflecting increased investment in the year.
The full-year operating profit margins of the Electronic Markets and PTRI divisions were 30% and 40% respectively.
2014 2015 2016 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 11 Conversion of trading profit to cash Definition Conversion of trading profit to cash is calculated as cash generated from trading operations, excluding acquisition and disposal costs, exceptional items and short-term timing 121% differences in working capital arising from unsettled matched principal trades less cash flows from operations relating to 96% non-controlling interests, interest, tax and capital expenditure, plus dividends received from associates and investments, 71% measured as a percentage of trading profit.
The prior year comparatives have been represented to exlude short-term timing differences in working capital arising from unsettled matched principal trades.
Performance 2014 2015 2016 The Groups business model efficiently converts trading profit into cash and we expect a 100% conversion over the medium to long term.
The 96% conversion in the year is in line with the expectation over the medium term.
Trading EPS basic Definition Trading EPS basic is the profit after tax attributable to the equity holders of the Group divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, excluding shares 33.2p held to satisfy employee share plans and shares purchased 28.7p by the Group and held as Treasury Shares.
24.6p Performance Trading EPS basic fell this year to 24.6p, largely reflecting a decrease in the trading profit before tax and an increase in ETR.
2014 2015 2016 Technology cash spend as a percentage of revenue Definition Cash expenditure on the maintenance and development of information technology as a percentage of total revenue.
Prior year comparatives have been restated to reflect change 13% 12% in methodology to account for cash only spend in the year.
11% Performance Technology spend as a percentage of revenue was 13% in 2015 16, in line with the Companys long-term trend.
The increase in the year primarily relates to increased investment in the Electronic Markets and PTRI divisions.
2014 2015 2016 ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 12 STRATEGIC REPORT RESOURCES, RELATIONSHIPS AND RESPONSIBILITIES DEVELOPING Our investment in our people and OUR RESOURCES culture supports the success of Diverse people our business.
We build long-term ICAP employs more than 4,200 people in 32 countries.
We recognise that our success depends on the quality of our relationships and are committed people.
We make a significant investment in training to develop to the highest standards in the capabilities of our people and ensure that each employee is aware of their responsibilities.
We bring talent into our businesses including through our graduate recruitment programme, internships and apprenticeships.
Our approach to recruitment at all levels is focused on identifying people who can help drive outstanding business performance.
These individuals combine integrity with the ability to deal with constant change.
We aim to appeal to a broad range of people from diverse backgrounds, as having a mix of skills and experiences within teams improves adaptability and agility.
The lack of women in senior roles within the financial services industry is well documented.
The appointment of Jenny Knott as Chief Executive Officer, Post Trade Risk and Information to the GEMG has increased the diversity of our senior leadership team.
The gender balance of our board, however, has been affected by the resignation of our only female non-executive director: we plan to address this as we review the composition of the board following the completion of the Transaction.
Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 13 We maintain our systems to make sure they are stable, up to Gender ratio Male Female date and anticipate the greater reliance on electronic trading All employees 3,068 72% 1,075 25% that is emerging in response to regulatory change around the Board of directors 6 100% 0 0% world.
An increasing proportion of our capital expenditure Senior management 60 82% 13 18% is used for innovation.
We operate technology research and development hubs in New Jersey, Stockholm and Tel Aviv 128 employees are categorised as undisclosed.
and also work with external suppliers.
A strong culture The threat of cyber attack is ever evolving in sophistication Our ability to adapt to change in our markets and our business is and scope.
We continue to enhance the security of our global a direct result of our culture.
Principles of professional conduct are systems to mitigate this risk.
the foundation of our culture and underpin what makes us unique as a business.
These principles are reinforced through regular Long-term relationships training, monitoring and reporting to the board.
The board and We build trust with our customers, partners, investors and senior management set the tone from the top, which is supported regulators.
We engage with our stakeholders in an open and by strong messages about expected standards of behaviour.
This transparency encourages the growth of mutually rewarding long-term relationships.
As part of the project that began last year, we are redefining our corporate values and the behaviours that support them.
With customers We have consulted our management teams, employees and A key strategic priority is to expand and diversify our customer customers as part of this process.
Once formalised, these values base outside our traditional areas.
We know that customer and behaviours will be embedded and reinforced within our experience is ultimately the most important driver of our brand organisation through leadership, governance, communication, reputation and strength.
Our customers rely on us to provide talent management and compensation.
them with insight into the marketplace and to use our expertise We value the views of our employees and this year launched a to their advantage.
They require us to be absolutely trustworthy new internal communications programme to increase engagement and professional in everything we do.
The response rate from our employees to a survey on topics including strategy, leadership and communications was With governments and regulators well above industry benchmarks and has led to changes in how We work with governments and regulatory authorities to maintain we communicate with employees to provide the right messages.
a current and detailed understanding of the legislation and regulation that affect us and our customers.
These relationships World-class technology give us insight into the policy process and enable us to respond Our customers have access to world-class technologies that efficiently to change.
Our position as a leading provider of market infrastructure to the global financial sector has been achieved through significant investment in technology over many years.
During 2015 16, we spent 159 million on technology.
Our culture is underpinned by our commitment to the highest standards of professional conduct.
Principles of professional conduct ICAP culture, values and ethics Business environment ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 14 STRATEGIC REPORT RESOURCES, RELATIONSHIPS AND RESPONSIBILITIES continued With joint venture partners and associates The Groups health and safety policy is approved by the board We have formal relationships with a number of organisations and owned by the Global Chief Operating Officer.
Regional health around the world that offer specialist products and services to and safety committees ensure there is an effective structure for customers.
These relationships give us access to specific regional delivering compliance with the policy.
It is the responsibility of expertise and also help us to meet local regulatory requirements.
managers to provide a healthy and safe working environment for In addition, we have several associated companies providing employees.
As most of our employees work in office environments, a wide range of services.
there are no significant areas of risk on which to report.
Doing business responsibly Reducing environmental impact We aim to do business in a socially responsible way and contribute Our environmental policy is approved by the board and owned by to the communities we are part of.
Most of our greenhouse gases arise from the running of our offices and employee travel commitments.
Maintaining standards We mitigate our total carbon emissions through investment in We are committed to the highest standards in our business.
As a key part of the global financial infrastructure, we adhere Emissions associated with electricity consumption decreased to both the spirit and the letter of the law within our control, from 18,144 tonnes of CO e during 2014 15 to 14,685 tonnes 2 compliance and assurance environment.
Our compliance of CO e in 2015 16, a favourable drop of 19.1%.
Emissions from 2 and control risk infrastructure includes trade surveillance, air travel decreased by 2.5% from 5,055 tonnes of CO e during 2 communications monitoring, comprehensive training and 2014 15 to 4,930 tonnes of CO e in 2015 16.
Tonnes of CO e 2 change Year-on-year comparison 2015 16 2014 15 % We have a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct policy which is approved by the board.
Clear ethical guidelines are issued to all Emissions from: Group companies.
Compliance with these guidelines is monitored Scope 1 276 441 -37.4 by the Audit Committee and through internal audit procedures.
Scope 2 14,685 18,144 -19.1 There is a zero-tolerance attitude towards money laundering, Scope 3 12,977 12,970 0.1 bribery and corruption.
A programme of internal training is in Total 27,938 31,555 -11.5 place to ensure all employees are aware of these policies.
Intensity metric: We promote equal access to jobs and promotion opportunities tonnes CO e FTE 6.3 6.57 -4.1 2 as we believe that differences in background and outlook are key to creating a healthy and dynamic organisation.
We expect our S cope 1 includes direct greenhouse gas emissions from sources owned or controlled by the Company, such as natural gas combustion and company-owned vehicles.
employees and all those who work with us to show tolerance, S cope 2 accounts for greenhouse gas emissions from purchased electricity, heat respect and dignity for all.
No employee, applicant, contractor and steam generated off-site.
S cope 3 includes all other indirect emissions such as waste disposal, business travel or temporary worker is treated less favourably, victimised or and employee commuting.
Consideration is always given to human rights principles as part of our working practices.
Total emissions per full-time FTE employee reduced from 6.57 tonnes of CO e in 2014 15 to 6.3 tonnes of CO e in 2015 16.
2 2 These estimates were provided by Natural Capital Partners, an environmental consultancy.
Natural Capital Partners assessment was carried out in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
Responsibility for emissions sources was determined using the operational control approach.
Working for society Our business performs a useful role in society: by contributing to the stability and prosperity of economies by helping governments and companies to raise capital and manage risk: by supporting the efficient functioning of global markets by providing transparency for customers and helping to maintain the liquidity of markets: and as a leader in electronic trading in OTC markets, we are helping to make markets safer by enabling greater use of technology.
Although we have a small direct footprint in terms of social and community issues, we recognise that our behaviour and activities can have a positive effect.
Our annual Charity Day raises money for charities worldwide.
We also support employees wishing to volunteer.
