ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 38 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS BIOGRAPHIES Charles Gregson Non-executive Chairman Age 68 Appointed to the board: Independent: August 1998 No Committees: G N Chairman Skills and experience Balance of the board as at 31 March 2016 Charles led the development of Garban plc from a small London-based FX and deposit broker to an international business with leading positions in FX, currency deposits, OTC derivatives, government and corporate bonds.
1 Chairman Garban merged with Intercapital in 1998, becoming ICAP plc in 2001.
Executive directors Charles brings considerable senior board level expertise and a thorough 3 understanding of the importance of maintaining strong relationships Non-executive directors with the institutional investor community, media and regulatory bodies.
2 He has served on a number of boards in the financial services and media sectors including as non-executive chairman of St Jamess Place plc and CPP Group plc and as deputy chairman of Provident Financial plc.
Charles was also a non-executive director of United Business Media plc and PR Newswire Europe Limited.
Chairman and non-executive directors tenure Charles holds a degree in Law from the University of Cambridge and as at 31 March 2016 qualified as a solicitor.
Other appointments Charles is a non-executive director of Caledonia Investments plc and 1 13 years Non-Standard Finance plc.
He is a director of ICAP Newco plc.
36 years 2 6 years 1 Board experience and diversity All ICAP directors have a good understanding of the markets, regions, regulatory and risk management frameworks within which the Group operates as well as the technology it uses.
The nonexecutive directors all have international experience of ICAPs business divisions.
The biographies of the directors highlight Michael Spencer Group Chief Executive Officer Age 60 the skills and experience each director brings to the board.
Appointed to the board: Independent: September 1999 No Committees: G N Member Skills and experience Other director during the year Having worked in financial services for more than 30 years, Michael is well respected within the industry.
He founded Intercapital in 1986 and became its Chairman and Chief Executive in October 1998.
He chairs the Diane Schueneman Non-executive director Age 64 GEMG, the executive committee responsible for the Groups strategy and its implementation.
Appointed to the board: Independent: Michael brings immense knowledge and experience to the board.
He has a July 2010 Yes deep understanding of the markets in which ICAP operates and substantial Resigned on 31 December 2015 entrepreneurial and senior management expertise.
Michael, together with IPGL and its subsidiary companies, is a substantial shareholder in the Company.
Michael was instrumental in founding ICAPs Charity Day in 1993.
Key to board committee membership To date, it has contributed nearly 127 million across more than 2,000 charities worldwide.
G Governance R Risk Michael holds a degree in Physics from the University of Oxford.
Other appointments N Nomination Re Remuneration Michael is chairman of IPGL and is on the boards of many of its investments.
He is the chairman of The Conservative Party Foundation Limited and A Audit a director of ICAP Newco plc.
Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 39 Stuart Bridges Group Finance Director Age 55 Ivan Ritossa Non-executive director Age 54 Appointed to the board: Independent: Appointed to the board: Independent: September 2015 No July 2013 Yes Committees: G Member Committees: N A R Re Member Skills and experience Skills and experience Prior to joining ICAP, Stuart was Chief Financial Officer at Hiscox Limited Ivan has extensive electronic and voice market experience in FX, where he had been since 1999.
He has held posts in various financial commodities, credit, prime services and equities and brings more services companies in the UK and US, including Henderson Global than 30 years of global investment banking expertise to the board.
Stuart brings wide ranging experience of implementing Prior to joining ICAP, he served on the executive committee for change and achieving business success and profitability.
Barclays Investment Bank, as a non-executive director of ABSA Stuart helps lead the strategic direction of the Group and is responsible Group and an executive director of Barclays Saudi Arabia board.
for the Groups finance, company secretarial, investor relations and Ivan has been a member of numerous industry committees including regulatory affairs functions.
He chairs the GFC and is a member of the New York Federal Reserve Foreign Exchange Committee, the the GEMG and the GOC.
Bank of England Foreign Exchange Joint Standing Committee and Stuart holds an MA degree in Engineering from the University the Singapore Foreign Exchange Markets Committee.
of Cambridge and is a Chartered Accountant.
Ivan holds an honours degree in Finance from the University of New South Wales, Australia.
Other appointments Stuart is a non-executive director of Caledonia Investments plc, a member Other appointments of the Audit Committee of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Ivan is a non-executive director of ICAP Global Derivatives Limited England and Wales and a member of the Finance Committee of The and ICAP SEF US LLC.
He is chairman of Exotix Partners.
John Sievwright Senior independent director Age 61 Robert Standing Non-executive director Age 56 Appointed to the board: Independent: Appointed to the board: Independent: July 2009 Yes July 2010 Yes Committees: A R Chairman G N Re Member Committees: Re Chairman N A R Member Skills and experience Skills and experience John has extensive experience in investment banking including a 20-year Robert is a principal of LDF Advisers LLP which was founded within the career with Bank of America Merrill Lynch formerly Merrill Lynch where JPMorgan group in 1995 and spun out in 2002.
Robert joined Chemical he held a number of senior management positions including that of Chief Bank in 1982, spending two years developing new products before Operating Officer, International, based in New York, Tokyo and London.
joining the Capital Markets division in 1985.
Following acquisitions He was previously senior independent director of FirstGroup plc and by JPMorgan, he worked in a range of roles before becoming Head was chairman of its audit committee.
John brings extensive financial of Fixed Income and Foreign Exchange for EMEA in 1998. and operational experience of the financial services sector to the board.
Robert is one of the founders of the Hedge Fund Standards Board.
He John holds an MA degree in Accounting and Economics from the has extensive product knowledge and senior management experience.
University of Aberdeen and is a member of the Institute of Chartered Robert holds a degree in Engineering from the University of Cambridge.
Other appointments Other appointments Robert is a director of London Diversified Fund Management UK Limited.
John has no other appointments.
