Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 9 STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Progress of strategic priorities Expanding our Spot FX average daily volume on EBS Direct reached an average of $20 billion during the addressable market final quarter of the 2016 financial year, up 37% year-on-year and from an increasingly diverse range of currencies.
The launch of forwards on EBS Direct in December 2015 achieved a major strategic milestone by providing access to the huge FX forwards market.
Offering both spot and forwards is a common requirement in the corporate treasury market, where EBS Direct should benefit from the deep relationships established through the EBS Treasury money market funds platform.
The completed acquisition of ENSO will further strengthen relationships with the prime broker market and their hedge fund customers, where ENSO provides inventory management and data analytics tools.
Global Broking continued to invest in its Fusion distribution platform and mid-market matching.
Seizing opportunities TriOptima announced the launch of triResolve Margin, a web-based, automated end-to-end margin created by regulatory processing solution which will help customers comply with the new regulatory requirements for change margining uncleared OTC derivatives that come into effect from September 2016.
TriOptimas new centralised risk analytics service, triCalculate, uses state-of-the-art computing to provide counterparty credit risk analytics, meeting the increasing demand for independent OTC valuations.
Post Trade Risk and Information has made a series of enhancements that significantly expand its existing suite of regulatory services to offer customers an end-to-end menu of products which meet MiFIR MiFID II cross-asset reporting and processing obligations.
Post Trade Risk and Information recently announced the creation of its own Approved Publication Arrangement service to satisfy pre and post trade transparency requirements for venues.
EBS BrokerTecs eFix Matching solution meets the FX markets requirement of a central utility for benchmark execution.
Customers can access a central pool of liquidity to execute against daily benchmark rates or fixes by netting off buys versus sells prior to the fix calculation window.
Volume has increased by 260% year-on-year.
Leveraging into The average daily volume on EBS NDF reached $5.6 billion during the final quarter, up 54% growth markets year-on-year.
Volumes are becoming more diversified across an increased number of Asian currencies.
The migration of one-month Asian NDFs from voice broking to electronic platforms continues.
The launch of Latin American NDFs on EBS creates another large opportunity.
Average daily CNH volume reached $7.0 billion during the final quarter of the year, up 55% year-on-year.
The positive trends in market share growth and voice to electronic migration have continued.
In March 2016, Chinese government-backed broking business CFETS selected EBS to build its next generation electronic trading platform for FX and fixed income.
In March 2016 we successfully completed a proof of technology test case for a distributed ledger using blockchain technology.
Reinforcing We conducted a survey of the quality and effectiveness of our internal communications.
A key our culture finding was the high level of trust and confidence employees have in the Company and its leadership.
This played an important part in enabling us to grasp the opportunity created by the Transaction.
Our Group leadership programme has been extended to include all those with responsibility for managing people and for senior technical specialists, ensuring that our strong culture is understood and reinforced.
A programme is underway to ensure that everyone joining the Company understands and is aligned to our culture through customised pre-employment screening.
All our training and development will emphasise our approach to conduct and how we interact with our colleagues and customers, including online training focused on real conduct risk situations.
