ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 56 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Set out below is additional statutory information that ICAP is Appointment and retirement of directors required to disclose in its directors report.
Some of the matters The appointment and retirement of directors is governed by the normally included in the directors report have instead been Companys articles of association, the Code, the Companies Act included in the strategic report on pages 1 to 35 as the board 2006 and related legislation.
The board has the power to appoint considers these to be of strategic importance.
additional directors or to fill a casual vacancy among the directors.
Any such director holds office only until the next annual general meeting, when that director will stand for appointment by Related party transactions shareholders.
In accordance with the Code, the articles of Details of related party transactions are set out in note 28 to association also provide that all directors are subject to annual the financial statements.
Environment Details of the Groups environmental policy are given on Articles of association page 14 of the strategic report.
The Companys articles of association may be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
No changes to Employees the articles of association of the Company will be proposed at the Details of the Companys policies in respect of employee 2016 annual general meeting.
ICAP plcs articles of association involvement, diversity and human rights are given on are available on the Companys website at www.
pages 12 to 14 of the strategic report.
Share capital Post balance sheet event Fully paid ordinary shares of 10p each 31 March 2016 31 March 2015 On 13 April 2016, the Group increased its investments in Issued share capital 664,537,006 664,537,006 ENSO LP and ENSO Financial Management LLP.
Further details Treasury Shares 12,986,546 15,314,513 are given in note 29 to the financial statements.
Treasury Shares as a % of issued share capital 1.95% 2.30% Dividends The directors recommend a final dividend of 15.4p per share to be paid on 22 July 2016 to shareholders on the register Each ordinary share in issue carries equal rights including one vote on 1 July 2016.
The shares will be quoted ex-dividend from per share on a poll at general meetings of the Company.
Shares carry neither voting rights nor an entitlement to a dividend while held as Treasury Shares.
There are no other restrictions on Dividend history the transfer of ordinary shares.
Year end Amount Payment date Powers of directors to issue or buy back Interim 31 March 2016 6.6p 5 February 2016 the Companys shares Final 31 March 2015 15.4p 24 July 2015 The powers of the directors are determined by the Companies Interim 31 March 2015 6.6p 6 February 2015 Act 2006 and the Companys articles of association.
The Final 31 March 2014 15.4p 25 July 2014 directors are authorised to issue and allot shares and to buy back shares subject to annual shareholder approval at the annual Interim 31 March 2014 6.6p 7 February 2014 general meeting.
Such authorities were granted by shareholders at the 2015 annual general meeting.
It will be proposed at the Political donations 2016 annual general meeting that the directors be granted new No political donations were made during the year 2014 15: nil.
authorities to allot and buy back shares.
Directors indemnity arrangements Repurchase of shares Throughout the financial year the Company has maintained The Company did not purchase any of its own shares during Directors and Officers liability insurance in respect of itself the year 2014 15: nil.
As at 31 March 2016, and at 11 May and its directors and officers, when acting in their capacity 2016, the Company had an unexpired authority to repurchase as a director of the Company or associated companies.
shares up to a maximum of 64,967,139 ordinary shares of 10p each.
All changes in share capital are detailed in note 25 to the financial statements.
Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 57 Employee share trusts FCA Listing Rules compliance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4C The ICAP Trust holds ordinary shares which may be used to The majority of the disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4 satisfy options and awards granted under the Companys share are not applicable to ICAP.
The table below sets out the location plans.
The voting rights of ordinary shares held in the ICAP Trust of the disclosures required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4C: are exercisable by the trustees in accordance with their fiduciary Applicable sub-paragraph within Listing Rule 9.8.
The right to receive dividends has been waived in respect of the shares held in the ICAP Trust.
5 details of any arrangements under which a director of the Company has waived or agreed to waive any emoluments from Awards under employee share schemes the Company or any subsidiary undertaking See page 69 As at 31 March 2016, share awards and options existed over 14,336,704 of the Companys ordinary shares in relation to 6 where a director has agreed to waive future employee share awards and option schemes.
Of this figure, emoluments, details of such waiver together 4,593,134 are awards and options over existing shares which with those relating to emoluments which are held in the ICAP Trust.
Awards granted under the Companys were waived during the period under review See page 69 share plans are expected to be satisfied by either new issues of 12 details of any arrangements under which shares, the use of Treasury Shares or by shares held in the ICAP a shareholder has waived or agreed to waive Trust.
The rules of the Companys share plans contain provisions any dividends See page 57 which may cause options and awards granted to employees 13 where a shareholder has agreed to under the schemes to vest on a change of control.
waive future dividends, details of such waiver together with those relating to Substantial shareholders all dividends which are payable during The Companys substantial shareholders do not have different the period under review See page 57 voting rights from those of other shareholders.
As at 31 March 2016, the Company had been notified under the FCAs Disclosure Statement of directors responsibilities and Transparency Rules of the following holdings of voting rights for the Annual Report in its shares: The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Percentage of voting rights the strategic report, the remuneration report and the financial attaching to issued share capital statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Person interested Indirect Direct Total Michael Spencer together Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements with IPGL, IPGL Limited, INFBV for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have elected and INCAP Overseas BV 16.24 0.60 16.84 to prepare the Groups and Companys financial statements in Schroders plc 13.01 13.01 accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless Silchester International they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state Investors LLP 9.94 9.94 of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss FIL Ltd 4.94 4.94 of the Group for that period.
Newton Investment Management Ltd 4.90 4.90 In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: AXA S. A.
3.77 0.80 4.57 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: M ichael Spencer owns a majority shareholding in IPGL, of which IPGL make judgements and accounting estimates that are Limited and INFBV are wholly-owned subsidiaries.
Michael Spencer is deemed to be interested in all the shares in ICAP plc held by INFBV reasonable and prudent: and its indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, INCAP Overseas BV, totalling state whether applicable IFRS as adopted by the EU have 105,569,560 shares.
IPGL Limited holds 250,000 shares in ICAP plc been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed acquired via a contract for difference.
A further 3,516,558 shares are and explained in the financial statements: and held by Sanne Fiduciary Services Limited as trustee of the ICAP Trust.
prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis The shares held in the ICAP Trust include basic awards to Michael Spencer under the BSMP and matching awards under the BSMP in respect of unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the which there are no unsatisfied performance or continuity of employment Company will continue in business.
Michael Spencer has a direct interest in 372,825 shares.
The directors are responsible for ensuring that the Group and the As at 11 May 2016, the Company had been notified that Company keep adequate accounting records that are sufficient Schroders plc held 12.859% of the voting rights in the to show and explain the Groups and the Companys transactions Companys issued share capital.
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 58 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION continued Having taken all the matters considered by the board and brought Viability statement to the attention of the board during the year into account, the In addition to the requirement to consider the appropriateness directors are satisfied that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is of preparing the Groups financial statements on a going concern fair, balanced and understandable and it provides the information basis, the directors have an obligation under the Code to make a necessary for shareholders to assess the Group and the Companys statement in the Annual Report with regard to the viability of the position and performance, business model and strategy.
Group, including explaining how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, the period of time for which they have made the The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity assessment and why they consider that period to be appropriate.
of the information on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial The Groups viability assessment has been made over a period statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
of three financial years up to 31 March 2019.
This period is currently covered by the Groups future projections of profitability Directors statement pursuant to the FCAs Disclosure as outlined in the Groups strategic plan and the period over and Transparency Rules which detailed management information exists.
The directors The directors are required by the Disclosure and Transparency are satisfied that a three-year period is sufficient to enable a Rules to include a management report containing a fair review reasonable assessment of the Groups viability to be made.
In of the business and a description of the principal risks and making this assessment, the directors have considered a wide uncertainties facing the Group and the Company.
The directors range of information relating to present and future conditions, of the Company who were in office during the year, and up to the including future projections of profitability, cash flows and capital date of signing the Annual Report, were Charles Gregson, Michael resources.
The directors also considered the possibility of the Spencer, Stuart Bridges, Ivan Ritossa, John Sievwright and Robert disposal of IGBB not completing within the next three years Standing.
Each of these directors, whose function is listed in the which resulted in two sets of viability assessments being directors biographies, confirms to the best of their knowledge that: performed one with and one without the disposal of IGBB.
Management made certain key assumptions as part of these the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS assessments including an extension of the FCAs consolidation as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, regulatory requirements waiver which currently runs until liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company December 2017 should the disposal of IGBB not complete and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as before 31 December 2016.
They also assessed the potential a whole: and financial and operational impacts, in severe but plausible the management report disclosures which are contained in the scenarios, of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties strategic report include a fair review of the development and which are set out on pages 18 to 20. performance of the business and the position of the Company During the projected three-year period, the directors have a and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue whole, together with a description of the principal risks and in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due.
Going concern Disclosure of information to the auditor The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely So far as each person who was a director at the date of approving to affect its future development, performance and position are this report is aware, there is no relevant audit information, being set out in the strategic report.
The financial position of the Group, information needed by the Companys auditor in connection with its cash flow, liquidity position, facilities and borrowing position preparing its report, of which the Companys auditor is unaware.
are described in the financial review.
Notes 10, 12 and 27 to Each director has taken all the steps that he is obliged to take the financial statements provide further detail on the Groups as a director in order to make him aware of any relevant audit borrowings and management of financial risks.
The strategic information and to establish that the Companys auditor is report includes an analysis of the principal risks facing the aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and Group and the Groups approach to risk management.
should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
After reviewing the Groups annual budget, liquidity requirements, plans and financing arrangements, the directors are satisfied that By order of the board the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue to operate and confirm that the Group and the Company are going concerns.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern Stuart Bridges basis in preparing these financial statements.
Group Finance Director ICAP plc 2 Broadgate London EC2M 7UR Company number 3611426 16 May 2016
