ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 22 STRATEGIC REPORT RESULTS FOR 2015 16 SUMMARY ICAP has invested in electronic platforms and For the year ended 31 March 2016, the Group reported revenue of 1,201 million, 6% below the prior year.
On a constant post trade, developing its currency basis, revenue from Post Trade Risk and Information products and services to was up 5% which was offset by decreases of 4% in Electronic Markets and 5% in Global Broking excluding closed desks.
remain at the forefront During the course of the year, the Groups trading performance was impacted by the ongoing combination of structural and of our customers needs.
cyclical factors including historically low and negative interest rates, low levels of volatility and bank deleveraging resulting in reduced risk appetite from bank customers.
This was partly offset by the increase in trading activity in emerging market currency pairs on EBS Market, and greater demand for risk mitigation products such as triReduce and triResolve.
Consistent with the Groups growth strategy, ICAP continues to make significant investment in all divisions.
During the year the Group invested 96 million in new business lines including forwards on EBS Direct, BrokerTec Direct and triResolve Margin.
The Group reported a trading operating profit of 221 million, 12% down on the prior year.
The Groups trading operating profit margin reduced to 18% 2014 15: 20%.
The decrease in the trading operating profit includes the negative impact of the year-on-year adverse movement from FX losses of 11 million.
Excluding the FX losses, the trading operating profit reduced by 8% on the prior year.
Additionally, the synergies achieved Headline financial performance in the year from the 2014 15 cost savings programme were Year ended Year ended reinvested during the year in the development of new products 31 March 31 March and technological solutions across the businesses.
2016 2015 Change m m % The proportion of the Groups trading operating profit generated Revenue 1,201 1,276 6 from the Electronic Markets and Post Trade Risk and Information Trading operating profit 221 252 12 divisions increased to 79%, reflecting a 4 percentage point increase on the prior year.
Trading profit before tax 203 229 11 Group trading profit before tax of 203 million and trading Profit before tax 89 95 6 EPS basic of 24.6p were 11% and 14% down on the prior year respectively.
Profit before tax was 89 million 2014 15: 95 million.
pence pence Trading EPS basic 24.6 28.7 14 EPS basic 10.5 13.0 19 Dividend per share 22.0 22.0 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 23 BrokerTec BrokerTec is a global electronic platform for the trading of US Treasuries, European government bonds and EU and US repo.
It facilitates trading for banks and non-bank professional trading firms.
For the year ended 31 March 2016, revenue decreased by 4% on a constant currency basis and increased by 2% on a reported basis to 130 million 2014 15: 128 million.
This performance reflects a 3% increase in US Treasury average daily volume to $168 billion, a 3% decrease in US repo to $212 billion and a 3% decrease in European repo to 175 billion.
Gil Mandelzis Despite a buoyant comparable period, trading activity in on-the-run Electronic Markets CEO US Treasuries increased as a number of macroeconomic events in global financial markets drove activity in the US Treasury market.
These included the Chinese governments intervention in its local stock market, a large drop in the oil price and the speculation of ELECTRONIC MARKETS a Federal Reserve rate rise.
Nevertheless, the revenue benefit was partly offset by the BrokerTec tariff structure which provides for volume-based tiered pricing.
EBS BrokerTec is a leading electronic trading business in FX and fixed income.
These platforms offer efficient and effective Trading activity in the secondary market for European government trading venues to customers in more than 50 countries across bonds has improved from the lows experienced at the end of the a range of instruments including spot FX, US Treasuries, European previous calendar year.
Increasingly, activity is focused around government bonds and EU and US repo.
These electronic platforms new bond issuance as banks continue to hold less inventory are built on ICAPs bespoke networks connecting participants in and as the ECB quantitative easing programme has reduced financial markets.
For the year ended 31 March 2016, Electronic Markets Structural change in the form of new regulations continues to revenue decreased by 4% on a constant currency basis impact the US repo market and therefore further adjustments and increased by 1% on a reported basis to 262 million to bank balance sheet funding will be necessary.
The trading operating profit fell to quarter of 2015 16, trading activity in the European repo 78 million 2014 15: 93 million and the trading operating market benefited from increased volatility, demand for good profit margin decreased to 30% from 36% as 54 million quality collateral and a lack of supply from the buy side.
2014 15: 25 million investment in the development EBS BrokerTec continues to innovate and recently beta launched a of new products and functionality on the electronic trading new service, BrokerTec Direct, which provides relationship-based, platforms was charged to the income statement.
disclosed liquidity to the fixed income market.
BrokerTec Direct delivers increased trading opportunities by enabling liquidity providers to stream tailored prices directly to liquidity consumers in a disclosed environment.
The service initially offers US Treasury actives and will extend to other fixed income products as well as other countries in the near future.
BrokerTec Direct initially on-boarded four leading liquidity providers and more than 40 liquidity consumers to the platform.
Additional market makers are in the process of being integrated.
Revenue 2016 2015 Change m m % BrokerTec 130 128 2 EBS 126 124 2 Other electronic platforms 6 7 14 Total reported 262 259 1 constant currency 272 4 Trading operating profit 78 93 16 Trading operating profit margin 30% 36% 6 ppt The table above is presented on a total Group basis and, therefore, includes continuing and discontinued operations.
See note 2 to the financial statements for a breakdown between continuing and discontinued operations.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 24 instruments compared with the previous year.
As a result STRATEGIC REPORT dollar CNH is now the third most actively traded currency RESULTS FOR 2015 16 pair on the platform after euro dollar and dollar yen.
continued In February, EBS Market announced that it is redesigning its premium FX market data service, EBS Live, and will move to streaming real-time market data.
The EBS Live Ultra feed will provide significantly improved price discovery and transparency.
The new service is in response to demand and consultation EBS with customers who continue to work with EBS because of EBS, an electronic FX platform, is a reliable and trusted source its deep liquidity.
of executable and genuine liquidity across major and emerging market currencies.
It has responded to changing market dynamics EBS eFix, the matching service that enables customers to by transitioning from a business with a single offering to one that execute fix interest electronically on the EBS Market platform, can support multiple execution methods and numerous ways of has continued to demonstrate significant growth.
Average trading through a common distribution network.
daily volume ADV has increased by more than 260% over the previous year to more than $1 billion matched per day.
For the year ended 31 March 2016, revenue decreased by 5% on a constant currency basis and increased by 2% on a reported EBS Direct, which launched in November 2013, is a platform basis to 126 million 2014 15: 124 million.
Despite episodic that allows liquidity providers to stream tailored prices directly volatility in G3 currency pairs and high volatility in emerging to liquidity consumers.
Interest in the platform continues to markets, average daily volume decreased by 9% to $90 billion grow and the platform has more than 33 liquidity providers as higher trading activity following central bank actions in the and 460 liquidity consumers using the service, compared previous year was not repeated.
with 17 and 268 respectively last year.
ADV on the platform EBS Market, the exchange-like central limit order book, remains the increased to $20 billion in the last quarter of 2015 16 benchmark for the professional FX trading community, connecting compared with $15 billion in the same period last year.
In buyers and sellers of currencies in more than 50 countries.
December, FX forwards and swaps were launched in beta, EBS Markets strategic efforts to gain early traction and a significant part of the FX market in which EBS has never create liquidity in both CNH and NDFs has proved successful previously participated, which delivers the ability to attract with average daily volume growing by more than 55% in both corporates and asset managers onto the platform.
EBS BrokerTec production innovation and expansion New products and functionality roadmap 2014 15 2015 16 2016 17 EBS SGX Block EBS Direct Treasury Futures on options Commercial EBS Market Paper EBS eFix: EBS EBS Products Direct: EBS Treasury: Direct: Spot Market FX Forwards BrokerTec EBS Direct Institutional RFO: Iceberg Streaming Streaming One month New Full Amount: ADV EBS Functionality Orders: prices: market data: against fix: front-end EBS Direct Direct EBS EBS Market EBS Direct EBS Market EBS Market Treasury Regional Hedge Forwards Asset Government Customers Corporates banks funds traders managers institutions eFix CNH NDFs EBS Direct Spot 260% growth 55% growth 54% growth 27% growth $290m to $1.0bn ADV $3.8bn to $5.9bn ADV $2.9bn to $4.4bn ADV $13.8bn to $17.5bn ADV GROWTH MILESTONES Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 25 PTRI is an aligned group of businesses providing a complementary suite of solutions to customers across the Jenny Knott transaction life cycle.
Post Trade Risk and Information CEO In March the PTRI division announced that it had successfully POST TRADE RISK completed a proof of technology test case for a distributed AND INFORMATION ledger using blockchain and smart contract technologies.
The proof of technology demonstrated the potential to re-engineer The Post Trade Risk and Information PTRI division operates processes and significantly transform post trade operations, while leading market infrastructures for post trade processing and risk complying with new market practices within the post-crisis management across a number of asset classes and enables users regulatory environment.
Going forward, the PTRI division will of financial products to reduce operational and system-wide risks.
assess how to realise technology savings using the blockchain The services offered by the PTRI division enable customers to technology while ensuring compliance with regulations intended increase the efficiency of trading, clearing and settlement and to make markets safer and more efficient.
facilitate the effective management of capital and associated cost.
For the year ended 31 March 2016, revenue increased by The portfolio risk services business comprises Reset and TriOptima 5% on a constant currency basis and increased by 7% on which identify, neutralise, reconcile and remove risk within a reported basis to 245 million 2014 15: 228 million.
portfolios of derivatives transactions: Traiana, which provides The trading operating profit remained flat at 97 million pre trade risk and post trade processing solutions: and the 2014 15: 97 million and the trading operating profit information and data sales business.
margin reduced by 3 percentage points to 40% primarily driven by continued investment in new solutions.
During the year, the PTRI division invested 17 million in development in order to offer new products and enhance the functionality of existing services, of which 9 million was charged to the income statement.
ICAP Information Services ICAP Information Services IIS leverages the Groups unique position in the wholesale financial markets to Revenue provide access to an unrivalled array of OTC market information including high-quality pricing, live and 2016 2015 Change historical trade data and a variety of compliance, m m % risk and research solutions.
TriOptima 72 67 7 Traiana 53 53 The IIS product offering and development strategy have expanded to meet the evolution in market demand.
Reset 37 39 5 IIS has continued to broaden its distribution options.
Information Services 83 69 20 IIS launched the BrokerTec European government bonds Total reported 245 228 7 EGB premium pricing data product which provides constant EGB order book and trade prices on over 1,000 bonds in currency 233 5 10 countries, aiding price discovery and helping customers conduct effective historical analysis of the EGB market.
Trading operating profit 97 97 The indices and benchmarks offering has been developed Trading operating to include two new indices.
The ICAP Euro Interest Rate profit margin 40% 43% 3 ppt Swap Index is intended to track the return of a strategy that invests in euro interest rate swaps.
The index incorporates The table above is presented on a total Group basis and, therefore, includes continuing and discontinued operations.
See note 2 to the financial statements for a breakdown proprietary ICAP transaction prices that are published on between continuing and discontinued operations.
The Sterling Repo Index Rate aims to provide a measurement of effective cost of funding through repo trades in the UK government bond market.
It is a solution developed by IIS in response to market demand.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 26 27 currencies, credit default swaps, commodity swaps, inflation STRATEGIC REPORT swaps, cross-currency swaps and FX forwards.
Currently RESULTS FOR 2015 16 TriOptima delivers triReduce compression for cleared trades continued in collaboration with leading clearing houses including LCH, SGX, Nasdaq and CME.
TriOptima also offers triReduce to CLS members for FX forwards.
In March, triReduce announced that 18 SwapClear members had compressed 40% of outstanding notional and 49% of outstanding TriOptima trades in Polish zloty PLN interest rate swaps and forward rate TriOptima, through triReduce and triResolve, is a leader in agreements in the largest PLN triReduce compression cycle that risk mitigation solutions for OTC derivatives, primarily through SwapClear has run to date.
The local and international participants the elimination and reconciliation of outstanding transactions.
eliminated 2.6 trillion PLN $654 billion in the multilateral triReduce It continues to benefit from the strategic alignment of its cycle.
In January, triReduce announced the first inflation swap offerings with the G20 policy objectives of transparency compression cycle terminating $98 billion notional in inflation index and risk reduction in the financial system.
For the year ended 31 March 2016, revenue increased by Strong demand for triResolve, the reconciliation service, continues 14% on a constant currency basis and by 7% on a reported to be driven by both standard portfolio reconciliation, as required basis to 72 million 2014 15: 67 million driven by increased by regulation, and the new repository reconciliation service to participation in triReduce portfolio compression cycles and the validate reported data.
For repository reconciliation triResolve uptake of the portfolio reconciliation service, triResolve.
supports interfaces to trade repositories globally.
The number of During the year triReduce terminated $168 trillion of gross institutions using the triResolve service has increased from 1,380 notional outstanding 2014 15: $150 trillion.
The more stringent during 2015 16 to more than 1,680 who participate in 384,000 leverage ratio included within the Basel III rules continues to party-to-party reconciliations each month 2014 15: 330,000. drive demand from banks for the triReduce compression service.
In July 2015, TriOptima announced the launch of triResolve Since launch, more than 210 financial institutions worldwide Margin, a margin processing solution delivered in collaboration have participated in eliminating $768 trillion in total notional with AcadiaSoft which will enable customers to easily access an outstanding from the OTC derivatives market.
This significant automated, streamlined tool to reduce fragmented and manual achievement includes compression across a broad spectrum processing.
triResolve Margin assists customers in meeting the of products: cleared and uncleared interest rate products in Post Trade Risk and Information Ecosystem Portfolio Portfolio Portfolio Transaction Data Sellside Buyside PORTFOLIO PORTFOLIO PORTFOLIO RISK DATA COMPRESSION RECONCILIATION MITIGATION ANALYTICS & VALUATION & MARGINING TriOptima TRADE ENSO RESET AGGREGATION ORDER AND TRAIANA AND TRADE DATA CONFIRMATION ICAP INFORMATION SERVICES Custodians NETWORKS ABIDE 2 2 FINANCIAL DUCO Regulatory Reconciliation reporting on demand specialist CLOUD 9 DIGITAL ASSET 2 2 2 2 ACADIASOFT TECHNOLOGIES HOLDINGS OPENGAMMA Collateral Cloud-based Developer of Risk processing voice trading distributed ledger analytics 1 CCPs platform technology CSDs Focus: An aligned group of businesses providing a complementary suite of solutions to customers across the transaction life cycle 1 2 Central Securities Depositories Minority strategic investments under Euclid Traiana: simplifies and automates portfolio compression, reconciliation, Information Services: provider cross-asset transaction workflow margining and valuation tools.
of transaction, market, customer and distribution for messaging, focused data and analytics.
Reset: reduces basis risk within matching, credit, risk and reporting.
portfolios from fixings or exposure Euclid Opportunities: identifies and TriOptima: minimises credit and imbalances in numerous markets provides investment to emerging operational risk, reduces costs and including interest rate, FX and financial technology firms that drive improves counterparty exposure inflation products.
efficiency, transparency and scale management through a suite of across the post trade life cycle.
Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 27 challenges posed by the new regulatory requirements for Reset margining uncleared OTC derivatives by automating the margin Reset is a provider of services that reduce the basis risk within process in a comprehensive, scalable and cost-effective solution.
portfolios from fixings in the interest rate, FX and inflation ICAP increased its investment in AcadiaSoft, a Euclid investment, derivatives and bond markets.
Basis risk results from the in July 2015. structure of the instruments traded and unintended mismatches of exposure over time.
Traiana For the year ended 31 March 2016, revenue decreased by 12% Traiana operates the leading market infrastructure for pre and on a constant currency basis and by 5% on a reported basis to post trade risk management and post trade processing across 37 million 2014 15: 39 million as the core business continues multiple asset classes.
Its solutions and the Harmony network to be affected by low short dated interest rate volatility and have become the market standard for post trade processing further dampened volatility as a result of the ECBs quantitative of FX, exchange-traded derivatives, fixed income, CDS, and easing programme.
The reduction in revenue was partly offset by synthetic and cash equity transactions.
Traianas Harmony increased demand for the Reset service in September, as market network connects more than 750 global banks, broker dealers, commentators speculated about the timing of an increase in US buyside firms and trading platforms.
This was repeated in the run-up to the actual rate For the year ended 31 March 2016, revenue decreased by 4% rise by the Federal Reserve in December.
on a constant currency basis and remained flat on a reported basis at 53 million 2014 15: 53 million as the reduction ICAP Information Services in FX-related volume-based services was only partly offset ICAP Information Services IIS delivers independent data by the increase in other subscription-based services.
solutions to financial market participants.
ICAP Indices, the index arm of IIS, develops and publishes a range of transactionTraiana continues to innovate, grow and diversify its business into broked indices.
IIS generates subscription-based fees from a other asset classes, delivering network-based solutions for all diversified global suite of products and services, while ICAP financial market participants, while also continuing to innovate in Indices fee structure is based on assets under management FX.
In August, Traiana reached a key milestone in the development of the products which are linked to the proprietary indices as of its CreditLink service which was used to check credit limits for well as licensing other index administrators for the use of ICAP an FX NDF trade on a SEF.
In September, in partnership with data in their indices.
Bloomberg, Traiana announced plans to develop straight-through processing infrastructure to further streamline the workflow of For the year ended 31 March 2016, revenue increased by 14% FX options.
The solution integrates Traianas Harmony messaging on a constant currency basis and 20% on a reported basis to network with Bloombergs trade processing tools.
83 million 2014 15: 69 million partly driven by a change to bill some customers directly, increasing both revenue and the In March, ICAP announced that the PTRI division had made a series related operating expenses.
The IIS product and service range of enhancements that will significantly expand its existing suite includes real-time and historical data from the Groups electronic of regulatory services to offer customers an end-to-end menu trading venues, EBS and BrokerTec, and the Global Broking of products which meet MiFIR MiFID II cross-asset reporting division as well as from partners.
The enhanced solutions leverage connectivity and build on functionality delivered by Traiana, for IIS has continued to both broaden its distribution throughout similar requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act, EMIR and other global financial markets and develop its product suite based global regulatory regimes.
The new service suite includes the on customer demand and market trends.
During the period, provision of trade certainty for venue executed trades, trade IIS extended the delivery of real-time EBS data directly to and transaction report submission to Approved Publication customers and through new licensed distributors.
Arrangements and Approved Reporting Mechanisms respectively, and global CCP connectivity for OTC executed trades.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 28 Euclid Opportunities STRATEGIC REPORT ICAP is building a portfolio of early-stage technology investments RESULTS FOR 2015 16 within Euclid Opportunities.
It identifies and provides investment continued to emerging financial technology fintech firms providing new platforms, business models and technologies that have the potential to drive efficiency, transparency and scale across the transaction life cycle for the financial services industry and are complementary to Newcos products.
During the period, Euclid Opportunities invested in Abide Financial, a market-leading regulatory reporting specialist, Digital Asset Holdings, a provider of distributed ledger technology and Cloud9, a cloud-based trading communication provider.
In addition, Euclid made a further investment in Duco, a global provider of data control services and AcadiaSoft, an industry collaboration to automate collateral management.
In April 2016, ICAP announced it had acquired ENSO Financial Analytics a portfolio analytics provider to asset managers and hedge funds.
Euclid made its first investment in ENSO in June 2013, which was followed by a subsequent investment in October 2014 to enable further growth of the business.
ENSO will become a subsidiary of ICAPs PTRI division.
Euclid Opportunities To build a portfolio which provide the next generation of early-stage potential over time market structure PURPOSE fintech firms to become technology companies Markets need for new platforms, operating models and methods Regulation, efficiency, standardisation and transparency DRIVERS Accelerating technology trends Cloud, data analytics, open models, parallel computing and machine learning Synergies, leverage and adjacencies emerging across PTRI STATUS Businesses complementary to PTRI ecosystem INVESTMENTS Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 29 efficiently manage corporate bond positions and, in March 2016, launched CrossTrade on TrueQuote, a new portal for buyside customers after a successful pilot.
Rates The rates business comprises interest rate derivatives, government bonds and repos.
Rate products contribute the largest share of Global Brokings revenue 35% of which interest rate derivatives represent the most significant component.
For the year ended 31 March 2016, revenue decreased by 4% on a reported basis.
ICAPs interest rate derivatives franchise remained strong David Casterton with i-Swap forming an integral part of the hybrid offering in Global Broking CEO G3 interest rate swaps.
Low interest rates and a reduced risk appetite from bank customers continued to dampen market activity.
Trading activity in dollar interest rate swaps decreased year-on-year despite the long-awaited increase in the US Federal GLOBAL BROKING funds rate in December which was well anticipated and generated only modest activity.
Revenue from euro interest rate swaps also Global Broking provides services to wholesale markets across decreased as the prior year benefited from the volatility around a wide range of geographies and asset classes.
ICAPs brokers the introduction of quantitative easing.
leverage their deep customer relationships, help identify potential trading interest, access liquidity and facilitate price discovery in Trading activity in US government bonds increased on the prior a vast array of financial instruments.
year as global market uncertainty drove a flight to quality especially in the fourth quarter.
Activity in European government bonds The commentary below excludes closed desks.
continued to be hampered by a reduction in risk appetite and bank For the year ended 31 March 2016, revenue decreased by 5% customers balance sheet constraints.
Global market uncertainty on a constant currency basis and by 3% on a reported basis to boosted repo activity in the Americas, a market which is heavily 687 million.
The ongoing combination of structural and cyclical focused on the short term.
The Relative Value business launched factors, including historically low and negative interest rates, low in August 2014 continued to grow and expand its footprint.
levels of volatility, and bank deleveraging resulting in reduced risk appetite from bank customers, continue to act as headwinds for Commodities the business.
Global economic uncertainties and oil price reductions The commodities business comprises energy including refined have generated spikes in activity but overall market activity products, electricity, natural gas, crude oil, coal and alternative remains subdued.
fuels, environmental markets, forward freight derivatives, metals, agricultural and soft commodities.
Investments in e-commerce and Global Brokings hybrid footprint have driven a 14% increase in matching revenue.
During the year, For the year ended 31 March 2016, revenue increased by 3% Global Broking launched Scrapbook, allowing customers to on a reported basis.
Refined products make up the majority of the oils business and experienced moderate growth, while the smaller crude oil business was impacted by reduced hedging activity in addition to a tough comparable period in 2014 15.
Trading activity in iron ore nearly doubled as extreme volatility broadened the customer base for hedging instruments in Asia.
Growth in trading activity in freight and US electricity was partly Revenue by asset class offset by decreased activity in natural gas, ethanol and coal volumes.
UK and European natural gas was impacted by 2016 2015 Change commission rate pressure from low cost competitors, while m m % downward price pressure from over-supply continued to hamper Rates 244 254 4 the US natural gas market.
Commodities 119 116 3 After many market participants delayed hedging activity in the Emerging markets 112 125 10 autumn seeking higher winter prices, the second half of the year Equities 109 103 6 saw improved US electricity volumes as necessary hedging could FX and money markets 68 73 7 no longer be deferred.
UK and European electricity volumes Credit 35 39 10 remained steady as compared to the prior year.
Closed desks 7 79 n a Emerging markets Total reported 694 789 12 ICAP is active in emerging markets across Asia Pacific, Latin constant America, central and eastern Europe and Africa.
Emerging market currency 805 14 revenue includes domestic activity in local markets and crossborder activity in globally traded emerging market money and Trading operating profit 46 62 26 interest rate products.
Trading operating For the year ended 31 March 2016, revenue decreased profit margin 7% 8% 1 ppt by 10% on a reported basis.
The table above is presented on total Group basis and, therefore, includes continuing and discontinued operations.
See note 2 to the financial statements for a breakdown In addition to low global market volatility, economic and political between continuing and discontinued operations.
concerns dampened trading activity in Latin America and central Europe.
After a strong start to the year, growth in offshore renminbi-related products slowed in the second half although there was an increase in trading activity in other Asian products ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 30 due to uncertainty over the Chinese economy.
Matching sessions STRATEGIC REPORT continue to boost revenue in NDFs and generate a high portion RESULTS FOR 2015 16 of revenue in emerging market credit products.
continued Equities The equities business principally comprises equity derivatives.
For the year ended 31 March 2016, revenue increased by 6% on a reported basis.
Equity market volatility drove revenue growth but extreme Global Broking strategy volatility actually led to periods of reduced activity at times.
Following the 2014 15 cost review, Global Broking Summer volatility in the equity markets boosted performance developed a strategic plan for the business, designed to especially in the Americas, while significant growth in the Hong support our vision to be the leading and most respected Kong equity derivatives marketplace was driven by the volatility global broker in professional markets.
The strategy will in China.
The launch of technology solutions in equity derivatives deliver the expertise of our specialist brokers with continued to improve the market position of the business.
bespoke technology, providing an integrated service that the markets of today require.
It focuses on our FX and money markets people, customers and innovation, in particular regarding The FX and money markets business comprises spot, forwards e-commerce solutions.
We have demonstrated our and cash products.
For the year ended 31 March 2016, revenue strategy in action with the launch of a cleared Exchange decreased by 7% on a reported basis.
For Physical solution, giving us dominant market share Illiquid FX markets driven by the continuation of the low interest in that product.
With Scrapbook we have enabled our rate environment and a low risk appetite negatively impacted customers to more efficiently manage their balance trading activity.
Asia Pacific benefited from a restructuring of sheet positions.
CrossTrade expands our customer base to its FX presence in Singapore and Australia.
Cash trading in the the buy side, providing them with a portfolio optimisation Americas remains strong driven by its positioning as the shortsolution which has seen positive take up and which is term funding tool of choice in the market.
expected to grow significantly in the next 12 months.
During 2015 16 we undertook a comprehensive review Credit of our business IT function which encompassed people, The credit business comprises corporate bonds.
change, data and systems in order to drive efficiencies For the year ended 31 March 2016, revenue decreased by through streamlining the development process, improving 10% on a reported basis.
Inventory shift from banks to buyside, our change management decisions and rationalising our driven by balance sheet constraints, remains a headwind for the systems.
We also reviewed our IT governance processes business.
Activity in high-yield instruments was stronger than and improved stakeholder engagement in IT.
investment grade bonds as investors sought greater returns.
During the second half of the year, many of our employees In response to a lack of liquidity in the corporate bond market, have been engaged in both the separation of the Global Global Broking launched Scrapbook and expects to launch Broking business from ICAP and its planned integration I-Sam ICAPs sponsored access for corporate bonds initiative with Tullett Prebon.
This complex exercise involving many in the first quarter of 2016 17.
Scrapbook allows traders to interdisciplinary teams across the business and infrastructure efficiently manage corporate bond positions which are available functions has progressed well, in anticipation of the via Global Brokings e-commerce portal.
Transaction closing later this year.
EXECUTION Execution at the best price TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION Transparency of Intelligence on markets information to where information is all market difficult to find participants LIQUIDITY DISCRETION Discrete liquidity Acting as a smart sourcing filter for customers
