ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 54 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT GLOBAL EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT GROUP David Casterton Chief Executive Officer, Global Broking Since September 2012, David has been responsible for the Global Broking division with regional management teams reporting to him.
David was previously responsible for all voice broking and related support functions in London and EMEA.
Between 1995 and 2008, David worked in a number of senior broking roles and had responsibility for interest rate derivatives, money markets, repos, government bonds and financial futures.
Prior to joining ICAP in 1995 he had been with MW Marshalls and Guy Butler International.
Michael Spencer Group Chief Executive Officer Chairman, GEMG Michaels biography is set out on page 38.
Hugh Gallagher Chief Executive Officer, Asia Pacific, Global Broking Since September 2010, Hugh has been responsible for voice broking, technology and support functions throughout Asia Pacific.
Hugh has held several senior positions within ICAP since joining in 1988, including Chief Executive Officer ICAP Australia.
Prior to joining ICAP, Hugh worked for Citibank and Lloyds in FX and money markets.
He has more than 25 years experience working in OTC markets in the Asia Pacific region.
Stuart Bridges Group Finance Director Stuarts biography is set out on page 39.
Tim Cartledge Steve Gibson Chief Strategy Officer, EBS BrokerTec Chief Executive Officer, Euclid Opportunities Tim was appointed Chief Strategy Officer of EBS BrokerTec and a Euclid Opportunities is ICAPs fintech investment division.
Steve sits member of the GEMG in November 2015, bringing significant expertise on the board of a number of Euclid portfolio companies including Duco in electronic trading within both the FX and fixed income markets.
He Technology Limited, a rapidly growing reconciliation on-demand platform: was formerly Head of Global Fixed Income Currencies and Commodities OpenGamma, an award winning risk analytics provider: ENSO Financial Electronic Trading at Barclays Bank and Managing Director at Barclays Analytics, a portfolio analytics service for asset managers and hedge Capital, where he was responsible for building Barclays highly successful funds: Abide Financial, the regulatory reporting firm: and AcadiaSoft, electronic FX business.
Prior to this Tim held roles at Dresdner Bank, a collateral management hub.
Steve previously held senior management Credit Suisse and Goldman Sachs.
positions with Calypso Technology, Ipreo and Siebel now Oracle.
He was appointed a member of the GEMG in November 2015.
Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 55 Seth Johnson Laurent Paulhac Head of Strategy, Global Broking Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, ICAP SEF Seth is responsible for developing Global Brokings strategy, focusing on Laurent joined ICAP in April 2014.
He is responsible for leading ICAPs growing revenue, improving the application of technology to its business global SEF initiative including the SEFs strategic direction with regard model and expanding customer coverage.
Prior to this, Seth led the to new regulatory reforms and alliances and partnerships with exchanges expansion of ICAPs Electronic Markets product portfolio in his role and CCPs.
Laurent is also a director of iSwap Limited.
Laurent joined ICAP as Chief Executive Officer of both BrokerTec and ISDX.
He joined ICAP from the CME Group where he was a member of the management team as a graduate trainee and has worked in the Company for more than and Senior Managing Director for Interest Rate and OTC Products and 20 years.
For ten years, Seth was the Managing Director of the interest Services with responsibility for CME Groups global listed interest rate rates options and inflation swaps desks.
He oversaw the introduction of franchise and all OTC businesses, including OTC clearing.
new and innovative trading solutions, including the volume match system.
Jenny Knott Ken Pigaga Chief Executive Officer, PTRI Global Chief Operating Officer Jenny was appointed Chief Executive Officer of the PTRI division and Ken was appointed Global Chief Operating Officer in November 2013. a member of the GEMG in August 2015.
Jennys career in financial He joined ICAP in 2006 as Chief Operating Officer for ICAP Americas services spans nearly 30 years and includes Standard Bank Group, where and led a programme on the use of technology to implement efficiency she held a variety of roles including Chief Executive Officer of Standard and control.
He also led a multi-disciplined team responsible for the Bank Plc and CIB International, Global Corporate and Investment Banking development of ICAPs SEF.
Prior to joining ICAP, Ken was a managing Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer.
Prior to this Jenny director at JPMorgan in the Investment Bank focused on e-commerce worked at Nomura and UBS.
Jenny is responsible for leading the strategic activities.
From 1991 to 2001 he was at Goldman Sachs where he held direction of the PTRI division and heads the Traiana, TriOptima, Reset, several roles in emerging markets trading, portfolio structuring and Euclid and ICAP Information Services businesses.
Ken chairs the GOC and is a member of the GFC.
Gil Mandelzis Per Sjberg Chief Executive Officer, EBS BrokerTec Chief Executive Officer, TriOptima Since December 2014, Gil has been responsible for the combined Per has served as Chief Executive Officer of TriOptima since 2011 and EBS BrokerTec business.
Prior to this, he led the Groups electronic was appointed a member of the GEMG in November 2015.
Gil co-founded Traiana in April 2000 and led Traianas of TriOptima, he was previously its Executive Vice President.
Per directs growth from a small start-up to a recognised global leader in post the overall strategic development of TriOptima, identifying business trade services resulting in Traianas acquisition by ICAP in 2007. opportunities in the evolving financial markets landscape and maintaining Gil was appointed to the New York Federal Reserves Foreign a dialogue with TriOptimas broad client base.
Per has 20 years experience Exchange Committee in 2012. working with technology solutions for OTC derivatives focusing on the design, development and sales of trading and risk management systems for OTC derivatives including SunGard Front Arena.
