DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report, together with the Group CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Financial Statements for the year ended 31 May 2016.
The In compliance with the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Directors Report comprises pages 98to 100of this report, and Transparency Rules DTR 7.2.
1, the disclosures required by together with the sections of the Annual Report incorporated by DTR 7.2.
7 are set out in this Directors Report and in the reference as set out below: Corporate Governance Report.
CONTENTS PAGE PROFIT AND DIVIDENDS The Groups statutory profit for the year after taxation amounted Corporate Governance Report 56 to 105 to 164.3 million 2015: 131.9 million, all of which is attributable to the equity members of the Company 2015: 131.9 million.
Directors Responsibility Statement 101 The Directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of 22.95pence Financial Instruments 142 to 155 per share, amounting to 84.0 million, making a total of Greenhouse gas emissions 33 31.40pence per share and 114.9millionfor the year.
Dividends are recognised in the Financial Statements for the year in which Employee involvement 18 they are paid or, in the case of a final dividend, when approved by the shareholders.
The amount recognised in the Financial Policy concerning the employment of 18 Statements, as described in note 12, includes this financial years disabled persons interim dividend and the final dividend from the previous year, Viability Statement 54 both of which were paid.
Directors interest in shares 86 The final ordinary dividend, if approved, will be paid on 28October 2016to those shareholders on the register at Likely future developments 6 to 54 30September 2016.
Risk management and internal control 66 Certain nominee companies representing our employee benefit trusts hold shares in the Company in connection with the DISCLOSURES REQUIRED PURSUANT TO LISTING operation of the Companys share plans and evergreen dividend RULE 9.8.
4R waivers remain in place on shares held by them that have not been In compliance with the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing allocated to employees.
Rules, the information in Listing Rule 9.8.
4R to be included in the OPERATIONS OUTSIDE THE UNITED KINGDOM Annual Report and Accounts where applicable can be found on the following pages: The Group operates in the following locations through a branch structure:Australia, South Africa, France, Germany, Italy, DETAIL PAGE Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Ireland, Spain, Sweden and Poland.
It has operating subsidiaries in the US, Singapore, Waiver of dividends 98 Japan, Australia, India, Switzerland and Dubai.
In line with the requirements under the Capital Requirements Directive IV, requiring credit institutions and investment firms to publish annually certain tax and financial data for each country where they operate, the Groups UK regulated subsidiarieswill makeavailable theirCountry by Country Reportingon the Groups website, iggroup.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION The Companys articles of association the Articles are available from the Groups website, iggroup.
com, or by writing to the Company Secretary at the Groups registered office.
The Articles can also be obtained from the UK Registrar of Companies.
Amendments to the Articles can only be made by means of a special resolution at a general meeting of the Companys shareholders.
98 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND THEIR INTERESTS Details of the Directors who held office at the end of the year are set out on pages 58to 59and are incorporated into this report by reference.
Changes to Directors during the year are set out below: NAME ROLE EFFECTIVE DATE OF APPOINTMENT RESIGNATION June Felix Non-Executive Director Appointed 4 September 2015 Malcolm Le May Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed 10 September 2015 Roger Yates Non-Executive Director Retired on 15 October 2015 Tim Howkins Executive Director Retired on 15 October 2015 Chris Hill Executive Director Resigned on 30 October 2015 Peter Hetherington succeeded Tim Howkins as the Chief Executive Officer of the Company with effect from 4 December 2015.
APPOINTMENT AND RETIREMENT OF DIRECTORS SHARE CAPITAL The appointment and retirement of Directors is governed by The Company has three classes of shares: ordinary shares, B the Articles, the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, shares and preference shares.
As at 31 May 2016, the Companys the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
The Board has issued shares comprised 366,649,075ordinary shares of 0.005p the power to appoint any person as a Director to fill a casual each representing 99.97% of the total issued share capital, vacancy or as an additional Director, provided the total number of 65,000 B shares of 0.001p each representing 0.02% of the total Directors does not exceed the maximum prescribed in the Articles.
issued share capital and 40,000 preference shares of 1.00 Any such Director holds office only until the next AGM, and is then each representing 0.01% of the total issued share capital.
eligible to offer himself or herself for election.
Details of movement in the Companys share capital and rights attached to the issued shares are given in notes 26and 27to the The Articles also require that all those Directors who have been Financial Statements.
Information about the rights attached to the in office at the time of the two previous AGMs, and who did not Companys shares can also be found in the Articles.
Details of the retire at either of them, must retire as Directors by rotation.
Such Groups required regulatory capital are disclosed in note 37to the Directors are eligible to stand for re-election.
However, in line Financial Statements.
with the Codes recommendation that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual election, all Directors will VARIATION OF RIGHTS stand for electionor re-election at the 2016 AGM.
Subject to the provisions of applicable statutes, the rights attached DIRECTORS CONFLICT OF INTERESTS to any class of shares may be varied either with the consent in writing of the holders of at least three-quarters in nominal value In accordance with the Act, all Directors must disclose both the of the issued shares of that class or with the sanction of a Special nature and extent of any potential or actual conflicts with the Resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the interests of the Company.
We explain the procedure for this on shares of that class.
RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER OF SECURITIES INSURANCE AND INDEMNITIES There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of securities in The Group has Directors and Officers liability insurance in place, the Company, other than as contained in the Articles and certain providing appropriate cover for any legal action brought against laws or regulations, such as those related to insider trading, its Directors.
Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions as which may be imposed from time to time.
The Directors and defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 were in force certain employees of the Company are required to obtain the during the year ended 31 May 2016.
These provisions remain in Companys approval prior to dealing in the Companys securities.
force for the benefit of the Directors, in relation to certain losses The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of and liabilities which they may incur or have incurred to third securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities parties in the course of acting as Directors of the Company.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXERCISE OF RIGHTS OF SHARES IN EMPLOYEE In the ordinary course of business, the Company regularly SHARE SCHEMES develops new products and services.
The trustees of the IG Group Employee Benefit Trust do not seek POLITICAL DONATIONS to exercise voting rights on shares held in the employee trusts, other than on the direction of the underlying beneficiaries.
No The Company made no political donations to political voting rights are exercised in relation to shares unallocated to organisations or independent election candidates and incurred no individual beneficiaries.
The trustees have a dividend waiver in political expenditure in the year 2015: nil.
place in respect of unallocated shares held in the trust.
99 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS TO ISSUE OR CHANGE OF CONTROL PURCHASE THE COMPANYS SHARES Following any future change of control of the Company, the Groups banking facilities, which are currently undrawn refer to The Articles permit the Directors to issue or repurchase the note 19of the Financial Statements, will be cancelled, and any Companys own shares, subject to obtaining shareholders prior obligations will become immediately due and payable.
The shareholders gave this approval at the 2015 AGM.
The authority to issue or buy back shares will expire at the 2016 There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors AGM, and it will be proposed at the meeting that the Directors or employees providing for compensation on any loss of office be granted new authorities to issue or buy back shares.
The or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
However, Directors currently have authority to purchase up to 36,664,776 options and awards granted to employees under the Companys of the Companys ordinary shares.
However, the Company did not share schemes and plans may vest on a takeover, under the repurchase any of its ordinary shares during the year.
During the year, the Company instructed the trustee of the ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Employee Benefit Trust to purchase shares in order to satisfy The Companys AGM will be held on 21 September 2016.
Details awards under the Groups share incentive plan schemes.
of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM will besent to all The Company also issued shares in respect of the sustained shareholdersin a separate circular.
performance plan and value-sharing plan schemes.
Details of the shares held by the Groups Employee Benefit Trusts and the INDEPENDENT AUDITORS amounts paid during the year are disclosed in note 28to the Resolutions to reappoint  LLP as the Financial Statements.
Companys auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine MAJOR INTEREST IN SHARES their remuneration will be put to shareholders at the AGM on 21 Information provided to the Company by major shareholders September 2016. pursuant to the Financial Conduct Authority FCA s Disclosure GOING CONCERN and Transparency Rules DTRs is published via a Regulatory The Directors have prepared the Financial Statements on a Information Service and is available on the Companys website.
going-concern basis, which requires them to have a reasonable The following information has been received, in accordance with expectation that the Company and the Group haveadequate DTR5, from holders of notifiable interests in the Companys issued resources to continue in operational existence for the share capital.
It should be noted that some of these holdings foreseeable future.
may have changed since the Company received the notification.
Holders are not required to notify the Company of any change The Directors have reviewed the Company and theGroups until the next applicable threshold is reached or crossed.
processes for managing the financial risks to which they areexposed, theiravailable liquidity, theirregulatory capital 31 MAY 2016 position and their annual budget.
As a result of this review, the Directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group NO.
OF SHARES PERCENTAGE haveadequate resources to continue in operational existence for Massachusetts 36,584,986 10.00% the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the Financial going-concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Services Company DIRECTORS STATEMENT AS TO DISCLOSURE OF Artemis Investment 18,806,983 5.15% INFORMATION TO AUDITORS Management LLP So far as each person who was a Director at the date of approving this report is aware, there is no relevant audit information, being BlackRock, Inc. 18,313,343 5.01% information needed by the auditors in connection with preparing their report, of which the auditors are unaware.
Each Director has Cantillon Capital 18,309,407 4.99% taken all the steps that he or she is obliged to take as a Director Management LLC in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information, and to establish that the Companys auditors are Allianz Global 18,303,673 4.99% aware of that information.
This confirmation is given pursuant to Investors GmbH section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 and should be interpreted Prudential PLC 11,066,471 3.00% in accordance with and subject to these provisions.
Group of Companies SUBSEQUENT EVENTS As at 19 July 2016, there were no changes to the shareholdings Please refer to note 38 of the Financial Statements.
100 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
