OUR PRODUCT SUITE We provide our clients with a broad product set, both in terms of markets to trade and the number ofplatforms available.
Our market-leading technology enables fast, flexible trading on an Together, our range of extensive range of global indices, shares, forex, commodities and leveraged and unleveraged other instruments.
At the core of our product range is leveraged trading.
Most products will help us attract of our global revenue comes from CFDs and financial spread betting in the UK and Ireland, with an increasing proportion and serveboth active traders generated by binaries trading, including our US retail derivatives exchange, Nadex.
Our aim is to anticipate and respond to our clients changing needs.
As part of this process, in the UK and Australia, we are developinga comprehensive product range that will suit shifting risk appetites and investment objectives throughout a lifetime.
CONTRACTS FOR DIFFERENCE CFDS This includes a suite of unleveraged products, starting with the CFDs are derivatives contracts that enable clients to take introduction of share dealing and ISAs in the UKlast year and the advantage of changes in an assets price, without owning the recent addition of SIPPs this year.
We are also launching, in the UK, a new wealth management 1 We are the worlds No.
1 CFD provider offering, in partnership with market-leading exchange traded We offer CFDs in more than 17countries globally fund ETF provider BlackRock.
We believe that the long-term We explain how a CFD works on page 168. investment market is already beginning to experience disruption, and we can take advantage herethrough the exceptional strength SPREADBETTING of our technology combined with BlackRocks product and portfolio construction expertise.
Financial spread betting, available in the UK and Ireland, is a 2 tax-free alternative to trading, enabling clients to bet on the Together, our range of leveraged and unleveraged products will price movement of an asset.
Like a CFD, it enables clients to help us attract and serveboth active traders and sophisticated capitalise on changes in an assets price without owning the asset investors, broadening our reach into new target audiences and itself.
The size of a clients win or loss depends on the magnitude extending the lifetime of our clients with us.
and direction of the price movement.
We are the UKs largest and longest-running spread 3 betting provider 4 We hold 44%of the UK financial spread betting market We explain how spread betting works on page 170.
NADEX Nadex is our US derivatives exchange, enabling US and overseas investors to trade options on global financial markets in retail-sized contracts.
The main product we offer is the binary option, which provides a flexible way for clients to trade with limited risk, although the spread product, also limited risk, is becoming more popular.
Nadex is the first and largest US-based retail-oriented exchange The business has seen a two-year compound growth of 89% 1 Based on revenue excluding FX, from published Financial Statements, September 2015.
2 Tax laws are subject to change and depend on individual circumstances.
Tax law may differ in a jurisdiction other than the UK.
3 Based on number of active UK spread betting accounts Investment Trends Ltd UK Leveraged Trading Report, September 2015.
4 Investment Trends Ltd UK Leveraged Trading Report, July 2015.
12 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT WEALTH MANAGEMENT The building block of our new wealth management offering is the exchange traded fund ETF a passive investment vehicle that is rapidly increasing in popularity and becoming much more mainstream in the UK and Europe, following a pattern set by the US.
On its own, an ETF gives clients a low-fee way of tracking an index geographyor a sector.
Because ETFs trade on recognised exchanges, clients can do this through the share dealing platform.
We will beenablingclients in the UK to choose from a range of model ETF-based investment portfolios with different risk profiles.
These portfolios are constructed and regularly rebalanced by the IG Investments portfolio team.
Clients benefit from IGs world-class technology, execution and customer service, combined with BlackRocks market-leading expertise in asset allocation.
We believe our offering is extremely well placed to challenge the traditional high-fee approach to wealthmanagement, and will provide investors with a low-cost, transparent and flexible solution.
BINARIES We consider the wealth management sector to be a significant long-term opportunity, and our marketing Our pioneering binary contracts are based on a single question: initiatives will include educational programmes to continue will the underlying market behave in a specific way before the raising awareness and understanding of ETFs within contract expires?.
Clients use their knowledge of the markets to the market.
decide whether the answer will be yes or no.
The ETF market is currently growing at Binary contracts are unrestricted by low volatility, giving clients the around18%per annum opportunity to trade in even the flattest markets.
They are also a limited-risk product, where the maximum potential gain or loss BlackRock is the worlds largest ETFprovider, with is known at the outset.
Our binary offering also includes sprint over 760 exchange traded products ETPs listed markets short-term, fixed-risk trades.
on exchanges worldwide and over36%market share globally Thisproduct forms a key part of our ongoing strategy to provide a range of services for clients throughout their lifetime.
Our binaries have seen a CAGR of 34%over the past three years Binaries now represent 11%of our overall revenue, up from 9%in the prior year SHARE DEALING, ISAs AND SIPPs Our online, execution-only share dealing service is powered by the same market-leading technology as our spread betting and CFD services.
Clients have access to live, streaming prices and a transparent execution process, as well as a cost-effective way to trade international equities.
At the start of 2016, we reduced and simplified our charging structure to give clients even better value for money.
We also allow clients to use their stock portfolio as collateral to initiate leveraged trading, and those clients who use both products benefit from lower, preferential fees on their share dealing account.
Following the recent launch of SIPPs in the UK, we believe we now have a market-leading proposition.
Share dealing is an important part of our product offering in the UK and will become so soon in Australia, two countries where we are market leaders forleveraged trading, and it offers us a new and exciting route to growth.
We also launched the service in Germany, the Netherlands, Austria and Ireland, but the main thrust in these countries remains developing our leveraged market share.
The market in the UK for online, execution-only stockbrokingis around ten times the size of the market for leveraged products Around 70%of clients opening share dealing accounts are new to IG, and around15%of these clients havesubsequently started using our leveraged products 13 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
