OUR CLIENTS AND BUSINESS MODEL OUR CLIENTS CLIENT ACQUISITION RETAIL CLIENTS Acquiring a new client begins with a highly targeted global marketing effort, with Our core focus continues to bethe active offline activity managed locally by each office and our increasingly sophisticated online trader a knowledgeable, demanding marketing effort controlled from regional hubs.
By using an algorithmic approach, and and valuable client who expects highly continuouslytesting this through a feedback loop, we are able to determine which sophisticated technology and uses it advertisingand search terms have been most valuable for client recruitment in each country.
frequently, often placing large trades.
This enables us to reach larger numbers of the right prospects more efficiently.
However, investment requirements and appetite for risk can change over As well as marketing our products directly, we provide a number of education, news and time, affected by factors such as family analysis services which encourage people to engage with IG and learn about our products.
or financial commitments orthe need These include the learn.
spreadbetting website and IG Academy app, launched this year, to plan for retirement, and this offers as well as the IG Live TV channel and a suite of YouTube videos.
These assets reinforce our us the opportunity to broaden our commitment to transparency, ensuring our new and existing clients are well informed about product set to also appeal to relatively our services.
THE CONVERSION JOURNEY Our 42-year heritage and integrityhas Once a prospect has decided to become an IG client, our focus shifts to ensuring the developed our brand strengthto a point journey is as smooth as possible, removing any obstacles or areas of friction, while ensuring where we have sufficient credibilityto we comply fully with all our .
broaden our range of products in the UK and Australia into stockbroking and This involves constantly iterating online and mobile application forms in response to investment portfolios, including ISAs and client progress rates.
We are also making better use ofelectronic verification methods SIPPs.
By doing so, we will be able to that checka clients identity against government data in real-time, where available.
This is deepen and lengthenour relationship dramatically shorteningthe typical timescale to open an account in countries where the with our clients by catering for their facility exists, cutting it from three days to within thesamedayin Germany and Austria, for evolving needs.
For occasions when further security checks are still required, we have introduced a new way for clients to quickly upload photographs of their documents from their phone or computer to our website.
We currently have 152,600active clients around the world, and the majority of these engage directly with us.
INTRODUCED BUSINESS INSTITUTIONAL CLIENTS The mainstay of our institutional division has historically been introduced business.
In IG also provides a number of services this case our clients are regulated entities who do not have their own front-end offering to corporate entities.
These range from and want to take advantage of our award-winning dealing technology and expertise.
purely supplying price feeds to operating They introduce their clients to us and we handle all trading activity and provide back-end full white-label platforms.
The introducer manages the client relationship.
8% of our revenue, the institutional sector is a significant part of our business, but We can also provide a white-labelled version of our platform with the clients own branding.
is currently significantly smaller than our This enables clients to integrate our trading facilities seamlessly with their other services and strong retail division.
However, it is an maintain consistency throughout their marketing assets.
area where we have the potential to grow DIRECT INSTITUTIONS without any substantial increase in our cost base.
Increasingly, small asset managers, hedge funds, broker dealers and competitors lack sufficient scale to gain direct access to the major hedging counterparties.
Balance-sheet constraints have recently forced banks who might previously have offered a source of liquidity for these clients to withdraw from the market.
IG is taking advantage of this growing segment of the market by taking on these clients and providing them with a forum to trade.
This business is profitable and growing.
We carefully assess the risk and potential returns from each client and only partner withreputable institutions that are committed to the same rigorous standards of regulatory compliance as ourselves, and that fit our risk profile.
We usually provide a price feed to the clients own platform or offer the facility to connect to us via a direct API application programming interface, with the client paying spread or commission depending on what they trade.
This enables clients to fully integrate their trading strategies with the IG infrastructure via their own front end or anumber of third-party solutions.
14 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS MODEL CLIENT JOURNEY 1 2 3 ACCESSING FINANCIAL DISCOVERING IG VIA OUR BECOMING A MARKETS THROUGH A CAREFULLY TARGETED CLIENT QUICKLY SUITE OF PRODUCTS FOR MARKETING AND EASILY CHANGING NEEDS Optimised global Full compliance with FCA and Spread betting online acquisition other regulators requirements CFDs Transparent, targeted advertising Fast, smooth application process Binaries Accessible educational tools Electronic ID verification Share dealing Secure, simple document upload Market news and expert insight ISAs SIPPs ETF portfolios HOW WE ADD VALUE BRAND STRENGTH Global leader in online trading Reputation for authority and integrity 42-year heritage Robust balance sheet Access to over 10,000 markets TECHNOLOGY EXPERT SERVICE AND INNOVATION Industry-leading apps, High-calibre client service staff charts and tools Dedicated 24h telephone support Secure, stable platform Sophisticated interactionFast, reliable execution management system Continuous improvement Products designed in response 42 YEARS to client feedback Responsive to client needs HOW WE GENERATE REVENUE Our principal revenue sources on our core leveraged products are the dealing spreads or commission charges we apply to each transaction, according to the asset and product type being traded net of our hedging costs.
As clients are trading on margin, we also levy a financing charge for positions held overnight.
Our share dealing offer charges a flat fee commission per trade in UK shares.
We derive our earnings from the volume of our clients dealing transactions, which is influenced by the level of activity in the underlying financial markets.
Since our clients can choose to buy or sell, dealing volumes can be maintained, and we are able to profit, irrespective of the direction in which markets are moving.
Our centralised operating model enables us to consolidate the market risk associated with client trades from around the globe, which lessens our requirement to hedge, due to the net impact of clients buying and selling the same asset, and so reduces risk and cost.
15 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
