OUR BUSINESS OUR VISION We aim to be the default financial platform for active traders and sophisticated investors in our chosen markets.
BUILDING ON OUR HERITAGE KEY DATES IG is a global leader in online trading and the trusted partner 1974 for 152,600activetraders.
A FTSE 250 company with market IG Index was founded, becoming the UKs first spread 1 capitalisation of 3.0billion, we have a long history of betting company.
1982 In 1974 we began life as the UKs original spread betting provider, We werethe first company in the UK to offer spread introducing a completely new, accessible way for people to trade betting on the FT30.
on gold, by defining it as an index.
Since then, our innovative, 1995 client-focused approach has enabled us to grow and expand our IG Index becamethe first UK company to allow spread business and product range internationally, and today we are the betting on individual shares.
1 CFD provider as well as maintaining our considerable 2 1998 UK market leadership in spread betting.
The company becamethe first to launch an online As we look to the future, as well as continuing to grow our number dealing platform for financial spread betting.
of clients globally, there is anopportunity to strengthen and 2002 extendour relationship with them by offering a wider spectrum IG Markets Australia becamethe countrys first of products, beyond our originalleveraged trading services.
hallmark transparency, financial security and platform technology 2003 underpin new initiatives that will enable us to attract clients at Our product range expandedas binary betting different stages of their investment lifecycle.
process with the successful introduction of our share dealing service in September 2014, which is now exposing our brand to a 2006 New offices opened in Germany and Singapore.
broader audience and bringing valuable new clients to our entire product suite.
2007 Our browser-based trading platform waslaunched.
New We are shortly tolaunch, in the UK, a sophisticated and innovative offices opened in the US, Spain and France.
portfolio-based product, for longer-term investment purposes, in partnership with BlackRock, the worlds leading asset manager.
2008 The Group openedan office in Italy.
The Group By providing a broader range of products that cater for differing launchedthe UKs first dedicated spread betting investment objectives and risk appetites, we seek to forge iPhone app.
longer-lasting relationships with our clients, remaining their partner 2009 of choice as their needs change over time.
com was launched in the US.
IG Markets Meanwhile, we continue to focus on optimising our core offering.
Offices opened in Sweden A completely new, cutting-edge trading platform will give our and Luxembourg.
clients a faster, more responsive, personalised trading experience.
2010 We have also invested heavily inimproving the client recruitment We acquired the Ideal CFDs business in South Africa.
process, using a number of techniques to create a broader, CFD iPhone app launched.
smoother pathway for prospects interested in using our products.
2012 Throughout the past four decades, our operating model and risk Our Insight, news and analysis centre launched.
New management strategy have been thoroughly tested and have office openedin Dublin.
Our business has continually adapted to 2013 a changing world and the technological and economic backdrop, Spread betting and CFD offerings brought together and we will continue to innovate as we look to the next phase of under IG.
Introduction of forex trading via Meta our growth.
2014 Introduced execution-only stockbroking as part of our comprehensive share trading package.
New office IG RETAIL BRANDS openedin Switzerland.
2015 Sunday trading waslaunched and IG designedthe first trading app for Apple Watch.
2016 IG expands its stockbroking offering into ISAs and SIPPs.
Enters into a partnership with BlackRock, the biggest asset manager in the world, to launch a portfolio-based 1 Based on theshare price at 19 July 2016. investment product.
2 Based on number of active UK financial spread betting accounts Investment Trends UK Leveraged Trading Report, September 2015 : for CFDs, based on revenue excluding FX published financial statements, September 2015.
10 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GLOBAL OPERATIONS We have sales offices across Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Australia, Asia and the US, and our growing expertise in online marketing, search engine optimisation and multi-language client service enables us to extend our reach into countries where we have no physical presence.
Using a centralised marketing strategy, we now target prospects and serve clients in 156countries, efficiently and cost-effectively.
Our UK headquarters in the City of London is supported by two major growing operational hubs in Krakow, Poland, and Bangalore, India.
These are positioned to take advantage of local pools of talent in a variety of disciplines.
STOCKHOLM DSSELDORF KRAKOW DUBLIN LONDON GENEVA LUXEMBOURG MILAN TOKYO DUBAI BANGALORE CHICAGO MADRID JOHANNESBURG PARIS SINGAPORE SALES OFFICES HQ OPERATIONAL HUBS MELBOURNE - 1,408 TOTAL EMPLOYEES UK EUROPE AUSTRALIA REST OF WORLD Introduced the first financial Entered the market in Entered the market in 2002 Began expansion in 2006 spread betting product Germany in 2006, with in Singapore Office located in 1974 rapid expansion across in Melbourne Offices located in Dubai, Europe from 2007 Offices located in the City Japan, Singapore, South Annual revenue of of London and Dublin Offices located in Africa and the US 64.0million in the Republic of Ireland France, Germany, Italy, 2016financial year, with Annual revenue of Luxembourg, Spain, Annual revenue of 19,800active clients trading 62.6million in the Sweden and Switzerland 231.1million in the 2016financial year, with 2016financial year, with Annual revenue of 33,300active clients trading 64,500active clients trading 98.6million in the 2016financial year, with 35,000active clients trading 857 210 76 265 EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES 11 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
