132 IMI plc Directors Report The directors present their report, together with the audited financial statements, for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The Strategic Report is on pages 4 to 43, sections of which are incorporated into the Directors Report as set out below.
Results and dividend There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than: The Group consolidated income statement is shown on page 76.
Segmental operating profit amounted to 227.7m 2015: 239m and statutory profit before certain restrictions as may from time to time be imposed by laws and taxation and discontinued operations amounted to 165.3m 2015: 162.7m.
regulations for example insider trading laws : and pursuant to the Companys share dealing code whereby the directors The directors recommend a final dividend of 24.7p per share 2015: 24.5p per share and certain employees of the Company require approval to deal in the on the ordinary share capital payable, subject to shareholder approval at the Annual Companys shares.
General Meeting to be held on 4 May 2017, on 19 May 2017 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 7 April 2017.
Together with the interim dividend The Company is not aware of any arrangements between shareholders that of 14p per share paid on 16 September 2016, this final dividend will bring the total may result in restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or on voting rights.
distribution for the year to 38.7p per share 2015: 38.4p per share.
None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The only restrictions on voting rights are those that apply to the Research and development ordinary shares held in treasury.
Electronic and paper proxy appointments and See Section 2.1.
3.3 to the financial statements on page 89. voting instructions must be received by the Companys registrars not later than 48 hours excluding any non-working days before a general meeting, or subject Shareholders funds to the Companys articles of association any adjournment thereof.
Shareholders funds decreased from 546m at the end of 2015 to 543.2m Own shares acquired by the Company at 31 December 2016.
The Company was granted authority at the Annual General Meeting held on Share capital 5 May 2016 to purchase up to 40,790,321 of its ordinary shares of 28 4 7p each.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General As at 31 December 2016, the Companys share capital comprised a single class Meeting to be held on 4 May 2017, where shareholders will be asked to give of share capital which was divided into ordinary shares of 28 4 7p each.
Details a similar authority, details of which are given in the separate Notice of Annual of the share capital of the Company are set out in Section 4.6 to the financial General Meeting.
In 2016, the Company did not make market purchases of statements on page 120.
The Companys ordinary shares are listed on the its own ordinary shares.
As at 31 December 2016, 14,248,836 ordinary shares nominal value The Company has a Level 1 American Depositary Receipt ADR programme 4,071,096 were held in treasury representing 5.2% of the issued share capital for which Citibank, N. A. acts as depositary.
See page 155 for further details.
excluding treasury shares at that time.
The maximum number of shares held in As at 31 December 2016, 900,304 shares were held in an employee trust for use treasury during the year ended 31 December 2016 was 14,248,836. in relation to certain executive incentive plans representing 0.3% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares at that time.
The independent trustee Substantial shareholdings of the trust has the same rights as any other shareholder.
Participants in option Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Disclosure Guidance and schemes do not hold any voting rights on the shares until the date of exercise.
Transparency Rules is published on a regulatory information service and on the Companys website.
As at 31 December 2016, the following voting interests During 2016, 39,475 new ordinary shares were issued under employee share in the ordinary share capital of the Company, disclosable under the Disclosure schemes: 39,475 under save as you earn plans and nil under executive share Guidance and Transparency Rules, had been notified to the Company: plans.
Shares acquired through Company share schemes and plans rank equally with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
1 % Held The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are set MFS Investment Management 10.17% out in the Companys articles of association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK, from the Companys website or by writing Ameriprise Financial Inc 5.93% to the Company Secretary.
Changes to the articles of association must be Blackrock Inc 5.01% approved by a special resolution of the shareholders 75% majority required in accordance with the legislation in force at the time.
Subject to applicable Legal & General Group plc 3.03% statutes, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution decide or if there is no such resolution 1 or so far as it does not make specific provision as the Board may decide.
As of the date in the notification to the Company.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys report and Subsequent to 31 December 2016 and up to the date of this Report, no changes accounts, to attend, speak and vote at general meetings of the Company, in the voting interests have been notified to the Company in accordance with the and to appoint proxies to exercise their rights.
Holders of ordinary shares may Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
receive a dividend and on a liquidation, may share in the assets of the Company.
As far as the Company is aware, there are no persons with substantial holdings Subject to meeting certain thresholds, holders of ordinary shares may requisition in the Company other than those noted above.
a general meeting of the Company or propose resolutions at Annual General Meetings.
Voting rights for ordinary shares held in treasury are suspended and Statement on corporate governance the treasury shares carry no rights to receive dividends or other distributions The required disclosures are contained in the Corporate Governance Report on of assets.
pages 49 to 54 and are incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
133 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Employment engagement and diversity Role of the Board Every effort is made to ensure that applications for employment from disabled The role of the Board is: employees are fully and fairly considered and that disabled employees have to promote the success of the Company: equal opportunity in training, succession planning and promotion.
Further be guardians of stakeholders interests: disclosures relating to employee diversity, employee engagement and policies to set monitor leadership behaviour and culture: are set out on pages 29 to 33. to select and appoint the Executive Committee: Details of employee share schemes are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 71 and in Section 4.7 of the financial statements on pages 122 to 125. to provide supportive challenge to the Executive Committee: to approve business plans and strategy: Health, safety and the environment to oversee governance, risk and the control environment: and It is Group policy to continuously improve healthy and safe working conditions to monitor and oversee the businesses and management.
and to always operate in an environmentally responsible manner.
The Board provides leadership, direction and governance for the Company and Our carbon reporting statistics show that our recent performance in gross oversees business and management performance.
The Board has adopted a tonnes of CO2e has continued to improve: 2014 62,500, 2015 61,250, corporate governance framework which defines Board roles and includes the list 2016 60,000.
As such, we achieved our target to keep emissions at or below of matters reserved to it and written delegations of authority for its committees 2015 levels for 2016.
Of the 2016 total, our direct Scope 1 emissions of CO2e, and the Executive Committee.
Board reserved matters include strategy and essentially gas, diesel and fuel oil consumed, amounted to 17,500 tonnes.
Our key areas of policy, major operational and strategic risks, significant investment indirect Scope 2 emissions of CO2e, essentially the emissions generated on our decisions and material changes in the organisation of the Group.
behalf to provide our electricity, amounted to 42,500 tonnes.
In the IMI Corporate Governance Framework, the Board has clearly defined In addition to gross tonnes of CO2e, we report CO2e intensity relative to in writing those matters which are reserved to it and the respective delegated million sales: Our result for 2016 is 36.3 which is an improvement relative to authorities of its committees and it has also set written limits of authority for 2015s reported figure of 39.5 but a slight deterioration when 2015 is restated the Chief Executive.
The Group has a clear organisational structure and wellon a constant currency basis 35.2.
Using 2015 as our new baseline, we plan established reporting and control disciplines.
Managers of operating units to continuously improve our emissions performance going forward, including assume responsibility for and exercise a high degree of autonomy in running daybuilding on the results from the European Energy Directive audits undertaken to-day trading activities.
They do this within a framework of clear rules, policies in 2015 and cascading these lessons throughout our non-European facilities.
and delegated authorities regarding business conduct, approval of proposals for Our CO2e accounting methodology follows DEFRA guidelines and includes investment and material changes in operations and are subject to regular senior all material emissions across IMI.
See page 36 for further CO2e and energy management reviews of performance.
Division of responsibilities amongst directors Political donations Chairman: No political donations were made during the year.
building a well-balanced Board chairing meetings, setting the agenda and ensuring the best use of time Directors ensuring effectiveness of the Board including the quality of debate The membership of the Board and biographical details of the directors are and decisions given on pages 46 and 47 and are incorporated into this report by reference.
promoting the right environment and relations for effective engagement The rules for the appointment and replacement of directors are set out in the and challenge around the boardroom table Companys articles of association.
The Companys articles of association require setting the tone and high standards of governance practice each director to stand for re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
getting the right executive leadership and succession plans in place Qualifying indemnity provisions and liability insurance There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and Chief The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance and all Executive, which is reflected in the IMI Corporate Governance Framework directors of the Company benefit from qualifying third party indemnity provisions approved by the Board.
In summary, the Chairman is responsible for the which were in place during the financial year.
At the date of this Annual Report leadership and effectiveness of the Board but does not have any executive there are such indemnity arrangements with each director in respect of the powers or responsibilities.
The Chief Executive leads the Executive Committee costs of defending civil, criminal and regulatory proceedings brought against in running the businesses and implementing operational and strategic plans them, as a director or employee, subject always to the limitations set by the under authority delegated by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board meetings operate to The Group operates pension schemes in the UK which provide retirement and an appropriate agenda, and that adequate information is provided sufficiently death benefits for employees and former employees of the Group.
The corporate in advance of meetings to allow proper consideration.
He is supported by the trustee of the pension schemes is IMI Pensions Trust Limited, a subsidiary of Company Secretary, who also assists in ensuring that the Board operates in the Company.
Qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions, as defined in accordance with good corporate governance under the Code and relevant Section 235 of the Companies Act 2006, were in force for the financial year regulatory requirements.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all of ended 31 December 2016 and remain in force for the benefit of each of the the standing committees of the Board.
The Board has a recognised procedure directors of the corporate trustee of the pension schemes.
These indemnity for any director to obtain independent professional advice at the Companys provisions cover, to the extent permitted by law, certain losses or liabilities expense and all directors have access to the Company Secretary who is incurred as a director or officer of the corporate trustee of the pension schemes.
The Group also has in place third party qualifying indemnity provisions, as defined in Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, in favour of certain employees who discharge responsibilities for various wholly-owned subsidiary companies and these indemnities are given on a similar basis to the above.
134 IMI plc Directors Report contd Chief Executive: Information to be disclosed under Listing Rules 9.8.
4R leadership of the Executive Committee Listing Rule Detail Section formulating strategy, business plans and budgets 9.8.
4R 1-2 5-14 Not applicable N A ensuring the highest compliance and internal control standards are maintained developing organisation structure 9.8.
4R 4 Long-term incentive schemes 4.7 resourcing, talent development and succession plans Internal control Directors powers The Board has responsibility for oversight of the Groups system of internal The powers of the directors are determined by UK legislation and the articles control and confirms that the system of internal control takes into account the of association of the Company in force from time to time.
The directors were Code and relevant best practice guidance including the Financial Reporting authorised to allot and issue ordinary shares and to make market purchases Councils September 2014 publication, Guidance on Risk Management, of the Companys ordinary shares by resolutions of the Company passed Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
at its Annual General Meeting held on 5 May 2016.
The current authorities All operating units prepare forward plans and forecasts which are reviewed in will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting to be held on 4 May 2017, at which new authorities will be sought.
detail by the Executive Committee and consolidated for review by the Board.
Performance against forecast is continuously monitored at monthly meetings Further details of authorities the Company is seeking for the allotment, of the Executive Committee and, on a quarterly basis, by the Board.
Minimum issue and purchase of its ordinary shares are set out in the separate standards for accounting systems and controls, which are documented and Notice of Annual General Meeting.
monitored, are promulgated throughout the Group.
Certified annual reports are required from senior executives of operating units, confirming compliance Directors interests with Group financial reporting requirements.
The internal audit function, Group The interests of the persons including the interests of any connected persons Assurance, operates a rolling programme of internal assurance on site reviews who were directors at the end of the year, in the share capital of the Company, at selected operating units.
Additionally, visits to operations are carried out and their interests under share option and incentive schemes, are shown on by senior Group finance personnel.
These internal assurance processes are page 70. co-ordinated with the activity of the Companys external auditor.
Capital investments are subject to a clear process for investment appraisal, Management of conflicts of interest authorisation and post-investment review, with major investment proposals The Companys articles of association include certain provisions relevant referred for consideration by the Executive Committee and, according to their to the activity of the Board and its committees.
These provisions include materiality, to the Board.
In addition, the Executive Committee regularly reviews requirements for disclosure and approval by the Board of potential conflicts the operation of corporate policies and controls including those relating to ethics of interest.
These procedures apply, inter alia, to external directorships and and compliance matters, treasury activities, environmental issues, health and it is the Boards view that they operated effectively during 2016. safety, human resources, taxation, insurance and pensions.
Compliance and internal audit reports are made available to the Board, the Audit Committee Each director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a situation in and the Executive Committee, to enable control issues and developments which they have or may have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or possibly to be monitored.
may conflict with the interests of the Company.
This duty is in addition to the duty that they owe to the Company to disclose to the Board any interest in any Control processes are dynamic and continuous improvements are made transaction or arrangement under consideration by the Company.
If any director to adapt them to the changing risk profile of operations and to implement becomes aware of any situation which may give rise to a conflict of interest, that proportionate measures to address any identified weakness in the internal director informs the rest of the Board and the Board is then permitted under the control system.
The internal control declaration process introduced in 2014 is articles of association to decide to authorise such conflict.
The information is now fully embedded and is enabling improvement in control through bi-annual recorded in the Companys register of conflicts and a conflicts authorisation self-assessments from all operating units.
Action plans to improve controls letter is issued to the relevant director.
as a result of these assessments are being tracked and reported to the Audit Committee.
More information in relation to risk is given on page 40 under the Change of control heading Principal Risks and Uncertainties.
The Company and its subsidiaries are party to a number of agreements that may allow the counterparties to alter or terminate the arrangements on a Through the procedures outlined here, the Board has considered the effectiveness of all significant aspects of internal control for the year 2016 and up to the date of change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, such as commercial contracts and employee share plans.
Other than as referred to in the next this Annual Report.
The Board believes that the Groups system of internal control, which is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, provides reasonable but paragraph, none of these is considered by the Company to be significant in terms of its likely impact on the Group as a whole.
not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In the event of a change of control of the Company, the Groups main funding Financial reporting processes agreements allow the lenders to renegotiate terms or give notice of repayment The use of the Groups accounting manual and prescribed reporting requirements for all outstanding amounts under the relevant facilities.
by finance teams throughout the Group are important in ensuring that the Groups accounting policies are clearly established and that information is appropriately The Company does not have agreements with any director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment specifically reviewed and reconciled as part of the reporting process.
The use of a standard reporting package by all entities in the Group ensures that information is resulting from a takeover, although the provisions of the Companys share schemes include a discretion to allow awards granted to directors and presented in a consistent way that facilitates the production of the consolidated financial statements.
employees under such schemes to vest in those circumstances.
135 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Viability statement The Group has considerable financial resources together with long-standing relationships with a number of customers, suppliers and funding providers across In accordance with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, the directors different geographic areas and industries.
The Groups forecasts and projections, have assessed the viability of the Company over a relevant period, taking into taking account of potential and realistic changes in trading performance, indicate account the Groups financial and trading position as summarised in this Annual that the Group is able to operate within the level of facilities either in place on Report, the principal risks and uncertainties set out on pages 40 to 43 and the 31 December 2016, or renewed since, without the need to renew any further five-year business plan reviewed by the Board in September 2016.
Based on facilities before 23 February 2018.
As a consequence, the directors believe that this assessment, and other matters considered and reviewed by the Board, the Group is well-placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the the directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Company uncertainties inherent in the current economic outlook.
Such uncertainties as will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over have been identified are not regarded as material uncertainties for the purpose the period from the date of this Annual Report to 31 December 2021. of the going concern assessment.
The directors have determined that the period to 31 December 2021 constitutes After making due enquiry, the directors have a reasonable expectation that an appropriate period over which to make its assessment of viability.
Whilst the the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the directors have no reason to believe the Company will not be viable over a longer foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis timing horizon, the five-year period to 31 December 2021 was chosen as it in preparing the financial statements.
aligns with the Companys business and strategic planning timing horizon and is a sensible period for such an assessment.
It is believed this period provides Disclosure of information to the auditor readers of the Annual Report with an appropriately long-term view with which to assess the Companys prospects although future outcomes cannot be Each director confirms that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each director predicted with certainty.
has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make In making its assessment, the Board recognised the principal risks facing himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
A summary of these risks can be found on pages 40 to 43.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Hilton Birmingham Metropole Hotel, The five-year business plan was used to assess the headroom on the National Exhibition Centre, Birmingham on 4 May 2017 at 10am.
Notice of the Companys facilities and to stress test ongoing covenant compliance under Annual General Meeting will be published on the Companys website.
scenarios where its principal risks materialise.
The analysis considered both running business risks, such as reducing revenues and margins, as well as one-off event risks such as product recalls.
The Board also considered the By order of the Board Companys ability to raise capital in the future, as well as both the ongoing John OShea actions undertaken to prevent occurrence and the potential actions to Company Secretary mitigate the impact of any particular risk.
23 February 2017 The directors also recognised a number of key features of the Companys operations.
The Companys wide geographical and sector diversification, and the IMI plc is registered in England No.
714275 lack of a single major production site, help minimise the risk of serious business interruption.
Furthermore, our business model is structured so that the Company is not overly reliant on a few large customers.
Our largest customer constitutes only 2% of Group revenue and our top 20 customers account for just over 16% of Group revenue.
In addition, our ability to flex our cost base reduces our exposure to sudden adverse economic conditions.
Going concern Accounting standards require that directors satisfy themselves that it is reasonable for them to conclude whether it is appropriate to prepare financial statements on a going concern basis.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 4 to 43.
Principal risks are detailed on pages 40 to 43.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the financial statements.
In addition, Section 4.4 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Section 4.5 to the financial statements addresses the management of the funding risks of the Groups employee benefit obligations.
136 IMI plc Statement of Directors Responsibilities Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, which includes the Directors Report, Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement, and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with those International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash flows for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: state that the Group financial statements have complied with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and state for the parent company financial statements whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the parent company and enable them to ensure that the Group and parent company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation as appropriate.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the parent company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors responsibility statement under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules Each of the directors, as at the date of this report, confirms that: the Group and parent company financial statements in this Annual Report, which have been prepared in accordance with applicable UK law and with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the Annual Report which includes the Directors Report and the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
Having taken advice from the Audit Committee, the Board considers the report and accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the Board John OShea Company Secretary 23 February 2017 137 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of IMI plc In our opinion: IMI plcs Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and Groups profit for the year then ended: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited We audited the Group and Parent Company financial statements of IMI plc for the year ended 31 December 2016 which comprise: Group Parent Company Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Balance sheet as at 31 December 2016 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Related notes C1 to C10 to the financial statements Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2016 Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 5 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Overview of our audit approach Risks of material misstatement - Revenue and profit recognition - Inventory valuation - Valuation of the overall pension scheme liabilities - Carrying value of goodwill and acquired intangible assets Audit scope - We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 13 entities and audit procedures on specific balances for a further 27 entities.
- The entities where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 91% of profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items, 62% of revenue and 76% of total assets.
Materiality - Overall Group materiality of 9.2m which represents 5% of profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items.
What has changed - In the prior year, our auditors report included a risk of material misstatement in relation to the accounting for the acquisition of Bopp & Reuther.
There have been no further acquisitions in 2016 and accordingly no associated risk.
- We have set performance materiality at 6.9m 2015: 4.7m being 75% 2015: 50% of our planning materiality.
The increased percentage reflects the improvement in IMIs internal control environment.
138 IMI plc Independent Auditors Report to the Members of IMI plc contd Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Our response to the risk Risk Revenue and profit recognition 1,657m, We carried out testing of controls over revenue recognition with a focus on those related to the timing PY comparative 1,567m of revenue recognition.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 55 : We performed analytical procedures to compare revenue recognised with our expectations from past Accounting policies page 126 : and Note 2.1 of experience, managements forecasts and, where possible, external market data.
the Consolidated Financial Statements page 85 We obtained support for individually unusual and or material revenue journals.
Revenue and profit recognition is a significant We performed tests of detail for a sample of revenue transactions to confirm the transactions had been audit risk across all divisions within the Group.
appropriately recorded in the income statement and verified that the risks and rewards of ownership of Specifically there is a risk of inappropriate the products had been transferred to the customer by: revenue and profit recognition if deliveries are analysing the contract and terms of the sale to determine that the Group had fulfilled the requirements recorded within the wrong accounting period, of the contract: management override causes contract loss provisions to be misstated or revenue is not confirming revenue could be reliably measured by reference to underlying documentation: and accounted for in line with contractual terms.
confirming collectability of the revenue was reasonably assured by agreeing to collection history.
The cyclical nature of deliveries within the Critical Engineering division results in significant We performed cut-off testing by tracing a sample of transactions around the period end to third party shipments near the December period end delivery note documentation and customer acceptance.
which increases the risk of a cut-off error.
In respect of new construction contracts in the Critical Engineering division we tested a sample of Risk movement managements assessment of forecast costs to complete, corroborating the underlying assumptions against historic experience and future production plans to determine any contract losses are appropriately recognised.
We performed these audit procedures at full and specific scope entities over this risk area in 31 locations where revenue is in scope, which represents 62% of the total revenue balance.
We also performed specific procedures over 302m of revenue recognised in the 50 Precision and Hydronic divisions marketing companies.
These companies purchase IMI manufactured products, either directly from the manufacturing IMI entity or through the Groups centralised warehousing, and sell into local markets.
The specific procedures performed included verifying the occurrence and completeness of a sample of sales transactions recognised by the marketing companies through to goods despatch documentation.
We tested a sample of transactions recognised in these companies to determine the measurement of revenue recognised is consistent with the Groups transfer pricing policies and the inter-company transactions eliminate on consolidation.
Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee: Our year-end audit procedures did not identify evidence of material misstatements regarding revenue or profit recognition in the Group.
All transactions tested have been recognised in accordance with contractual terms.
139 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our response to the risk Risk Inventory valuation 255m, PY comparative We carried out testing on controls over inventory valuation to verify the Group values inventory appropriately.
233m We tested the accumulation of cost within inventory, confirming the valuation reflected the products stage Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 55 : of completion including agreement to the physical inventory counts we attended.
Accounting policies page 126 : and Note 3.1.
1 of We obtained evidence to support the standard costs used and performed procedures to ensure only normal the Consolidated Financial Statements page 96 production variances had been capitalised in the year-end inventory balance and any abnormal inefficiencies The valuation of inventory across the Group is had been appropriately expensed including comparing actual production rates to budget.
dependent on establishing appropriate valuation We audited the adequacy of excess and obsolete provisions held against inventory by comparing forecast controls.
This includes reliance on manual product usage to customer orders, considering historical usage, historical accuracy of provisioning and processes.
Management judgement is applied understanding managements future plans to utilise the inventory.
to formulaic calculations for standard costing and excess and obsolete inventory provisions.
We performed the same audit procedures at full and specific scope entities over this risk area in 26 locations If these judgements are not appropriate then this where inventory is in scope, which represents 73% of the total inventory balance.
increases the risk that inventory is overstated.
Risk movement Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee: Inventory valuation across the Group is considered appropriate including the adequacy of the excess and obsolete provision.
Our audit procedures confirmed variances between standard and actual costs and the overheads absorbed in the inventory valuation had been correctly calculated and accounted for.
Our response to the risk Risk Valuation of the overall pension scheme Using external data we benchmarked the key actuarial assumptions, as detailed in Section 4.5.
3.2 of the liabilities 1,590m, PY comparative 1,341m consolidated financial statements, used by management, in determining the pension obligation under IAS within the net pension deficit of 80m 19 R to determine their assumptions were appropriate, met the requirements of IFRS and were in line with market practice.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 55 : Accounting policies page 126 : and Note 4.5 of This included a comparison of life expectancy with relevant mortality tables, benchmarking inflation and the Consolidated Financial Statements page 114 discount rates against external market data, considering changes in historical assumptions and evaluating the independence, qualifications and results of work performed by managements experts involved in the The actuarial assumptions used to value the valuation process.
UK and overseas pension scheme liabilities are judgemental and sensitive.
Due to the We used our pension specialists to assist us with these procedures.
significance of the value of the pension The audit procedures performed to address this risk have been performed by the Group audit team.
obligation, a small change in assumptions may result in a material difference to the amounts reported.
Risk movement Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee: The actuarial assumptions used in the valuation of the year-end liabilities are at the middle of the acceptable range when compared to external benchmarks.
We consider the valuation of pension scheme liabilities to be appropriate.
140 IMI plc Independent Auditors Report to the Members of IMI plc contd Our response to the risk Risk Carrying value of goodwill and acquired We examined managements methodology, as detailed in Section 3.2 of the consolidated financial intangible assets 453m, PY comparative statements, and models for assessing the valuation of significant goodwill balances to confirm the 411m composition of managements future cash flow forecasts, the process by which they were drawn up and re-performing the calculations in the model to test the mechanical integrity.
This included Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 55 : confirming the underlying cash flows were consistent with the Board approved budgets.
Accounting policies page 126 : and Note 3.2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 97 In accordance with the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, management performed an impairment test on all CGUs that have goodwill allocated.
As a consequence of the Groups growth strategy a significant value of goodwill and intangible For all CGUs we calculated the degree to which the key assumptions would need to fluctuate before assets has arisen from acquisitions.
There is a an impairment conclusion was triggered and considered the likelihood of this occurring.
risk that cash generating units CGUs may not In respect of the CGUs identified as having impairment indicators or low levels of headroom we performed achieve the anticipated business performance detailed testing to critically assess and corroborate the key inputs of the forecast cash flows including: to support the carrying value of these assets corroborating the discount rate used by obtaining the underlying data used in the calculation and leading to an impairment charge that has not benchmarking it against comparable organisations: been recognised by management.
Significant judgement is required in assessing the future validating the growth rate assumed by comparing them to economic and industry forecasts: and cash flows of the CGU, together with the rate analysing the historical accuracy of budgets to actual results to determine whether forecast cash at which they are discounted.
flows are reliable based on past experience.
Risk movement We have reviewed the disclosures in respect of goodwill and intangibles and the impairment of Stainless Steel Fasteners SSF with reference to the requirements of IAS 36 and confirmed their consistency with the audited impairment models.
The audit procedures performed to address this risk have been performed by the Group audit team.
Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee: We consider managements impairment of Stainless Steel Fasteners of 5.0m for the year ended 31 December 2016 to be appropriate.
We agree with managements conclusion that none of the remaining CGUs are required to be impaired as at 31 December 2016.
Across the Groups CGUs, the level of headroom and conservatism in the forecasts varies.
Overall, managements valuations are around the mid-point of our acceptable range.
141 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The scope of our audit Profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items - CY PY Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation 29% 26% of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Full scope entities Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account the level of Group revenue and 9% 15% operating profit, risk profile including country risk, risk determined to be Other procedures associated based on the grading of internal audit findings, controls findings, historical knowledge and risk arising from change in the period including changes to IT systems and key management personnel, the number of 62% 59% significant accounts based on performance materiality and any other known Specific scope entities factors when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to achieve adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 123 reporting entities of the Group, we selected 40 entities, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Revenue - CY PY Of the 40 entities selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of 13 entities full scope entities which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining 27 entities specific scope 39% 40% entities, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that entity Full scope entities that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
23% 26% The reporting entities where we performed audit procedures accounted for Specific scope entities 91% 2015: 85% of the Groups profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items, 62% 2015: 66% of the Groups revenue and 76% 2015: 83% of the 18% 17% Groups total assets.
Procedures on marketing companies 20% 17% We also performed procedures over the revenue recognised in the Precision Other procedures and Hydronic divisions marketing companies, which provided additional coverage of 18% in respect of the Groups revenue.
Excluding full and specific scope entities, there are a further 83 reporting entities with average revenues of 7.6m and average profit before tax adjusted Total assets - CY PY for non-recurring items of 0.2m.
In addition, these locations do not have common systems and controls.
As a consequence, we consider the likelihood of any systematic error arising within this population to be low.
Notwithstanding 58% 63% this, for the 83 entities we performed other procedures, including analytical Full scope entities review and enquiries of management to address the residual risk of material misstatement.
The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the work performed 18% 20% by our audit teams.
Specific scope entities Changes from the prior year The number of full scope entities has reduced to 13 2015: 14 and the number of specific scope entities has reduced to 27 2015: 29.
These changes 24% 17% predominantly reflect restructuring undertaken by the Group which has resulted Other procedures in a reduction of the size and risk profile of entities previously in scope.
In the prior year, our auditors report included a risk of material misstatement The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that in relation to the accounting for the acquisition of Bopp & Reuther in 2015. has been designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor or his delegate In the absence of further acquisitions in the current year, the risk was visits each full and specific scope location once every three years.
During the not included in the current year audit.
current years audit cycle, visits were undertaken by the Group audit team to the entity teams in Belgium, China, Germany, Italy, Japan, Korea, Switzerland and Involvement with entity teams the United Kingdom.
These visits involved meeting with our entity team to discuss In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type and direct their audit approach, reviewing and understanding the significant audit of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the entities by us, as the primary findings in response to the risk areas including revenue, profit recognition and audit engagement team, or by entity auditors from other EY global network firms inventory valuation, holding meetings with local management, undertaking factory operating under our instruction.
Of the 13 full scope entities, audit procedures were tours and obtaining updates on local regulatory matters including tax, pensions performed on one of these directly by the Group audit team.
For the 27 specific and legal.
The Group audit team interacted regularly with the entity teams during scope entities, where the work was performed by entity auditors, we determined various stages of the audit, where appropriate reviewed key working papers and the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
142 IMI plc Independent Auditors Report to the Members of IMI plc contd Our application of materiality Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating clearly trivial.
the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all Materiality uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.5m 2015: 0.5m, which is set The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative We determined materiality for the Group to be 9.2m 2015: 9.4m, which is considerations in forming our opinion.
approximately 5% 2015: 5% of profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items.
We believe that profit before tax, adjusted for the items described in the Scope of the audit of the financial statements table provides us with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the and is the most relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the entity.
financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Profit before tax - 165.3m for the year Starting basis the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently ended 31 December 2016 applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial Gain on special pension events - 2.8m statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Note 2.2.
3 to the Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Restructuring - 18.8m Note 2.2.
2 to the financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially Adjustments Financial Statements incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material Impairment of Stainless Steel Fasteners SSF - misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
4 to Financial Statements Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor Profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items - As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out 186.3m basis for materiality on page 136, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial Materiality Materiality of 9.2m approximately 5% statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our of materaility basis responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Performance materiality Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility was 75% 2015: 50% of our planning materiality, namely 6.9m 2015: 4.7m.
to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, We have set performance materiality at this higher percentage reflecting the for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
improvement in IMIs internal financial control environment and due to the absence of audit differences being identified in recent periods.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: Audit work at entity locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each entity properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and is based on the relative scale and risk of the entity to the Group as a whole and based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that entity.
In the current year, - the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report the range of performance materiality allocated to entities was 0.45m to for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is 1.50m 2015: 0.45m to 1.35m.
consistent with the financial statements: and - the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
143 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the Annual Report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act 2006 reporting In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have identified no material misstatements in the Strategic Report or Directors Report.
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules review requirements We are required to review: the directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 135, and longer-term viability, set out on page 135: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have no exceptions to report.
Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
Andrew Walton Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Birmingham 23 February 2017 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the IMI plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
144 IMI plc Company balance sheet at 31 December 2016 2016 2015 Note m m Fixed assets Investments C5 173.2 173.2 Current assets Debtors C6 364.4 397.3 Deferred tax assets C7 1.1 1.9 Cash at bank and in hand 4.8 11.3 370.3 410.5 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Other creditors C8 3.0 2.9 Net current assets 367.3 407.6 Total assets less current liabilities 540.5 580.8 Net assets 540.5 580.8 Capital and reserves Called up share capital C9 81.8 81.8 Share premium account C9 12.1 11.8 Capital redemption reserve C9 174.4 174.4 Profit and loss account C9 272.2 312.8 Equity shareholders funds 540.5 580.8 Approved by the Board of Directors on 23 February 2017 and signed on its behalf by: Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman 145 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Company statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2016 Share Share Redemption Retained Parent capital premium reserve earnings equity m m m m m At 1 January 2015 81.7 10.8 174.4 320.1 587.0 Retained profit for the year 91.8 91.8 Dividends paid on ordinary shares 102.5 102.5 Shares issued in the year 0.1 1.0 1.1 Share-based payments 1.1 1.1 Shares issued by: employee share scheme trust 2.3 2.3 At 31 December 2015 81.8 11.8 174.4 312.8 580.8 Retained profit for the year 65.2 65.2 Dividends paid on ordinary shares 104.2 104.2 Shares issued in the year 0.3 0.3 Share-based payments 5.8 5.8 Shares acquired for: employee share scheme trust 7.4 7.4 At 31 December 2016 81.8 12.1 174.4 272.2 540.5 146 IMI plc Company notes to the financial statements C1.
Significant accounting policies Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required items considered material in relation to the financial statements, except where by IAS 12 Income Taxes.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are otherwise noted below: expected to apply when the temporary differences reverse, based on the tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet Basis of accounting date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that The financial statements were prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary difference Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101. can be utilised.
The Company has not presented a separate profit and loss account as Equity and equity-related compensation benefits permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company operates a number of equity and equity-related compensation The Company has taken advantage of the following disclosure exemptions benefits as set out in Section 4.7 of the Group financial statements.
The fair under FRS 101: value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options a the requirements of paragraphs 45 b and 46-52 of IFRS 2 Share based is recharged in full to the principal employing company and accordingly, there is Payment: no net charge recorded in the Companys financial statements.
The recharged amount is recognised as a debtor falling due for payment within one year.
b the requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: c the requirements of paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement: The total amount recharged over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market d the requirement in paragraph 38 of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements to present comparative information in respect of paragraph 79 a vesting conditions for example, profitability and sales growth targets.
Nonmarket vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of iv of IAS 1: options that are expected to become exercisable.
The fair value of the options at e the requirements of paragraphs 10 d, 10 f and 134-136 of IAS 1: the date of grant is determined based on the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
f the requirements of IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows: At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimate of the number g the requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision of Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors: original estimates, if any, in the amount recharged to subsidiary undertakings.
h the requirements of paragraph 17 of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures: and For newly issued shares, the proceeds received, net of any directly attributable i the requirements in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose related transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share party transactions entered into between two or more members of the Group, premium when the options are exercised.
provided that any subsidiary which is party to the transaction is wholly owned by such a member.
Related party transactions with the Companys key Treasury shares management personnel are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages The consideration paid by the Company on the acquisition of treasury shares 59 to 71 and in Section 5.2 on page 126 of the Group financial statements.
is charged directly to retained earnings in the year of purchase.
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty between the proceeds from sale and the original cost taken to share premium.
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make If treasury shares are subsequently cancelled the nominal value of the cancelled judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for shares is transferred from share capital to the capital redemption reserve.
No gain assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported or loss is recognised on the purchase, sale or cancellation of treasury shares.
for income and expenses during the year.
However, the nature of estimation means that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
Dividends Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability Foreign currencies at that date to the extent that they are authorised and are no longer at the The Companys functional currency and presentation currency is sterling.
Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
ruling at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been C2.
Remuneration of directors translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date The detailed information concerning directors emoluments, shareholdings and and the gains or losses on translation are included in the profit and loss account.
options are shown in the audited section of the Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 71 and Section 2.1.
3 of the Group financial statements.
Staff numbers and costs Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost less any provision for impairment.
The Companys cost of investments in subsidiary undertakings is The number of people employed by the Company, including directors, during stated at the aggregate of a the cash consideration and either b the nominal the year was 29 2015: 32 all of whom were employed in administrative roles.
value of the shares issued as consideration when Section 612 of the Companies The costs associated with them were borne by a subsidiary undertaking.
Act 2006 applies or c in all other cases the market value of the Companys The Company participates in the IMI UK Funds, which are defined benefit shares on the date they were issued as consideration.
schemes in which the assets are held independently.
The total net defined Taxation benefit costs of these Funds are borne by a subsidiary undertaking and therefore in accordance with IAS 19, no net defined benefit costs are The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into recognised in the Companys financial statements.
Section 4.5 of the account taxation deferred because of temporary differences between the Group financial statements provides further details regarding the defined treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Dividends The aggregate amount of dividends comprises: 2016 2015 m m Prior year final dividend paid - 24.5p per qualifying ordinary share 2015: 24.0p 66.3 64.9 Current year interim dividend paid - 14.0p per qualifying ordinary share 2015: 13.9p 37.9 37.6 Aggregate amount of dividends paid in the financial year 104.2 102.5 Dividends paid in the year of 104.2m represent 37.9p per share 2015: 37.6p.
After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the directors.
The dividends have not been provided for and there are no income tax consequences.
2016 2015 m m Current year final dividend - 24.7p per qualifying ordinary share 2015: 24.5p 67.0 66.4 Dividends proposed after the balance sheet date may differ from the final dividend paid.
This is a result of the final number of qualifying shares entitled to dividends differing from those in issue at the balance sheet date.
Fixed assets - investments Subsidiary undertakings 2016 2015 m m At 1 January 2016 and 31 December 2016 cost and net book value 173.2 173.2 Details of subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2016 are shown on pages 149 to 152.
Debtors 2016 2015 m m Falling due for payment after more than one year: Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 278.2 316.4 Falling due for payment within one year: Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 86.2 80.9 364.4 397.3 C7.
Deferred tax 2016 2015 m m The deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows: Employee benefits and share based payments 1.1 1.9 Deferred tax asset included in the balance sheet 1.1 1.9 m Reconciliation of movement in deferred tax asset: At 1 January 2016 1.9 Deferred tax charge in the profit and loss account 0.8 At 31 December 2016 1.1 Changes to the rate of UK corporation tax were substantively enacted in 2015 to reduce the rate to 19% from 1 April 2017 and to 18% from 1 April 2020.
The budget of 16 March 2016 then proposed to further reduce the rate to 17% from 1 April 2020.
This additional change was substantively enacted on 6 September 2016.
The deferred tax balance has been calculated based on the rates applicable when the balances are expected to reverse, which is mainly 17% 2015: 18%.
148 IMI plc Company notes to the financial statements contd C8.
Other creditors falling due within one year 2016 2015 m m Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 1.7 1.0 Other payables 1.3 1.9 3.0 2.9 C9.
Share capital and reserves Share Share Redemption Retained Parent capital premium reserve earnings equity m m m m m At 1 January 2015 81.7 10.8 174.4 320.1 587.0 Retained profit for the year 91.8 91.8 Dividends paid on ordinary shares 102.5 102.5 Shares issued in the year 0.1 1.0 1.1 Share-based payments 1.1 1.1 Shares issued by : employee share scheme trust 2.3 2.3 At 31 December 2015 81.8 11.8 174.4 312.8 580.8 Retained profit for the year 65.2 65.2 Dividends paid on ordinary shares 104.2 104.2 Shares issued in the year - 0.3 0.3 Share-based payments 5.8 5.8 Shares acquired for : employee share scheme trust 7.4 7.4 At 31 December 2016 81.8 12.1 174.4 272.2 540.5 Details of treasury and employee trust share scheme movements are contained in Section 4.6 of the Group financial statements and details of dividends paid and proposed in the year are shown in note C4.
All of the retained earnings held at both 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 are considered to be distributable reserves.
Contingencies Contingent liabilities relating to guarantees in the normal course of business and other items amounted to 82.4m 2015: 64.4m.
There is a right of set-off with three of the Companys bankers relating to the balances of the Company and a number of its wholly-owned UK subsidiaries.
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
149 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Subsidiary undertakings A full list of the Groups subsidiary undertakings and registered principal offices as at 31 December 2016 is included below.
Except where indicated, the share capital consists of ordinary shares only.
The principal country in which each subsidiary operates and has its registered principal office is the country of incorporation.
IMI plcs effective interest in the undertakings listed is 100%, except where indicated, and is held in each case by a subsidiary undertaking, except for IMI Group Ltd, IMI Deutschland Verwaltungs GmbH, IMI Lakeside Australia Pty Ltd and Liquick 200 Limited which are held directly by IMI plc.
The Group has an interest in a partnership, the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership, which is fully consolidated into these Group accounts.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption conferred by regulation 7 of the Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008 and has, therefore, not appended the accounts of this qualifying partnership to these accounts.
Separate accounts for the partnership are not required to be and have not been filed at Companies House.
Anson Cast Products Limited, Lakeside, Solihull Parkway, Birmingham Business Park, Birmingham, West Midlands B37 7XZ, Charles Baynes Netherlands BV Netherlands, United Kingdom FCX North America Limited, FCX Pension Trustees Limited, Holford Estates Limited, IMI CIF Trustee Limited, IMI Deutschland Limited, IMI Euro Finance Limited, IMI Fluid Controls Finance Limited, IMI Germany Limited, IMI Group Limited, IMI Kynoch Limited, IMI Lakeside Five Limited, IMI Marston Limited, IMI Overseas Investments Limited, IMI Pensions Trust Limited, IMI plc, IMI Property Investments Limited, IMI Refiners Limited, IMI Retirement Savings Trust Limited, IMI Sweden Finance Limited, IMI Vision Limited, Liquick 211 Limited, Premier Profiles Limited, Truflo Group Limited, Truflo International Limited, Truflo Investments Limited Commtech Limited, 1020 Eskdale Road, Winnersh, Wokingham, RG41 5TS, United Kingdom The Commtech Group Limited, Engineering Appliances Limited, IMI Group Services Limited, IMI Lakeside One Limited, Liquick 200 Limited, Martonair International Limited IMI Critical Engineering Holding GmbH, Bruckstrasse 93, 46519, Alpen, Germany IMI Deutschland II GmbH & Co KG, IMI Deutschland Verwaltungs GmbH, IMI Germany Holding Limited & Co. KG, Norgren GmbH IMI Fluid Controls Holdings Inc, CSC, Corporation Trust Centre, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington fide 19801, United States IMI Holdings LLC, Norgren Automation Solutions LLC, Norgren Inc, Norgren Kloehn Inc IMI Americas Inc, Corporate Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Wilmington fide 19808, United States IMI Group Inc, IMI Interamerica Inc, Zimmermann & Jansen Inc IMI Australia Pty Ltd, 33 South Corporate Avenue, Rowville VIC 3178, Australia IMI Lakeside Australia Pty Ltd, Tube Fittings Sales Pty Limited FCX Ireland Limited, 1 Stokes Place, St Stephens Green, Dublin 2, Ireland IMI Lakeside Ireland Limited, Lakeside Finance Unlimited Company, Lakeside Treasury Unlimited Company 150 IMI plc Subsidiary undertakings contd CCI AG, Itaslenstrasse 9, 8362, Balterswil, Switzerland CCI Switzerland AG, Norgren AG IMI Holding Italy S. r. l. Via Stendhal, 65, 20144 Milano, Italy Orton S. R. L. Truflo Rona S. r. l. IMI Hydronic Engineering AB, Annelund, SE-524 80, Ljung, Sweden IMI Indoor Climate AB, IMI Sweden AB Aero-Dynamiek Belgie BVBA, Boomsesteenweg 28, B 2627 Schelle, Belgium IMI Hydronic Engineering NV B & R Holding GmbH, Carl-Reuther Str.
1, 68305, Mannheim, Germany Bopp & Reuther Sicherheitsund Regelarmaturen GmbH Heimeier GmbH, Voellinghauser Weg 2, Erwitte, fide-59597, Germany IMI Hydronic Engineering Deutschland GmbH IMI Components Limited, Westwood Road, Birmingham, B6 7JF, United Kingdom Truflo Marine Limited IMI Hydronic Engineering BV, Rntgenweg 20, Alphen aan den Rijn, NL-2408 AB, Netherlands IMI Netherlands Holdings BV IMI Hydronic Engineering Switzerland AG, Mhlerainstrasse 26, 4414, Fllinsdorf, Switzerland TA Hydronics Holding AG IMI Scotland Limited, 15 Atholl Crescent, Edinburgh EH3 8HA, United Kingdom The IMI Scottish Limited Partnership Norgren Co Limited China, Building 3, No.
1885, Duhui Road, Minhang District, Shanghai, China Norgren Manufacturing Co Ltd Norgren Manufacturing fide Mexico SA fide CV, AV fide la Montana 120, Parque Industrial Queretaro, Santiago fide Queretaro, Queretaro, Norgren SA fide CV CP 76220, Mexico Remosa Service & Construction Srl, Remosa Srl Viale Pula 37, 09123 sede e stabilimento stradario, 03608, Cagliari, Sardinia, Italy Valves Holding GmbH, Z & J Technologies GmbH Bertramsweg 6, 52355, Dren, Germany Brookvale International Insurance Limited Clarendon House, Church Street, Hamilton, HM11, Bermuda Buschjost GmbH Detmolder Strasse 256, Bad Oeynhausen, D-32545, Germany C. H. Zikesch Armaturen GmbH Mercatorstr.
16-18, 46485, Wesel, Germany CCI Asia Pacific Pte Ltd 29 International Business Park, ACER Building, Tower A, #04-01, Singapore, 609923, Singapore CCI America do Sul Comercio fide Equipamentos Industriais Ltda Rua Itapeva, 286 cjs 95 96 97, Sao Paulo, 01332-000, Brazil CCI Czech Republic s. r. o. K Letiti 1804 3, lapanice, 62700, Czech Republic CCI Flow Control Shanghai Co Ltd Room 108, Unit 15, 159 Tian Zhou Road, Cao He Jing Development Zone, Shanghai, 200233, China CCI International Limited Unit A3 Brookside Business Park, Greengate, Middleton, Manchester, M24 1GS, United Kingdom CCI Italy Srl Via Leopardi 26, 20123, Milan, Italy CCI KK 6-2-2 Takatsukadai, Nishi-ku, Kobe City, 651-2271, Japan CCI Limited 14 Dangdong 2-ro, Munsan-eup, Paju-si, Gyeonggi-do, 10816, Republic of Korea CCI Valve Technology AB Industrigatan 1-3, Box 603, SE-661 29, Saffle, Sweden CCI Valve Technology GmbH Lembockgasse 63 1, A1230, Wien, Austria Control Component India Pvt Limited SJR iPark, 6th Floor, EPIP Zone, Whitefield Road, Bangalore, 560066, India Control Components Inc 22591 Avenida Empresa, Rancho Santa Margarita CA 92688, United States Deeside Titanium Limited 18% Moor Lane, Derby, Derbyshire, DE24 8BJ, United Kingdom FAS Medic SA Route fide Bossonnens 2, 1607, Palezieux, Switzerland Fluid Automation Systems GmbH Schonbergstrasse 35, 73760, Osterfildern, Germany Fluid Automation Systems SA 126 Route fide l'Etraz, 1290, Versoix, Switzerland Herion Systemtechnik GmbH Untere Talstrasse 65, D-71263 Weil der Stadt, Germany IMI Aero-Dynamiek BV Havenstraat 9, VS 3861, Nijkerk, Netherlands 151 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 IMI Consulting Shanghai Co Limited Units 03,06 9 Floor, No.
500 Fushan Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, 200122, China IMI Critical Engineering Shanghai Company Limited B3-2, No.
303, Xinke Road, Qingpu District, Shanghai, China IMI Energi & VVS Utveckling AB Annedalsvgen 9, 22764, Lund, Sweden IMI France SARL 52 Boulevard fide Sbastopol, 75003 Paris, France IMI Hidronik Muhendislik Iklimlendirme Sistemleri Ltd Sti Atasehir Bulvari Ata Carsi no.
50-59, Atasehir, Istanbul, Turkey IMI Hydronic Engineering A S Lyskaer 9, DK-2730, Herlev, Denmark IMI Hydronic Engineering AS Glynitveien 7, Ski, N-1400, Norway IMI Hydronic Engineering China Room 306, Xin Mao Building, No 2 Tai Zhong Nan Road, Shanghai, 200131 Pilot Free Trade Zone, China IMI Hydronic Engineering France S. A.
13, rue fide la Perdrix - Les Flamants 8, Paris Nord II BP84004, Tremblay-en-France, 95931, France IMI Hydronic Engineering FZE Office 2107 PO Box 262611, Jafza View 19, Jafza, Dubai, United Arab Emirates IMI Hydronic Engineering GesmbH Industriestrasse 9, Obj.
5, 2353, Guntramsdorf, Austria IMI Hydronic Engineering Inc 8908 Governors Row, Dallas TX 75247, United States IMI Hydronic Engineering International SA Route fide Crassier 19, Lake Geneva Business Park, 1262, Eysins, Switzerland IMI Hydronic Engineering Limited Unit 3 Nimbus Park, Porz Avenue, Dunstable, Bedfordshire, LU5 5WZ, United Kingdom IMI Hydronic Engineering Ltda Av Fagundes Filho, 134 cj 43, S. Judas, Sao Paulo, 04304-010, Brazil IMI Hydronic Engineering OY Robert Huberin tie 7, Vantaa 1510, Finland IMI Hydronic Engineering Pte Ltd 223 Mountbatten Road #03-01, Singapore 398008, Singapore IMI Hydronic Engineering S. A.
9, rue des 3 Cantons, Windhof, L-8399, Luxembourg IMI Hydronic Engineering Spain SAU Complejo Europa Empresarial, C Rozabella, 6, Las Rozas, 28290, Madrid, Spain IMI Hydronic Engineering s. r. l. Via dei Martinit 3 cap, 20146, Milan, Italy IMI Hydronic Engineering UAB A. Juozapaviciaus 27-5, Kaunas, LT 45258, Lithuania IMI International Co Srl 28 Chiparosului Street, 2nd Floor, District 3, Bucharest, 031122, Romania IMI International d. o. o Alpska cesta 37b, Lesce, 4248, Slovenia IMI International d. o. o. Slavonska avenija 17, Zagreb, 10040, Croatia IMI International d. o. o. Beograd Milutina Milankovica 1b, Novi Beograd, 11070, Serbia IMI International Kft.
Kunigunda tja 60, Budapest, HU-1037, Hungary IMI International LLC Leninskaya Street 19 b2, 115280, Moscow, Russian Federation IMI International s. r. o.
Central Trade Park D1, c. p. 1573, Humpolec, 396 01, Czech Republic IMI International Sp.
z. o. o. Olewin 50 A, PL-32300, Olkusz, Poland IMI Norgren Herion PVT Limited A-62, Sector - 63, Noida, Uttar Pradesh 201301, India IMI Norgren Limited 137a Slaney Close, Dublin Industrial Estate, Glasnevin, Dublin 11, Ireland IMI Norgren Pneumatics Shanghai Co Limited 1st Floor, No 71 Building, 1066 Quinzhou North Road, Chaohejing Hi-Tech Park, Shanghai, 200233, China IMI Norgren SA Sociedad Unipersonal Calle Colom, 391, 2 Edif.
Tecno, 08223, Terrassa, Spain IMI Norgren Terracco S. L. Consell fide Cent 57, 08227, Terrassa, Spain IMI Watson Smith Limited One Snowhill, Snowhill Queensway, Birmingham, West Midlands, B4 6GH, United Kingdom IMI Webber Limited City Business Park, Easton Road, Easton, Bristol, BS5 0SP, United Kingdom Industrie Mecanique Pour Les Fluides SA 15 Avenue des Cures, 95580, Andilly, France Interativa Indstria, Avenida Garabed Gananian, 386 Bairro Aparecidinha, Sorocaba, So Paulo, 18.087-340, Brazil Comrcio e Representaes Ltda Kynoch Sweden Holding AB c o IMI Hydronic Engineering AB, 52 480 Ljung, Sweden Liquick 213 Limited Pinsent Masons, 2 Cornwall Street, Birmingham, West Midlands, B3 2DL, United Kingdom Newman Hattersley Limited 151 Superior Blvd, Mississauga ON L5T 2L6, Canada Norgren A S Vesterlundvej 18, DK-2730, Herlev, Denmark Norgren AS Karihaugveien 89, Oslo, 1086, Norway 152 IMI plc Subsidiary undertakings contd Norgren BV Netherlands Transistorstraat 2, 1322, Almere, Netherlands Norgren Co Limited 120 34 M. 12, Rachedewa, Bangplee, Samutprakarn, 10540, Thailand Norgren European Logistics Company Limited 4060 Lakeside, Solihull Parkway, Birmingham Business Park, Birmingham, B37 7XZ, United Kingdom Norgren Finland OY Huopalahdentie 24, A-talo FI-00350 Helsinki, Finland Norgren Ges.
m. b. H Industriezentrum No Sud, Strasse 2, Wiener Neudorf, 2355, Austria Norgren GT Development Corporation CT Corporation System, 508 Union Ave SE, Suite 120, Olympia WA 98501, United States Norgren Limited 6 F Benson Tower, 74 Hung To Road, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong Norgren Limited 15A Vestey Drive, Auckland, 1060, New Zealand Norgren Limited Blenheim Way, Fradley Park, Lichfield, Staffordshire, WS13 8SY, United Kingdom Norgren Ltda Av.
Alberto fide Zagottis, 696-B, Sao Paulo SP, Brazil Norgren NV F Walravensstraat 84, B.
Limited 16 Tuas Street, Singapore 638453, Singapore Norgren SAS 4 Boulevard Michael Faraday, 77700 Serris, France Norgren SDN BHD Level 22, Axiata Tower No 9, Jalan Sentral 5, 50470 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Norgren SpA Via trieste 16, Vimercate, 20871, Milan, Italy Norgren Sweden AB Box 14001, Ventilgatan 6, S-200 24 Malmo, Sweden Norgren Taiwan Co Limited 3F, No.
Taoyuan City, 333, Taiwan Pneumatex GmbH Planiger Str 34, Halle 53, 55543, Bad Kreuznach, Germany Quanta Dialysis Technologies Limited 23% Tything Road, Alcester, Warwickshire, B49 6EU, United Kingdom SAIC CCI Valve Co Ltd 44% Block B, 123 Chongming Xiushan Road, Chongming County, Shanghai, China Shanghai CCI Power Control Equipment Co Ltd 70% 2200 Yang Shu Pu Road, Yangpu District, Shanghai, 200090, China Stainless Steel Fasteners Limited Broombank Road, Sheepbridge, Chesterfield, Derbyshire, S41 9QJ, United Kingdom STI s. r. l. Via dei Caravaggi 15, 24040, Levate BG, Italy TA Hydronics LLC str.
Pymonenko 13-K, Kyiv, 04050, Ukraine TA Regulator d. o. o. Orliska Ulica13, Brezice, SI-8250, Slovenia TH Jansen Armaturen GmbH Otto-Kaiser Str.
6, 66386, Sankt Ingbert, Germany Thompson Valves Limited 17 Balena Close, Creekmoor, Poole, Dorset, BH17 7EF, United Kingdom Truflo Rona S. A.
3e avenue, 16, Parc Industrial des Hauts Sarts, 4040 Herstal, Belgium Z & J High Temperature Equipment Shanghai Co Ltd 819 Yinchun Road, Minhang District, Shanghai, 201109, China Subsidiary audit exemptions IMI plc has issued guarantees over the liabilities over the following companies at 31 December 2016 under Section 479C of Companies Act 2006 and these entities are exempt from the requirements of the Act relating to the audit of individual accounts by virtue of Section 479A of the Act: Company name Company number Company name Company number Commtech Limited 01524025 IMI Refiners Limited 00148305 FCX North America Limited 03430451 IMI Scotland Limited SC378424 Holford Estates Limited 01181406 IMI Sweden Finance Limited 07272731 IMI Deutschland Limited 07843551 IMI Vision Limited 04421176 IMI Euro Finance Limited 07929408 Premier Profiles Limited 02547749 IMI Fluid Controls Finance Limited 08528502 The Commtech Group Limited 03331461 IMI Germany Limited 07843576 Truflo Group Limited 04430846 IMI Lakeside One Limited 00616526 Truflo International Limited 00164822 IMI Marston Limited 00155987 Truflo Investments Limited 04430927 153 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Geographic distribution of employees The following table shows the geographic distribution of employees as at 31 December 2016 and is not required to be audited.
United Kingdom 1,366 Continental Europe 6,021 Americas 2,075 Asia Pacific 1,229 Rest of World 210 Total 10,901
