2 IMI plc Group overview IMI plc is a specialised engineering company that designs, manufactures and services highly engineered products that control the precise movement of fluids.
Revenue Revenue by geography 651m Western Europe RoW 16% 7% UK Operating profit 4% North 81.8m America IMI Critical Engineering is a world- 22% leading provider of critical flow control Emerging Markets solutions that enable vital energy and 51% Number of employees process industries to operate safely, cleanly, reliably and more efficiently.
3,700 IMI Critical Engineering operational review Turn to page 22 Revenue Revenue by geography 708m Western Europe RoW 44% Operating profit 4% UK 118.5m 7% IMI Precision Engineering specialises in developing motion and fluid control North Emerging America technologies for applications where Number of employees Markets 26% 19% precision, speed and reliability 5,300 are essential.
IMI Precision Engineering operational review Turn to page 24 Revenue Revenue by geography 290m RoW UK 1% Operating profit Western Europe 2% 72% Emerging 51.9m Markets IMI Hydronic Engineering is the leading 19% global supplier of products for hydronic North distribution systems which deliver Number of employees America optimal and energy efficient heating 6% and cooling systems to the residential 1,900 and commercial building sectors.
IMI Hydronic Engineering operational review Turn to page 26 Introduction Introduction Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 3 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 IMIs global footprint http: www.
aspx Group revenue by geography Group revenue by division RoW Western Europe IMI Critical 5% UK 38% Engineering 5% 39% IMI Hydronic Engineering 18% Emerging North IMI Precision Markets America Engineering 31% 21% 43% Key brands IMI Bopp & Reuther, IMI CCI, IMI Fluid Kinetics, IMI InterAtiva, Power Oil & Gas Petrochemical Actuation IMI NH, IMI Orton, IMI Remosa, IMI SSF, IMI STI, IMI TH Jansen, We are the world We supply anti-surge We design and We focus on the design IMI Truflo Marine, IMI Truflo Rona, leading supplier of valve and actuator systems manufacture integrated and production of complete IMI Truflo Italy, IMI Z&J, IMI Zikesch engineered to order to the worlds largest LNG flow control systems actuation systems to operate turbine bypass valves compression facilities.
Our for critical applications industrial valves for the most Major operational locations for critical applications in systems are capable of ultrain Fluid Catalytic Cracking.
demanding applications and Belgium, Brazil, China, Czech conventional and nuclear fast response to maximise We also supply bespoke processes in terms of forces, Republic, Germany, India, Italy, power plants helping to LNG production while valves into the ethylene, speed and accuracy.
Japan, South Korea, Sweden, provide the safest, most protecting the critical polypropylene and 2016 Revenue: 27m Switzerland, UK and USA reliable and efficient process equipment.
2016 Revenue: 187m 2016 Revenue: 280m 2016 Revenue: 98m Key brands IMI Norgren, IMI Buschjost, IMI FAS, IMI Herion, IMI Maxseal Industrial Automation Commercial Vehicle Oil & Gas Life Sciences Major operational locations We supply high We design and We offer a comprehensive We supply precision Brazil, China, Czech Republic, performance products manufacture a range range of products which flow control solutions Germany, Mexico, Switzerland, including valves, valve of cab chassis and deliver precision control used in medical devices, UK and USA islands, proportional powertrain solutions in even the harshest diagnostic equipment and pressure monitoring which deliver fuel environments, including and biotech and analytical controls and air preparation efficiency, emissions stainless steel valves and instruments.
We help to products, as well as a reduction and faster regulators, nuclear class reduce the size of customers comprehensive range assembly times for valves and emergency products, while enhancing of pneumatic actuators.
the worlds leading shutdown controls.
accuracy, throughput and commercial vehicle fluid control performance.
2016 Revenue: 57m 2016 Revenue: 161m Key brands IMI TA, IMI Flow Design, IMI Heimeier, IMI Pneumatex Balancing & Control Thermostatic Control Pressurisation Water Quality Major operational locations Our hydronic balancing We design and Reliable pressurisation is The single most important Germany, Poland, Slovenia, and control solutions manufacture thermostatic a basic requirement for a component in any hydronic Sweden, Switzerland and USA enable buildings to keep control systems which trouble-free operation of system is the water itself.
comfort at the right level guarantee direct or heating, cooling and When compromised, the while increasing HVAC automatic control of solar systems.
Our effects can significantly impact efficiency by up to 30%.
radiators and underfloor robust range of pressure the efficiency of the system.
Our expertise covers heating systems to maintenance systems with Our dirt and air separators constant and variable flow precisely control individual compressors or pumps and and pressure step degassers and both static and room temperatures.
expansion vessels maintains protect the installation dynamic balancing.
the right pressure in the by keeping water free of 2016 Revenue: 102m system at all times.
2016 Revenue: 145m 2016 Revenue: 31m 2016 Revenue: 12m 4 IMI plc IMI plc Strategic Review 06 Chief Executives review 10 Our strategic model 12 Strategic growth priorities 22 Operational review 28 Corporate responsibility 38 Measurements and targets 40 Principal risks and uncertainties Engineering GREAT the IMI Way Preparing to machine a butterfly valve component in IMI Orton, Italy Group Overview Group Overview Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 5 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
