12 IMI plc IMI plc Strategic growth priorities Capitalising on significant organic growth opportunities The Group currently operates in attractive end-markets and to achieve our ambitions we must focus on those that offer the greatest potential in terms of delivering top and bottom line growth.
Our priority is to capitalise on those end-markets where we already are, or have the potential to be, in a leading position markets where we can grow and where there are significant higher margin aftermarket opportunities.
World-class facilities support our customers in high potential markets In South Korea, home of some of the worlds largest engineering design houses, IMI CCIs manufacturing facility at Paju, a city to the North West of Seoul, achieved several significant milestones during the year.
Opened in 2015, the Groups lean operational processes are now embedded in all parts of the facility and it is now recognised as the most efficient plant in the Critical Engineering division.
IMI Critical Engineering Field Service Engineers ensure our customers plants run optimally around the world The engineering team at IMI CCI Florence ensure the highest safety integrity levels on our High Integrity Pressure Protection Systems Focusing on markets that New product development processes offer the greatest growth have been accelerated and, during the year, an enhanced range of conventional The Asian market offers significant growth potential and we have valves, which significantly expand our power sector product offering, were been expanding our presence in the region.
In China, our enlarged developed and launched.
In March footprint has enabled us to localise the manufacture of a number 2016, following extensive reviews of of our products for the Chinese market at our manufacturing its engineering and quality assurance systems, its products and facilities, plant in the Qingpu Industrial Zone.
This development brings us the business was additionally awarded closer to both our existing customers and a range of potential approved supplier status for semi-severe new customers, and it also enhances our cost competitiveness.
control valves by Korea Hydro and Nuclear Power Co. Ltd, the largest power generation company in South Korea which provides approximately 30% of the countrys electricity supply.
com media imi-in-action Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Given the diversity of products and brands in the division, and the differences in the markets and regions where we operate, by structuring our operations by region in accordance with the key verticals we serve Industrial Automation, Commercial Vehicle, Life Sciences and Energy we are now able to provide a bespoke offering tailored to our customers specific requirements.
In particular, we can now execute country The product development team in Fellbach, Germany Electronic testing of new products and vertical marketing strategies that address distinct customer requirements, and target specific market opportunities focused on building stronger customer relationships.
By organising our Driving growth with a new businesses in this clear way, both visibility and accountability across our go-to-market strategy operations have been greatly improved.
With a single regional leadership team, we are all able to drive our lean and In 2015 we undertook an extensive review of all the other operational improvement initiatives businesses within our Precision Engineering division to more consistently and effectively.
identify the markets and products that offered the greatest This new organisation structure was adopted across our US businesses potential to deliver the best returns.
Building on the findings during the first half of 2016 and in the of this review, during the year we changed our go-to-market second half of the year, following the strategy and put in place a new regional, vertically focused, merger of our Western Europe and organisational structure.
Continental European operations, it was implemented in our new single European business.
com media imi-in-action Broadening our market presence and customer reach Packaging designed to grab attention hits wholesaler Our Hydronic Engineering shelves across Europe division is a market leader in products for water-based This key development extends and heating and cooling systems underpins our international market presence and enables us to penetrate and room temperature the European market faster, particularly controls.
In 2015 we in the small residential and renovation capitalised on this leadership segment.
During 2016 much progress position and strengthened has been made to further enhance this route to market.
In particular, a number our over-the-counter sales of new agreements have been entered channel by securing a into with major wholesalers such that we strategic partnership with now have a growing distributor network with broad international reach.
To capture one of the largest European the market opportunity that this provides, wholesalers of building parts we have redefined our sales teams roles and materials.
and responsibilities to ensure that we have dedicated resource focused on our distributor customers.
com media imi-in-action 14 IMI plc IMI plc Strategic growth priorities Improving operational performance The benefits of moving towards and achieving best in class operational performance are very significant.
As we improve how our businesses operate we will better utilise capacity, enhance our competitiveness, reduce working capital and generate cost savings by operating more efficiently.
By doing this, we will also improve services for our customers.
Our ambition is to progressively self-fund our organic growth initiatives using the benefits generated from our operational improvements.
We are on a self-help lean journey, underpinned by the engagement of management and employees at all levels and we remain absolutely confident that embedding lean across the whole of IMI is the best way to deliver and sustain our achievements.
The 10 areas of lean All sites are benchmarked against these areas of lean every six months Status as of December 2016: The operational performance of every site 1.
Cultural in the Group is benchmarked every six Awareness months against the ten areas of lean and significant progress has already been 10.
A world-class operational & Housekeeping performance score is 85% or higher.
At the time of the first benchmark in 2014, none of our facilities came close to achieving this, with the average score being 31%.
At the most recent review, 9.
Standardised the average score reached 66%, and Control Work our Hydronic Engineering division now has two facilities with a world-class score.
All of our businesses continue to implement detailed plans to achieve world-class performance by 2018.
Error Proofing IMI Critical Engineering IMI Precision Engineering IMI Hydronic Engineering World-class 85% The lean assessment score for every IMI site is available for all employees to view via the lean benchmarking application on the global intranet.
Benchmarking identifies best practice within IMI and provides visibility of where to focus improvements and where to go for assistance to improve performance going forward.
Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Site key: First assessment 2014 Year-end 2015 Year-end 2016 Year-end 2017 Year-end average 24% assessment score assessment score assessment score target 1 IMI CCI Korea 14 IMI SSF average 38% average 56% average 62% average 67% 2 IMI CCI RSM 15 IMI Z&J Germany % score 3 IMI CCI Brno 16 IMI Bopp & Reuther 80 4 IMI CCI SriCity 17 IMI T ruflo Rona 70 5 IMI CCI Japan Belgium 6 IMI STI 18 IMI Truflo Italy 60 7 IMI Critical Engineering 50 Houston 8 IMI Fluid Kinetics 40 9 IMI InterAtiva 30 10 IMI T ruflo Marine 20 11 IMI Critical Engineering China 10 12 IMI Remosa 13 IMI Orton Site 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 9 10 Modern, lean and efficient plants result in competitive, highly engineered products Driving efficiency to offset IMI CCI designs actuation and control systems to deliver the highest safety levels in the world market conditions As highlighted in the Chief within IMI Z&Js manufacturing plant As a result, our lean score assessments Executives Review on page 6, in in Dren, Germany.
Using the new and have improved year-on-year and we many of our markets we are facing improved R&D facilities within the centre, are continuing to reduce our operating challenging trading conditions.
IMI Z&J has accelerated its new product costs, with an overarching objective of To ensure that we continue to be pipeline and developed a number enhancing our market competitiveness.
competitive and remain on the path of lighter, more efficient and cost During 2016, our operational infrastructure to sustainable growth in our Critical effective products.
New IT systems Engineering division, we have undertaken were installed in more of our factories, Continuous improvement is embedded a number of cost management initiatives including our plants in Sweden, Japan, in our culture and we continue to work and accelerated some of the improvement India and Korea, and the Obeya project towards achieving world-class projects which were scheduled for management system which significantly operational performance in all our implementation in the later phases enhances our project management businesses.
During the year, across the of our five-year strategic plan.
As part capabilities, is now operating in Critical whole of our Critical Engineering division, of the consolidation of our European Engineerings major plants around approximately 12,000 improvement manufacturing footprint we have created the world.
an engineering centre of excellence 16 IMI plc Site key: First assessment 2014 Year-end 2015 Year-end 2016 Year-end 2017 Year-end average 33% assessment score assessment score assessment score target 1 IMI Norgren Seattle15 IMI Leeds average 47% average 59% average 66% average 70% 2 IMI FAS Switzerland16 IMI Norgren % score Germany Alpen 3 IMI Norgren Brno 90 17 IMI Norgren Fradley 4 IMI EDC Warehouse Alpen18 IMI Bristol 80 5 IMI Poole19 IMI Norgren Littleton 6 IMI Norgren 70 Germany Fellbach 20 IMI Norgren Farmington 7 IMI Norgren Detroit 60 21 IMI Norgren 8 IMI Norgren Brookville Queretaro 50 22 IMI Norgren Brazil 9 IMI Norgren Australia23 IMI Herion 40 Systemtechnik 10 IMI Norgren China 24 IMI IMF 11 IMI Buschjost 30 25 IMI Norgren Las 12 IMI Norgren India Vegas 20 13 IMI Norgren Singapore 14 IMI Norgren 10 Warehouse Louisville Site 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 Establishing a strong foundation for future accelerated growth Historically our Precision Engineering the division undertook an extensive review division had a complex and of its operational footprint.
The review fragmented structure which has named Project Janus is now being split impeded its growth.
Over the last into two phases.
The implementation of two years a great deal of work has Phase 1 has already begun and involves been undertaken to resolve some of those projects that can be executed the fundamental issues and today the quickly and with the least disruption to divisions structure is simpler and, as our business.
This includes a structured a result, the way it operates is more programme of cost reductions, insourcing efficient and effective.
During 2016 our to increase machining capacity utilisation, Fix8 programme, an initiative specifically simplification of the organisational focused on reducing complexity and structure and further leverage of our low improving market competitiveness, cost European manufacturing operations.
delivered material benefits including a A second phase is contingent on market significantly streamlined product offering.
conditions and anticipates potentially Testing of products in India Work continues to further rationalise the substantial and more complex changes, product portfolio with a view to offering particularly in areas such as Commercial customers better solutions delivered Vehicle, where significant new project by fewer products.
All of these actions will help to protect operating In-line with our strategy to simplify the margins and improve our competitive business and ensure that we have the position in what remains an uncertain most efficient platform for future growth, market environment.
Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Site key: First assessment 2014 Year-end 2015 Year-end 2016 Year-end 2017 Year-end average 37% assessment score assessment score assessment score target 1 IMI Hydronic Poland average 59% average 72% average 76% average 79% 2 IMI Hydronic Slovenia % score 100 3 IMI Hydronic Germany 4 IMI Hydronic Switzerland 90 5 IMI Hydronic North America 80 6 IMI Hydronic Sweden 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 Site 1 2 3 4 5 6 Accelerating operational excellence, further enhancing competitiveness Greater efficiencies ensure increased capacity to keep up with higher customer demands Lean operating principles are now the year, a new integrated IT system firmly embedded across the was installed, on time and to budget, Hydronic Engineering division and at the Olkusz plant and across a large the commercial benefits of these part of Hydronic Engineerings Swiss activities are becoming increasingly based business.
The divisions Olkusz plant of 2017, these new systems will be Improvements in lean have helped Hydronic Engineering was the first of our Group operations introduced across the entire division get their products faster onto the shelves of wholesalers to achieve world-class lean status and to further embed common ways of during the year our Slovenian facility was working and accurate data collection, awarded this status with a score of 88%.
all of which will make our businesses To further enhance competitiveness more efficient and competitive.
we continue to focus on delivering operational improvements and during 18 IMI plc IMI plc Strategic growth priorities Increasing investment in new product development Having successfully established the new systems and disciplines essential to effective new product development including advanced product quality planning APQP, rigorous competitor product tear-down and Value Engineering all three divisions are increasingly delivering on our promise to introduce great new products and solutions for our customers, more quickly and more effectively than ever before.
Continuing to innovate to secure leadership position To maintain our market leading positions and reputation for engineering expertise, our product offering must respond to changing market dynamics so that at all times we provide customers with the best competitive solution that meets their current requirements.
As the leading supplier of valves to the liquefied natural gas LNG sector, we are well positioned to identify developing trends and anticipate likely changes in customer demand.
In particular, impacted by the oil price decline and following a period of rapid growth when a number of sizeable LNG plants using large valves were constructed, it was clear that customer requirements would change as they looked to build smaller and more cost efficient plants.
In response, our product development teams created a new lightweight valve which has a computationally optimised profile, replacing the previous valves heavier and more expensive body.
This new spherical profile optimises the design of the valve, reduces its weight and improves performance without compromising its strength or durability.
com media imi-in-action Assembly of metal on metal seated, triple offset butterfly valves Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Using the new robust product development processes now embedded across the Group, our product development activities made great progress in the year.
For the first time in a decade, we are ready to launch a new platform Precision Engineering product offering which will underpin growth in the years to come.
Currently the new development pipeline includes a range of products, that will be launched in April 2017 at Hannover Messe, the world leading industrial technology trade fair.
Included in the new product offering is an enhanced range of compressed air preparation units, which clean compressed air in production processes and help prevent damage to machines and costly Enhancing our production shutdowns.
This enhanced product range, while retaining the original competitiveness by ranges renowned robust characteristics, is lighter and smaller, easier to install and maintain and also offers a number of new offering compelling safety features.
solutions Case studies on-line www.
com media imi-in-action To drive competitive advantage and market leading positions we must offer customers cutting edge products and technologies that solve Building a sustainable their engineering challenges in the most efficient and environmentally competitive advantage sustainable way.
Hydronic Engineering was the first of our divisions to bring new products to market with the launch of 14 new products in 2014 and 15 new products in 2015.
During the year, new product development momentum has been maintained largely through the advanced product quality process which involves the systematic tear-down of competitor products.
During 2016, Hydronic Engineering further broadened its customer offering with the launch of another 15 new products.
These include an innovative dirt separator, G-Force, which quickly and effectively removes dirt from water-based heating systems, eliminating the risk of damage or shut downs.
The G-Force incorporates highly efficient cyclonic technology, which cleans heating and cooling systems up to nine times more efficiently than any other dirt separator on the market.
It is also the only dirt separator on the market with flexible installation positions which are of great benefit to customers if space is a challenge during installation.
These new product launches will make an important contribution to the divisions growth.
com media imi-in-action 20 IMI plc IMI plc Strategic growth priorities Expanding our addressable markets through targeted acquisitions We will supplement our organic growth initiatives with targeted acquisitions, capable of producing returns in excess of the Groups weighted average cost of capital within three years.
Beyond our existing business portfolio, we have identified the potential to double the Groups addressable market by making acquisitions in adjacent non-valve product markets.
Criteria for such acquisitions include a focus on North American revenues, strong aftermarket dynamics and critical products that create significant barriers to entry.
Our process and approach Broadening the The M&A function forms an integral part of our strategic planning process, working acquisition universe closely with the divisions to support their strategies and evaluate potential acquisitions and partners for the future.
The processes involved have improved considerably and Potential to double are now much more effective at identifying opportunities with regards to geographic, addressable market market, product and cultural suitability as well as commercial logic and financial impact.
Overall, these enhancements have driven a reduction in the number of opportunities Leverage existing positions assessed, whilst significantly increasing their quality.
This much more focused approach in attractive end-markets has also enabled us to spend more time developing important relationships with companies, leaving us well positioned to efficiently execute a transaction, whenever Non-valve related products the time is right.
and businesses Our acquisition strategies for the divisions are: Within Critical Engineering, bolt-on acquisitions to extend both our product range of semi-severe and configured products and our geographic footprint in both our existing and adjacent markets remain our focus.
Opportunities with attractive aftermarkets are always important, but particularly given recent market conditions.
We remain pleased with the acquisition of IMI Bopp & Reuther, Geographies which has helped us address a number of our strategic objectives.
North America The business is now fully integrated into IMI Critical Engineering and Europe provided a vital foundation to consolidating Critical Engineerings Latin America global Nuclear Power business into its Mannheim facility.
Asia Precision Engineering continues to simplify its organisation, Market dynamics implementing robust systems and lean improvements, while developing a list of value enhancing potential acquisitions.
At the same time, the Aftermarket 30% Precision Executive, supported by the IMI Business Development team, Growth rate 5% pa are building senior level relationships in readiness for both large and Customer intimacy small scale acquisitions.
Products Our product strategy is well underway in Hydronic Engineering, as we Barriers to entry start to focus on high quality well run European acquisition opportunities.
Criticality of application We have developed a well-defined pipeline of opportunities, many of Predictable aftermarket which are family owned which would fit well with IMIs culture, whilst enabling us to leverage their strong brands and management capabilities.
Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 An engineer checks the measurements of a component at IMI Precision Engineerings factory in Queretaro, Mexico
