DIRECTORS REPORT APPLICATION OF THE UK Our NEDs play a key role in corporate accountability and CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE governance through their membership of the Boards Committees.
The membership and remit of each Committee are considered The latest revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code on pages 37 to 39 and 51.
The open atmosphere at our Committee was published by the FRC in September 2014, together with meetings enables our NEDs to use their judgement, experience and Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related independence to review critically and, where appropriate, challenge Financial and Business Reporting.
constructively strategies proposed by management.
This ensures We are pleased to confirm that the Company has complied in full the further development of our business, effective use of our with the Code throughout this financial year.
The Company has resources and maintenance of our high standards of conduct.
not, however, tendered for audit services in the last ten years.
Matters Reserved for the Board We detail below how, in practice, the Company has applied the In order to retain control of key decisions the Board has adopted Codes principles and complied with its detailed provisions.
a schedule of matters on which it must make the final decision, including approval of the Group and parent company financial THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES statements, the Groups business strategy, the annual capital Each of our Board Committees has specific written terms of reference expenditure plan, major capital projects, major changes to the issued by the Board and adopted by the relevant Committee.
All Groups management and control structure, material investments Committee chairmen report on the proceedings of their Committee or disposals, risk management strategy, sustainability and at the next meeting of the Board and, where appropriate, make environmental policies, the appointment or removal of Directors recommendations to the Board.
In addition, minutes of all Committee and the Company Secretary and treasury policies.
meetings are circulated to Board members.
Division of Responsibilities of our Chairman and Chief Executive To ensure Directors are kept up-to-date on developing issues and to Whilst retaining a close working relationship, our Chairman and enhance the overall effectiveness of the Board and its Committees, Chief Executive have clearly defined and separate responsibilities our Chairman and Committee chairmen communicate regularly divided between running the Board and the business.
They speak with the Chief Executive and other Executive Directors.
regularly between Board meetings to ensure a full understanding of evolving issues and to facilitate swift decision making.
They are responsible to our shareholders for the successful delivery of our strategy.
Board composition and roles Chairman Mark Williamson Leads the Board and creates an environment that ensures there are strong links between the Board and our shareholders and management.
Mark met the independence criteria of the Code on appointment and there have been no significant changes to his external commitments subsequent to his appointment.
Chief Executive Alison Cooper Supported by the Executive Directors and the OPEX, has day-to-day management responsibility for the Group, for recommending the Groups strategy to the Board and, once agreed, its implementation.
Alison and the Executive Directors actively promote the Groups values, culture and high standards of conduct and behaviour which underpin our reputation and support the delivery of our sustainable sales growth.
Executive Directors Oliver Tant Support the Chief Executive in devising and implementing our strategy and overseeing the operations and development of the entire Group, in addition Matthew Phillips to specific responsibility for managing their own areas of the business.
Senior Independent Michael Herlihy Responsible for assisting the Chairman with effective shareholder communication Director and is available to them should they have any concerns which have not been resolved through the normal channels or if these channels are not appropriate.
No such concerns were raised during the year.
Michael is available to our NEDs should they have any concerns which are not appropriate to raise with the Chairman or which have not been satisfactorily resolved by the Chairman.
He also acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and carries out the Chairmans performance evaluation.
Non-Executive Therese Esperdy Evaluate information provided and challenge constructively managements Directors David Haines viewpoints, assumptions and performance.
They bring to the Board a diverse range Steven Stanbrook of business and financial expertise which complements and supplements the Karen Witts experiences of the Executive Directors.
Malcolm Wyman 44 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 44 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Conflicts of Interest and Independence Committees also received briefings from PwC and New Bridge Street Directors are required to avoid situations where they have, or could respectively.
No specific training needs were identified in 2016. have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may To enable them to discharge their responsibilities, the Board and its conflict, with the Companys interests.
In accordance with the Committees are supplied with full and timely information, including Companies Act 2006 the Act, our Articles of Association allow the detailed financial information.
Board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise and to impose such limits or conditions as it thinks fit.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on matters of corporate governance.
In Directors are required to give notice of any potential situational addition, all Directors have access to the advice of the Company and or transactional conflicts, which are considered at the following Secretary and, where appropriate, the services of other employees Board meeting and, if appropriate, situational conflicts are authorised.
for all governance and regulatory matters.
We do not allow any Director to participate in such considerations or to vote regarding their own conflicts.
Independent professional advice is available to Directors, in appropriate circumstances, at the Companys expense.
The Board has considered and authorised a number of situations all of which relate to the holding of external directorships and have Performance Evaluation been entered in our Conflicts Register.
No actual conflicts have To enhance the effectiveness of the Board, during the year it undertook been identified.
The Board considers that these procedures an in-house review of its performance, that of its Committees and of operate effectively.
As part of our annual review process, during the Board meeting in This review considered the overall functioning of the Board and its September 2016 we reviewed and reconsidered all situations entered in Committees, the balance and range of Directors skills, diversity, the Conflicts Register and the Board is satisfied that the independence succession planning and how the Board works as a unit.
of those Directors who have external board appointments has not been compromised.
At this meeting, and taking into account the annual As part of the evaluation, the Chairman held meetings with the Board performance evaluation discussed below, the Board concluded NEDs to consider, amongst other things, the performance of the that all our NEDs continue to contribute effectively and constructively Executive Directors.
to Board debate, demonstrate commitment to their role, challenge The Senior Independent Director also held separate meetings with objectively and question management robustly and at all times have individual Board members and the Board as a whole, both without the best interests of our shareholders in mind.
We confirm, therefore, the Chairman present, to consider the performance of the Chairman.
that, with the exception of our Chairman who met the independence criteria of the Code on appointment, our NEDs remained independent The feedback obtained was collated into a report which was presented throughout the year as defined in the Code.
to the Succession and Nominations Committee and the Board at their September 2016 meetings and helped inform the one-to-one External Appointments development discussions between the Chairman and each Director.
NEDs, including the Chairman, may serve on a number of other The evaluation showed that the Board and its Committees continue boards provided they continue to demonstrate the requisite to function and perform effectively and neither significant areas commitment to discharge effectively their duties.
The Succession for concern nor any requirement to provide extra training for our and Nominations Committee reviews the extent of the NEDs other Directors were identified.
The evaluation confirmed that all our interests throughout the year.
The Board is satisfied that each of Directors have sufficient time, knowledge and commitment to the NEDs commits sufficient time to their duties in relation to the contribute effectively to our Board and its Committees and that Company.
Each of the NEDs has confirmed they have sufficient they remain appropriately constituted.
time to fulfil their obligations to the Company.
Areas identified for further consideration were continued focus The Board is supportive of Executive Directors and members of on succession, further discussion on the changing emerging the OPEX accepting non-executive directorships of other companies risks facing the Group and ensuring the use of the Boards time in order to widen their experience and knowledge for the benefit of is optimised to ensure it focuses on where it can add the most the Company.
Accordingly, subject to the agreement of the Board, value and make the best use of the NEDs diverse skill set.
Executive Directors and members of the OPEX are permitted to accept one external non-executive board appointment and to The Board intends to undertake an externally facilitated evaluation retain any fees received from such appointment.
How we addressed the areas raised for consideration in the Information and Training 2015 evaluation: Following their appointment to the Board, Directors are briefed on the legal and other duties they owe to the Company.
Tailored Area for consideration How we addressed this area induction programmes are arranged which include industry-specific Potentially increasing the number Steven Stanbrook and Therese Esperdy training, visits to the Groups businesses and meetings with senior of NEDs on the Board appointed to the Board management.
They are also briefed on internal controls at both Increasing the NEDs Business planning sessions and head office and business unit level and provided with information understanding of the Groups enhanced performance and strategy priorities within its divisions presentations on relevant Company policies and governance related matters.
Ensuring the Board has adequate Agendas planned to ensure Boards time Through its NEDucation programme the Company is also committed time to consider appropriately all focused on matters requiring its attention to the continuing development of its NEDs in order that they may build matters requiring its attention and an extra Board meeting held on their expertise and develop their understanding of the business and the markets in which we operate.
Insurance and Indemnities We have purchased and maintain appropriate insurance cover in Through this programme ongoing training is available to NEDs to meet respect of directors and officers liabilities.
The Company has also their individual needs.
We also provide regular briefings to all Directors entered into qualifying third party indemnity arrangements for the on matters such as legislation and regulation changes and corporate benefit of all its Directors in a form and scope which comply with the governance developments.
Members of our Audit and Remuneration requirements of the Act.
These indemnities were in force throughout the year and up to the date of this Annual Report.
com 45 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED DIALOGUE WITH OUR INVESTORS Geographical Analysis of Shareholders Shareholder Composition as at 30 September 2016 as at 30 September 2016 UK 56% Institutional 86% USA 28% Non-institutional 6% Rest of Europe 13% Retail 3% Rest of the World 3% Employees 1% Miscellaneous 4% We aim to provide balanced, clear and transparent communications At the AGM our Chairman and Chief Executive give presentations which allow shareholders to understand how we see our prospects on our performance and current business activities and all Directors and the market environments in which we operate.
make themselves available to meet shareholders after the conclusion of the formal business of the AGM.
We maintain an active engagement with our key financial audiences, including institutional shareholders, debt stakeholders and sell-side To ensure compliance with the Code, at all general meetings analysts as well as potential shareholders.
During the year we made separate resolutions are proposed on each subject and all resolutions regular presentations to, and had meetings with, institutional are put to a poll.
At the AGM the number of proxy votes for, against investors in the UK, Europe, Canada and the USA to communicate and abstentions for each resolution are provided.
Votes received at progress towards achieving our sales growth strategy and to answer the AGM are added to the proxy votes and the final results published questions.
Throughout the year our senior management team through a Regulatory Information Service, on our website and presented at industry conferences organised by investor bodies and via OTCQX.
investment banks for their institutional investor bases.
Our Investor At our 2016 AGM we received votes representing approximately Relations team managed the interaction with these audiences and 78 per cent of our issued share capital excluding shares held in provided additional regular presentations during the year.
treasury at the date of the meeting.
We hosted an investor day in June 2016 at our head office which Our next AGM will be held on Wednesday 1 February 2017, full details provided further details on the Groups strategy, operations and of which are contained in the Notice of Meeting available on our value creation opportunities.
The day comprised presentations by website and, where applicable, posted with this Report.
the Chief Executive and other members of the senior management team, and focused on three themes: quality, agility and discipline.
Quality We continue to improve the quality of growth through our portfolio simplification programme and optimising our investment choices in brands and markets.
Agility Reducing complexity and streamlining the way we manage our brands and markets, combined with the changes we are making to our operating model, is creating a stronger, more agile and efficient organisation.
Discipline We maintain a disciplined approach to resource allocation and the efficient management of our cost and capital base.
This underpins the effective deployment of cash to reinvest in the business, pay down debt and deliver returns to shareholders.
The primary means of communication with the majority of our shareholders is via our Annual Report and Accounts, Half-Year Report and website.
These were supported by a combination of presentations, conference calls, one-to-one and group investor meetings.
NEDs, including our Senior Independent Director, were available throughout the year to meet with major shareholders if requested and are kept up-to-date with investor opinion.
We offer our shareholders the choice of submitting proxy votes, including abstentions, either electronically or in paper format and ensure our Annual Report and Accounts and Notice of the AGM are made available at least 20 working days prior to the meeting to allow shareholders time to consider them fully before submitting their proxy votes.
46 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 46 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS OTHER INFORMATION INTRODUCTION We have not received notification that any other person holds 3 per cent or more of our shares.
One of the Boards primary responsibilities is to ensure the Company is run in the best long-term interests of its shareholders and wider The share interests of the Directors, their families and any stakeholders.
We believe this can only be achieved if the activities connected persons are shown on page 67.
Other than as disclosed of the Group are supported by appropriate governance processes on page 59, there are no agreements between the Company and its applied across the Group.
Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment due to a takeover.
These processes are illustrated below and in the individual Committee reports.
Information concerning employees and their remuneration is given in note 6 to the financial statements and in the Directors In accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006 the Act the Remuneration Report.
following items have been included in other sections of this Annual Report: FINANCIAL RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS a fair review of the business, as required by the Act, is included We include a review of our operational and financial performance, in the Strategic Report.
The information in our Governance Report current position and future developments in our Strategic Report: is included in this Directors Report by reference: Strategy, Risks, Performance and Governance sections.
future developments in the business are included in the Chief Executives Statement: The profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for the financial year was 631 million, as shown in our Consolidated Income information relating to our people is included in the Rewarding Statement.
Note 3 to the financial statements gives an analysis of Workplace section: revenue and operating profit.
our principal risks are detailed on pages 28 to 31: and the Directors of the Company during the financial year are listed An analysis of net assets is provided in the Consolidated Balance on pages 34 and 35.
Sheet and the related notes to the financial statements.
The first and second dividends for SHARE CAPITAL financial year 2016 were paid on 30 June 2016 and 30 September Details of our share capital are shown in note 24 to the financial 2016 respectively.
The third dividend will be paid on 30 December statements.
All shares other than those held in treasury are freely 2016 and, subject to AGM approval, the final dividend will be paid transferable and rank pari passu for voting and dividend rights.
on 31 March 2017 to our shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of business on 17 February 2017.
The associated At our AGM on 3 February 2016 shareholder authority for the ex-dividend date will be 16 February 2017. buyback of up to 95,709,000 shares was obtained.
The Directors have declared and proposed dividends as follows: As at 30 September 2016 we held 77,289,137 shares in treasury, which million 2016 2015 represented 7.46 per cent of issued share capital and had an aggregate nominal value of 7,728,914.
Ordinary Shares Interim paid June 2016, We have not cancelled these shares but hold them in a treasury 23.5p per share 225 204 shares reserve within our profit and loss account reserve and they Interim paid September 2016, represent a deduction from equity shareholders funds.
23.5p per share 225 204 Proposed interim December 2016, At 30 September 2016 we had been notified of the following interests 54.1p per share 516 468 in 3 per cent or more of our shares and there have been no changes Proposed final March 2017, to this information up to the date of this Annual Report.
54.1p per share 516 468 Number of Percentage Total ordinary dividends, ordinary shares of issued 155.2p per share 2015: 141.0p 1,482 1,344 millions share capital 1 BlackRock Inc. 53 5.59 1 Capital Group Companies Inc. 48 5.00 2 Invesco Limited 47 4.94 Morgan Stanley Investment 2 Management Limited 42 4.44 1 Franklin Resources Inc. 41 4.30 1.
com 47 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED RELATIONS WITH OTHER STAKEHOLDERS The ten credit agreements are: Charitable and Political Donations a credit facilities agreement dated 15 July 2014 under which As part of our responsible approach and commitment to reinvesting certain banks and financial institutions make available to in society, we continued to support a number of communities in Imperial Brands Finance PLC and Imperial Brands Enterprise which we operate by allocating a central budget of 3.06 million Finance Limited: a committed acquisition credit facilities 2015: 2.55 million to partnership and community investments, originally across three tranches of $4,100 million, $1,500 million in addition to in-kind activities including management time, and $1,500 million, for a maximum period of up to three years, four volunteering, gifts in-kind and localised activities.
The central years and six years respectively: b committed credit facilities budget was greater than in 2015, as a number of scheduled partner originally of 1,000 million for a period of up to three years: and payments from the previous year were made during this financial c committed credit facilities in two tranches of 2,835 million year.
Although difficult to quantify in monetary terms, our in-kind and 500 million for a period of five years.
The Group has activities also increased in 2016 with the second year of our global subsequently either repaid, cancelled or extended certain of volunteering initiative, which achieved some 55,000 hours of these facilities, such that as at 30 September 2016 the following employees time in support of charitable activities.
remained outstanding: $900 million acquisition credit facilities until 12 June 2018, and committed credit facilities of, respectively, Through the UK Charities Aid Foundation we apportioned 1.86 350 million until 15 July 2017, 2,835 million until 15 July 2021 million to registered charities, supporting the Eliminating Child and 500 million until 15 July 2021: Labour in Tobacco Growing Foundation, our Altadis Foundation and a small number of UK charities.
eight deeds of counter-indemnity each dated 3 June 2014 made on substantially the same terms under which certain insurance We also apportioned 1.2 million to our leaf sustainability companies and financial institutions each make available to partnerships which seek to help rural tobacco growing communities, Imperial Tobacco Limited a surety bond, in each case issued predominantly in sub-Saharan Africa.
In addition to our central on a standalone basis but in aggregate forming an amount of budget our local entities donated some 0.45 million to charitable 400 million, until 3 December 2019: and and community endeavours.
a credit facility agreement dated 9 June 2015 in which Bank More information on our approach to supporting community of America Merrill Lynch Limited makes available to Imperial livelihoods can be found on our website.
Brands Finance PLC and Imperial Brands Enterprise Finance Limited a committed credit facility of $300 million for a maximum All charitable donations and partnership investments are subject period of up to five years.
to the requirements of our Code of Conduct.
No political donations were made to EU political parties, In the event that any of the listed credit facility agreements are organisations or candidates 2015: Nil.
This approach is aligned subject to any such repayment and cancellation, we would expect with our Group Policy and Code of Conduct.
to replace these agreements with similar arrangements in order to satisfy the Groups existing funding commitments, ongoing working Pension Fund capital and similar requirements, as well as its long-term and Our main pension fund, the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund, is not strategic plans.
controlled by the Board but by a trustee company, the board of which Imperial Brands Finance PLC the Issuer has issued bonds under consists of five directors nominated by the Company, one director a Euro Medium Term Notes EMTN Debt Issuance Programme nominated by employee members and two nominated by current as noted below.
The Company acted as guarantor.
This trustee company looks after the assets of the pension fund, which are held separately from those The final terms of this series of notes contain change of control of the Group and are managed by independent fund managers.
provisions under which the holder of each note will, subject to any The pension fund assets can only be used in accordance with earlier exercise by the Issuer of a tax call, have the option to require the funds rules and for no other purpose.
the Issuer to redeem or, at the Issuers option, purchase that note at its nominal value if: a any person, or persons acting in concert Turn to page 65 Further details are contained in our Remuneration Report.
or on behalf of any such person s becomes interested in: i more than 50 per cent of the issued or allotted ordinary share capital of the Company: or ii such number of shares in the capital of Articles of Association the Company carrying more than 50 per cent of the voting rights The Companys Articles of Association do not contain any normally exercisable at a general meeting of the Company: and b entrenchment provisions and, therefore, may be altered or added as a result of the change of control, there is either: i a reduction to to or completely new articles may be adopted by special resolution a non-investment grade rating or withdrawal of the investment subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. grade rating of the notes which is not raised again, reinstated to or replaced by an investment grade rating during the change of control Significant Agreements That Take Effect, Alter or Terminate on period specified in the final terms: or ii to the extent that the notes Change of Control are not rated at the time of the change of control, the Issuer fails to The agreements summarised below are those which we consider to obtain an investment grade credit rating of the notes within the be significant to the Group as a whole and which contain provisions change of control period as a result of the change of control.
giving the other party a specific right to terminate them if we are subject to a change of control following a takeover bid.
The bonds issued in such manner are as follows: The Group has ten credit facility agreements that provide that, 15 September 2008 600,000,000 8.125 per cent guaranteed notes unless the lenders otherwise agree, if any person or group of due 2024: associated persons acquires the right to exercise more than 17 February 2009 1,000,000,000 9 per cent guaranteed notes due 2022: 50 per cent of the votes at a general meeting of the Company, 24 June 2009 500,000,000 7.75 per cent guaranteed notes due 2019: the respective borrowers must repay any outstanding utilisation 5 July 2011 850,000,000 4.5 per cent guaranteed notes due 2018: made by them under the respective facility agreement and the 26 September 2011 500,000,000 5.5 per cent guaranteed notes total commitments under that facility agreement will be cancelled.
due 2026: 48 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 48 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Morocco 1 December 2011 750,000,000 5 per cent guaranteed notes due 2019: In June 2015, a claim was filed in the Casablanca Court by the heirs 28 February 2014 1,000,000,000 2.25 per cent guaranteed notes of a deceased individual against our Moroccan subsidiary, Socit due 2021: Marocaine des Tabacs SMT.
The total amount of compensation 28 February 2014 650,000,000 3.375 per cent guaranteed notes sought was not specified.
On 9 February 2016, the Casablanca Court due 2026: and found in favour of SMT and dismissed the claim.
No appeal has 28 February 2014 500,000,000 4.875 per cent guaranteed notes been filed.
Argentina Imperial Brands Finance PLC has also issued bonds in the United SEITA has been notified of a claim filed in the Court of Buenos Aires States of America under the provisions of Section 144a and against Nobleza Piccardo by an individual smoker.
Nobleza Piccardo Regulation S respectively of the US Securities Act 1933.
Nobleza Piccardo manufactures and distributes Company acted as guarantor.
two brands of cigarettes owned by SEITA in Argentina under the The final terms of this series of notes contain change of control terms of a Licence Agreement.
Nobleza Piccardo has sought to provisions under which the holder of each note will, subject to any invoke an indemnity contained in the Licence Agreement, pursuant earlier exercise by the Issuer of a tax call, have the option to require to which SEITA is responsible for any product liability to third the Issuer to redeem or, at the Issuers option, purchase that note at parties.
101 per cent of its nominal value if: a i any person as such term is used in the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 the Exchange Act The Netherlands becomes the beneficial owner of more than 50 per cent of the Reports in the public media indicate that a complaint has been Companys voting stock: or ii there is a transfer other than by lodged with the Public Prosecutor in the Netherlands directed at merger, consolidation or amalgamation of all or substantially all the four major tobacco manufacturers, including Imperial Brands.
of the Companys assets and those of its subsidiaries to any person Neither Imperial Brands nor any of its subsidiaries or employees as such term is used in the Exchange Act : or iii a majority of the has been charged by the Public Prosecutor in the Netherlands, members of the Companys Board of Directors is not continuing in but Imperial Brands is monitoring developments.
such capacity: and b as a result of the change of control, there is either: i a reduction to a non-investment grade rating or withdrawal To date, no action has been successful or settled in favour of any claimant in any tobacco-related litigation against Imperial Brands of the investment grade rating of the notes which is not raised again, reinstated to or replaced by an investment grade rating during the or any of its subsidiaries.
Imperial Brands has been advised by its lawyers that it has meritorious defences to the legal proceedings set change of control period specified in the final terms: or ii to the extent that the notes are not rated at the time of the change of out above.
We will continue vigorously to contest all such litigation against us.
control, the Issuer fails to obtain an investment grade credit rating of the notes within the change of control period as a result of the change of control.
Update on E-Vapour-Related Litigation We are currently defending two e-vapour-related claims in the USA.
The bonds issued in such manner are as follows: The first is a consolidation of two purported class actions Diek and Whitney seeking to recover unquantified damages, including 11 February 2013 $1,250,000,000 2.05 per cent guaranteed notes punitive damages.
This action is subject to a pending motion to due 2018: dismiss.
On 1 November 2016, in response to a motion to dismiss 11 February 2013 $1,000,000,000 3.50 per cent guaranteed notes all claims, the Court granted the motion in part dismissing with due 2023: prejudice all but one remaining claim.
After a response to the single 21 July 2015 $500,000,000 2.05 per cent guaranteed notes due 2018: remaining claim is filed, all further proceedings in the action will be 21 July 2015 $1,250,000,000 2.95 per cent guaranteed notes due 2020: stayed until further order of the Court.
Therefore, at this stage, the 21 July 2015 $1,250,000,000 3.75 per cent guaranteed notes due value of the action is unquantifiable.
2022: and The second claim has been brought by the Center for Environmental 21 July 2015 $1,500,000,000 4.25 per cent guaranteed notes due 2025.
Health alleging violations of the California Safe Drinking and Toxic Enforcement Act.
We answered the claim in December 2015 and Update on Tobacco-Related Litigation intend to defend it vigorously.
Ireland In the Republic of Ireland, the number of tobacco-related claims has fallen to only five.
In four of these cases, the claimants are deceased and their solicitors have been unsuccessful in their efforts to contact their families.
The fifth case has been inactive since 2003 and can be assumed to have been abandoned.
If any of these claims reactivate, it is very likely that they would be struck out on grounds of delay.
Italy We are currently facing two claims in Italy.
The first is against Logista, which is the subject of a challenge on grounds of jurisdiction and the admission of evidence.
This challenge was heard in 2006 but judgement is still awaited.
The second claim has been brought in the Court of Messina against Imperial Tobacco Italia and Reemtsma by two individuals claiming 800,000 in total.
The parties have filed their pleadings.
A hearing is scheduled in February 2017 where the Judge will hear the parties arguments regarding their requests for oral and expert evidence.
com 49 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED OTHER INFORMATION LISTING RULES The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4R, the information required to be transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time disclosed by LR 9.8.
4R can be found on the pages set out below: the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable Section Information Page them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors 1 Interest capitalised Not applicable Remuneration Report comply with the Act and, as regards the 2 Publication of unaudited Not applicable Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
financial information They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 4 Details of long-term 51, 57, 58, incentive schemes 64 and 65 Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
5 Waiver of emoluments by a director Not applicable 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a director 56, 57, 64, 65, The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 69 and 70 of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 8 Non pre-emptive issue by major Not applicable statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
subsidiary undertakings 9 Listed subsidiary Not applicable Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed 10 Contracts of significance 48 and 49 on pages 34 and 35, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: 11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Not applicable the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends See below accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends See below fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable of the Group: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report include a fair review In respect of LR 9.8.
4R 12 and 13 the trustee of the Imperial of the development and performance of the business and the Tobacco Group PLC Employee and Executive Benefit Trust and position of the Group, together with a description of the principal the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2001 Employee Benefit Trust risks and uncertainties that it faces.
agrees to waive dividends payable on the Groups shares it holds The Strategic Report and the Directors Report were approved for satisfying awards under various Imperial Brands PLC share and signed by order of the Board.
In accordance with Section 726 of the Act no dividends can be paid to the Company in respect of the shares it holds in treasury.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Group and the parent John Downing Company financial statements in accordance with applicable 8 November 2016 law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Imperial Brands PLC financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have elected to prepare the Group financial statements Incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales No: 3236483 in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom GAAP United Kingdom Accounting Standards and Applicable Law.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the parent Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent Company financial statements respectively: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
50 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 50 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2016
