Oliver Tant, BSc, CA Scotland 5.
Therese Esperdy Chairman of the Board Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Mark is a qualified accountant, who brings Oliver held a number of senior positions in a Therese has significant international investment considerable financial and general managerial 32-year career at KPMG, including Global Managing banking experience having held a number of roles experience to our Board.
Mark was Chief Financial Director Financial Advisory and Private Equity at JP Morgan including Global Chairman of JP Officer of International Power plc until 2012 and is Division and Head of UK Audit.
Morgans Financial Institutions Group, Co-Head experienced in managing relationships with the of Asia-Pacific Corporate & Investment Banking, He was also a member of both the UK and German investor and financial communities.
Prior to Global Head of Debt Capital Markets, and Head of boards of KPMG.
He brings to Imperial international joining International Power plc, Mark was Group US Debt Capital Markets.
She began her career at experience in change management, organisational Financial Controller and Group Chief Accountant Lehman Brothers and joined Chase Securities in restructuring, corporate finance and mergers of Simon Group.
He is also a former Senior 1997 prior to the firms merger with JP Morgan and acquisitions.
Independent Non-Executive Director and in 2000.
Appointment Chairman of the Audit Committee of Alent PLC.
Appointment Appointed to the Board of Directors in October Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director in July 2016 2013 and became Chief Financial Officer in Mark joined the Board in July 2007 and was November 2013.
External appointments appointed Senior Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the External appointments Director in February 2012.
He was subsequently Finance Committee of National Grid Plc.
appointed Deputy Chairman of the Board in D A N R E January 2013 before being made Chairman in February 2014.
Matthew Phillips, LLB Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Chief Development Officer and Chairman of the Audit Committee of National Skills and experience Skills and experience Grid plc.
David brings considerable senior level board Matthew held a number of senior roles prior to D N Chairman experience and was until March 2016 Chairman his appointment to the Board as Corporate Affairs and Chief Executive Officer of Grohe Group Srl Director in June 2012 and has been integral to the and Chief Executive Officer of Lixil Water 2.
Alison Cooper, BSC, ACA development and implementation of the Technology Group.
He joined Grohe in 2004 Groups strategy.
Chief Executive Officer from Vodafone Group PLC where he was Global In his current role he is responsible for Fontem Skills and experience Marketing Director.
David is Chairman and Ventures, corporate development and corporate, Since being appointed as Chief Executive Alison Co-Founder of Grace Founders Srl, a Luxembourglegal and regulatory affairs.
has led the development and implementation based investment company.
He is also a former Appointment of the Groups sustainable sales growth strategy.
Appointed Chief Alison joined the Group in 1999 and, through Appointment Development Officer, June 2015. a number of senior roles, has contributed Appointed Non-Executive Director in February significantly to the international expansion External appointments 2012, and Chairman of the Remuneration of the Group.
Appointment E External appointments Appointed Director in July 2007.
Appointed Chairman and Co-Founder of Grace Founders Srl.
D A N R Chairman External appointments Non-Executive Director, Inchcape plc since July 2009.
E 34 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 34 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 8.
Skills and experience of our Board The in-depth tobacco experience of our Executive Directors is complemented by the diverse global experience of our NonExecutive Directors, which includes FMCG, finance, mergers and acquisitions, and sales and marketing.
Michael Herlihy, MA Oxon, Solicitor 9.
John Downing, MA, Solicitor Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Company Secretary Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Michael is General Counsel for Smiths Group plc.
Karen brings significant financial and John joined Imperial in 2005 having worked for He was formerly General Counsel and Head of management expertise to the Board.
She is the law firm Linklaters.
Mergers and Acquisitions for ICI PLC with overall currently Chief Financial Officer and Executive He has had a number of senior legal roles in responsibility for corporate acquisitions and Director of Kingfisher plc and was previously Chief Imperial and was appointed Head of Group Legal divestments and has extensive experience with Financial Officer of the Africa, Middle East, Asia in 2010 and played a leading role in the Altadis both private and public market transactions.
and Asia Pacific Region, at Vodafone plc.
He has considerable experience that, Karen held a number of senior positions at BT, Appointment in managing key corporate projects related including Chief Financial Officer of BT Retail and Appointed Non-Executive Director in July 2007. to financing, business development and other Managing Director Operations Openreach.
In February 2014 he was appointed as Senior commercial matters.
Appointment Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director in February 2014.
External appointments Appointed Company Secretary in June 2012.
Serves on the board of Compass Partners External appointments S International LLP and is currently General Counsel Chief Financial Officer and Executive Director of Smiths Group plc.
Malcolm Wyman, CA SA D Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director S Company Secretary N Succession and Nominations Committee Skills and experience Skills and experience A Audit Committee Steven brings considerable international executive As a qualified accountant and former Chief R Remuneration Committee experience to the Board, gained in a number of Financial Officer of SAB Miller plc, with FMCG companies.
This includes 18 years at SC responsibility for the groups financial operations, Johnson & Sons Inc. most recently as Chief corporate finance and development and group Operating Officer, where he was responsible for strategy, Malcolm brings not only a wealth of managing their international operations.
financial expertise but also considerable general Previously, he held senior positions at Sara Lee management experience to the Board.
Malcolm Corporation, including as Chief Executive Officer is also a former Non-Executive Director and of Sara Lee Bakery, and at CompuServe Corp.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee of Serco also a former Non-Executive Director of Chiquita Group plc.
Brands International, Inc. and Hewitt Associates.
He also meets the recent and relevant financial Appointment experience requirements of the UK Corporate Appointed Non-Executive Director in Governance Code.
Appointment External appointments Appointed Non-Executive Director in October 2011 Partner of Wind Point Partners and a Director of and Chairman of the Audit Committee in Autism Speaks.
D A N R External appointments Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Nedbank Group Limited, listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
