INVESTMENT CASE WHY INVEST IN IMPERIAL BRANDS?
Investing for Quality Growth Value Creation Through New Ways of Working Imperial Brands has an attractive portfolio of brands and markets Our strategic agenda is changing the way we operate to strengthen which can deliver long-term profitable growth.
the business and improve our quality of growth.
Our strategy is to strengthen our tobacco and non-tobacco portfolio Simplification and focus are at the heart of our new ways of working, by generating an increasing proportion of revenue from our strongest as we reduce complexity and instil a more cost-conscious culture.
We brands, while also prioritising our investment in those markets that are also adopting lean principles through continuous improvement in offer the best returns.
We have a proven track record of achieving strong price mix growth This provides opportunities to reduce costs, improve effectiveness to offset industry volume declines and enhance profitability.
We are and create a more agile organisation that can drive consistent also investing in non-tobacco products and experiences through our returns for shareholders in an ever changing world.
subsidiary, Fontem Ventures, to deliver future growth opportunities alongside our tobacco business.
VALUE CREATION SUPPORTED INVESTING FOR QUALITY GROWTH: BY NEW AND IMPROVED WAYS BRANDS, PRODUCTS AND MARKETS WITH OF WORKING LONG-TERM PROFIT POTENTIAL 10% DIVIDEND GROWTH PA 95% CASH CONVERSION OVER MEDIUM TERM Strong Cash Generation Annual 10% Dividend Growth Over Medium Term Our business generates strong cash flows as a result of our A core part of our investment proposition is our commitment intrinsically high operating profit margins, coupled with our ability to grow the dividend by at least 10 per cent per annum over the to convert a very high proportion of these profits to cash.
This is a commitment we have now achieved for eight consecutive years.
Over recent years we have improved our cash conversion by reducing our working capital and prioritising our investments more Our ability to improve profitability and generate strong cash effectively.
Our current focus for our cash resources are: investment flows will enable us to continue to deliver this income growth in our priority brands and markets, supporting double digit dividend to our shareholders.
growth for shareholders and reducing our net debt.
12 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 12 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2016
