THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES BOARD Focus for 2017 continue our investment prioritisation to generate quality growth from key markets and Growth and Specialist Brands continue optimising our ways of working supporting our growth agenda support our growth agenda by further cost savings and capital discipline further develop our employees capabilities and engender a growth mind-set enhance our governance framework to further support our sustainable growth agenda OVERVIEW The Directors are collectively responsible and accountable to our Mark Williamson shareholders for the long-term sustainable success of the Group.
Chairman The Boards role is to provide leadership to the Group, set its strategy and oversee its implementation.
The Board has a key role in ensuring that in achieving our strategy The consistent execution of our strategy management operates responsibly within our governance framework continues to create sustainable shareholder whilst clearly demonstrating our values and high ethical standards.
The Directors are also mindful of their legal duties to act in the returns by maximising sales, cost and cash way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the opportunities.
success of the Company for its shareholders whilst having regard to the interests of other stakeholders.
Members As part of the governance framework the Board has adopted a schedule Mark Williamson Chairman Matthew Phillips of matters on which it must make the final decision.
These include Ken Burnett to 3 February 2016 Oliver Tant approving the Groups strategy, business plans, dividends and major Alison Cooper Karen Witts financial announcements.
The Board is also responsible for approving Therese Esperdy from 1 July 2016 Malcolm Wyman the acquisition or disposal of assets exceeding defined thresholds.
David Haines John Downing Company Secretary Michael Herlihy Within this framework the Board delegates responsibility for Steven Stanbrook from 8 February 2016 developing and implementing strategy and for day-to-day management to our Chief Executive, Alison Cooper, who is supported by her fellow Executive Directors and by the Operating Focus in 2016 Executive OPEX, which she chairs.
The Board also delegates continued integration of the USA business and delivery against matters to Board Committees.
Clearly defined terms of reference our business plan and written limits support these delegations.
investment prioritisation to generate quality growth from key brands and markets and create new opportunities for Fontem The OPEX consists of senior executives from across the business.
continued implementation of new ways of working to simplify It oversees operational execution and delivers our strategic and the business and improve our effectiveness and agility financial plans.
The OPEX and Audit Committee also ensure that appropriate internal controls, which function effectively, are in further cost savings and capital discipline place, and effective risk management processes operate throughout further investment in our people including building capabilities, the Group.
succession and improving engagement MATTERS CONSIDERED BY THE BOARD IN 2016 Six principal scheduled Board meetings were held during the year 2015 2016 Oct Jan Mar Apr Jun Sept Safety update Safety update Strategy Safety update Safety update Safety update meeting Report and accounts First quarter results Half-Year Report Strategy review, Business performance including period covered including opportunities Business performance Dividend Business plan by viability statement for Fontem Strategy review Business performance Corporate development Dividend Business AGM Corporate development Board evaluation performance Business performance Group funding Group funding including Chairman and NED fees Appointment of Therese Business planning extension of debt Operating model Risk update Esperdy Corporate development issuance programme EUTPD plain packaging EUTPD update including Overseas visit to Joure update risks and opportunities factory insight into Appointment of Steven operational excellence Corporate identity Stanbrook programme including change of name ADR ratio change 36 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 36 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS SUCCESSION AND NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE OVERVIEW Role The Committee keeps under review and evaluates the composition of the Board and its Committees to maintain the appropriate balance of skills, knowledge, experience and independence to enable them to function effectively.
Succession plans for the NEDs, Executive Directors and Groups senior management, in particular the OPEX, are also kept under review.
The Committee also retains an overview of the development plans for OPEX members together with the wider organisational structure and talent management processes.
The Committees terms of reference are available on our website.
Boardroom Diversity Mark Williamson As a global business, with our products sold in over 160 countries, Chairman diversity generally is an integral part of how we do business.
To maintain the appropriate balance of skills, diversity of knowledge, professional and geographic backgrounds and experience on our We have the right people and the right Board we look ahead to upcoming retirements to identify potential succession plans to deliver our strategy and gaps and appoint individuals who are best suited to fill any vacancy.
build on our long track record of generating The Committee is mindful of the Davies Review on gender diversity, however, appointing the best people to our Board is critical to the significant returns to our shareholders.
success of the Company: the search for candidates and any subsequent appointments are, therefore, made purely on merit Members regardless of gender, race, religion, age or disability.
Given our Mark Williamson Karen Witts 1 commitment to appointing the best people and ensuring that all Chairman Malcolm Wyman employees have an equal chance of developing their careers within Ken Burnett to 3 February 2016 John Downing the Group, we do not think it is appropriate to set targets for Board Company Secretary Therese Esperdy from 1 July 2016 appointments.
David Haines At the year end, women, including our Chief Executive, made up 30 Michael Herlihy per cent of our Board, and 22 per cent of our OPEX.
Unless dealing with the succession of the Chairman.
Turn to page 21 Executive Directors are invited to attend when appropriate.
for further details on our workforce diversity Focus in 2016 ongoing review of skillset and composition of the Board DIRECTOR DEVELOPMENT continuing business updates and education for NEDs Board and senior management succession planning We are committed to the continuing development of our Directors in order to build on their expertise and develop an appointment of Steven Stanbrook and Therese Esperdy ever more detailed understanding of the business and the markets in which we operate.
Focus for 2017 ongoing Board and senior management succession planning In addition to the ongoing NEDucation and training review of skillset and composition of the Boards Committees discussed on page 45, we held our April 2016 Board meeting in our Joure factory, providing NEDs with insights into our continuing business updates and education for NEDs Operational Excellence Programme.
They also received updates on projects focused on our world class manufacturing performance and how we are implementing global best practice across our network of factories.
During September 2016 the Board visited the headquarters and facilities of ITG Brands in Greensboro, USA.
They received presentations from the USA leadership team in respect of our USA operations, including an update on the brands and assets acquired from Reynolds.
com 37 THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES SUCCESSION AND NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE CONTINUED Board Succession SUCCESSION AND NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE Following nine years of valuable service Ken Burnett retired at IN 2016 the 2016 AGM.
The Committee identified the profile and skillset Election and Re-election of Directors required for NEDs to support our strategy and instructed Korn Ferry All Directors are appointed by the Board following a rigorous selection 1 Whitehead Mann to identify appropriate candidates.
Within the process and subsequent recommendation by the Committee.
Companys policy of appointing the best people, Korn Ferry Whitehead The performance of each Director is considered as part of the annual Mann was requested to give consideration to candidates who, in Board evaluation process.
Following the 2016 evaluation, a review of addition to meeting the profile and skillset, add to the overall diversity the independence of each NED, particularly in respect of those who of the Board.
From the list of strong candidates the Committee have served six years or more, and consideration of attendance, the identified Steven Stanbrook and Therese Esperdy as best suited Board recommends the re-election of all Directors at our 2017 AGM, to oversee and continue to develop the Groups strategy.
with the exception of Michael Herlihy, who having served on the 1.
Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann also provides online assessments to our sales function with Board for nine years, will be retiring at the AGM.
a total value in the year of 117,500.
Meetings of the Board, Board Committees and AGM Succession and Annual Nominations Audit Remuneration General Board Committee Committee Committee Meeting Total number of meetings in Financial Year 6 4 4 4 1 Number of meetings attended in Financial Year Executive Directors Alison Cooper 6 6 1 1 Oliver Tant 6 6 1 1 Matthew Phillips 6 6 1 1 Non-Executive Directors Mark Williamson 6 6 4 4 1 1 2 Therese Esperdy 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 David Haines 5 6 4 4 4 4 4 4 1 1 Michael Herlihy 6 6 4 4 4 4 4 4 1 1 3 Steven Stanbrook 4 4 3 3 2 2 3 3 1 Karen Witts 6 6 3 4 3 4 3 4 1 1 Malcolm Wyman 6 6 4 4 4 4 4 4 1 1 1.
David Haines was unable to attend one Board meeting due to being in hospital, however, he fully considered the papers before the meeting and provided his thoughts and recommendations to the Chairman.
Karen Witts was unable to attend a Succession and Nominations Committee, an Audit Committee and a Remuneration Committee meeting held on the same occasion due to a conflict with a Board meeting at Kingfisher, however, she fully considered the papers before the meeting and provided her thoughts and recommendations to the Chairmen of each Committee.
Therese Esperdy was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2016.
Steven Stanbrook was appointed to the Board on 8 February 2016.
The maximum number of meetings for each individual Director is the number which they were eligible to attend.
Tenure of Non-Executive Directors Board Gender Balance Male 7 8 years and over 2 Female 3 5 to 7 years 1 3 to 5 years 1 1 to 2 years 3 38 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 38 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS AUDIT COMMITTEE Following the FRCs publication of the Revised Ethical Standard in June 2016, the Committee discussed the necessary amendments to ensure that the Groups Auditor Independence policy contained the appropriate tendering and rotation provisions, and appropriate guidance to protect the external auditors independence.
The updated policy details the prohibited non-audit services and establishes rules for hospitality between the external auditors and Group employees, including Directors.
We also reviewed the report issued by the FRCs Audit Quality Review Team and the actions proposed to address the limited comments it contained.
These actions should further enhance the quality of the audit  PwC provides.
Another important aspect of our work is to critically review the detailed reports from both internal and external audit.
This allows the Committee to fully understand all issues and, if required, Malcolm Wyman instigate appropriate action.
I meet with the Director of Internal Chairman Audit and the lead Audit Partner of our external auditors, PwC, on a regular basis between Committee meetings.
To assist the Committee in overseeing the effectiveness of controls The Committee has a key role in and risk management across the business, and to assist in addressing the key matters detailed on pages 40 and 41, management prepared overseeing the Groups internal control, and presented to the Committee a wide range of papers, which risk management and governance provided sufficient information on each matter to facilitate discussions and enable effective decisions to be taken.
frameworks to enhance the protection of our corporate reputation, people, assets, I am satisfied our activities provided the Committee with a good understanding of the key matters impacting the Group during the brands, products and information.
year and, in conjunction with its oversight of the governance and operation of the Groups significant controls and processes, enabled 1 Members the Committee to draw the conclusions set out on page 41.
2 Malcolm Wyman Steven Stanbrook from 8 February 2016 2 Chairman Karen Witts Ken Burnett to 3 February 2016 John Downing Company Secretary Therese Esperdy from 1 July 2016 David Haines Michael Herlihy Malcolm Wyman Chairman of the Audit Committee Other regular attendees 3 Board Chairman Director of Internal Audit Chief Financial Officer Deputy Company Secretary Director of Finance, Planning Representatives from PwC, our 3 & Reporting external auditors Group Financial Controller 1.
All members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
Malcolm Wyman and Karen Witts meet the Codes requirement of having recent and relevant financial experience.
At each meeting, both the Director of Internal Audit and PwC have the opportunity to meet with the Committee without management present.
The Audit Committee report provides insight into the Committees activities and its deliberations in respect of the 2016 financial year.
During the year we continued to focus on the Groups ongoing enhancements to its risk management framework and processes and systems of internal governance and control whilst continuing to ensure the integrity of its financial statements and the quality of both the external and internal audits.
The Committee also reviewed its own performance as part of the overall Board evaluation.
This review concluded that the Committee continues to carry out all of its duties effectively.
We meet four times in the year at key times within the Groups reporting cycle, with comprehensive agendas covering all significant matters to be considered by the Committee.
I also meet with management on an ad-hoc basis.
com 39 THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED Main Objective maintaining appropriate oversight over the work and effectiveness To assist the Board in fulfilling its corporate governance of the Internal Audit department, including reviewing its audit responsibilities relating to the Groups financial statements, internal findings and monitoring managements responses: control systems, risk management process and framework, the scrutinising the independence, objectivity and effectiveness internal audit function and the external audit.
During the year of PwC, including reviewing and approving the annual external the Committee achieved this by: audit plan, reviewing the audit findings, monitoring compliance with ethical and professional guidance and approving PwCs ensuring the integrity of our financial statements and related terms of engagement.
We also reviewed and approved the Groups announcements, and assisting the Board in confirming that, revised Auditor Independence policy: and taken as a whole, our Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for throughout the year, considering the key matters detailed below, shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, including taking account of PwCs views.
business model and strategy see page 33 : The Committees terms of reference are available on our website.
monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of our risk management and internal control systems and speaking-up process: AUDIT COMMITTEE MEETINGS HELD IN RESPECT OF THE 2016 FINANCIAL YEAR Four Committee meetings were held in respect of the 2016 financial year at key times within our reporting and audit calendar and included the following matters on the agenda: 2016 Jan Apr Sept Nov Audit planning Half-Year Report Impairment considerations Annual Report and Accounts Internal Audit and Risk Management Goodwill and impairment review Taxation Goodwill and impairment review review External auditors report Internal Audit and Risk Management Use of adjusted measures External auditors effectiveness review Tax report FX management Governance and internal control External auditors report and External auditors fees and Viability and going concern independence Impairment considerations independence statements Viability and going concern Distributable reserves Internal Audit and Risk Management External auditors report review, including consideration of Governance and internal control Restructuring accounting policy Internal Audit and Risk Management cyber risk FX management review Tax matters Governance and internal control Distributable reserves External auditors fees, independence Audit tendering Tobacco related litigation and reappointment Restructuring costs Governance and internal control Treasury update Tobacco related litigation Consideration of FRCs Audit Quality Review Team review Retirement benefits Review of terms of reference Revenue recognition KEY MATTERS CONSIDERED The Committee considered the appropriateness of the following areas of significant judgement, complexity or estimation in connection with the financial statements, as set out below: Focus area Why this area is significant How we as a Committee addressed this area 1 Goodwill and Goodwill and intangible We regularly received and considered detailed reports from management and intangible asset assets form a major part of challenged the methodology applied, the achievability of underlying business impairment the Groups balance sheet forecasts, and macro-economic assumptions used.
For the groupings of cash reviews and their current valuations generating units with the lowest headroom Growth Division and Other Premium must be supported by Cigars, we examined different scenarios and sensitivities to assess whether See note 11 of the financial future prospects.
managements conclusions were fair and balanced.
The Committee also considered statements for detailed reporting from, and held discussions with PwC.
Resulting from the above, further information.
we concluded that managements assertion that goodwill and intangible assets were not impaired was reasonable and, therefore, approved the disclosures in our financial statements and half year results.
2 Use of adjusted Non-GAAP or adjusted The Committee considered whether adjusted performance measures had been measures measures provide an prepared in accordance with our policy on the use of adjusted measures set out in appropriate and useful Note 1 to the financial statements, and discussed this with PwC.
We concluded that See note 1 for further information.
assessment of business the Groups policy continues to be applied consistently and is compatible with the performance and reflect the ESMA guidelines on alternative performance measures.
way in which the business is In its review of the Annual Report, the Committee has also taken account of the managed.
They are also used FRCs comments on the use of adjusted measures in its Annual Review of Corporate in determining annual and Reporting 2015 2016. long-term incentives for remuneration, and are widely used by our investors.
40 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 40 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Focus area Why this area is significant How we as a Committee addressed this area 3 Treatment of Restructuring costs is one of We periodically reviewed papers from management on actual and forecast levels restructuring the main items affecting our of restructuring costs.
The restructuring costs disclosure for inclusion within the costs adjusted measures.
There is Groups financial statements and Half-Year results were also reviewed and discussed a risk that restructuring with management and PwC.
Following these detailed reviews and discussions, we See note 5 for further information.
costs are treated or concluded that determination of restructuring costs was consistently applied and presented inappropriately that, notwithstanding the duration of some restructuring projects, costs were within the Groups financial disclosed appropriately.
4 Going concern The Directors are required We examined the Groups committed funding, its ability to generate cash and and viability to consider whether it is its ability to raise further funding.
We challenged managements cash projections statement appropriate to prepare the and sensitivity analysis including mitigating actions.
In addition, in assessing financial statements on a the Groups longer-term viability we considered outputs of the annual corporate See page 32 for further information.
going concern basis and planning processes including the strategic review, a three-year business plan and explain how they have a rolling re-forecast of current year business performance and prospects.
We also assessed the prospects considered the resilience of the Group to the potential impact of the Groups principal of the Company over a risks and mitigating actions.
We reviewed the period covered by the statement longer period.
and concluded that three years remains the most appropriate period, being that used by the Group for its business plan.
We concluded that it was appropriate to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis and that the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to September 2019.
5 Revenue In common with all Discussions were held with management and PwC and the Committee was satisfied recognition companies, there is a risk that the Groups criteria for revenue recognition were appropriate.
No breaches of the that arrangements could be Groups revenue recognition policy were brought to the Committees attention.
See note 1 for further information.
made to recognise sales that do not meet revenue recognition criteria.
6 Taxation The Group is subject to We received and discussed reports from management in respect of the taxation taxation in a number of affairs of the Group, including the tax audit in France and the potential impact See notes 8 and 21 for further information.
jurisdictions, and significant on the Group of various UK and foreign taxation reform proposals.
Additional judgement is required in tax disclosures have been included in the financial statements to provide more relation to taxation clarity of the basis of tax provisioning.
Following consideration and discussion provisions which could of managements reports and a review of reports provided by PwC, we are materially affect the Groups satisfied that the taxation provisions and their disclosure are appropriate.
7 TobaccoThe Group is exposed to We considered reports from the Groups external lawyers which confirmed that related litigation arising from the Group continues to have meritorious defences to the actual and threatened legal litigation claimants alleging smokingproceedings and concluded that risks in respect of tobacco-related litigation are related health effects.
appropriately disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts.
See page 49 for further information.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRC associated Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
The Groups risk management approach has further evolved in the year, to manage risks arising from the changing legal, regulatory, Assurance over compliance with Group risk management policies, macro-economic and commercial environments in which the Group standards and requirements is achieved through the work of our operates.
The continuation of the programme to further embed risk Internal Audit department and the execution of the Audit Committee management within our operations is enabling greater consistency approved annual plan of reviews to be completed.
Issues arising from in the identification, assessment and mitigation of risks at both a these reviews are reported to the Committee, along with updates on local and Group level.
the timely resolution of all issues raised in Internal Audit reports.
The Committee received regular updates during the year on The Group continues to evaluate the changing risks to its the continued development and implementation of the risk information security, and has engaged subject matter experts management framework and on the risk management systems to develop its approach to monitoring, evaluation and mitigation and processes operating within the Group.
Additionally, the of the key causes of the risk.
Our people have been provided with Committee has reviewed the process for identification, assessment training and guidance to enable effective operational management and reporting of the Companys principal risks set out on pages 28 to of risks, with independent assurance of compliance to Group 31.
The Committee has also considered and confirmed to the Board requirements provided by the risk-based reviews completed that this work is in accordance with the provisions in the 2014 UK as part of the Internal Audit plan.
Corporate Governance Code and the Financial Reporting Councils www.
com 41 THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED The above processes and those described in the Risk Management PwC, and its predecessor firms, has been the Companys auditors section on pages 26 to 27 enable the Board, either directly or through since 1996.
In line with our Auditor Independence policy, the Group the Audit Committee, to review regularly the effectiveness of the key Audit Partner is required to rotate after a maximum of five years procedures which have been established in order to provide appropriate seven years for subsidiary companies.
John Maitland, our Audit internal controls.
They also enable the Board to confirm that an Partner, has been in post since 2013. ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the PwC may only provide non-audit services where those services do Groups principal risks has operated throughout the year and up not conflict with its independence.
The policy establishes a formal to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
authorisation process, including the tendering for individual nonaudit services expected to generate fees in excess of 250,000, and INTERNAL AUDIT pre-approval by the Committee for allowable non-audit work that Internal Audit IA has continued to evolve and develop its practices they may perform.
Guidelines for the recruitment of employees or in order to continually improve the independent challenge to the former employees of PwC, and for the recruitment of our employees Groups activities, required by the Audit Committee and management.
by PwC, are contained in the policy.
During the year all legacy internal auditing and assurance activities During the year PwC undertook non-audit work.
This non-audit work performed across the Group have been brought under the IA function.
was awarded to PwC due to its knowledge of the Group and it being In addition, the internal audit of our new USA subsidiary, ITG Brands, deemed best placed to provide effectively the services required.
has been integrated within Group IA.
IA continues to perform a risk based audit programme aligned to the Groups strategic priorities.
This non-audit work included: The Audit Committee reviews the annual IA plan, including its scope tax advisory and tax compliance work and extent, and reviews reports from IA at each quarterly Audit verification of our corporate social responsibility reporting Committee meeting to monitor the functions achievements against and underlying processes plan.
The Audit Committee considered the results of the audits agreed upon processes in respect of the performance criteria undertaken by IA and monitored management responses to the of our employee share plans audit matters raised.
IA satisfaction surveys are completed by relevant management following each audit and feedback on In the current year non-audit fees were 37 per cent 2015: 87 per cent IA performance during the year has been positive.
of total audit fees see note 4 on page 92.
The 2015 ratio was significantly impacted by the work undertaken in connection with IA conducted a self-assessment of effectiveness against the best the USA cigarette brands and e-cigarette acquisition.
The Committee practice standards of both the Institute of Internal Auditors IIA considers that the level of non-audit fees is appropriate in the light and the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales of the above activities, and is comparable with those disclosed by ICAEW.
Whilst highlighting some areas for continual improvement similar companies with international activities, and does not believe the self-assessment reflected an improving level of IA performance.
that the objectivity of the external audit has been impaired as a result of this non-audit work.
EXTERNAL AUDIT To ensure compliance with this policy, during the year the During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the external audit Committee carried out two auditor independence reviews including strategy including the key issues to be addressed.
The Committee consideration of the remuneration received by PwC for audit reviewed PwCs proposed audit approach, scope and materiality services, audit-related services and non-audit work.
The Committee thresholds for the Half-Year Report and for the audit of the consolidated also considered reports by both management and PwC which financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2016. did not raise any concerns in respect of PwCs independence The Committee noted that PwCs identified significant audit risks and confirmed that PwC maintains appropriate internal safeguards were similar to previous years, but with acquisition accounting to ensure its independence and objectivity.
The outcome of these moved back to a normal level of risk following the completion reviews was that performance of the relevant non-audit work of the USA acquisition in 2015. by PwC was in compliance with the policy and was the most cost-effective way of conducting our business.
No conflicts of The Audit Engagement Letter detailing the revised agreement for interest were found to exist between such audit and non-audit the provision of statutory audit and half year review services was work.
The Committee, therefore, confirmed that the Company considered and approved.
and Group continue to receive an independent audit service.
INDEPENDENCE OF OUR EXTERNAL AUDITORS In order to ensure the independence and objectivity of PwC, the Committee maintains and regularly reviews our Auditor Independence policy.
This policy provides clear definitions of services that our external auditors may and may not provide and can be found on our website.
Following the FRCs publication of the Revised Ethical Standard in June 2016 the policy was updated to embed audit tendering and rotations requirements, further extend the list of prohibited services and prohibit gifts and hospitality by or to the auditors.
The updated policy has been applied from 1 October 2016.
42 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 42 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS AUDIT QUALITY STATEMENT OF AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES We place great importance on ensuring that we receive a high PwC is responsible for forming an independent opinion on the standard and effective external audit.
To assist the Committee to financial statements of the Group as a whole and on the financial assess the performance of our external auditors, during the year audit statements of Imperial Brands PLC as presented by the Directors.
effectiveness questionnaires, covering the audit scope and planning, In addition, it also reports on other elements of the Annual Report as quality and delivery, challenge and communication and independence, required by legislation or regulation and reports its opinion to members.
were completed by members of both the Committee and Logistas Turn to pages 75 and 120 Audit Committee as well as by senior managers and finance for further details on PwCs opinions executives from across the Group.
Responses indicated that, as with previous reviews, there was a consistently high perception of auditor AUDITORS AND DISCLOSURE effectiveness, with no pervasive Group-wide concerns identified.
OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS The FRCs Audit Quality Review Team AQRT issued its report Each of the Directors in office at the date of approval of this Annual on PwCs audit of the Group for FY15.
The Committee reviewed Report confirms that: the findings and discussed them with PwC, and matters raised were included in the planning for the year-end audit.
so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information that is, information needed by PwC in connection with preparing Based on its consideration of the responses, together with its own its report of which PwC is unaware: and ongoing assessment, for example through the quality of PwCs each has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a reports to the Committee and its interaction with the Group Audit Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant Partner, and taking into account the AQRT inspection report, the audit information and to establish PwC is aware of that information.
Committee remains satisfied with the efficiency and effectiveness of the audit.
The Board accepted, at its November 2016 meeting, the Committees recommendation to put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM APPROACH TO AUDIT TENDER a resolution to reappoint PwC as auditors to the Company.
Following the introduction of the audit tendering provisions in the Code, the Committee annually considers if the audit should be put out to tender.
The result of this years review was not to put the audit out to tender.
The audit has not been put to tender since PwC were appointed as the Companys auditors in 1996.
The Committee has determined that, subject to its annual reviews, the likely timing of the audit tender will be in the year ending 30 September 2021 so that the incoming external audit firm can take up the role for the year ending 30 September 2023.
The Committee believes that this timeframe for the audit tender is in the best interests of the Company and its members given the ongoing medium-term projects involving significant changes to the Groups operating model including the migration to finance shared services.
We believe it is in the interest of both the Group and its stakeholders to ensure that the pool of major accountancy firms with the capacity to be appointed as external auditor is maximised.
As part of our tender planning we have, therefore, established a number of processes including the pre-approval of any future services by appropriate accountancy firms to maintain an adequate level of independence to allow them to tender.
During the auditor independence reviews detailed above, we also considered the remuneration for audit services, audit-related services and nonaudit work undertaken by such accountancy firms.
There are no contractual or similar obligations restricting the Groups choice of external auditors.
The Company confirms that it has complied with the provisions of the Competition and Market Authoritys Order for the financial year under review.
