Our business model The platform for growth Our unique business model is the foundation which combines our core strengths to create a solid platform for growth.
Leading OEM brand partnerships View an interactive map of our global footprint at www.
com Driven Strong global Distinct routes Strong global position position to market by trust We have strong positions in 29 countries around the world.
Our global portfolio is a fundamental strength of the Group, with a balance between developed economies and emerging markets.
We have a Diversified leading presence with our high-margin, capital-light distribution model in small, medium and emerging revenue markets where we have secured strong positions streams with our marketing expertise, customer-centric approach and technical capabilities.
This is complemented by our scale retail presence in medium and large markets with our strong portfolio of premium brands.
Trading profit by segment % 14% Asia: Australasia: UK Europe: Emerging Markets: Brunei Australia Belgium Romania Argentina 35% China New Zealand Bulgaria UK Chile 25% Guam Estonia Colombia Hong Kong Finland Djibouti Macau Greece Ethiopia Saipan Latvia Peru 26% Singapore Lithuania Russia Thailand Luxembourg Macedonia Poland 2 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Leading OEM brand partnerships We have strong and long-standing These OEMs Original Equipment Manufacturer are partnerships with the worlds leading the worlds main drivers of automotive innovation, new automotive OEM groups.
fuel technologies, powertrain developments, safety breakthroughs and cutting edge engineering.
By consistently focusing on the core needs of our OEM partners, we seek to build and deliver ever-deeper relationships, outstanding brand representation and strength in market share.
Discover more about our OEM partnerships at www.
com Distinct routes to market As the exclusive Distributor in small and medium-sized We manage across the entire value chain post-factory gate for our OEM partners.
markets, we are the OEMs brand custodian in these countries, responsible for everything from importing vehicles and parts to all sales and marketing activities, Trading profit split including the appointment and management of the third party retail network.
In larger, more developed markets, such as the UK, we operate our Retail model, 27% 73% with a focus on delivering an exceptional customer experience online and in our retail and service centres.
Retail Distribution Diversified revenue streams In addition to New Vehicles, we sell Finance and We leverage the full range of opportunities from the New and Used Car markets.
Insurance products, and we take advantage of the defensiveness of the global Car Parc the total number of cars on the road through Used Vehicle sales, Aftersales Servicing and Parts.
Gross profit mix Maintaining this spread prepares us well to respond to the full array of different market conditions and trends 63% 37% at play in all of our local markets across the world.
