Our value chain The route to market We operate right across the post-factory automotive value chain for our OEM partners, providing a highly effective customer-focused route to market.
In many cases we are the custodians of our OEM partners brand equity, a role that we treat with the utmost care.
Product planning and logistics Brand management Our in-depth knowledge of local markets, Under our Distribution model, we take on trends and customer preferences enables total responsibility for our OEM partners our OEM partners to benefit from our insights brands, marketing and sales operations in and understanding throughout the entire our local markets we handle every aspect planning process.
of the customer interface from appointing and managing the dealer network to advertising and social media management.
Product specification Appoint and manage the dealer network We work closely with our OEM partners, often for several Where we operate as a Distributor, we select and years before a new model is launched, providing support appoint an independent dealer network that has throughout the planning process with a precise view of the best fit with our partners brands: training and market pricing, local fit requirements and sales volumes.
managing them to meet the demanding standards of our customer-focused ethos.
Further, we typically own and operate 15-20% of the network ourselves.
Import and logistics Overseeing global distribution by land or sea, combined National marketing and price positioning with comprehensive local port or border-to-showroom capabilities, means we are able to remove all logistical We are scrupulous in projecting our partners brand burdens from our partners.
values and personality in all local marketing and communications, refining messages where necessary to maximise positive impact in specific markets.
Our approach to price positioning is based on in-depth knowledge of market trends and competitor pricing.
4 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS New and Used Car retailing Aftersales The Inchcape approach to retailing revolves Our commitment is to invest in state-of-the-art around creating exceptional customer facilities and highly trained expert experiences throughout the life-cycle of their technicians, to ensure we become the first vehicle ownership.
Following initial choice for Aftersales care.
engagement through digital and physical channels, we seek to create long-term ongoing relationships involving multiple New and Used Car sales.
Vehicle sales Servicing We aim to provide the best New and Used Car buying Our ultimate focus is on getting it right first time, every experience in our retail centres across the world.
time from the quality of a routine service to fixing a Our people have a depth of expertise and a wealth problem, this is one of the most important ways to retain of product knowledge which is continually reinforced our customers.
We provide transparent assessments through OEM as well as proprietary training, to ensure to give our customers the confidence to trust us with that we deliver on this aim.
their servicing for the long term.
Customer engagement and retention Parts After initial customer engagement, we aim to deepen Our strong OEM relationships and specialist retail relationships via a wide range of sophisticated retail and wholesale supply capabilities make Inchcape techniques including tailored social media campaigns, the preferred provider of genuine brand parts loyalty strategies, rapid web response, opportunities with and accessories.
Vehicle Finance and Insurance Partnering with financial services businesses around the world means that we can provide customers with attractive, transparent options for financing their vehicle purchases.
