Audit Committee Report 2016 was a year of transition with the previous Finance Director departing at the end of February and Richard Howes joining as Chief Financial Officer in April 2016.
The change was managed well internally and the high level of diligence shown by management was maintained throughout the transition.
I am also pleased to report that the Group received a no response letter from the Conduct Committee of the Financial Reporting Council FRC in respect of the JOHN LANGSTON review of last years Annual Report and Accounts.
Chair of the Audit Committee The letter confirmed that there were no questions or queries the FRC wished to raise with us, but they did Committee members note a number of matters where they believed that the Alison Cooper left February 2017 Report and Accounts could benefit from improvements Rachel Empey joined May 2016 in disclosures.
We have taken their guidance into Nigel Northridge account when preparing the 2016 Annual Report and Nigel Stein Accounts and we hope the amendments add clarity for shareholders.
The key activities of the Committee are given in the table below and the following pages set out the work carried out by the Committee during the year and the key Dear Shareholder decisions made.
I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee The Company confirms that it complied with the for the year ended 31 December 2016.
This year, certain provisions of the Competition and Markets Authoritys disclosures, including how the Committee has complied Order for the financial year under review.
with the UK Corporate Governance Code, are detailed in the Compliance Report on pages 82 to 86 which should Financial reporting be read in conjunction with this report.
The Committee monitors the integrity of the financial It is the role of the Audit Committee to look to ensure the statements by: integrity of the financial reporting and audit processes, to check that sound internal control and risk management Assessing and reviewing the final and interim results systems are in place and review their effectiveness, to by reviewing supporting papers and assessing key review the Groups whistleblowing procedures and to disclosures to ensure adequacy, clarity and ensure an appropriate relationship with the auditor.
Committee meeting Key activities March Annual Report & Accounts including going concern, viability assessment, financial review, and financial statements External auditor report, auditor independence review May Internal controls review, external auditor effectiveness, cyber security review, warranty review July Interim results including accounting judgements and going concern External auditor report, 2016 Audit Plan, Chile update November Inventory and financing review, impairment testing review, treasury policy review, external audit tender, 2017 Internal Audit plan, review of response to FRC letter on disclosures, review of terms of reference and committee membership 50 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Considering key audit issues, accounting treatment Reviewing and approving any remediation plans to be and judgements by assessing information presented implemented by management to ensure that they by management to ensure issues have been dealt are robust.
Receiving regular updates on all reports made to the Challenging management on the assumptions and InConfidence whistleblowing service to ensure the judgements that had been applied including the issues raised are being dealt with and considered at assessment of viability given on page 38 and going the appropriate level.
The Group Audit Director attends every Audit Committee In addition to the significant issues considered by the meeting and also meets with the Audit Committee Committee which are given on page 52, the Committee without the presence of management to discuss the also considered the following matters for the year ended findings of the Group Internal Audit team.
31 December 2016: External audit Cyber security and readiness for the General Data Protection Regulation in May 2018: and Auditor effectiveness and independence Global warranty processes and associated controls.
The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit during the year by: Further information on financial and business reporting is given on page 84 of the Compliance Report.
Monitoring the implementation and fulfilment of the audit plan.
Risk management and internal control Reviewing and assessing the auditor reports on the The Committee regularly reviews the progress of the significant accounting judgements.
Minimum Control Framework MCF which was Reviewing the level of support and service provided introduced to raise and continuously improve controls by PwC.
and incorporate internal and external best practice Reviewing the results of the external audit effectiveness throughout the Group and to minimise financial risk.
Further detail is given in the significant issues on page 52.
The Committee satisfied itself that PwC remains The Committee receives regular reports from PwC and independent and objective by: Group Internal Audit.
The reporting process is designed to enable the Committee to ensure that the Company Reviewing the safeguards operating within PwC.
maintains a sound system of internal controls and to Considering PwCs Independence Report presented to satisfy itself that the control environment is as accurate, the Committee.
efficient and effective as possible.
The Committee reviews, Assessing the level and type of non-audit services monitors and assesses the implementation of MCF, any provided by PwC.
control gaps identified and the mitigation plans put in place by management.
The Committee is satisfied that PwC is independent, objective and effective.
It reached this conclusion by The risk management process and findings are also reviewing PwCs internal control procedures, its reports to reviewed by the Committee and further details, along with the Committee and the challenges it made to the principal risks facing the Group, are given on page 34. managements treatment and findings on key Further information on internal control and the risk accounting issues.
The review included consideration of management system is also given in the Compliance PwCs confirmation that it remained independent and Report on pages 84 to 85. objective within the context of applicable professional standards.
The current audit partner has been in place for Internal audit two years.
All work carried out by Group Internal Audit is influenced The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the by the risk footprint and the Committee reviews the external audit process on an annual basis.
To assist the underlying factors to assess the quality of mitigating Audit Committee, PwC asks management to complete actions against the Groups principal risks.
an annual assessment to enable PwC and the The Committee does this by: Committee to understand performance on the audit and to help improve the quality of PwCs service to the Group.
Reviewing and approving the Internal Audit Plan on an annual basis to ensure that the approach, coverage and allocation of resources are appropriate.
Monitoring progress against the plan throughout the year to review control gaps identified.
com 51 Audit Committee Report continued Significant issues The following issues were identified by the Committee as being significant in the context of the financial statements or as matters of significance to the Group and were debated by the Committee during the year.
Inventory & The issue and managements view Management presented to the Committee a review of levels of inventory across the Group: the ageing profile: the level of Financing provisioning: and the financing structures in place.
The Committee reviewed inventory levels, ageing and provisioning by see note 17 market.
The Committee also reviewed details of the financing provided both by OEMs and third parties with a focus on liquidity and interest rate risk as well as the specific control environment.
on page 127 Conclusion reached by the Committee The Committee concluded that the controls in place supporting inventory ageing and provisioning were appropriate and functioning effectively.
Further, the Committee concluded that the inventory financing facilities in use are an effective and efficient way of managing working capital across the Group and that their use is effectively controlled.
The Committee agreed with management that despite no history of withdrawal, even through the global financial downturn, ultimately these facilities are uncommitted.
As a consequence, the Committee agreed that the Group maintain cash and undrawn committed facilities to cover at least 25% of total inventory financing as a form of protection against the unlikely event that the uncommitted lines are withdrawn with limited notice.
Rationale for the Committees conclusion The Committee reviewed detailed supporting data including a number of scenario models demonstrating the implications of financing stress tests.
Asset The issue and managements view Management presented a detailed overview of impairment testing to the Committee covering goodwill: a number of Impairment properties: and the capitalised assets associated with iPower.
The Committee reviewed and challenged value-in-use see notes calculations, sensitivity analysis and a review of the draft disclosure in the Financial Statements.
11 and 12 Conclusion reached by the Committee on pages The Committee concluded that the value-in-use of the properties reviewed exceeded book value and as such no impairment 120 to 122 was required.
The Committee agreed that the 48.0m non-cash exceptional impairment recommended by management against both the goodwill associated with Lithuania and Estonia and a proportion of the iPower assets was appropriate.
Rationale for the Committees conclusion Although the markets in Lithuania and Estonia are improving, the rate of improvement is not sufficient to support the carrying value of goodwill associated with the businesses in these markets.
Given the change in configuration of the iPower Retail solution to better support the Ignite strategy, a number of original iPower components will no longer be utilised.
Minimum The issue and managements view 2016 was the second year of audit against the MCF developed by the Group in 2013 2014.
The Committee conducted a Control detailed review of the progress against MCF in each market including a review of inventory controls in significant markets.
Framework The 2015 16 internal audits were based on the MCF as the core and consistent scope for all markets which includes a more MCF objective grading of compliance based on prescriptive and defined controls evidence.
see page Conclusion reached by the Committee 51 for The Committee concluded that engagement with and adherence to the MCF standards had improved with follow-through description and implementation of standards in all markets continuing.
Rationale for the Committees conclusion The Committee received updates from the Group Audit Director at each meeting setting out the compliance across the Group, detailed findings from audits and recommended mitigation plans for identified control gaps.
Chile The issue and managements view As reported last year, certain inconsistencies in the local accounting system arose during the implementation of the global iPower system in Chile.
Management initiated rectification activity to reconcile historic balances and established control processes to prevent recurrences until iPower is fully implemented.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the control procedures in detail to assess their appropriateness and effectiveness.
The Audit Committee agreed a full audit of Chile should be carried out which PwC performed at the year end and reported their findings to the Committee.
Conclusion reached by the Committee The Committee concluded that the control procedures implemented are fit for purpose noting that the implementation of iPower would deliver a more robust financial control environment in the future.
The Committee noted that the audit highlighted a significant improvement in the control environment and no issues above the Group reporting threshold.
Rationale for the Committees conclusion The Committee received reports from management which covered all aspects of the rectification activity, the control procedure implementation and the ongoing areas of risks and actions to mitigate risks.
The Committee also reviewed the results of PwCs local audit.
52 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Auditor effectiveness cont.
PwC obtained the views of the senior finance personnel in each of the Groups principal territories together with Group Finance, Tax and Company Secretariat, through completion of an audit effectiveness survey.
The survey consisted of a two page questionnaire in which respondents were asked to answer a number of questions about PwCs performance and give feedback on what could be improved.
The results indicated that the external audit was effective with scores similar to previous years and no significant issues were identified.
Audit tender Recent EU audit reforms require companies to put their audit out to tender at least every 10 years and to change their auditor at least every 20 years.
The transitional arrangements for mandatory rotation for relationships longer than 20 years mean that the year ending 31 December 2020 would be the last year that PwC are allowed to audit the Group.
The Audit Committee has previously agreed that PwC will continue through to audit the year ending 31 December 2017 and that we will tender the audit the following year.
The Committee recommended to the Board that a resolution to re-appoint PwC be put to shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
During the year, the Committee agreed the audit tendering timetable as set out below.
A report on the selection, tendering and evaluation process will be given in next years Annual Report.
Evaluation Recommendation Audit firm Determine Tender process selection shortlist begins The Audit Committee Audit Committee evaluates the tenders recommends the new Meetings with audit Draw up shortlist of Management meetings received from audit firm to the Board firms and prospective potential audit firms and site visits with participating audit for approval.
Induction partners to determine for approval by the prospective firms.
Tender firms and make of new auditor their capabilities Audit Committee documents issued to its selection commences in 2018 participating firms December 2016 August May 2017 June 2017 October 2017 April 2017 September 2017 Non-audit services The policy for non-audit services has been updated to take into account the new EU audit regulations and was approved by the Committee in February 2017.
The policy sets out the permitted and non-permitted non-audit services as well as the approval levels required by the Audit Committee.
The policy is designed to ensure that the external auditors objectivity is not compromised by earning a disproportionate level of fees for non-audit services or by performing work that, by its nature, may compromise the auditors independence.
However, using advisors who have an understanding of the Groups business can be a benefit and the Committee will consider non-audit services supplied on an ongoing basis.
The ratio of audit to non-audit fees for 2016 was 1:0.25.
A breakdown of the fees paid for audit and non-audit services is given in note 3 on page 109.
During 2016, PwC supplied the following non-audit services: Advice on cyber security Accounting advice Advice on tax compliance Advice on pension scheme arrangements As noted last year, it was agreed that firms other than PwC would be used for tax services from 1 January 2017.
JOHN LANGSTON Chair of the Audit Committee inchcape.
com 53 Nomination Committee Report appropriate succession plans can be put in place to assist with the scheduling of the progressive refreshment of the Board over time, and to ensure the Group has the right structure, skills and diversity of experience in place for the effective management of the Ignite strategy and creation of long-term shareholder value.
During the year, the skills review identified the technology sector as an area which could be further strengthened on the Board.
Due to the changing nature of the business and the evolution of the Ignite strategy, this is an area KEN HANNA which is likely to become increasingly important over time Chair of the Nomination Committee and as such was also a consideration when planning the succession of Board members.
Committee members The recruitment process for a new Non-Executive Director Alison Cooper left February 2017 began during 2015 and I am delighted to report that Rachel Empey joined May 2016 Rachel Empey was appointed in May 2016.
Rachel is John Langston Chief Financial Officer of Telefonica Deutschland and I Coline McConville am pleased to welcome Rachel to her first Non-Executive Nigel Northridge role.
An interview with Rachel is given on page 49.
Nigel Stein Alison Cooper left the Board in February 2017 after nearly Till Vestring eight years on the Board.
Alison has been an invaluable Length of service Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the report of the Nomination Committee for the year ended 31 December 2016.
This report should be read in conjunction with the 3 Compliance Report on pages 82 to 86.
4 0-3 years In order to ensure that the Company is headed by an 3-6 years effective Board, now and in the future, the Committee 6 years reviews the following on an annual basis: 3 Length of time served to ensure that progressive refreshing of the Board is considered on an ongoing Experience by sector basis.
Skills and experience to ensure that the Directors have the appropriate skills to assist with the delivery of 1 the Ignite strategy see pages 2 to 15 for further details of the Ignite strategy.
4 Time commitment to ensure that the Non-Executive 3 Financial Directors are able to give sufficient time to the Consultancy Company.
Retail Other appointments to ensure that the number of Engineering 2 other directorships held do not affect a Directors ability to commit the appropriate time to the Company.
Board balance The activities of the Committee are given in the table on page 55.
Board composition 3 The review of skills and experience is carried out by the Committee annually by way of a skills assessment Female completed by the Board members.
The length of service 7 Male of the Non-Executive Directors is also considered so 54 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS colleague and her knowledge and insight have been director of another company.
The Groups policy is to limit a great benefit to the Boards discussions.
As also non-executive directorship within a FTSE 100 company to announced, Jerry Buhlmann joined the Board in one appointment only.
Jerry is currently Chief Executive Officer of Stefan Bomhard was invited to become a Non-Executive Dentsu Aegis Network and brings extensive Asia, B2B, Director of Compass Group plc during the year.
The digital and marketing experience which will further Committee assessed the role, including the time strengthen the skills and experience on the Board to commitment needed and any potential conflicts of fully deliver on the Ignite strategy.
interest, and agreed to the appointment.
Details of the fees paid to Stefan by Compass Group plc are given on Appointment process page 77 of the Directors Report on Remuneration.
Egon Zehnder and Lygon Group were appointed to assist with the search for Non-Executive Directors and senior Diversity policy executives during the year.
They have both worked with The Committee recognises the benefits of having a the Group for several years and are familiar with the diverse Board and sees increasing diversity at Board level current Boards skills set and the potential requirements for as an essential element in delivering the Groups strategic the future.
During the recruitment process, I meet with the objectives.
The Company believes that a truly diverse consultants to review our needs and to draw up a long-list Board will include and make good use of differences of suitable candidates for consideration.
When a short-list in skills and industry experience as well as background, has been established, potential candidates will meet with race and gender.
These differences will be considered other Board members after which the Committee will in determining optimum composition of the Board, decide on the most suitable candidate and recommend which should be balanced appropriately.
All Board the appointment of the Non-Executive Director to the appointments are made on merit and in the context Board for its approval.
Neither Egon Zehnder nor Lygon of the skills and experience needed for the Board to Group has any other connection to the Company apart be effective.
The Company continually updates its list of potential candidates, taking into account the Ignite strategy and business needs of the Group, and should the situation arise when a Director departs unexpectedly, the recruitment process can begin immediately.
Multiple board appointments KEN HANNA Chairman The Committee understands that Executive Directors can gain valuable business experience as a non-executive Committee meeting Key activities March Approval of the Nomination Committee Report in Annual Report & Accounts, review of skills and experience, time commitment, policy on multiple board appointments, election re-election at AGM November Review of skills and experience, update on Board succession, review of length of service and review of three year term, independence of Non-Executive Directors, review of terms of reference and committee membership inchcape.
com 55 CR Committee Report however we are now taking the health and safety ethos forward and implementing a consistent culture of a healthy and safe workplace throughout the Group.
We conducted a global talent review in 2016, looking at how we can strengthen our talent pool to meet the expectations of our customers and our OEM partners and to accelerate growth.
Based on this, we are driving several initiatives including targeted succession planning and a new performance and talent framework, DRIVE5.
TILL VESTRING Chair of the CR Committee Listening to our key commercial stakeholders our customers and OEM partners has been an area of Committee members significant focus over the last year, and we have Stefan Bomhard developed strategies to continue to build long-term relationships that improve the customers experience, Alison Clarke and exceed our OEM partners expectations.
Ken Hanna Coline McConville Many of our country markets, as well as individuals, are involved in charitable activities.
The Company encourages community involvement, fund raising and donations both through Company partnerships and by Dear Shareholder individuals, and we will be encouraging more of this I am pleased to present the report of the CR Committee activity in more of our markets throughout the for the year ended 31 December 2016.
This report should coming year.
be read in conjunction with the Compliance Report on We have collected our CO data for several years and are 2 pages 82 to 86. now starting to look at the next step how to manage As mentioned in last years Annual Report, the Committee and reduce our carbon footprint through science-based decided to review the Groups CR strategy in line with the targets.
We are at an early stage of this process but are Ignite strategy see pages 2 to 15 for further details of the confident that we can contribute to global CO 2 Ignite strategy.
We asked ourselves: what issues are reductions in future years and achieve our business important to the Group and our employees: what makes objectives.
us a good corporate citizen, and what do our The Corporate Responsibility Report, on pages 39 to 43, stakeholders want to know about what we do, beyond shows the progress made in each of these areas and I do normal business operations, that adds value?
Above all, hope that you will find the information useful.
how do we build trust with stakeholders through our corporate responsibility activities?
We agreed that our core areas of focus people, OEM partners, customers, communities and the environment remain crucial to us as a business.
But it is our approach to these areas that we have developed.
And, we have TILL VESTRING added a new pillar, elevating the importance of Health Chair of the CR Committee and Safety to the Group.
Building a health and safety culture within the Group is important: our employees and stakeholders place their trust in us to protect their health and safety at all times on our premises.
We already have measures in place, Committee meeting Key activities March CR Committee Report in Annual Report & Accounts Review of CR strategy November Update of CR strategy, agreeing key CR themes, outline of reporting process, review of terms of reference and committee membership.
56 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2016
