Our strategy A year of progress The workstreams are critical to the overall success of The Ignite strategy has helped us to identify, Ignite, making them a key priority at the highest plan for and respond to the developments levels of the organisation.
For example, each of the that we are seeing in the automotive sector, sequential phases that form the workstreams is as well as maximising the opportunities that individually championed by a member of the Group will arise.
To maximise their positive impact on Inchcapes operations across the world, Social and technological changes are every phase is delivered locally and fully supported impacting businesses in every sector, not just through centralised resources.
And all Ignite activities the automotive industry or our own business.
are set within a clear governance framework that includes regular updates to both the Group As you will see, we are already taking action Executive Committee and the Board.
in several areas to help us leverage the opportunities they bring with them.
In 2016, the programmes focus was on mobilising teams across the Group and completing the Ignite comprises five strategic objectives detailed diagnostic work required to identify and described across the following pages with prioritise the most commercially significant value each being addressed by a dedicated levers.
It was also important early in the process to share quick wins across the Group and to design workstream or resource.
and launch trials of new innovations for global roll-out following proof of concept.
Actions undertaken during 2016 have already made a positive financial contribution, with more significant benefits anticipated for 2017 and beyond.
Lead in customer experience Invest to Become accelerate the OEMs To be the growth partner worlds most of choice trusted automotive Distributor & Retailer Leverage Deliver full our global potential on all scale our revenue streams View our strategy online at www.
com 10 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Leading in customer experience Activities in this strategic workstream serving customers in our retail centres focused on three key areas.
First, in a to ensure that our customer care As the global car industry major piece of customer research practices are in line with their and rapidly evolves, the purchasing across multiple brands and countries, our brand partners expectations.
behaviour and service-level we aimed to understand better what We have also begun to work much expectations of consumers are people really want from us at every more closely with our OEM partners clearly changing.
We will invest stage of the journey from buying a so that together we can identify to maintain our position as New or Used Vehicle to an ongoing specific opportunities to collaborate servicing relationship or simply living leader in customer service on further improving the with their car.
This enabled us to look innovation in automotive customer journey.
at how, when and where customers Distribution and Retail, with interacted with us, and at what the During 2017, our focus is on rolling digital a key priority.
opportunities to improve were across out successful solutions into our other three key areas of the journey: the markets, as well as trialling further digital, showroom and ownership new ways of addressing specific experiences.
Its findings are already areas for improvement covering the enabling teams across the world to decision, purchase and ownership make the customer experience more phases of the customer journey.
pleasurable, consistent We are also seeking to elevate the and personalised.
ways in which we measure customer We have launched two major pilot satisfaction, making them properly fit schemes, the first of which, in for the digital age.
We will then further partnership with Google, tested new evolve the ways in which we feed the marketing and communications resulting insights back into the technologies and processes that will business, so improving our processes, enable us to give customers the right training activities and customer information and support at the service standards, and making the moment they need it.
In the second Inchcape customer experience easy, pilot, we explored new ways of effective and enjoyable.
com 11 Becoming the OEM partner of choice weve worked hard to establish closer OEM relationships with Toyota and relationships between our brand Jaguar Land Rover.
We have a very strong portfolio teams where we represent a of brands.
We now need to build Additionally, significant progress has manufacturer in more than one been made in improving the on our OEM partnerships to country.
As a result, were doing better relationships with OEM partners at a ensure that we thoroughly at sharing best practice, bringing global level through Executive deserve to achieve the status of innovative new solutions to market meetings to ensure that our high more efficiently, and collaborating partner of choice across all our level objectives are aligned across borders to improve our relationships, and then to wherever possible.
These initiatives have proved Weve also trialled a set of strategic successful, not only in strengthening best-practice tools for account existing relationships and emerging management, helping us to work We will build and strengthen our opportunities for collaboration, but more effectively with OEM partners in working relationships with our also in our growing pipeline of areas including relationship and OEM partners by investing time potential business-development brand strategy development as well in understanding their needs, projects.
Such successes clearly as communication and collaboration.
seeking greater opportunities for confirm the importance of investing This includes understanding our OEM collaboration and sharing our insight in our partner relationships, partners own KPIs and addressing into customer and industry trends.
supporting the development of our them directly with our operational We will collaborate on bringing ambitious plans for further investment teams to ensure that our own new innovations to market and and engagement throughout 2017. measures are consistent with theirs.
exceeding their expectations to Were expanding brand-team deliver long-term mutual value An early success of this workstream collaboration across more OEM creation both for Inchcape and has been the establishment of partners, and rolling out other our OEM partners.
Partner Development Teams, our own successful trials into new markets.
In take on business to business Over 2016 we have taken some addition, we will proactively continue account management.
In 2016, we substantial early steps in delivering to seek further opportunities for OEM created new teams to manage our against this strategic objective.
First, collaboration to benefit them, ourselves and our shared customers.
12 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Delivering full potential from all our revenue streams We will increase our management We have also created a new focus on our Used Vehicles and blueprint for developing our Used Our markets have strong Aftersales activities at all levels of the Car operating model, which is being long-term structural growth organisation, enhancing their trialled in the UK and Australia during drivers, but the addressable perceived status within the business early 2017.
If successful, this will be market for Aftersales is set to and further deepening reporting rolled out during the year to other grow even faster than the New and analysis.
retail markets, such as Russia and China.
Other initiatives planned for Car market.
The Used Car Projects relating to this workstream 2017 include the trial of a wider set of market, which is typically a have included a thorough diagnosis solutions for global implementation multiple of the New Car market of our Aftersales business, through and the roll-out of our new Aftersales in most of our territories, is a which weve identified unexplored diagnosis tool-kit, which will help us opportunities for better asset further growth opportunity.
better identify the right sales levers to utilisation, customer retention and pull from market to market.
With three trials underway and four more in planning, we have The scope of this workstream is already seen some significant considerable and as a result of positive impacts that are improving identifying the opportunity to create workshop capacity and efficiency.
substantial additional value, we have These include an increase of subdivided it into three distinct between 8-10% in the retail labour initiatives: Used Cars, Finance & hours sold in one franchise in our UK Insurance and Aftersales.
Each of Retail business the result of a these has a dedicated stream lead straightforward decision to centralise and resource to further maximise the loading of the workshop diary.
opportunities afforded us through our considerable expertise in these areas.
com 13 Leveraging our global scale We will allocate more resources to introducing this to other brands in innovation, sharing and benefiting the UK during 2017 as well as into We want to exploit the full even more effectively from the proven other markets.
advantage of our unique ideas generated throughout the The Contact Centre implementation position in the market place to global organisation.
playbook is the first to have been fully share even more expertise and In 2016 we have successfully prepared in the Ignite programme.
best practice across our delivered a number of initiatives The purpose of the project is to organisation, leveraging our under this workstream.
These include centralise non face-to-face contacts global scale to improve the establishment of a global email, phone and live-chat, using collaborative working practices procurement function, which for the specialist contact handlers, and and generate cost savings first time gives all our operations consequently allowing our retail and shared processes and a common service centres to focus on their own through shared services and vision of the supply chain.
With some areas of expertise: dealing with our global purchasing.
of the clearest early successes of the customers in person.
Ignite strategy so far, the new Further initiatives during the year Procurement function delivered 4m include the launch of our new global savings in 2016, through market intranet, which is now underway, with activities that have been rolled out the aim of reaching each and every over the past year.
employee in the Company, and We also launched an energy-saving enabling much better knowledge programme that is already helping sharing across the business.
And we us to reduce our energy footprint will focus rigorously on sales planning and drive down costs.
And we and stock management to enable introduced centralised electronic better customer service and reduce lead-management for one of our the impact on the business of OEM brands in the UK, which is aged stock.
already delivering the double benefits of cost savings alongside increased revenue.
We are 14 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Investing to accelerate growth This has been a year of significant We are now focusing on the progress in our growth.
Not only did integration of the new business to The automotive Distribution we successfully obtain the Jaguar accelerate the Companys growth in and Retail markets are highly Land Rover contract in Thailand the the region.
Alongside these landmark fragmented: we apply a th worlds 20 largest automotive market, developments, we continued to disciplined use of capital to we also significantly expanded our make significant capex investments fuel further growth through operations in the fast-growing in our existing facilities to better meet markets of South America with the the needs of our OEM partners and selective participation in acquisition of a major Subaru and customers.
And we successfully market consolidation.
We Hino Distribution network in Chile, improved our project pipeline of have increased our business Peru, Colombia and Argentina.
potential new business development resources development opportunities.
This was the biggest Distribution to ensure we have the acquisition for Inchcape in over 20 management capabilities years, increasing our global footprint to participate in industry from 27 to 29 country markets, consolidation.
on-boarding 1,400 new employees and adding over 60 retail centres to our South American business.
Our OEM relationships were a key enabler for this transaction and we are becoming even more focused on the quality of our partnerships to ensure we can provide organic leadership support and access other M&A opportunities.
