Directors Report Board of Directors Auditor and disclosure of information to the auditor The Directors of the Company who were in office during the year and up to the date of signing the financial So far as the Directors are aware there is no relevant audit statements were: information of which the Companys auditor is unaware.
The Directors have taken all the steps that they ought to Stefan Bomhard have taken as Directors in order to make themselves Alison Cooper aware of any relevant audit information and to establish Rachel Empey joined May 2016 that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Ken Hanna Richard Howes joined April 2016 Directors indemnity John McConnell left February 2016 A qualifying third party indemnity QTPI, as permitted by Coline McConville the Companys Articles of Association and sections 232 Nigel Northridge and 234 of the Companies Act 2006, has been granted Nigel Stein by the Company to each of the Directors of the Company.
Till Vestring Under the provisions of the QTPI the Company undertakes In accordance with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance to indemnify each Director against liability to third parties Code, the Directors will stand for election or re-election at excluding criminal and regulatory penalties and to pay the Annual General Meeting AGM on 25 May 2017, Directors costs as incurred, provided that they are apart from John McConnell who left the Group in reimbursed to the Company if the Director is found guilty February 2016 and Alison Cooper who left the Group in or, in an action brought by the Company, judgment is February 2017.
Jerry Buhlmann was appointed as a given against the Director.
The indemnity has been in member of the Board in March 2017 and will stand for force for the financial year ended 31 December 2016 and election at the AGM.
until the date of approval of this Report.
The Directors Report for the year ended Share capital 31 December 2016 comprises pages 78 to 86 of this Report together with sections incorporated by reference.
As at 31 December 2016, the Companys issued share Some matters normally included in the Directors Report capital of 42,100,481 comprised 421,004,809 ordinary are included in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 43 shares of 10.0p.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to including future business development and risk receive the Companys Report and Accounts, to attend management.
Details on the breakdown of gender for and speak at General Meetings and to appoint proxies the Directors, senior managers and employees of the and exercise voting rights.
The shares do not carry any Company required to be given in the Strategic Report special rights with regard to control of the Company.
under the Companies Act 2006 are given on page 81 The rights are set out in the Articles of Association of of this Report.
Corporate governance statement Restrictions of transfer of securities The statement of compliance with the 2014 UK Corporate There are no restrictions or limitations on the holding of Governance Code and the information required under ordinary shares and no requirements for prior approval DTR7 is given in the Corporate Governance Report on of any transfers.
There are no known arrangements under page 48. which financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of the shares.
Shares acquired through the Results and dividends Company share schemes rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
The Groups audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 are shown on Authority to purchase shares pages 88 to 171.
The Board recommends a final ordinary dividend of 16.8p per ordinary share.
If approved at the At the Companys AGM on 26 May 2016, the Company 2017 AGM, the final ordinary dividend will be paid on was authorised to make market purchases of up to 23 June 2017 to shareholders registered in the books of 43,212,719 ordinary shares representing approximately the Company at the close of business on 19 May 2017.
10.0% of its issued share capital.
Together with the interim dividend of 7.0p per ordinary In the year ended 31 December 2016, the Company share paid on 3 September 2016, this makes a total purchased, for cancellation, 15,805,287 ordinary shares of ordinary dividend for the year of 23.8p per ordinary share 10.0p each at a cost of 108m, representing 3.75% of the 2015 20.9p.
issued share capital at that date, as part of the Boards commitment to return additional surplus cash to shareholders under the share buy back programme.
78 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS and the parent Company financial statements in Interests in voting rights accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom During the year, the Company had been notified of the Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally following interests pursuant to the Financial Conduct Accepted Accounting Practice.
Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The information below was correct at the date of notification.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the It should be noted that these holdings are likely to have financial statements unless they are satisfied that they changed since notified to the Company.
However, further give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group notification of any change is not required until the next and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group threshold is crossed.
In preparing these financial statements, Shareholder Number of shares Percentage notified the Directors are required to: Standard Life Investments 51,124,216 12.08% select suitable accounting policies and then apply BlackRock Inc 29,954,388 7.11% them consistently: Prudential plc 15,251,091 3.55% make judgements and accounting estimates that are Legal & General 12,952,096 3.07% reasonable and prudent: state whether IFRS, as adopted by the European Union Source TR-1 notifications.
These are updated on the Companys website.
and applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards, have been followed, subject to any material We have been notified of interests held in the company departures disclosed and explained in the Group and by Standard Life on 20 and 28 February and by BlackRock parent Company financial statements on 27 February.
respectively: and prepare the financial statements on the going Employee benefit trust concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume The Executive Directors of the Company, together with that the Company will continue in business.
other employees of the Group, are potential beneficiaries The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate of the Inchcape Employee Trust the Trust and, as such, accounting records that are sufficient to show and are deemed to be interested in any ordinary shares held explain the Companys transactions and disclose with by the Trust.
At 31 December 2016, the Trusts shareholding reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of totalled 770,102 ordinary shares.
the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure In respect of LR 9.8.
4R 12 and 13, the trustee of the Trust that the financial statements and the Directors Report on agrees to waive dividends payable on the shares it holds Remuneration comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, for satisfying awards under the various share plans.
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Directors interests They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of The table showing the beneficial interests, other than the Company and the Group and hence for taking share options, including family interests, in the ordinary reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of shares of the Company of the persons who were Directors fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible at 31 December 2016 is shown in the Directors Report on for the maintenance and integrity of the Remuneration on page 74.
There have been no changes to the number of shares Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the held by Directors between 31 December 2016 and preparation and dissemination of financial statements 28 February 2017. may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors responsibilities Each of the Directors who was in office at the date of this The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report whose names and responsibilities are listed on Report, the Directors Report on Remuneration and the pages 44 to 45, confirms that, to the best of financial statements in accordance with applicable law their knowledge: and regulations.
the Group financial statements, which have been Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the statements for each financial year.
Under that law the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, Directors have prepared the Group financial statements financial position and profit of the Group: and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union, inchcape.
com 79 Directors Report continued the Operating Review contained on pages 18 to 31 Conflicts of interest includes a fair review of the development and The Articles of Association permit the Board to authorise performance of the business and the position of the any matter which would otherwise involve a Director Group, together with a description of the principal risks breaching his duty under the Companies Act 2006 to and uncertainties that it faces.
When authorising a conflict of interest the Board must do so without the conflicting The Board has reviewed the content of the Annual Report Director counting as part of the quorum.
In the event that and Accounts and considers when taken as a whole that the Board considers it appropriate, the conflicted Director it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the may be permitted to participate in the debate, but will be information necessary for shareholders to assess the permitted neither to vote nor count in the quorum when Companys position and performance, business model the decision is being agreed.
The Directors are aware that and strategy.
it is their responsibility to inform the Board of any potential Going concern conflicts as soon as possible and procedures are in place to facilitate disclosure.
Having assessed the principal risks and the other matters discussed in connection with the viability statement on Change of control page 38, the Directors consider it appropriate to adopt The Company is not party to any significant agreements the going concern basis of accounting in the that would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change financial statements.
of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
Articles of Association However, certain of the Groups third party funding arrangements would terminate upon a change of The appointment and replacement of Directors is control of the Company.
governed by the Companys Articles of Association, the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies The Groups relationships with its OEM partners are Act 2006 and related legislation.
managed at Group level, but the relevant contracts are entered into at a local level with day-to-day management The Directors have authority to issue and allot ordinary being led by each operating business.
Certain of the shares pursuant to article 9 of the Articles of Association contracts may terminate on a change of control of the and shareholder authority is requested at each AGM.
Directors have authority to make market purchases for ordinary shares and this authority is also renewed The Company does not have agreements with any annually at the AGM.
Director or employee providing compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover The Articles of Association may be amended by a special bid, except for provisions in the rules of the Companys resolution of the shareholders.
Subject to the Articles, the share schemes which may result in options or awards Companies Act 2006 and any directions given by special granted to employees to vest on a takeover.
resolution, the business of the Company shall be managed by the Directors who may exercise all the Transactions with Directors powers of the Company.
No transaction, arrangement or agreement, other than remuneration, required to be disclosed in terms of the Companies Act 2006 and IAS 24, Related Parties was outstanding at 31 December 2016, or was entered into during the year for any Director and or connected person 2015 none.
Greenhouse gas emissions The information required under Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 in respect of greenhouse gas emissions is given in the Environment section of the Corporate Responsibility Report on page 43.
80 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Employees Other information Listing rules The Company is committed to a policy of treating all For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4 R, the information required to its colleagues and job applicants equally.
4 R can be found on the pages set committed to the employment of people with disabilities out below: and will interview those candidates who meet the Section Information Page minimum selection criteria.
1 Interest capitalised Not material to We provide training and career development for our the Group employees, tailored where appropriate to their specific 2 Publication of unaudited financial 76 TSR Graph information needs, to ensure they achieve their potential.
If an 4 Details of long-term incentive schemes 71-73 individual becomes disabled while in our employment, 5 Waiver of emoluments by a director Not applicable we will do our best to ensure continued development in 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a director Not applicable their role, including consulting them about their requirements, making appropriate adjustments and 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable providing suitable alternative positions.
8 Non pre-emptive issue by a major Not applicable subsidiary undertaking Employee involvement 9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed Not applicable subsidiary The information required under Schedule 7 of the Large 10 Contracts of significance Not applicable and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts 11 Provision of services by a controlling Not applicable and Reports Regulations 2008 in respect of employee shareholder involvement is given in the People section of the 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends 79 Corporate Responsibility Report on page 40.
13 Shareholder waiver of future dividends 79 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable Gender diversity The breakdown of the number of female and male Annual General Meeting employees who were i Directors of the Company ii The AGM will be held at 11.00 a. m. on Thursday, senior managers and iii employees of the Company as 25 May 2017 at Deutsche Bank AG, Winchester House, at 31 December 2016 is as follows: 1 Great Winchester Street, London EC2N 2DB.
The notice convening the meeting and the resolutions to be put to Male Female Total the meeting, together with the explanatory notes, are Board 7 70% 3 30% 10 given in the Circular to all shareholders.
Senior The auditors,  LLP, have indicated management 84 86% 14 14% 98 their willingness to continue in office.
A resolution to All employees 11,904 73% 4,309 27% 16,212 reappoint them as auditor will be proposed at the AGM.
Financial instruments The Directors Report and the Strategic Report were approved by the Board and have been signed by the The information required under Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts secretary of the Company.
and Reports Regulations 2008 in respect of financial instruments is given in note 23 to the financial statements on pages 131 to 137.
Principal financial risk factors TAMSIN WATERHOUSE These risks are shown on pages 32 and 38.
Group Company Secretary Events after the reporting period None.
com 81 Directors Report continued Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code This section sets out the Companys compliance with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
This section should be read in conjunction with the Corporate Governance Report as a whole, which is set out on pages 46 to 78.
The Role of the Board The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company and achieves this by setting its strategic aims whilst ensuring that the necessary financial and human resources are available.
The Board also ensures that the correct controls are in place to ensure the right culture exists throughout the organisation to achieve the objectives in a sustainable manner.
The Board also reviews the performance of management to monitor the progress of implementing the strategy.
Details of the Directors are given on page 45.
There is a schedule of formal matters reserved for the Board which can be found at www.
com governance The table below shows the Board and Committee meetings held during the year.
There were additional Board calls and Committee meetings throughout the year to discuss specific issues as they arose.
Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee CR Committee Name Scheduled attended Scheduled attended Scheduled attended Scheduled attended Scheduled attended Stefan Bomhard 6 6 2 2 Alison Cooper 6 5 4 4 2 2 Rachel Empey 3 3 2 2 1 1 Ken Hanna 6 6 2 2 2 2 2 2 Richard Howes 4 4 John Langston 6 6 4 4 2 2 John McConnell 1 1 Coline McConville 6 6 2 2 2 2 2 2 Nigel Northridge 6 6 4 4 2 2 2 2 Nigel Stein 6 6 4 4 2 2 Till Vestring 6 6 2 2 2 2 2 2 Richard Howes and Rachel Empey joined during the year.
John McConnell left during the year.
The Chairman The Chairman and Group Chief Executive have separate The Chairman sets the Boards agenda and a description roles and responsibilities.
of the changes to the Boards planning process, to take into account strategic discussions, is given on page 47 Ken Hanna is responsible for leading an effective Board, and details of the Boards strategy day are given on ensuring timely, accurate and relevant information is page 49. received, the composition of the Board and is Chair of the Nomination Committee.
Ken Hanna was considered independent upon appointment as Chairman.
Stefan Bomhard is responsible for developing the Groups strategy, running the day-to-day operations, reporting to A.
Non-Executive Directors the Board on performance, implementation of strategy The Non-Executive Directors are appointed to offer a wide and any significant developments, leading the Group range of skills and experience in order to challenge Executive Committee including managing risk and management and help develop strategy.
The Noninternal control and engaging with shareholders.
Executive Directors make up the Committees which have Their responsibilities are set out at appointment and are responsibilities for various aspects and details of their work agreed by the Board.
Nigel Northridge is the Senior Independent Director and is available to shareholders if they do not want to speak to the Chairman or the Group Chief Executive Officer.
82 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Non-Executive Directors meet without the Executive B.
Development Directors on an annual basis and also meet without the All Directors receive a tailored induction programme Chairman to discuss his performance.
upon appointment designed to ensure that they have sufficient knowledge of the business and the context in If a Director has a concern about the running of the which it operates.
The induction consists of one-to-one Company which cannot be resolved it would be meetings with Executive Committee members and other recorded in the Board minutes.
No such concerns arose key management and a site visit designed to give the in 2016.
Director an in-depth understanding of the Retail and Distribution businesses.
Effectiveness The Non-Executive Directors are expected to update their B.
The composition of the Board knowledge and skills regularly and training is provided for The skills, experience and independence of the Directors the Board and individual Directors as required.
During the are reviewed by the Nomination Committee and further year, external experts are invited to Board meetings to details can be found on pages 54.
The Board is satisfied speak on relevant topics to give additional insight and that all Non-Executive Directors are considered context to the business.
During the year, the Board independent in accordance with the Code.
The Board received professional advice and training on the Market consists of the Chairman, seven Non-Executive Directors Abuse Regulations which came into force on 3 July 2016. and two Executive Directors.
The Chairman discussed any training or development B.
Appointments to the Board needs of each Director during the evaluation process.
The Nomination Committee consists of seven members B.
5 Information and support all of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors and The Group Company Secretary is responsible for is chaired by Ken Hanna.
Its terms of reference can be ensuring the Board has access to relevant and accurate found at www.
The Board agendas are agreed in advance Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a period of by the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive and three years.
After each three year period the performance include regular items such as reports from the Group of the Director is reviewed by the Chairman, and the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and Investor Committee will approve any further terms.
The reports include information on operational are subject to annual re-election at the AGM.
matters, financial performance and strategic developments.
Regional updates, designed to give a Nigel Northridge has been a member of the Board for deeper view of the markets, are given throughout the over six years and his tenure has been taken into account year by the relevant market Chief Executive Officers.
when reviewing the composition of the Board and is subject to rigorous review.
The Group Company Secretary also supports the Board by providing advice and services, including access to B.
Commitment independent advice, and ensures that an accurate The Directors are required to allocate sufficient time to the record of the meeting is taken.
If a Director has any Company to discharge their responsibilities and the concerns about the Company or any of the decisions Board dates are agreed two years in advance to ensure being taken, this would be recorded in the minutes.
No that Directors are able to plan accordingly and for other such concerns arose during 2016. commitments to be taken into account.
Non-Executive Directors are informed of the time commitment expected B.
6 Evaluation from them upon appointment and this is reviewed The Company undertakes an evaluation of the Board annually to ensure that the time expected is still relevant every year with every third year being an externally in light of the Companys strategic agenda.
facilitated evaluation by an independent consultant.
The internal evaluations take the form of a Company Other directorships held by Directors are given in their Secretary-led questionnaire or a Chairman-led interviewbiographies on page 45.
The Company has a policy of based evaluation.
Internal evaluations typically look at one non-executive directorship for the Executive Directors.
oversight responsibilities which include strategy, finance, Stefan Bomhard was appointed as a Non-Executive performance, the market, investor relations, talent and Director of Compass Group plc.
Details of the fees paid to succession planning, reputation, risk and governance.
him are given on page 77 of the Directors Report on Board effectiveness and the performance of the Remuneration.
The letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors are available at the AGM and upon request.
com 83 Directors Report continued The Group Finance department, which is responsible B.
7 Re-election for producing the consolidated financial statements, All Directors will stand for election or re-election at the consists of appropriately qualified individuals.
AGM apart from Alison Cooper who left the Board in Management regularly monitors developments in February 2017.
The biographies of the Directors can be accounting regulations and considers the impact on found on page 45 and the Board has set out its views on the consolidated financial statements.
why the Directors should be elected or re-elected in the Notice of Meeting.
For each external reporting period, a set of group reporting instructions are distributed to each market.
C Accountability The local finance teams are required to confirm that they have read and understood all instructions.
C. 1 Financial and business reporting The financial statements of each local market are During the year the Board reviewed the Annual Report subject to a review by a local finance manager prior to and Accounts, the interim results and any other trading being submitted to Group Finance.
updates which are released to the public.
During each The Group Finance department will review the review the Board challenged management on the submissions of each market to look for unusual or assumptions and judgements used taking into account unexpected items.
Any unexplained items are queried the strategy, business model, resources and future trends with local management.
The Groups consolidation, which takes the results of the The Board is responsible for presenting a fair, balanced local markets and makes appropriate adjustments, is and understandable assessment of the Groups position reviewed as appropriate by members of the Group and prospects.
The Board is satisfied that appropriate Finance team.
processes are in place to enable it to make this statement and to provide the necessary information on position and The draft consolidated financial statements are performance, business model and strategy to allow users reviewed by a qualified individual independent of the to make a fair assessment of the business.
A statement of team who prepared them.
the Directors responsibilities is set out on pages 79 to 80.
The Audit Committee and the Board review the draft The going concern statement is set out on page 80 consolidated financial statements.
The Audit The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining Committee receives reports from management and adequate internal controls of regular financial reporting the external auditor on significant judgements and for the Group, including the consolidation process.
other matters of relevance to the financial statements.
Internal controls over the financial reporting framework The financial statements of all material local markets are designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding are subject to external audit.
the reliability of financial reporting as well as the The business model and strategy can be found on preparation of the financial statements in accordance pages 2 to 15. with IFRS.
The Internal Audit team regularly assess the The going concern statement is given on page 80. effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting as well as the preparation of financial statements based C. 2 Risk management and internal control on the framework contained in the FRC guidance The Board is responsible for determining the nature and on risk management, internal control and related extent of the risks it is willing to take to achieve its strategic financial and business reporting and the UK Corporate objectives.
The Board carries out a robust review of the Governance Code.
There have been no significant principal risks facing the Company on an annual basis changes to the control environment and the Board has and the Audit Committee reviews certain risks on an concluded that the Groups internal system of controls ongoing basis as part of their delegated responsibilities.
over financial reporting was effective during the year.
Further information on the significant issues considered The risk management and internal control system is by the Audit Committee during the year are given on designed to ensure: page 52. risks are identified, evaluated and mitigated: Preparation of consolidated accounts information is reliable, accurate and timely: All data to be consolidated into the Groups financial we comply with plans, procedures, laws, regulations statements is reviewed thoroughly by management to and contracts: ensure that it gives a true and fair reflection of the assets including people are safeguarded: financial position of the Group.
The Group has established resources are used effectively and efficiently: and the following internal controls in relation to the process for preparing consolidated financial statements: objectives and goals are met.
84 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The principal risks are built from a bottom-up review Bank balances are reviewed daily and cash flows overlaid with a top-down view from the Executive and compared with budgets weekly.
The Group Executive Committee Each business unit is required to implement a rigorous identifies the key risks and develops mitigation plans for set of internal controls covering operations, financial managing those risks.
The Audit Committee monitors and and compliance.
The Chief Executive and Finance challenges the outputs.
Director of each business unit will provide annual written confirmation that the effectiveness of the In order to ensure that we are addressing each of the internal control systems has been reviewed, adhered to principal risks in the most effective manner, the risks are and remains appropriate.
analysed according to those underlying factors which may contribute to the primary risk.
Breaking down the risks Appropriate regulatory training including anti-bribery is into such causal factors facilitates the creation of a in place in all business units and is monitored by the robust, comprehensive assurance map.
This assurance map is then monitored at the Group iPOM Further information on the Groups internal control system, Committee and by the Board to determine the level of risk MCF, can be found in the Audit Committee Report on against our risk appetite and whether further actions are pages 50 to 53. required either in certain business units or Group-wide to The process is designed to manage rather than eliminate manage the risk to within acceptable parameters.
Where the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
In further actions are identified, these are monitored and establishing and reviewing the system of internal control, tracked to completion.
the Directors have regard to the nature and extent of the The Group uses an online risk management and relevant risks, the likelihood of loss being incurred and the reporting solution to monitor its risks and associated costs of control.
The system can only provide a action plans at Group level and at market level.
This, reasonable but not absolute assurance against any along with the iPOM risk management dashboard material mis-statement or loss and cannot eliminate reviewed at both Group and market level, ensures the business risk.
correct focus on risk management and mitigation at all The Board has determined that there were no significant management levels of the business.
failings or weaknesses identified during the review of the A description of risks, an explanation of how they are risk management and internal control processes during being managed and mitigated and the Boards viability the year and further confirm that these systems were in statement can be found in the Risk management report place during 2016 and up to the date of this Report.
C. 3 Audit Committee and the auditors The key control processes, described below, enable the It is the role of the Audit Committee to ensure the integrity Directors to review the effectiveness of the risk of the financial reporting and audit processes, to ensure management and internal control systems on an sound internal control and risk management systems are ongoing basis: in place, to review the Groups whistleblowing procedures The Annual Operating Plan AOP is reviewed and and to ensure there is an appropriate relationship with approved by the Board.
Monthly actual results are reviewed by management The Audit Committee Terms of Reference can be found at against the AOP and, where appropriate, revised www.
forecasts are presented to the Board.
The Audit Committee consists of five independent Financial information is reported to the Board on a Non-Executive Directors.
John Langston, Alison Cooper, monthly basis including cash flow, balance sheet and Rachel Empey and Nigel Stein are qualified chartered key performance indicators.
accountants and are considered to have recent and Key operational and compliance processes and relevant financial experience.
In addition, the Committee controls are reviewed regularly by Group Internal Audit as a whole has competence in Retail which is the sector and the findings are reported to the Audit Committee in which the Company operates.
The Committee met four times during the year to coincide The Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the with the financial calendar.
Only members of the Minimum Control Framework MCF throughout the Committee are entitled to attend Committee meetings.
The Audit Committee did not identify any However, the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Chief significant control failings.
Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller and Group Clearly defined authority limits including capital Audit Director attend the Committee meetings along with expenditure approval procedures.
Other senior executives, such as the inchcape.
com 85 Directors Report continued Group Tax Director and General Counsel, attend during The views of shareholders are communicated to the the year to present to the Committee.
Board after each meeting and through regular Investor Relations reports, and analysts and brokers briefings.
The Group has an externally hosted whistleblowing line in place.
InConfidence is a compliance and ethics 2016 AGM reporting solution which allows both hotline and web Last year, the 2015 Annual Report of Remuneration was reporting capabilities in multiple languages, integrated passed by the majority of shareholders, however 36.5% of with case management software to support efficient and votes were cast against.
The Chairman and Remuneration effective investigation, remediation and reporting.
Committee Chair engaged with our shareholders to fully Further details of the work of the Audit Committee can be understand their concerns prior to, and after, the AGM as found on pages 50 to 53. part of the remuneration policy process.
Shareholders confirmed that the vote against primarily D. Remuneration related to the disapplication of time pro-ration for former Group Finance Director John McConnells 2014 PSP D. 1 Level and components of remuneration award upon his departure from the Group.
Details of the remuneration paid to the Directors of the Group are given in the Directors Report on Remuneration As a result of those conversations we understand that on pages 57 to 77. many of our shareholders prefer for outstanding incentives to be time pro-rated as well as pro-rated for D. 2 Procedure performance.
The Remuneration Committee has taken It is the role of the Remuneration Committee to ensure on board this preference and will appropriately pro-rate that remuneration arrangements support the strategic if this situation arises again.
aims of the business and enable the recruitment, motivation and retention of senior executives while also E2.
Constructive use of General Meetings complying with the requirements of regulation.
The AGM gives shareholders an opportunity to meet the Board and ask any questions they have regarding the Its terms of reference can be found at www.
The Board encourages participation of private com governance and details of the remuneration shareholders at the AGM: however, the Board understands consultants can be found on page 77 of the Directors that it is not always possible for shareholders to attend.
Shareholders are encouraged to contact the Company The Remuneration Committee consists of three with any questions they wish to raise with the Board independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
The Committee invites other individuals such as the The Company complies with the Code as it relates to Group Chief Executive, Chief Human Resources Officer voting, the proposal of separate resolutions on each and external consultants to attend its meetings.
substantially separate issue and the attendance of the No Director takes any part in any decision affecting Committee Chairs at the AGM.
Details of the voting at the his or her own remuneration.
AGM are available on the Companys website.
The limit to Non-Executive Director fees is set out in the The Group is committed to reducing its impact on the Companys Articles of Association, a copy of which is environment and encourages shareholders to receive available at www.
communications electronically to reduce paper usage.
Further details can be found in the Directors Report on Shareholders can also register for news alerts via email.
Remuneration given on pages 57 to 77.
Please visit the website www.
com investors for more information.
It is important for shareholders to E. Relations with shareholders receive communications in the form most appropriate to their needs and they can change the way they receive E. 1 Dialogue with shareholders information at any time.
As the Company is putting a new remuneration policy to shareholders at the 2017 AGM, a consultation took place The Companys registrars, Computershare, act as with major shareholders during the year.
Further details scrutineers at the AGM and ensure that the votes are are given in the Directors Report on Remuneration on correctly counted and recorded.
All Directors are required to attend the AGM.
In addition, Ken Hanna met with several major shareholders to discuss various strategic and governance issues and to ensure that the Company is fully aware of shareholders views and expectations of the Group.
86 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial Statements 88 Consolidated income statement 89 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 90 Consolidated statement of financial position 91 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 92 Consolidated statement of cash flows 93 Accounting policies 100 Notes to the financial statements 145 Five year record 146 Report of the auditors Group 153 Company statement of financial position 154 Company statement of changes in equity 155 Accounting policies 157 Notes to the financial statements 170 Report of the auditors Company Other information 172 Shareholder information inchcape.
