Board of Directors A trusted team Standing: Left to right Richard Howes, Coline McConville, Rachel Empey, Nigel Stein, John Langston, Nigel Northridge, Till Vestring, Alison Cooper Seated: Left to right Ken Hanna, Stefan Bomhard Full biographies, including past employment history, can be found on www.
com 44 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ken Hanna In January 2017, we announced that member of the supervisory board of Alison would retire from the Board at TUI AG.
Chairman the end of February 2017.
Appointed: September 2001 Committee membership: Alison is a chartered accountant.
Chair of Remuneration Committee Skills and experience: Ken has extensive international and member of Nomination and Committee membership: CR Committees.
financial experience gained in a Audit and Nomination Committees.
He also Nigel Northridge Rachel Empey possesses strong leadership and Senior Independent Director governance skills obtained in a Non-Executive Director Appointed: July 2009 variety of leading UK plcs, including Appointed: May 2016 Cadbury plc and Aggreko plc.
Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Nigel brings international and Rachel is Chief Financial Officer of Other appointments: commercial experience acquired Telefonica Deutschland and is also Chair of Aggreko plc.
He is an responsible for strategy and Committee membership: experienced Non-Executive Director innovation.
She led the largest IPO in Chair of the Nomination Committee, and has served as a director on Europe in 2012 to take Telefnica member of Remuneration and the boards of several large UK and Deutschland public and has CR Committees.
experience in technology, finance and strategy.
Other appointments: Stefan Bomhard Chairman of Hogg Robinson plc and Group Chief Executive Rachel is a chartered accountant.
Vice-Chairman of Scandinavian Appointed: April 2015 Committee membership: Tobacco Group A S. Skills and experience: Audit and Nomination Committees.
Committee membership: Stefan has senior level experience John Langston gained in a wide range of retail and Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees.
Prior to joining the Non-Executive Director Group, he was President of Bacardi Appointed: August 2013 Nigel Stein Limiteds European region and was Skills and experience: Non-Executive Director also responsible for Bacardis global John has corporate finance, Appointed: October 2015 commercial organisation and global accounting and international travel retail.
Skills and experience: experience acquired in senior Nigel became Chief Executive financial roles in the engineering Other appointments: of GKN in January 2012.
He is an experienced NonNon-Executive Director of a wide range of international, Executive Director who has a strong Compass plc.
general management and finance governance background and was experience gained in various Richard Howes the Audit Committee Chair of Rexam roles at GKN plc and also has Chief Financial Officer PLC until its sale to Ball Group in 2016. experience in the automotive Appointed: April 2016 John is a chartered accountant.
Skills and experience: Committee membership: Nigel is a chartered accountant.
Richard has a wealth of experience Chair of Audit Committee and across the financial and commercial Committee membership: member of Nomination Committee.
sectors, working for multi-site Audit, Remuneration and Nomination businesses with substantial global Coline McConville Committees.
He joined the Group from Non-Executive Director Till Vestring Coates plc where he was Chief Appointed: June 2014 Financial Officer.
Non-Executive Director Skills and experience: Appointed: September 2011 Richard is a chartered accountant.
Coline has a wealth of strategy, Skills and experience: consultancy and communications Alison Cooper Till is a Senior Partner with Bain & Co, experience gained in a variety of Non-Executive Director based in Singapore.
He has extensive senior roles.
Coline also has extensive experience advising multinationals on Appointed: July 2009 remuneration experience as the Skills and experience: growth strategy across Asia and Remuneration Committee Chair of leading Asian companies on strategy, Alison is Chief Executive of Imperial Travis Perkins plc and Fevertree plc Brands plc and since her M&A and organisation.
and of TUI Travel plc until its merger appointment in 2010 has led the with TUI AG.
Coline is an experienced Other appointments: development and implementation of Non-Executive Director and has Non-Executive Director of Keppel Imperials sustainable growth strategy.
served as a director on several Corporation.
Alison also has financial and UK boards.
Committee membership: commercial experience gained from Other appointments: Chair of CR Committee and member a number of senior roles she has held Non-Executive Director of Fevertree of Remuneration and Nomination since she joined Imperial in 1999.
Drinks plc, Travis Perkins plc and a Committees.
