STRATEGIC REPORT OUR MARKETS THE PATH AHEAD 12 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS There are several consistent themes that influence demand and shape the Groups focus analytics human and machine, as well as evolution in global data nforma continues to grow and build scale in a broad protection, security, and ethical and governance frameworks to range of international markets and industry verticals within the Knowledge and Information Economy, each keep it all in check.
with their own characteristics and dynamics.
There are I The creation of connections between seemingly disparate data several consistent themes across these markets, at sets, generated in siloed environments, is also vital and will for now, botha macro and micro level, which influence demand trends rely on human innovation, and the capacity to imagine how a new forour products and services and help shape the Groups future combination of assets can produce a better product or outcome.
To deliver on this, companies providing intelligence, content and To provide a sense of these dynamics, subject matter experts data, as well as software and technology players, and academic from within Informa have contributed insights on three such and government institutions, will increasingly work together to themes: the growth of big data, the health of the US economy, develop 360-degree views of the customer, business or societal and the continued rise of specialism.
challenge they seek to solve.
Further information on how our businesses are adapting to meet It will no longer be sufficient to own the richest content sets, the challenges and opportunities presented by these trends can faster machines, better algorithms, bigger audiences.
The best be found in the Divisional Reviews starting on page 36. solutions will come from organisations and disruptors that draw lines through those assets looking for information synergies.
Theywill come from players that recognise customers and organisations want a real value exchange for sharing their data and intellectual property.
They will come from innovators who livethe challenges of their industrys specialist community.
This will drive new business models.
Publishers, information providers and business media players have learnt to monetise content directly Lara Boro, through paid-for products, or indirectly through advertising and Group Managing Director, marketing services.
They will now be able to addto their revenue mix Business Intelligence the monetisation of content via new partner channels for co-created offerings, and the monetisation of audiences though permissionbased use of their data for newproducts.
THE PROMISE OF BIG DATA These opportunities bode well for business media.
Unique, proprietary, enriched data will continue to attract a premium as itis difficult to substitute with cheaper or free sources of data generated The proliferation of connected devices personal, professional as digital fumes or by-products of other data collection processes.
andindustrial is driving a data revolution.
Fifty billion objects are Brands continue to be essential, flying the flag for ethical and predicted to be online by 2020, six times more than there are trustworthy value exchanges between businesses, customers and people.
Soon the majority of human and machine transactions, audiences in specialist communities.
Leaders in leveraging Big Data communication, peer to peer connections and operational will partner beyond their sectors to deliver disruptive innovation, processes will be captured, codified and analysed in the search for morphing business media beyond its current borders into the value-creating predictive insights.
Used wisely, Big Data will help neighbouring realms of technology, digital services and beyond.
drive better customer experience, improve operational efficiency, deliver faster innovation and solve big societal challenges.
Read about how Business Intelligence worked with MITs Laboratory The promise of Big Data relies on continued advances in for Financial Engineering to apply Big Data models to find predictive signals in clinical trial data in our Sustainability Report.
processing speed, storage capacity and increasingly powerful 13 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR MARKETS CONTINUED David Ader, Chief Macro Strategist, Informa Global Markets, Business Intelligence OPTIMISM AND UNCERTAINTY IN THE US ECONOMY View more online: informa.
com investors ourmarkets Since the elections the mood has been euphoric here in the US.
Consumer confidence stands at its highest level since 2001 and the National Federation of Independent Business Optimism NET FLOWS FOR SELECT MUTUAL FUND GROUPS, Index surged to its highest level in 12 years.
Rallies in stocks, 9 NOV 18 JAN % OF ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT thedollar and rises in bond yields also manifested in the post-election excitement.
Japan Money Markets 16.49 Whether this optimism will be rewarded rests on how the Trump Financials Sector-Equity 17.89 administration performs, and because this is difficult to confidently predict, the United States faces a considerable level of economic Bank Loan Bond 18.09 uncertainty in 2017.
Russia Equity 24.73 The assumptions many are working on include that lower payroll Industrial Sector-Equity 48.67 taxes will boost incomes whilst lower corporate taxes will increase earnings.
Spending on infrastructure will raise GDP as well as All Emerging Markets Bond -1.80 thefederal deficit and long-term Treasury issuance.
Lower taxes Municipal Bond -3.31 make municipal bonds less attractive.
Better growth will boost the dollar and inflation, leading the Federal Reserve to increase China Equity -4.20 interest rates a few more times in 2017 and encouraging a Mortgate Backed Bond -4.57 steeper yield curve that will benefit banks, but not homebuyers oremerging markets.
Source: EPFR Global Markets have discounted these factors to a degree, illustrated bythe post-election mutual fund flows see table, right tracked by Informas EPFRGlobal, which show industrial and financial sector fundsattracting fresh money while emerging markets  funds have suffered.
The unknowns that remain include the magnitude of increased Another unknown is how US corporations will deal with lower spending or tax cuts, or how a Republican Congress will respond taxes.
Historically, they have focused on buybacks and dividends to expanding the federal deficit.
Republican lawmakers tend to using cash raised via bond issuance, but not generally used that bemore interested in cutting taxes and at least rhetorically money for investment.
keeping public spending under control.
Where they converge President Trump pledges to Make America great again but with Trump and his reflationary,  economic onething hecannot promise is to make America young again.
plans for the US is the need to cut the regulatory burden on In2016, theUS population grew by 0.7%, the slowest rate since business.
But you cant cherry pick one thing, like tax cuts, theGreat Depression.
The population is rapidly aging, which can without considering the potentially detrimental effect of tariffs impact economic growth because older people tend to spend andtrade barriers.
And as fiscal policy shifts, it implies a reduced role for the Federal Any way you look at it, 2017 is destined to be as intriguing and Reserve, which will increasingly become more dependent on interesting a period for the US economy and political landscape theimpact of fiscal measures than it has been for several years, as we have seen for many years.
making its own forecasts subject to even greater uncertainties.
14 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Jeremy North, Managing Director, Global Books, Academic Publishing BREADTH AND DEPTH IN SPECIALISMS View more online: informa.
com investors ourmarkets The business of Academic Publishing is often discussed in broad brush categories humanities and the social sciences, orscience, technology and medicine.
These categories serve an We partner with world-class authors at the top of their fields, important function in discovery but they also hide a growing trend promoting discovery across a diverse range of sectors, through in the sector: that of increasing levels of specialism this is a key the publication of more than 2,400 journals and over 6,000 driver of growth.
booksevery year for all levels of academic study and .
In a world of increasing volumes of information, data and free material, the demand for highly specialised and detailed content But a vastly diverse portfolio can leave researchers seeking is increasing.
Upper level students and academics plough deeper adigital needle in a content haystack.
The solution to this is and deeper into niche areas of study, and academic publishing discoverability making sure the right content is found by the businesses like ours have responded in kind.
right person at the right time.
For example, Informa is the world leader in the academic study Discoverability is crucial to our continued success.
If academics ofWitchcraft, just one of thousands of specialised topics and can find our content when they are researching a subject, this communities we cater for.
We produce thousand-page text drives usage and usage can be monetised.
This is why all of our books that undergraduate criminology students regard as front-list titles are available digitally, as well as over 70% and indispensable, as well as highly technical hardbacks written growing of our backlist.
This industry is not immune to the headwinds caused by political In some cases, authors and individual works can be the basis and economic uncertainty around the world, but increasing both ofan entire discipline.
The Informa archives count Freud, Einstein, breadth and depth in the portfolio gives us greater resilience in Russell and Sartre amongst those who have become synonymous achallenging market, and a route to further growth.
New areas emerge every year in response to increased interest, new sources of funding, and a more granular approach to what might have previously fallen under broader topic matter.
Good examples would be gender studies andsustainability.
Behind each discipline, and every artefact published, is a relatively small network of highly knowledgeable specialists.
These networks typically comprise authors, peer reviewers, institutions, funding bodies, those cited and those who will goonto cite the work in future works.
To meet the needs of such specialists as well as the evolving tastes and requirements of consumers, publishers need to combine depth of content with breadth of subject areas and categories if they are to succeed.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR MARKETS: US EXPANSION IN FOCUS BUILDING BALANCE AND BREADTH IN THE US In all of the markets in which Informa operates Business information, Exhibitions and events, VANCOUVER and Academic Publishing the US typically CANADA leads the industry in innovation and has robustand consistent levels of growth.
After a portfolio review in 2013, we identified opportunities in theUS and recognised the Groups relative lack of scale in the region.
At that time, we had some US presence in Academic Publishing and a small position in Business Intelligence, but noUS Global Exhibitions operations.
As a result, one of GAPs key objectives has been to grow internationally and specifically in the US, leading to a targeted anddisciplined US acquisition strategy to add capability and capacity for future scale, with particular emphasis on Exhibitions.
The approach has been measured and methodical, focusing on building strength in verticals where we already have knowledge BOULDER COLORADO and connections and gradually establishing a solid infrastructure.
The Group has moved from a standing start to having a sustainable and successful operating and management structure across the region, with further opportunities to expand and grow.
SAN FRANCISCO CALIFORNIA Informas first entry into US Exhibitions was in the Health &Nutrition Vertical with the acquisition of Virgo Publishing, ownerofSupplySide West, the US equivalent of Informas Vitafoods in Europe.
PHOENIX ARIZONA approximately 43% COUNTRY HEADQUARTERS 3,000 Revenues from New York US in 2016 US Colleagues The Groups US headquarters are in New York, with sizeable Academic Publishing and Business Intelligence teams.
Toronto is the Groups Canadian headquarters.
16 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS The Group next expanded in construction and real estate throughthe addition of Hanley Wood Exhibitions, adding 17major exhibitions brands and bringing an experienced andknowledgeable management team with the ambition and capacity to deliver more events.
This laid the foundation for other additions in verticals including Pop Culture Orlando Megacon, circa 55% Sustainability & Waste WWETT and Life Sciences FIME.
US share of global spend on Our US presence in academic publishing has also continued business intelligence and togrow, most recently through the addition of Maney Publishing information services in 2015, a leading academic journals publisher with strength inmaterials science and engineering, the humanities, and healthscience.
These investments and the capabilities built up over the last $13bn fouryears gave Informas management team and Board the confidence to pursue a US-based acquisition of greater scale total size of US tradeshow market inlate 2016, with Penton Information Services.
CONTENT HUBS Boca Raton, Florida Our US content hubs include an Academic Publishing presence in Florida, as well as in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania TORONTO CANADA BOSTON MASSACHUSSETS NEW YORK CLEVELAND BOULDER NEW YORK OHIO COLORADO OVERLAND PARK PHILADELPHIA KANSAS PENNSYLVANIA VERTICAL HUBS Dallas, Texas Key vertical hubs in the US include Dallas, Texas, home to 17 trade shows including World of Concrete, Greenbuild and The International Surfaces Event in Real Estate & Construction.
Vancouver DALLAS TEXAS is our Canadian vertical hub.
FORT LAUDERDALE FLORIDA SARASOTA FLORIDA BOCA RATON FLORIDA SHARED SERVICE CENTRES Sarasota, Florida The Groups US-based Shared Service Centres each support different elements of our North America Divisional operations 17 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016
