78 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its During 2016, there continued to be ongoing communications through a shareholders to ensure that its strategy and performance are understood combination of face-to-face meetings, phone calls and email correspondence and that it remains accountable to shareholders.
The Board as a whole is with many investors regarding remuneration issues.
Before the 2017 AGM, responsible for ensuring that a good dialogue with shareholders is maintained, an update was provided to several significant and influential shareholders whilst the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer also ensure that regarding the new Remuneration Policy which would be put forward to the views of shareholders are communicated to the Board as a whole.
The shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
Further information about the new Board ensures that the Groups strategic plans have been carefully reviewed Remuneration Policy is contained in the covering letter from the Remuneration in terms of their ability to deliver long-term shareholder value.
Committee Chairman, in the Remuneration Policy and Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 80 and 81.
Each year, the Company undertakes a comprehensive programme of communication with investors and analysts, in order to increase understanding The Board obtains feedback from its joint corporate brokers, J. P. Morgan of the business amongst the investment community and broaden our investor Cazenove and Credit Suisse, on the views of institutional investors on a base over time.
In 2016 the reach and content of this programme was stepped non-attributed and attributed basis.
Any concerns of major shareholders up significantly as our new GX constellation reached Commercial Service would be communicated to the Board by the Executive Directors.
As a matter Introduction, the Aviation opportunity became even more important and the of routine, the Board receives regular reports on issues relating to share price competitive pressures in our industry grew.
More than 700 meetings or calls and trading activity, and details of movements in institutional investor were held with investors and analysts in order to help explain these issues and shareholdings.
The Board is also regularly provided with current analyst improve overall understanding of Inmarsats unique position within the industry.
Investor and analyst presentations took place after the full year, interim and ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING quarterly results announcements, with those at the full year and interims being in person and those at the other two quarters being by webcast and Shareholders are welcome at the Companys AGM where they will have conference call an opportunity to meet the Board.
The notice of the AGM is sent to all shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Chairmen of We completed an extensive ongoing programme of dialogue and meetings the Audit and the Remuneration Committees, together with as many Directors between the Chairman, Executive Directors and institutional investors, as possible, will attend the 2017 AGM and be available to answer shareholders fund managers and analysts both in the UK, the US and Europe.
Voting on all resolutions at the AGM is on a poll.
The proxy votes meetings, a wide range of relevant issues including strategy, performance, cast, including details of votes withheld, are disclosed on our website and management and governance, are discussed within the constraints of announced to the UK Listing Authority through a Regulatory Information information which has already been made public.
The Board is aware that Service immediately after the meeting.
Facilities are provided for shareholders institutional shareholders and bondholders may be in more regular contact to vote electronically either through Electronic Proxy Voting or through CREST.
with the Company than other shareholders, but care is exercised to ensure that any price-sensitive information is released to all shareholders, Details of our results announcements for 2017 are shown below: institutional and private, at the same time in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authority requirements During the summer of 2016, in conjunction with the issuance of new debt and convertible debt securities by the Company, an additional series of investor 4 3 9 and potential investor meetings were held MAY AUGUST NOVEMBER 2017 2017 2017 In October 2016, as part of our ongoing programme of in depth explanation of the industry and our business, the Company held its annual Capital AGM and Interim results for Q3 2017 results Markets Day.
Attendance was again very high with over 180 investors, Q1 2017 results the half year to analysts, and other interested parties coming to our office in London and 30 June 2017 60 more attending remotely.
The presentations covered an overview of the fundamentals and dynamics of the satellite communications industry These dates are provisional and may change presented by Euroconsult EC, followed by an overview of the Companys business from the Chairman and CEO with information about demand and supply of satellite capacity from the Chief Technical Officer and in-depth aviation and maritime reviews from the Presidents of the Aviation and Maritime business units.
Positive feedback as to the content and provision of information was received: a copy of the presentation has been made available on the Companys website This audited 2016 Annual Report will be made available to shareholders and all results are posted on the Companys website, as are presentations made in respect of the full-year results.
The Chairman, Andrew Sukawaty, and Senior Independent Director, Dr Abe Peled, are available to shareholders if they have concerns which cannot be raised through the normal channels or if such concerns have not been resolved.
Arrangements can be made to meet with either of them through the Company Secretary.
Other Non-Executive Directors may be asked to participate in investor meetings and have done so.
