28 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 BUSINESS OVERVIEW MARITIME Revenue 2016 was an important year for Inmarsats Maritime business as it introduced the next $575.3m 2015: $593.2m generation maritime connectivity solution, EBITDA Fleet Xpress, which is setting a new standard for maritime global communications.
$454.8m 2015: $459.4m With crew welfare, regulatory and operational FleetBroadband standalone efficiency at its heart, Fleet Xpress swiftly secured installed vessels commitments for thousands of vessels from the 38,088 worlds leading maritime connectivity providers 2015: 39,712 and major shipping lines.
VSAT installed vessels 3,028 2015: 2,484 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 29 30 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 BUSINESS OVERVIEW MARITIME CONTINUED XpressLink is our broadband product which cyber risk for maritime companies firewall, Inmarsat reinforced offers enhanced coverage and bandwidth using anti-virus, intrusion prevention and web-filtering VSAT in the Ku-band frequency, where capacity backed by global round-the-clock support.
its position as global is procured from other satellite operators.
We have already commenced the migration of The product is combined, and fully integrated, XpressLink and FleetBroadband customers to with the FleetBroadband product, which is used leader in maritime Fleet Xpress, which in 2017 will accelerate driven by as a back-up service to ensure a consistent a number of new installation partners and over 200 communications service during adverse weather satellite communications engineers that have already been trained on conditions.
XpressLink is therefore unique in installing the new services.
As part of the migration bundling a high bandwidth VSAT service with in 2016. partners, as well as installing Inmarsat hardware, our resilient FleetBroadband service.
have started to integrate the Inmarsat Network In a challenging year for the industry, the business Services Device software into their own hardware.
FLEET XPRESS ENDORSED delivered growth across the two core products This will help ensure that the Inmarsat technology BY LEADING DISTRIBUTORS in its portfolio, FleetBroadband and XpressLink platform, which is at the heart of our maritime and with the launch of Fleet Xpress in March 2016, managed service capabilities, is adopted as the In April 2016, we launched Fleet Xpress, the first the business has a key platform to drive future standard for future connectivity.
For the migration globally available, VSAT high-speed broadband growth in the Very Small Aperture Terminal programme itself we have developed a light vessel solution for maritime and offshore operators VSAT market.
touch approach that enables us to migrate vessels available from a single communications provider in a more economical way and in a shorter based on Inmarsats GX high frequency Ka-band, The market opportunity for us in the VSAT market timeframe.
with the resilient back-up of FleetBroadband in the is significant, with the addressable market expected L-band frequency.
In 2016, the business signed to double over the next five years, from 22,000 FLEET ONE PROVIDES ENTRY strategic agreements with three market-leading vessels today to 40,000 vessels by 2020. distributors, Marlink, SpeedCast and Navarino, who TO SMALLER VESSEL MARKET With our large user base, global distribution have together committed to installing Fleet Xpress and maintenance network we are very well placed We continued to ramp up our Fleet One offering on to over 5,000 vessels in the next five years.
to access this market opportunity.
during the year which offers a low-cost global data Fleet Xpress sets a new standard in broadband and voice service delivered through a small, CORE PRODUCT GROWTH IN maritime communications, delivering the highest affordable shipboard terminal.
This new product A CHALLENGING MARKET levels of reliable high-speed broadband offering is targeted at the small vessel market, connectivity and exceptional performance across estimated to be over 500,000 ships, including The Maritime business is our largest single market all of the worlds oceans.
As well as connectivity, leisure, small fishing vessels and workboats.
During segment, representing approximately 48% of the Fleet Xpress also provides a platform for enabling 2016 we started to activate terminals on new Companys annual revenues.
Through an increasingly vessels and we expect this growth to accelerate in The merchant shipping market remained in sophisticated range of applications, ship owners 2017 on the back of a recent type approval for a recession in 2016, with sluggish demand, low prices, and operators will be able to improve operational second terminal which will allow us to offer even over-supply and an ongoing focus on costs and efficiency and vessel performance as well as more competitive propositions to a broader efficiencies, compounded by ongoing volatility in providing a host of high-value, welfare benefits customer base.
Furthermore, the relatively for crew members.
Fleet Xpress also empowers The Maritime business continues to focus on high rate of scrappages and lay-offs continued in third-party application providers to develop innovation and the development of new products the year, with fewer new vessels being developed innovative new applications that will further drive and services across its entire product portfolio and built.
operational efficiencies, ranging from real-time helping to build on its leadership position in the monitoring, remote diagnostics and telemedicine, Whilst Maritime revenue was, as expected, down maritime market and open up new revenue to security and crew service management tools.
in 2016 as result of the challenging market and opportunities.
An example of this is the One of the first applications to be launched will continued declines in legacy, low margin products, improvement to the commercial appeal of the address cyber security and has been developed our two core products, FleetBroadband and Fleet Media entertainment service by tripling the in partnership with Singtels cyber security arm XpressLink, which together account for 82% amount of video content movies, TV, news and Trustwave.
It provides a solution integrated with of Maritime revenue, delivered growth.
sports while reducing monthly subscription costs.
Inmarsat hardware to protect data and reduce FleetBroadband, which operates over the weather SAFETY REMAINS CORE TO resilient L-band frequency, accounts for 64% of MARITIME PROPOSITION revenue with growth continuing to benefit from the migration of customers from our legacy The business has also in 2016 further re-enforced products such as Fleet and the trading up of Inmarsats well established position as the key customers within the product to higher value provider of safety services to the maritime industry allowance plans.
However, looking forward, there with the development of the Maritime Safety is and will continue to be pressure on revenue terminal, which modernises the Global Maritime in this part of the portfolio as customers look to Distress and Safety System GMDSS services, to increase their bandwidth requirements to support current standards and the launch of SafetyNet 2, a increasingly data hungry applications, by migrating new portal based web application, which simplifies up to XpressLink and Fleet Xpress.
safety communications for the mariner.
As part of our safety strategy we also finalised our plans to Fleet Xpress is setting a new standard for maritime have the FleetBroadband family of services global communications.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 31 approved for GMDSS: these plans are now with VSAT ARPU was 9.3% lower than 2015, driven 2016 PERFORMANCE REVIEW the International Maritime Organization IMO.
mainly by the renewal of old contracts at current Maritime revenues in 2016 decreased by $17.9m This will allow voice and data safety services to prices, more ships being laid up on reduced 3.0% to $575.3m 2015: $593.2m.
Within these operate across multiple satellite platforms for charges and the start of a change in mix towards overall totals we saw strong revenue growth from connecting vessels anywhere in the world with wholesale distribution agreements.
The VSAT both our market-leading FleetBroadband FB a Rescue Coordination Centre allowing Search installation order book remained material at over product and in our newer VSAT offerings and Rescue services better communication with 500 vessels.
XpressLink XL and FleetXpress FX which vessels in distress.
Revenue from our other mainly lower margin and together accounted for 82% of 2016 Maritime legacy products continued to decline, as expected, revenues 2015: 76%.
This growth was however, RETURN TO MEANINGFUL falling by $37.5m, or 26.5%, to $104.2m in 2016 as anticipated, more than offset by the continued GROWTH DEPENDENT ON the level of decline in 2015 was 32.0%.
Within decline in our other, mainly lower margin, legacy these totals, Fleet revenue continued to decline in BROADER MACRO FACTORS products, including Fleet.
Changes in the key line with past trends, falling by $19.4m, or 55.1%, to IN GLOBAL SHIPPING MARKET elements of our product portfolio during the year $15.9m in 2016. are outlined in the table at the foot of this page.
Though the business is dependent upon the Fleet One has continued to grow strongly with overall health of the global shipping industry FB revenue grew by $8.5m, or 2.4%, to $368.2m.
245 new Fleet One users installed during the fourth for a return to meaningful growth, our Maritime Average revenue per user ARPU increased in quarter.
This takes the Fleet One customer base to business enters 2017 in an increasingly strong 2016, incorporating the impact of price changes over 1,250 vessels, with an annualised revenue run position with a market-leading portfolio of in H1 2016 and the migration of users to higher rate of around $1.4m.
products in Fleet Xpress and FleetBroadband rate plans during the year.
The number of vessels for the commercial shipping market.
And in Fleet generating FB revenue fell, reflecting ongoing Operating costs for the year decreased by $13.3m One the business is poised to grow its share in the market softness, particularly in lower ARPU vessels, 9.9%, mainly reflecting the impact of an internal smaller vessels market.
migration to our new Fleet One product and the reorganisation in July which has moved approximately generally ARPU accretive migration of 533 ships $4m of costs from Maritime into Central Services up to VSAT.
and the weakness of Sterling versus the US Dollar.
VSAT revenue including XL and FX grew by Maritime EBITDA decreased by $4.6m 1.0% $11.1m, or 12.1%, to $102.9m, with the number compared with the full year 2015 and the EBITDA of installations rising 21.9% from 2015.
There margin for the year improved to 79.1% from 77.4%.
were 205 ships migrated to FX from other VSAT products and 130 new FX installations were completed, bringing the total FX installations to 335 vessels by the end of the year.
