40 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GOVERNMENT Revenue The government market remains challenging on a global scale but Inmarsat saw strong growth in $330.5m 2015: $286.6m 2016 driven by both its new Global Xpress EBITDA wideband platform and unique innovations in its L-band services.
During the year, Inmarsats $244.0m 2015: $191.0m government business and its subsidiaries secured major contracts to support the US Navys Commercial Broadband Satellite Program CBSP Satellite Services Contract CSSC : a new five-year contract with the Canadian Government for the supply of satellite and associated services: and a five-year contract with Australias Department of Immigration and Border Protection DIBP.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 41 42 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GOVERNMENT CONTINUED we were able to deliver clear competitive Despite persistent differentiation and diversify into new verticals and geographies in 2016.
This included supporting weakness in the broader the Airborne Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance AISR, national security and Special Forces missions for US, NATO government SATCOM and Five-Eyes nations.
markets Inmarsat SATCOM resilience has been a significant area of policy attention and investment within NATO and has delivered strong Five-Eyes countries in the current period.
Senior government leaders have acknowledged the need to rely upon commercial satellite communications revenue growth in 2016, as part of an integrated SATCOM architecture.
This strategy focuses on delivering a global user though the market experience, with unique government features, across all government service platforms.
To meet remains complex this need, we introduced trusted end-to-end managed communications on a global basis and challenging.
SATCOM as a Service to proactively support government customers desire for innovation Inmarsats product differentiation and strategic and agility in acquisition.
growth in new, non-commodity products, coupled Top Inmarsat secured major contracts to support the During 2016, we continued to work with our with programmes focused on government network US Navys Commercial Broadband Satellite Program technology partners to deliver innovative GX resilience, enabled us to outperform most of our CBSP Satellite Services Contract CSSC.
products and services built to meet the expanding competitors in the government market sector Bottom Inmarsat supports the Airborne Intelligence, requirements of the Defence and Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance AISR, national in 2016. security and Special Forces missions for US, NATO and Community as well as civilian agencies, such as Five-Eyes nations.
coast guard, immigration, border protection, STRONG GROWTH IN A diplomatic, VIP, public safety and emergency CHALLENGING MARKET responders.
Notable innovations include Military-Ka for manned unmanned AISR, Global Xpress GX Ka-band services are in use which delivered over four terabits per day by government customers in all three Inmarsat-5 to from Ka-band-equipped US aircraft, adding regions, on a variety of platforms across aeronautical, new trusted capabilities for US national security.
Designed for The development of a dual-band GX military worldwide mobility, GX has created interest among Ka maritime terminal and the launch of new a significant number of new government customers aeronautical terminals have expedited access due to its unique reliability, affordability and seamless to the GX global network and provided a more interoperability with military satellite resources.
connected experience in the air and on the sea.
A common government requirement is the ability We extended our innovation in the high-mobility to deploy anywhere in the world at a moments government L-band market with products and notice.
Users want to leverage solutions built to services tailored to specific customers needs, specific mission needs within constrained budgets, further enhancing military satellite systems.
meaning that demand has continued to shift We experienced sustained growth in our unique towards rapid, highly mobile communication L-band Tactical Satellite L-TAC service capabilities.
This has played to Inmarsats a highly resilient communication service that strengths allowing it to report double digit provides robust, low-cost, beyond-line-of-sight government growth in 2016 in contrast to mobile capability using existing tactical radios.
Newly developed micro antennas, as small as 12.5cm, are delivering record-breaking data INNOVATING TO DELIVER rates with connections as high as 10 Mbps and FLEXIBLE AND RESILIENT are now operationally deployed to support small SOLUTIONS intelligence platforms.
Our SwiftBroadband product has been miniaturised to fit on small UAVs, Our ability to augment existing military satellite allowing users to stream selected imagery from an systems through the global availability of our on-board cache.
To address growing helicopter end-to-end L-band and Ka-band networks demand, partners have demonstrated highis delivering highly resilient communication capacity solutions in both Land Ka-band, capabilities with increased flexibility and overcoming technical challenges to stream robustness in support of mission-critical live video through rotor blades.
Furthermore, by combining mission-focused product innovation with mature customer relationships and understanding, STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 43 Our government customers are dedicated to Outside the US, Government revenues rose SIGNIFICANT CONTRACT WINS service and national security and safety, by 9.5% during the year, as we benefited from ACROSS MULTIPLE MARKETS protecting borders, saving lives at sea, fighting operational tempo in one particular region, In the US Government market, Inmarsat Government, crime, illness and fire.
In 2016, government which initially started in Q3 2015. a wholly-owned Inmarsat subsidiary, was awarded rescuers pulled thousands of migrants out Operating costs for the year decreased by 9.5%, a contract to support the US Navys Commercial of rough seas in the Mediterranean, using mainly reflecting improved revenue mix in our US Broadband Satellite Program CBSP Satellite Inmarsats FleetBroadband from their ships and business, with lower third-party Ku-band revenue Services Contract CSSC.
Under the contract, SwiftBroadband in their aircraft to manage the being replaced with high-margin GX revenue.
Inmarsat Government will support the US Navys operation.
They deployed Inmarsat services to requirement to acquire worldwide commercial Haiti after the hurricanes, and to the Middle East Government EBITDA in the year increased by telecommunication services to include satellite protecting civilians during intense conflict.
$53.0m 27.7% to $244.0m 2015: $191.0, capacity for maritime, airborne and ground reflecting improved revenue mix.
The EBITDA platforms that augment government-owned margin similarly increased to 73.8% 2015: 66.6%.
UNIQUELY WELL PLACED and operated telecommunication systems.
TO SERVE CUSTOMERS We further strengthened our existing relationship EVOLVING NEEDS with the Canadian Government through the signing Inmarsat is uniquely positioned with its trusted of a new five-year contract for the supply of satellite capabilities and technology innovation well and associated services.
The new contract ensures matched to government customers evolving the continued supply of MSS and L-band services needs and demand for resilience.
We are to all Canadian Government departments while committed to investing into next-generation also filling a large regional MSS FSS technology commercial satellite networks and technologies gap through the introduction of the entire GX built with government users in mind, enabling Ka-band portfolio.
cost-effective worldwide augmentation of military In Australia, we signed a five-year contract with the narrowband and wideband networks that deliver Department of Immigration and Border Protection optimal reliability and ubiquitous global coverage DIBP.
The agreement is for the provision of providing the ultimate resilience approach.
broadband connectivity and support services, including SATCOM terminals to DIBPs fleet of 2016 PERFORMANCE REVIEW eight Cape Class vessels, as well as to additional Despite underlying downward pressure in the support vessels and surveillance aircraft.
The GX government satellite communications sector in FleetBroadband SwiftBroadband solution includes 2016, government revenues increased by $43.9m, the provision of a custom-built terminal that allows or 15.3%, to $330.5m 2015: $286.6m.
for switching between military and commercial satellite networks ensuring that this mission In the US, government revenues grew by 19.5% critical department is connected across all assets, in 2016 primarily due to the growth in higher at all times.
margin GX-related revenues under the take or pay agreement with our partner, and a short-term, In 2016, Inmarsat GX won the Mobile Satellite one-off bandwidth contract in Q4.
Users Association award for government mobility and the Government Security News Homeland Security Award for best satellite-based broadband communication solution.
These prestigious awards further validate GX as an industry game changer, with unmatched mobile capabilities and benefits.
It is the first and only end-to-end commercial Ka-band network from a single operator that delivers worldwide service, bringing the benefits of seamless, consistent, high-throughput wideband connectivity to government users worldwide.
GOVERNMENT BUSINESS RESULTS Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Increase $ in millions 2016 2015 decrease Revenue 330.5 286.6 15.3% Operating costs 86.5 95.6 9.5% EBITDA 244.0 191.0 27.7% EBITDA margin % 73.8% 66.6% Cash capex 6.1 4.4 38.6%
