ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 BUSINESS MARKETPLACE GROUP GROUP RESOURCES & MODEL & STRATEGY PERFORMANCE RISKS RELATIONSHIPS OUR MARKETS Alternative asset classes are attractive to institutional investors for their enhanced returns and diversification opportunities.
We are in a strong position to capitalise on this market opportunity.
ageing populations in developed nations We believe the investment environment MARKET REVIEW requires pension funds to focus on capital for alternative sources of capital is Increasingly, the role of alternative asset preservation and generation of higher more attractive in the midmarket managers such as ICG is to channel returns to meet their long term liabilities corporate sector, in which we specialise.
capital from the large pools of savings in the areas of retirement and healthcare.
Banks remain constrained in their ability managed by institutional investors, be they In this environment, investor demand for to substantially increase lending due pension funds, insurance companies or alternative sources of return is expected to to increased regulatory controls and sovereign wealth funds, towards higher remain strong.
unresolved legacy bad debts from the return alternative investments that these global financial crisis, particularly in investors cannot reach through their Our funds offer access to challenging Europe.
While the largest companies are private and less liquid asset classes as traditional networks.
Our success will able to access debt markets and bank well as high yielding liquid specialist therefore equally result from our ability to financing, many midmarket companies markets where our teams have consistently access these investors and attract them do not have access to traditional into our growing number of strategies, generated high risk adjusted returns.
funding markets and are a source of The growth and expansion of our business and our skills at deploying this capital into attractive opportunities.
by investment strategy and geography attractive, well considered investments provides a diversity of exposure allowing The sourcing of deals in the midmarket from a risk and return perspective.
sector, both corporate and real estate, investors to choose a range of potential Demand is growing in the institutional risk-reward and geographic profiles.
relies on strong relationships, local market mostly due to institutions finding networks, sector specialists and being The attractiveness of the market is it increasingly difficult to achieve their highly selective.
These are our core skills resulting in increasing competition as long term investment objectives through and, along with our ability to make larger new entrants seek to capitalise on the traditional investment strategies, such investments than many of the newer as sovereign bonds and equities, when growing demand for alternative assets.
entrants to the market, mean we are able From a fundraising perspective, investors alternative assets offer high returns over to continue to source attractive deals in a selection processes are rigorous and the long term.
We have seen central banks competitive market.
preference is given to established continuing with their quantitative easing policies during the year, keeping sovereign managers, like ICG, with a strong track Therefore, we are in a strong position record, credibility and infrastructure.
to facilitate both the demand from bond yields near historically low levels.
From an investment perspective, the institutional investors for higher yielding Furthermore, global growth is expected inflow of capital into the alternative asset investments and the demand from global to remain subdued as there remain unresolved structural issues in Europe and market means our investment markets midmarket companies for nonbank sources remain competitive.
a slower pace of growth in China.
With this backdrop, global bond yields are expected Strong Growth in Alternative These macroeconomic trends influence to remain low and returns from traditional Asset Classes each of our strategic asset classes in asset classes lower than those achieved in different ways.
$ Trillion the period before the global financial crisis.
18 We expect the positive trend in favour of 16 alternative asset classes to persist.
14 12 In addition, the growing demand for 10 higher yielding alternative asset products 8 is driven by the expected increase in the 6 absolute size of institutional assets under 4 management globally.
There are two key 2 trends underpinning this expectation.
0 First, it is projected that 21 new sovereign 04 07 13 20F 20F Base case High case investors will emerge as the wealth of developing nations increases.
These new Private Equity Real Assets Hedge Funds investors will require diversification in Source: PwC Market Research Centre analysis based on asset allocation.
Secondly, the trend of Preqin, HRH and Lipper data 8 9 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS In the US the low oil price has had a expectations of further growth.
The strong CORPORATE INVESTMENTS significant impact as oil and gas companies investment market of calendar year 2015 Demand for higher yielding assets has are a material part of these markets.
has slowed in Q1 2016 with investors increased competition for our corporate Concerns about credit quality have concerned by economic growth, linked investment funds.
However, these reduced capital available for investment to Brexit, and overpaying in the current investment markets are private and with a consequential increase in the cost of market.
Capital values have grown by relationship driven and as a result there debt.
CLO issuance dramatically reduced over 8% in 2015 and by over 25% since are significant hurdles for new entrants when the yields demanded by new April 2013 yet we believe the market as who may not be able to offer the certainty investors increased and thus remained at a whole remains fairly valued with good of funding or flexibility of approach of lower levels compared to recent years.
A consequence of the In Europe the continued low interest rate capital available for investment in this SECONDARY INVESTMENTS environment has resulted in a broader area is the increased opportunity for us to realise assets at attractive returns, range of companies seeking to capitalise There are approximately 2,644 private on the demand for yield.
Weaker than equity fund managers currently seeking although it does mean that the environment expected economic growth combined capital for new funds, targeting new for investing in new assets is competitive.
with some stretching financing structures assets under management of $912bn.
Our local knowledge and long standing relationships are a real advantage in has resulted in concerns that risk has been Our Enterprise Trust invests in midmarket mispriced and has led to an increase in the private equity funds, part of this large this market.
returns being demanded by new investors.
Whilst competition for the best Our European funds have seen a good Loan and high yield issuance has reduced performing funds is high, there are flow of opportunities, with a particularly compared to prior years as a result.
significant opportunities to deploy capital.
strong conversion rate for our Senior Debt This has also impacted European CLO The team has an excellent reputation and Partners Fund.
In the US, our newly closed issuance which is significantly lower than in we believe in the potential to develop this North American Fund has benefitted previous years.
from the impact of the macroeconomic uncertainties on credit markets and has The value of third party capital committed REAL ASSETS to private equity funds, either as undrawn had a successful investment year.
We have Our real assets focus is currently on the UK or invested, is estimated to be $2.6tn.
remained highly selective in Asia as we commercial real estate market which bears Of this, a significant proportion of focus on fundraising Asia Pacific III and in view of the difficulties encountered by many of the characteristics of the wider assets are held in funds past their typical European loan market.
Substantial capital holding period, with little incentive for the China and possible knock on effects across is available for investment while banks incumbent manager to sell these assets the region.
continue to reduce their overall exposure in the M&A market.
The value added end CAPITAL MARKETS to real estate.
As with our other investment of the secondaries market has evolved to strategies, competition for larger assets give investors in underperforming funds Leverage loan and high yield markets remains high.
However, our smaller asset the opportunity to exit their commitments in the US and Europe have seen wide focus, deep knowledge of the UK market, enable new investors to access these fluctuations since the summer of 2015. strong industry relationships and flexible assets thereby increasing the availability Negative perceptions of China, the approach mean we are able to originate of investment opportunities.
Our strategic fear of a global economic slowdown, a attractive deals.
secondaries strategy is designed collapse in the price of commodities, and specifically to address this opportunity The investment market benefits from oil in particular, as well as the uncertainty and has developed a niche position in strong occupier demand driven largely by surrounding Brexit have all had an impact the highly complex and structured part on capital markets which has been record levels of employment and reduced of the market where we have abundant levels of new developments.
This has led countered by loose monetary policies.
to low vacancy rates, growing income and Private Equity Asset Real estate asset performance performance Index Index 450 450 400 400 350 350 ALTERNATIVE ASSET 300 300 250 250 CLASSES OUTPERFORM 200 200 TRADITIONAL ASSET 150 150 100 100 CLASSES 50 50 0 0 PrEQIn Buyout Index S&P 500 TR Index PrEQIn Real Estate Index FTSE 350 RE Supersector index Source: Preqin Quarterly Private Equity Update Q3 2015 Dec 00 Dec 01 Dec 02 Dec 03 Dec 04 Dec 05 Dec 06 Dec 07 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Dec 14 Dec 00 Dec 01 Dec 02 Dec 03 Dec 04 Dec 05 Dec 06 Dec 07 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Dec 14
