ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 BUSINESS MARKETPLACE GROUP GROUP RESOURCES & MODEL & STRATEGY PERFORMANCE RISKS RELATIONSHIPS HOW WE HAVE PERFORMED AIM WHAT WE MEASURE WHY WE MEASURE IT TOTAL AUM M GROW ASSETS 1 UNDER The Group earns fees on AUM once they are 21.6Bn either committed or invested, depending MANAGEMENT on the fund.
The growth in AUM through Total AUM New AUM raising new funds including jointly managed We aim to increase our third party funds is a lead indicator of revenue growth assets under management to for the business.
maximise the profitability of the 21,582 business by: The Group has a target of raising an 18,012 average of 4bn of new third party funds Consolidating and broadening 12,980 gross inflows per annum over the our existing strategies 12,930 11,408 fundraising cycle.
Expanding our client base and 6,398 5,179 3,847 existing products geographically 2,260 681 Expanding our product range through selective acquisitions 12 13 14 15 16 and team hires We will capitalise on our strong WEIGHTED AVERAGE FEE RATE % track record, in house distribution team and ability to develop The Group monitors the weighted average 0.88% new investment strategies fee rate on fee earning AUM to ensure that 1.02 through utilising our balance 0.91 0.88 AUM is profitable.
Fees reflect the risk 0.86 0.80 sheet strength.
return profile of the underlying asset and are typically higher for direct investment funds.
This KPI has been amended in the current year to measure the fee rate on total fee earning AUM rather than purely on new AUM.
The Board believes the revised KPI is a 12 13 14 15 16 more appropriate measure of profitability as it enables shareholders to assess the trend in total fee rate across the Groups strategies.
The prior year KPI, the weighted average fee rate of new AUM, would have been 0.94%, reflecting the proportion of higher fee earning direct investment funds within new AUM.
FMC OPERATING MARGIN % The operating margin of the FMC is a 41.9% measure of the efficiency and scalability 41.9 41.3 40.8 40.1 of the business.
The Group has invested 35.1 substantially in its growth and the return on this investment is measured through the operating margin.
The Group is targeting a margin above 40%.
12 13 14 15 16 10 11 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS HOW WE PERFORMED 2017 PRIORITIES ASSOCIATED RISKS TOTAL AUM M Fundraising is expected to be slower than for the last two years which benefited from raising our larger European funds.
Our focus in FY17 is AUM has increased during the year with another successful to complete the fundraising for Asia Pacific Fund III and ICG Longbow fundraising year outstripping the pace of realisations IV, and to raise funds for our newer strategies.
Going forward, the Group expects that fundraising will continue to exceed realisations and lead to further increases in AUM LINK TO CASH PROFIT SEE PAGE 78 Fees received on AUM, either committed or invested depending on the fund, contribute to cash profit in the year they are received WEIGHTED AVERAGE FEE RATE % ASSOCIATED PRINCIPAL RISKS The weighted average fee rate on fee earning AUM is Loss or missed opportunity as a result of major external change marginally lower in the current year reflecting the mix of the Failure to raise third party funds lower fee generating credit and senior debt real estate funds Failure to meet financial obligations versus the higher fee earning mezzanine and secondary funds Loss of a key person and inability to recruit into key roles Negative financial or reputational impact arising from a regulatory or legislative failing LINK TO CASH PROFIT SEE PAGE 78 Technology and information security risks Failure of key business processes Fees received on AUM, either committed or invested depending on the fund, contribute to cash profit in the year they are received FMC OPERATING MARGIN % FMC operating margin has increased in the year as funds which charge fees on invested capital are invested thereby generating fee income.
Our credit and real estate funds have this fee earning profile LINK TO CASH PROFIT SEE PAGE 78 Fees received on AUM, either committed or invested depending on the fund, contribute to cash profit in the year they are received Cash profit is reduced by pre-incentive operating expenses The definitions for non GAAP performance measures can be found in the Glossary on pages 164 and 165 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 BUSINESS MARKETPLACE GROUP GROUP RESOURCES & MODEL & STRATEGY PERFORMANCE RISKS RELATIONSHIPS HOW WE HAVE PERFORMED CONTINUED AIM WHAT WE MEASURE WHY WE MEASURE IT PERFORMANCE OF PORTFOLIO COMPANIES % INVEST 2 SELECTIVELY A measure of investing selectively is the 69.8% investment performance of our funds.
73.4 69.8 66.7 64.6 However, as a specialist asset manager, 61.0 We aim to invest our assets under reliable comparable data is not readily management on a selective basis available.
For our mezzanine direct investment to maximise risk adjusted returns.
funds the best indicator of the quality of our investment decisions is the percentage of We will utilise: portfolio companies who are increasing their The sector specialisations EBITDA compared to the prior year.
12 13 14 15 16 of our credit teams As the diversity of our funds continues to Our local network of originators Number of portfolio companies performing above their grow, the Board may consider replacing this prior year.
A disciplined approach KPI with one that encompasses the wider to considering each fund management business.
investment opportunity IMPAIRMENTS M MANAGE 3 Impairments are charged when there is a PORTFOLIOS TO 39.4M reduction in the value of an interest bearing 112.4 MAXIMISE VALUE asset.
Impairments impact the performance 80.0 and returns of a fund.
An indicator of fund 70.6 We aim to manage our portfolio to performance is the level of impairments maximise returns on invested capital.
39.4 37.6 incurred in the IC portfolio which we expect By doing so we build on our strong to be below 2.5% of the opening loan book, track record and generate capital to our historical average.
invest in new products: 12 13 14 15 16 Reviewing the performance of each investment at least quarterly RETURN ON EQUITY ROE % Engaging regularly with management and sponsors Group ROE is a key indicator of our ability 12.9% to maximise returns from our business.
12.9 Proactively working out problems 11.5 11.0 However, in any given year, our ROE is where appropriate 10.2 8.9 impacted by the timing of realisations and impairments, which by their nature are irregular.
The Group has targeted an ROE in excess Adjusted for 45m one off release of previously accrued costs in of 13% which will be achieved by the growth relation to the termination of legacy 12 13 14 15 16 of the business and, in the current financial remuneration schemes.
year, with regearing the balance sheet to Adjusted for 20.3m one off benefit between 0.8x and 1.2x.
from the Employee Benefit Trust EBT ORDINARY DIVIDEND PER SHARE P Settlement and excludes the impact of the consolidation of credit funds required The Groups ability to pay dividends and 23.0p under IFRS 10.
23.0 return value to shareholders is a measure 22.0 Adjusted for 2.3m one off benefit from 21.0 20.0 19.0 of the Groups ability to generate returns the EBT Settlement and excludes the from our IC portfolio and managing third impact of the movement in deferred consideration payable on the Longbow party funds.
acquisition and the consolidation of credit Further details of the economic model of the business funds required under IFRS 10. are provided on page 6.
12 13 14 15 16 12 13 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS HOW WE PERFORMED 2017 PRIORITIES ASSOCIATED RISKS PERFORMANCE OF PORTFOLIO COMPANIES % The Group has substantial third party capital to deploy on its investment strategies.
We aim to deploy the capital raised in line with the required The Group expects at least 60% of the portfolio companies in investment run rate, subject to finding investment opportunities with the its mezzanine direct investment funds to report results above appropriate risk return balance.
The performance in the current financial year has The Group will maintain its disciplined approach to investment in a highly been supported by our portfolio companies delivering on their competitive market.
business plans ASSOCIATED PRINCIPAL RISKS LINK TO CASH PROFIT SEE PAGE 78 Loss or missed opportunity as a result of major external change Income recognised as a result of the performance of Failure to maintain acceptable relative investment performance investments is included in cash profit in the year it is received Failure to deploy committed capital in a timely manner and not necessarily in the year in which it is recognised through Loss of a key person and inability to recruit into key roles the income statement Negative financial or reputational impact arising from a regulatory or legislative failing Technology and information security risks IMPAIRMENTS M We will continue to manage our investment portfolios actively, working As expected, impairments have stabilised as the Group has with management and sponsors to support the delivery of their business substantially completed working through the weaker assets within the portfolio affected by the financial crisis.
This is critical to maximising the exit value of a portfolio company.
is expected to continue as the balance sheet now contributes The Group aims to maximise returns in older funds by realising assets a lower proportion, compared to third party funds, of to crystallise value for our fund investors and for the balance sheet.
each investment The timing of these realisations remains uncertain as it is rarely in the Groups control.
LINK TO CASH PROFIT SEE PAGE 78 Impairments are deducted from cash profit in the year they are charged RETURN ON EQUITY ROE % ROE has increased in the year due to the return of 300m to shareholders through a special dividend.
The Board has ASSOCIATED PRINCIPAL RISKS recommended the return of a further 200m by special Loss or missed opportunity as a result of major external change dividend which will increase the Groups ROE to over 13% on a proforma basis Failure to maintain acceptable relative investment performance Loss as a result of adverse market fluctuations LINK TO CASH PROFIT SEE PAGE 78 Loss as a result of exposure to a failed counterparty Loss of a key person and inability to recruit into key roles N A Negative financial or reputational impact arising from a regulatory or legislative failing Technology and information security risks Failure of key business processes ORDINARY DIVIDEND PER SHARE P The Group has a dividend policy linked to cash performance and over the last five years has generated sufficient returns from the business to grow the ordinary dividend year on year and return excess capital to shareholders LINK TO CASH PROFIT SEE PAGE 78 N A The definitions for non GAAP performance measures can be found in the Glossary on pages 164 and 165
