ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited financial statements for the DIRECTORS INTERESTS 12 months ended 31 March 2016.
The risks to which the Group is subject and the policies in The interests of Directors who held office at respect of such risks are set out on pages 28 to 35 and are incorporated into this report by 31 March 2016 and their connected persons, reference.
The corporate governance section of this Annual Report set out on pages 40 as defined by the Companies Act, are to 101, is incorporated into this report by reference.
disclosed in the report of the Remuneration Throughout the year to 31 March 2016 the Group was in compliance with the provision of the Committee on page 88.
UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council, other than the Details of Directors share options are requirement to conduct an external Board effectiveness review see page 49.
A copy of the provided in the report of the Remuneration Code is available on the Financial Reporting Councils website www.
During the financial year ending 31 March 2016, the SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDINGS Directors had no options over or other As at 23 May 2016 the Company had been notified or otherwise become aware of the interests in the shares of any subsidiary following interests pursuant to the Disclosure Rules and the Transparency Rules representing company.
No options over Company 3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company.
shares were issued to Directors under the Executive Share Option Schemes during the year.
Number of Percentage of Institution shares voting rights THE ROLES OF THE CHAIRMAN Schroders Plc 23,492,144 7.21 AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE BlackRock Inc 21,841,713 6.70 In accordance with the Code, the Board has adopted a formal division of responsibilities Aviva Investors 17,118,364 5.25 between the Chairman and the CEO, with Ameriprise Financial Inc 16,967,442 5.20 the intention to establish a clear division of responsibilities between the running of the Baillie Gifford & Co Ltd 11,608,940 3.56 Board and the executive responsibility for Employee Share Scheme Trustees 11,437,648 3.51 the running of the Companys business.
J. P. Morgan Asset Management 10,184,776 3.12 The current Chairman, Justin Dowley, was considered independent at the date of Norges Bank Investment Management 9,801,293 3.01 his appointment as Chairman.
Subject to reappointment at the Companys AGM, he DIRECTORS will be succeeded by Kevin Parry on 21 July 2016: Kevin Parry is considered independent The Directors who are currently serving are each shown with a profile on pages 42 and 43: at the current date.
those details are incorporated into this report by reference.
Justin Dowley will retire at the AGM of the Company on 21 July 2016.
The composition of each of the Committees of the Board and the Chairman of each Committee are detailed in the report of each Committee, found on pages 51 to 93.
94 95 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETINGS WITH CHAIRMAN The Board has delegated the The Executive Committee consists of The Non Executive Directors regularly hold following responsibilities to the the three Executive Directors, each of meetings in the absence of the Executive Executive Committee: whom has a specific area of responsibility.
Directors usually before or after each Board The development and The Executive Committee has general meeting and, separately, in the absence of recommendation of strategic plans for responsibility for ICGs resources, the Chairman.
consideration by the Board that reflect determining strategy, financial and the longer term operational control and managing the SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Objectives and priorities established business worldwide.
Christophe Evain is Kevin Parry currently holds the position by the Board Chief Executive Officer and in addition to his of Senior Independent Director of the strategic and operational remit he oversees Implementation of the strategies and Company.
Subject to reappointment at the Groups Investment Committees in his policies of the Group as determined by the Companys AGM, he will become role as the Chief Investment Officer.
He is the Board Chairman of the Company from 21 July also responsible for the Groups credit 2016, from which time Peter Gibbs will Monitoring of operating and financial funds business.
Philip Keller is CFO and is become the SID.
In accordance with the results against plans and budgets responsible for finance and infrastructure.
Code, any shareholder concerns not Monitoring the quality of the Benot Durteste is Head of European resolved through the usual mechanisms for investment process Investments and Fund Manager.
investor communication can be conveyed Developing and implementing risk No one Executive Director is able to to the SID.
The SID has met with a number management systems significantly affect the running of the of shareholders during the year and his Company without consulting his colleagues.
successor intends to do the same.
The SID acts as a sounding board for the BOARD PROCESS Chairman and a focus for any concerns or DISCLOSURE DOCUMENTS Each Board member receives a issues that other Directors or shareholders The Terms of Reference of each of the may have that are not being resolved.
He also comprehensive Board pack at least five days Board Committees, together with the prior to each meeting which incorporates leads the annual appraisal of the Chairman.
Directors service agreements, the terms a formal agenda together with supporting and conditions of appointment of Non papers for items to be discussed at the DIRECTORS INDEMNITY Executive Directors and Directors deeds of meeting.
Further information is obtained The Company has entered into contractual indemnity, are available for inspection at the by the Board from the Managing Directors indemnities with each of the Directors Companys registered office during normal and other relevant members of senior pursuant to the amendment to the business hours.
management, as the Board, particularly Companys Articles of Association its Non Executive Directors, consider authorised at the 2010 AGM and these COMMITTEE PROCEEDINGS appropriate.
A similar process is followed for remain in force.
The Company also provides each Committee.
Each Committee has access to such external Directors and Officers insurance for advice as it may consider appropriate.
ADVICE FOR DIRECTORS The Terms of Reference of each Committee are considered regularly by the respective All Directors have access to the advice and CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Committee and referred to the Board services of the Company Secretary and the Directors have a statutory duty to avoid for approval.
Secretaries to each of the Committees on conflicts of interest with the Company.
which they serve, and may take independent The Companys Articles of Association professional advice at the Companys allow the Directors to authorise conflicts of expense in the furtherance of their duties.
interest and the Board has adopted a policy The appointment or removal of the Company and effective procedures for managing and, Secretary would be a matter for the Board.
where appropriate, approving potential conflicts of interest.
No material conflicts of interest exist.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The Board confirms that an ongoing process The Directors believe that the Group and INTERNAL CONTROL for identifying, evaluating and managing Company are well placed to manage its The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups significant risks has operated business risks successfully in the current the Companys internal control system throughout the year and that, up to the date economic environment.
and monitoring risk management and of the approval of the Directors report and The Directors continually monitor the debt internal controls for which we review their financial statements.
For further details of profile of the Group and Company, and seek effectiveness at least annually.
Such a system the risks relating to the Group, please see of control is in place to give reasonable, to refinance senior facilities a substantial pages 28 to 35 and the report of the Risk period before they mature.
The Group and but not absolute, assurance that assets are Committee on pages 60 to 65.
Company have a total of 240m of drawn safeguarded, transactions are authorised debt facilities due to mature within the next and recorded properly and that material GOING CONCERN STATEMENT errors and irregularities are prevented or 12 months.
The Directors are satisfied that The Directors have at the time of approving this is not material in the overall context of detected within a timely period.
the financial statements, a reasonable the Groups debt profile.
Through the regular meetings of the Board expectation that the Company and the and the schedule of matters reserved to the Group have adequate resources to continue FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Board or its duly authorised Committees, in operational existence for the foreseeable the Board aims to maintain full and effective This Annual Report includes statements future.
Therefore they continue to adopt that are, or may be deemed to be, forwardcontrol over appropriate strategic, financial, the going concern basis of preparing the looking statements.
These forwardoperational and compliance issues.
looking statements can be identified by Board has put in place an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of The Directors have made this assessment the use of forward-looking expressions, in light of the 781m cash and unutilised including the terms believes, estimates, responsibility and delegation of authority.
committed debt facilities as at the end of anticipates, expects, intends, may, The Board annually considers and approves FY16, that only 25% of committed facilities will, or should or, in each case, their a strategic plan and budget.
In addition there are due to mature within two years, and after negative or other variations or similar are established procedures and processes reviewing the Groups latest forecasts for a expressions, or by discussions of strategy, in place for the making and monitoring period of three years from year end.
plans, objectives, goals, future events of investments and the planning and or intentions.
These forward-looking The Groups business activities, together controlling of expenditure.
The Board also statements include all matters that are not with the factors likely to affect its future receives regular reports from the Executive historical facts.
They appear in a number of Committee on the Companys operational development, performance and position places throughout this Annual Report and are set out in the Strategic Report on and financial performance, measured against include, but are not limited to, the following: pages 1 to 38.
The financial position of the the annual budget as well as regulatory and statements regarding the intentions, beliefs Group, its cash flows, liquidity position compliance matters.
or current expectations of the Directors, and borrowing facilities are described in The Company has in place arrangements the Company and the Group concerning, the Financial Review on pages 20 to 27. whereby employees may raise matters amongst other things, the Groups results In addition, note 5 to the financial statements of concern in confidence about possible of operations, financial condition, liquidity, includes the Groups objectives, policies improprieties in matters of financial prospects, growth, strategies and the and processes for managing its capital: its reporting or other matters.
industries in which the Group operates.
financial risk management objectives: details The rationale for the system of internal of its financial instruments and hedging control is to maximise effectiveness for the activities: and its exposures to credit risk and commercial management of the business liquidity risk.
and to provide the Board with regular and effective reporting on the identified significant risk factors.
The Board is responsible for determining strategies and policies for risk control, and management is responsible for implementing such strategies and policies.
96 97 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS By their nature, forward-looking statements CHANGE OF CONTROL AGREEMENTS involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances.
There are no significant agreements to have the right but not the obligation to Forward-looking statements are not which the Group is a party that take effect, sell their notes to ICG if the change of guarantees of future performance and the alter or terminate upon a change of control control results in either a credit ratings actual results of the Groups operations, of the Group, other than: downgrade from investment grade to financial condition and liquidity, and the sub-investment grade, or a downgrade 1.
The Private Placement arrangement development of the countries and the of one or more notches if already totalling 81m equivalent dated industries in which the Group operates sub-investment grade 28 February 2007 where a change may differ materially from those described of control gives rise to a downgrade 5.
The employee share schemes, details in, or suggested by, the forward-looking in the credit rating and the loans are of which can be found in the Report of statements contained in this Annual Report.
thereafter repayable on demand the Remuneration Committee on pages In addition, even if the results of operations, 69 to 93, Awards and options under 2.
The Private Placement arrangement financial condition and liquidity, and the the 2001 Approved and Unapproved totalling 35m equivalent dated development of the countries and the Executive Share Option Schemes and 26 June 2008, the Private Placement industries in which the Group operates, SAYE Plan 2004 become exercisable arrangement totalling $150m dated are consistent with the forward-looking for a limited period following a change 8 May 2013 and the Private Placement statements contained in this Annual Report, of control whereas awards under the arrangement totalling 258m those results or developments may not be KERSP will only become exercisable equivalent dated 11 May 2015 where a indicative of results or developments in if the Remuneration Committee so change of control in the Company gives subsequent periods.
Many of these factors decides.
Awards and options under the rise to an event of default under the are beyond the control of the Directors, Omnibus Plan and the BSC Plan vest agreements.
The loans are thereafter the Company and the Group.
Should one immediately on a change of control repayable on demand or more of these risks or uncertainties There are no agreements between the materialise, or should underlying 3.
Nine bilateral committed loan facility Group and its Directors or employees assumptions on which the forward-looking agreements totalling 645m, 68m providing for compensation for loss of statements are based prove incorrect, and A$50m entered into where a office or employment that occurs because actual results may vary materially from those change of control gives lenders the of a takeover bid apart from 1 those described in this Annual Report.
Except to right, but not the obligation, to cancel described at 5 above and 2 the usual the extent required by laws and regulations, their commitments to the respective payment in lieu of notice.
the Directors, the Company and the Group facility and declare the loans repayable do not intend, and do not assume any on demand obligation, to update any forward-looking 4.
The terms and conditions of a the statements set out in this Annual Report.
35m retail bond issue which took place in December 2011 b the 80m retail bond issue which took place in September 2012 c the 50m wholesale bond issue which took place in March 2014 d the 25m wholesale bond issue which took place in June 2014 and e the 160m bond issue which took place in March 2015 each of which set out that following a change of control event, investors ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED DIVIDEND DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO SHARE CAPITAL AND THE AUDITOR RIGHTS ATTACHING TO The Directors recommend a final net THE COMPANYS SHARES ordinary dividend payment in respect of Each of the persons who is a Director at the the ordinary shares of the Company at a date of approval of this report confirms that: As at 31 March 2016 the issued share capital rate of 15.8p per share 2015: 15.1p, which of the Company was 330,310,239 ordinary a So far as the Director is aware, there is when added to the interim net dividend of shares of 23 p each including 4,200,00 no relevant audit information of which 7.2p per share 2014: 6.9p, gives a total shares held in treasury.
Certain key matters the Companys auditor is unaware net dividend for the year of 23.0p per share regarding the Companys share capital are b The Director has taken all reasonable 2015: 22.0p.
In addition, a 200m special noted below: steps that they ought to have taken as dividend is recommended at the rate of Under the Companys Articles of a Director in order to make themselves 63.4p per share.
All recommendations are Association, any share in the Company may aware of any relevant audit information subject to the approval of shareholders at be issued with such rights or restrictions, and to ensure that the Companys the Companys AGM on 21 July 2016. whether in regard to dividend, voting, auditor is aware of that information The amount of ordinary dividend paid transfer, return of capital or otherwise This confirmation is given and should in the year was 78.2m 2014: 81.0m.
as the Company may from time to time by be interpreted in accordance with the In addition, a 300m special dividend ordinary resolution determine or, in the provisions of section 418 of the Companies payable at a rate of 82.6p per share was absence of any such determination, as the Act 2006. paid during the year and an associated share Board may determine.
All shares currently consolidation occurred.
in issue are ordinary shares of 23 p each POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS carrying equal rights DISCLOSURES REQUIRED UNDER Material events since the balance sheet date At a general meeting of the Company are described in note 35 and form part of the UK LISTING RULE 9.8.
4 every member present in person or by a Directors report disclosures.
Dividend waivers have been issued in duly appointed proxy has one vote on a respect of shares which are a held by the show of hands and on a poll one vote for POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS Groups EBT, or b held as Treasury Shares: each share held other than this, there are no disclosures No contributions were made during the The Intermediate Capital Group EBT current and prior year for political purposes.
required to be made under UK Listing 2015 holds shares which may be used to Rule 9.8.
4. satisfy options and awards granted under GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS the Companys employee share schemes AUDITOR All disclosures concerning the Groups including its long term incentive plans.
greenhouse gas emissions are detailed on A resolution for the reappointment of The voting rights of these shares are page 38, which forms part of the Directors the current auditor, Deloitte LLP, will exercisable by the trustees in accordance report disclosures.
be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
with their fiduciary duties Details of auditors remuneration for audit The notice of any general meeting ACQUISITION OF SHARES BY and non audit work are disclosed in note 11 specifies deadlines for exercising voting to the accounts.
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRUST rights either by proxy or present in person Acquisitions of shares by the Intermediate in relation to resolutions to be passed at a Capital Group EBT 2015 purchased during general meeting the year are as described in note 22 to the No shareholder is, unless the Board financial statements.
decides otherwise, entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by being a shareholder if: 98 99 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS They or any person with an interest in The Company is not aware of any POWERS OF DIRECTORS shares has been sent a notice under agreements between shareholders that Subject to its Articles of Association and section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 may result in restrictions on the transfer of relevant statutory law and to such direction which confers upon public companies the securities or voting rights.
as may be given by the Company by special power to require information with respect At the 2015 AGM the Directors were given resolution, the business of the Company is to interests in their voting shares the power to allot shares and grant rights to managed by the Board, who may exercise all They or any interested person has failed to subscribe for, or convert any security into, powers of the Company whether relating to supply the Company with the information shares: up to an aggregate nominal amount the management of the business or not.
requested within 14 days where the shares of 26,860,000 and, in the case of a fully The Companys Articles of Association subject to the notice the default shares pre-emptive rights issue only, up to a total give power to the Board to appoint represent at least 0.25% of their class or amount of 53,772,000.
The Articles also require any in any other case 28 days after delivery A resolution will be proposed to renew Directors appointed by the Board to submit of the notice.
Where the default shares the Companys authority to allot further themselves for election at the first AGM represent 0.25% of their class, unless the new shares at the forthcoming AGM.
following their appointment and for one Board decides otherwise, no dividend is In accordance with applicable institutional third of the Companys Directors to retire by payable in respect of those default shares guidelines, the proposed new authority will rotation at each AGM.
Directors may resign and no transfer of any default shares shall allow the Directors to allot ordinary shares or be removed by an ordinary resolution of be registered.
These restrictions end equal to an amount of up to one third of the shareholders.
Notwithstanding the above, seven days after receipt by the Company Companys issued ordinary share capital the Company has elected, in accordance of a notice of an approved transfer of the as at 31 May 2016 plus, in the case of a fully with the UK Corporate Governance Code shares or all the information required by pre-emptive rights issue only, a further to have all Directors reappointed on an the relevant section 793 notice, whichever amount of up to an additional one third of the annual basis.
is the earlier Companys issued share capital as at 31 May The Directors may refuse to register any 2016.
The authority for Directors to allot RELATIONSHIPS WITH transfer of any share which is not a fully shares in the Companys shares is renewed SHAREHOLDERS paid share, although such discretion annually and approval will be sought at the The Company recognises the importance may not be exercised in a way which the forthcoming AGM for its renewal.
of communication with its shareholders, Financial Conduct Authority regards The Directors authority to effect particularly through interim and annual as preventing dealings in the shares of purchases of the Companys shares on the reports and the AGM.
The Chief Executive, the relevant class or classes from taking Companys behalf is conferred by resolution CFO and the Chairmen of the Board and place on an open and proper basis.
At the 2015 AGM the each of its Committees will be available The Directors may likewise refuse to Company was granted authority to purchase to answer shareholders questions at the register any transfer of a share in favour its own shares up to an aggregate value of AGM.
The number of proxy votes lodged of more than four persons jointly approximately 10% of the issued ordinary in connection with the Companys AGM are The Company is not aware of any other share capital of the Company as at 4 June announced following the conclusion of the restrictions on the transfer of ordinary 2015.
During the year no shares were bought relevant meeting.
shares in the Company other than: back.
The authority to effect purchases of the Companys shares is renewed Certain restrictions that may from time to annually and approval will be sought at the time be imposed by laws and regulations forthcoming AGM for its renewal.
for example, insider trading laws or the UK Takeover Code Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority whereby certain employees of the Company require approval of the Company to deal in the Companys shares ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED RESULTS OF RESOLUTIONS PROPOSED AT 2015 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Resolution Votes for Votes against Votes withheld To receive the financial statements and reports of the Directors and auditors 1 288,168,200 166,000 151,983 for the financial year ended 31 March 2015.
To approve the Directors remuneration report for the financial year ended 2 184,067,056 94,512,829 9,906,298 31 March 2015.
To declare a final dividend of 15.1p per ordinary share for the financial year 3 288,323,175 162,083 925 ended 31 March 2015.
To reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company to hold office as the 4 278,857,712 9,625,266 3,205 Company's auditors until the conclusion of the Company's AGM in 2016.
To authorise the Directors to set the remuneration of the auditors.
Subject to the passing of resolution 14, to authorise the Directors to allot equity 15 276,821,785 364,577 11,299,821 securities and to sell ordinary shares pursuant to sections 570 1 and 573 of the Companies Act 2006.
To authorise the Company to make market purchases of its ordinary shares 16 288,477,588 5,670 2,925 pursuant to section 701 of the Companies Act 2006.
To approve that a general meeting of the Company other than the AGM may 17 266,402,243 21,817,507 266,433 be called on less than 14 clear days notice.
To declare a special dividend of 81.6 pence per ordinary share payable to 18 288,463,043 20,215 2,925 holders of ordinary shares as at 5.00pm on 22 July 2015.
Subject to the passing of resolution 18, that every 7 existing ordinary shares be 19 288,446,984 36,073 3,126 consolidated into 6 new ordinary shares of 23 1 3 pence each in the capital of the Company.
To reduce the amount standing to the credit of the Company's share 20 288,482,354 2,904 925 premium account.
The issued share capital of the Company at the date of the AGM was 385,182,720 ordinary shares of 20p each.
2016 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The AGM of the Company will take place at the London office of the Company on 21 July 2016 at 2.00pm.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM along with explanatory notes are set out in the circular to be posted to shareholders in June 2016 convening the meeting.
In line with market practice, if votes of more than 20% of those voting are cast against a resolution, the Company will make a statement when announcing the results of the vote to explain any actions it intends to take to understand the reasons behind the vote result.
