6 7 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS WHY WE ARE DIFFERENT Each investment opportunity is assessed These relationships have provided a We are a specialist amongst on its own merits and in the context of the significant number of both follow-on and asset managers, enabling us to expected risk and return requirements of new investment opportunities for our funds.
We particularly consider limiting grow our business, optimise Close monitoring of investments enables the downside risk of the investment and us to identify risks within the portfolio at an our balance sheet and maximise the underlying focus is on generating early stage.
Our investment professionals value for shareholders.
cash returns through the life of the asset.
have experience in default situations and Our investment strategy is underpinned by in the recovery of investments which we rigorous risk analysis.
use to maximise our returns from these AN OUTSTANDING TRACK RECORD investments.
Our investment and monitoring The combination of our outstanding LOCAL KNOWLEDGE AND processes have supported our outstanding investment track record over 27 years, RELATIONSHIPS track record since inception, with our funds expanded product range and the performing strongly against their peers.
We have local teams and sector specialists support of a strong balance sheet are our who speak the languages and understand significant differentiators when raising third the dynamics of the markets in which they LONG TERM APPROACH party money.
These investment teams have We support our investments over the long Our client relationships, enhanced by the established our reputation as a trusted term.
The availability of flexible capital, presence of our own distribution team, have and experienced partner with innovative both from our balance sheet and the funds, continued to grow in breadth and depth, structuring skills.
Our investments are supports sponsors and management in with recent fundraisings having a more tailored to provide a financing solution that achieving profit and cash generation which geographically and institutionally diverse fits the cash flows of the underlying asset to enables us to achieve outstanding returns investor base.
Our dedicated marketing and maximise value for our investors.
This has been the basis of our distribution team are enabling us to build teams have built long standing relationships long term success and enviable track record.
stronger and broader relationships which with local sponsors, banks, advisers and support our strategic priority of growing management teams, providing deal flow and SPECIALIST MARKET SKILLS assets under management.
early access to investment opportunities.
The success of our business model is These are significant differentiators in dependent on the skills and experience FLEXIBLE INVESTMENT OPTIONS our investment markets and contribute to of our people.
As illustrated above, their We design fund investment strategies that maintaining and enhancing our outstanding market knowledge, long term perspective track record.
meet the investment opportunities we have and strong relationships enable us to be a identified in the market.
This provides fund specialist amongst asset managers.
investors with direct access to specific asset ACTIVE INVOLVEMENT classes and generates returns for the benefit Post investment monitoring is a key focus of our fund investors and shareholders.
of both our investment teams and the We can respond to market opportunities Investment Committees.
Our investment You can read more about the resources and because our robust decision making process relationships which support our business model professionals and credit analysts are on pages 36 to 38 can be nimble and efficient when required.
responsible for attending management The skills, knowledge and market experience meetings, reviewing management data and of our people underpins this process.
We typically seek Board attendance rights DISCIPLINED AND ANALYTICAL from portfolio companies in our mezzanine APPROACH funds, currently attending over 80% of Our consistent, efficient and robust the Boards of our portfolio companies.
investment culture across our products is Board representation assists in effective based on disciplined investment processes, portfolio management of illiquid assets as it core credit principles and a strong focus on provides access to management, additional capital preservation.
insight into financial information and gives the opportunity to build and strengthen relationships with stakeholders.
