ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 BUSINESS MARKETPLACE GROUP GROUP RESOURCES & MODEL & STRATEGY PERFORMANCE RISKS RELATIONSHIPS HOW WE ALLOCATE OUR CAPITAL Once these new strategies are established, The aim of the Companys dividend We are committed to financial the Groups investment is reduced and the policy is to increase, or at least maintain, discipline, both in terms of capital redeployed.
The ability to support the ordinary dividend per share year on the establishment of new strategies is a year.
The level of growth is dependent on the quality of investment competitive advantage.
At times, the Group the cash performance of the underlying and strategic allocation of will invest for growth through acquisition business.
Prior to declaring dividend resources, as well as ensuring either through acquiring teams or more payments the Board ensures there are established fund management businesses.
sufficient distributable reserves and funds that an appropriate capital available to make the payment and considers structure is maintained.
SHAREHOLDER DISTRIBUTIONS the impact on regulatory capital, debt covenants and debt ratings.
These are not Capital is allocated to strategies We seek to maximise shareholder value by currently constraints on making ordinary utilising our available capital to prioritise that are expected to create dividend payments.
investment in opportunities which over a long term value.
number of years will add sustainable income In delivering the Groups strategic streams to the business and optimise our objectives, the size and nature of the return on equity ROE.
business will evolve which may impact INVESTING IN GROWTH regulatory capital and debt rating We understand that, alongside investing We allocate capital to grow the business calculations.
Therefore, following the special in growth, shareholders place value on in two ways.
The Group invests with the dividend announced with these results, regular and sustainable dividend payments higher return funds it manages, generating we do not expect there to be additional and we remain committed to a progressive attractive long term investment income material excess capital to be returned to dividend policy.
To the extent that we streams for the IC.
In addition, the Group shareholders in the near future.
believe there is any sustained material excess acts as an anchor investor, providing capital capital, we will consider returning capital to to demonstrate new strategies, developing our shareholders.
a track record to support fundraising.
ICG OPERATING MODEL INVESTING FUNDRAISING Fund deployment Gross fundraising to average 4bn per annum Fund performance and track record Maintain fee level Impairment target of less than 2.5% of opening book Selective product expansion IC PROFITABILITY FMC PROFITABILITY IC gross return on assets FMC operating margin Manage risk across all portfolios Manage risk across all portfolios CAPITAL ALLOCATION Return on equity above 13% Gearing 0.8 1.2x BUSINESS GROWTH SHAREHOLDER RETURNS Reinvest to drive ROE Dividend Return surplus cash INVESTMENT IN NEW FUNDS
