Corporate Governance Technology Committee report A key enabler of our overall strategy is the development of our technology capabilities.
John Mangelaars Committee Chairman For more on our investment in technology see page 18 His appointment led to a review of business consistently and drive forward Dear shareholder IT requirements and saw the development competitive advantage.
During my first full year as Committee of a revised strategic approach to IT.
Overall, 2016 was a year of refocus and Chairman, its remit moved away from This strategy has four key pillars: creating a the start of the implementation of our oversight of our Transformation for Growth strategic digital platform, restructuring IT into revised strategic approach.
Developing programme, which had been mostly a centrally managed function, digitising the our technology capabilities will gain completed, to overseeing the home credit business and using data as a further momentum in 2017. advancement of the Groups technology strategic asset.
Together, these pillars will capabilities.
We see technology as enable technology to serve our businesses increasingly fundamental to driving efficiency and supporting growth opportunities across the Group.
Technology Committee Committee members Improvements in our capabilities will composition % enable agents to serve customers better, John Mangelaars Chairman and decrease costs, give us deeper insights independent non-executive director 100 into our customers and business, and Richard Moat Independent nonunderpin the growth of our digital executive director operation.
In May 2016, the Committee Cathryn Riley Independent nonwas renamed the Technology Committee executive director to reflect this revised focus.
Former Committee member In March 2016, to underscore the David Broadbent until importance of technology we appointed 23 February 2016 Former executive a new Chief Information Officer, Chris director and Chief Commercial Officer Robinson, who has experience in leading IT, innovation and technology functions in Independent non-executive directors multinational companies.
2016 objectives 2016 progress 2017 objectives Focus on deliverables that bring Remit refocused and a new technology Launch new Strategic Digital Platform efficiency benefits.
into existing and new digital markets.
Roll out agent mobile technology.
Test of agent mobile technology in the Expand the delivery capabilities of the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland.
new Digital Centre of Excellence.
Complete roll out of sales and service organisation design across all home Successful integration of IPF Digital Complete the full integration of credit markets.
technology platforms into the Group.
technology staff from across businesses into the new centralised group.
Complete implementation of new CRM Sales and service organisation design system in Mexico.
structure rolled out in Poland, the Czech Roll out mobile applications to digitise Republic and Romania.
Implementation of CRM system in Mexico Implement new Data Strategy into IPF completed in June.
Digital and our home credit businesses.
International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 57 Technology Committee report continued Overview Case study: MyProvi increasing Role efficiency through technology The Committees terms of reference are available on our website and some of its key responsibilities include: Our MyProvi programme is modernising our home credit business by delivering mobile applications to supporting the technology programme and executive agents in order to capture sales and collections management by providing appropriate challenge, information securely and automatically post it into support, guidance and validation to ensure that the our core systems.
As well as reducing administration programme delivers quality outcomes at speed and overhead in the business this will bring about within approved budgets: improved compliance and data quality.
Numerous briefing the Board on progress and making paper forms and significant volumes of paper will be recommendations in relation to issues that need to be eliminated from our operation.
The initial collections escalated to the Board for consideration and approval: functionality has been deployed to a small number providing assurance to the Board that benefits are of agents in Poland, Hungary and the Czech being delivered, costs are being controlled and that Republic and a volume roll out will proceed in the delivery of the programme is supported effectively by first half of 2017. appropriate, reliable plans and governance: and authorising commitments within financial limits ensure home credit is digitised and supported delegated by the Board.
effectively with a dedicated IT structure and effective delivery team: and Composition enhance our programme delivery and A quorum is three members.
Technology in our markets in 2016 Activities in 2016 2016 has seen the successful introduction of enhanced Meetings technology in a number of our markets.
In Hungary, we The Committee met four times during the year.
deployed mobile credit scoring functionality to our agents in order to make customer applications more Technology a key enabler of our strategy efficiently from credit scoring to decision point.
Credit During 2016, it was recognised that a key enabler of our scoring has been operating well and was rolled out to all strategy is the development of our technology the target audience.
User feedback was very positive, with capabilities.
This led to a reappraisal of the way we view 85-90% satisfaction levels.
In Mexico, the CRM system went the role of technology and, as a result, the Committee live in the call centre.
supported work to revise our IT strategy.
Key priorities A revised strategic approach to IT To ensure that technology drives our business forward, we The objective of our revised strategy is to ensure that our are now focusing on a number of key priorities: technology capabilities are fit for an environment where delivering MyProvi agent mobile technology apps to challenging regulatory environments, changing customer our 25,600 agents: behaviours and accelerating competitor increasing investment in digital developments, funded growth converge.
by savings in home credit technology costs: By enhancing our capabilities, we will be better continuous improvements to our IPF Digital platform to positioned to exploit existing and new disruptive ensure it remains cutting edge: technologies to ensure we maximise revenue, profitability, productivity and efficiency, and minimise competitive improving digital options for Provident customers risks.
The strategy also aims to create a seamless through the roll out of our Provident-branded customer journey across all our product offerings and digital offering: platforms whether home credit or digital.
creating integration between our home credit and IPF Digital businesses to allow customers to move As part of delivering the IT strategy we are looking to: seamlessly between models and generate incremental become a data-led organisation: profit: and create a centrally managed IT function with increasing investments in data to become a dataappropriately balanced resourcing across home credit led organisation.
and IPF Digital businesses: leverage Group-wide capabilities across the IPF Digital technology platform: strengthen in-house capability and focus investment on capabilities that bring competitive advantage: adopt an open architecture approach in order to John Mangelaars facilitate future system developments and integration Chairman with third parties: 58
