Our business model Resources critical to our business model Deliv ering value for our stakeholders IPF offers both home credit and digital products.
This business model generates good sustainable How we deliver value returns for shareholders, while delivering value for our customers, employees, agents and the Home credit communities in which we operate.
Our home credit business model has operated for more than 130 years and We know our customers well and understand their specific needs and generates good returns.
Everything we do revolves around the relationships 2.3 million customers and the majority we have with our customers from the unique relationships our agents have choose the convenience and flexibility of with them in their home, to the service we provide remotely to our digital the weekly or monthly agent service.
Our success depends on serving them well and retaining Many of our customers have limited or no their custom.
previous credit history and their low, often Our business model is underpinned by our values and we operate and make fluctuating, income means they are less decisions consistent with being responsible, respectful and straightforward.
likely to qualify for a digital loan.
High standards of governance are also important to our sustainability and we actively identify, manage and aim to mitigate the principal risks facing our business, as described on page 37.
Our profit is generated from lending responsibly while managing the business efficiently.
Our home credit businesses generate a high proportion of Group revenue primarily through the agent service model.
While our digital business Responsible lending delivers a smaller contribution currently, we believe it offers a significant future growth opportunity driven by growing demand for online lending and the For both our home credit and digital business ability to operate within a regulatory environment where the trend is for lower models, credit risk is managed carefully cost products.
through robust application scoring systems, supported by credit bureaux, and for existing customers we use powerful behavioural models.
We have a low and grow strategy, starting new customers on smaller, shorterterm loans and only offer more credit once their creditworthiness is proven.
Creating value for our stakeholders For our strategy See pages 10-11 For principal risks See pages 36-43 12 Y Strategic Report t a s E n C e N d u o R l r q m l e U e e p r a c O a n d t y J i a e o m o R n L e E s n t M s O L s o T r s S a e e n U m n i e C o s r t s s a u R u w e U C d a O Relationships People Technology Financial Open and honest engagement We resource the business with Technology is fundamental We manage financial with all stakeholders is critical, skilled and knowledgeable to driving efficiency through resources effectively to particularly the relationships employees and agents who agent mobile technology, sustain our business and with our customers to ensure implement our strategy and supporting digital loans generate good returns for they receive the products and ensure our customers are growth and making our shareholders.
Digital Our digital business model has operated successfully for over 10 years and is profitable in our established markets.
The rapid increase in mobile device technology is enabling some consumers in our target segment to borrow online and digital lending is an important Our growth opportunity.
Our customers have low to middle incomes and a credit history that may enable us to offer them customer a remote digital loan.
focus In our home credit business, agents meet customers in their homes and are critical to good lending decisions.
They are also rewarded largely on the amount of money they collect from customers which supports responsible lending.
Customers People Communities Shareholders We meet the everyday We are committed to We are a responsible, ethical We have a solid track record needs of our customers supporting the development and inclusive lender, bringing of delivering profit and returns through our home credit and engagement of our long-term benefits to the for our shareholders.
people in line with our communities we serve.
International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 13 l a t i p a C C r e d i t s c e o u r i n n e g v e R
