Our strategy O ur m u l t ic h a nn e l Market drivers approach Strong demand for We are pursuing our strategy to deliver sustainable unsecured consumer growth, enhance our profitability and make efficient lending use of capital.
Consumer credit growing Our strategy reflects the dynamic markets in which we operate where demand Digital lending driving growth for unsecured, small sum credit is growing, particularly for digital loans, but Low single digit GDP growth where competition and regulatory oversight has also intensified.
In response to these market drivers, our operations are segmented into Growth and Returns focused businesses to reflect the fact that they are at different stages of maturity.
We see significant growth opportunities in our IPF Digital and Mexico home credit businesses supported by investment in capital generated Increased competition by our high returns European home credit businesses.
To deliver this strategy, we Digital lenders and banks taking best are also modernising the business by investing in technology innovation and customers from home credit developing our people and capabilities.
No new home credit operators Growth focus IPF Digital Intense competition expected to IPF Digital represents an exciting strategic priority for the Group driven by remain increasing demand for digital loans.
We are focused on growing this business, particularly in our four new markets of Poland, Spain, Australia and Mexico, and IPF Digital is expected to deliver its maiden profit in 2018.
Growth focus Mexico home credit Growing consumer While performance in the first half of 2016 was below our original expectations, we continue to believe that Mexico offers significant growth potential for our preference for digital home credit offering and therefore we will continue to invest in controlled options geographical expansion and new product lines.
Increased smartphone and internet penetration Returns focus European home credit Our European home credit businesses are highly cash and capital generative.
Home credit remains very important in We manage these businesses to provide a good service to our customers and our credit sector optimise returns to fund growth in our IPF Digital and Mexico home credit businesses, and to provide progressive returns to our shareholders.
Increased regulatory oversight driving lower margins and restricting issue values Regulators increasingly active in consumer finance Focus on price and affordability Regulatory risk will continue 10 Strategic Report Our strategy and priorities Our investment case 1.
IPF Digital Operating in a Focus on growing new growing sector markets: Poland, Spain, Australia and Mexico Invest in head office capability and IT functionality Bring to profitability in 2018 Good returns for shareholders 2.
Mexico home credit Return to strong profitable growth Expand geographical coverage Strong Build micro-business loans offering financial profile Drive significant operational leverage 3.
European Effective risk home credit management Manage to optimise returns Deliver efficiency Roll out Provident-branded digital offer Generate capital to reinvest in growth focused businesses Deliver shareholder returns Experienced team For our investment case See page 14-15 Making a difference with straightforward consumer finance International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 11 Returns focus Growth focus Generating returns Reinvesting in growth
