Directors statements non-executive director: and Cathryn Riley, nonAnnual Report and financial executive director.
statements To the best of each directors knowledge: International Personal Finance plc presents its own a. the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with Annual Report and its Consolidated Annual Report the IFRSs, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, as a single Annual Report.
financial position and profit of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: Directors responsibilities in relation to the b. the Strategic Report contained in this report includes a Financial Statements fair review of the development and performance of the The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual business and the position of the Company and the Report and Financial Statements in accordance with undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a applicable law and regulations.
whole, together with a description of the principal risks Company law requires the directors to prepare Financial and uncertainties that they face: and Statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the c. the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken directors are required to prepare the Group Financial as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and Statements in accordance with International Financial provide the information necessary for shareholders to Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European assess the Companys position and performance, Union and Article 4 of the International Accounting business model and strategy.
Standard IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the Parent Company Financial Statements under Statement of the directors in respect of the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company Annual Report and Financial Statements law, the directors must not approve the Financial Statements review process unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of The Board came to this view following a rigorous review the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss process throughout the production schedule.
The of the Company for that period.
In preparing these statements are drafted by appropriate members of the Financial Statements, IAS 1 requires that directors: reporting and leadership teams and co-ordinated by the properly select and apply accounting policies: Investor Relations Manager to ensure consistency.
A series present information, including accounting policies, of planned reviews are undertaken by the reporting team, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, leadership team and directors.
In advance of final comparable and understandable information: consideration by the Board, they are reviewed by the provide additional disclosures when compliance with the Audit and Risk Committee.
specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, Disclosure of information to the auditor other events and conditions on the entitys financial In the case of each person who is a director at the date of this position and financial performance: and report, it is confirmed that, so far as the director is aware, there make an assessment of the Companys ability to is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor continue as a going concern.
is unaware: and he she has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken as a director in order to make himself herself The directors are responsible for keeping adequate aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Going concern Company and enable them to ensure that the Financial The Board statement on its adoption of the going concern Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They basis in preparing these Financial Statements is given on are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the page 35.
Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Boards review of the system of internal control The directors are responsible for the maintenance and The Board is responsible for the Groups overall approach to integrity of the corporate and financial information included risk management and internal control and, on the advice of on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the Audit and Risk Committee, has reviewed the Groups risk the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements management and internal controls systems for the period may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
1 January 2016 to the date of this Annual Report and Financial Statements, and is satisfied that they are effective.
Responsibility statement By order of the Board This statement is given pursuant to Rule 4 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
It is given by each of the directors as at the date of this report, namely: Dan OConnor, Chairman: Gerard Ryan, Chief Executive Officer: Justin Lockwood, Chief Financial Trudy Ellis Officer: Tony Hales, Senior independent non-executive Company Secretary director: Jayne Almond, non-executive director: John Mangelaars, non-executive director: Richard Moat, 1 March 2017 70
