Our investment case Our investment case We have long-standing experience of profitably serving We are a profitable, well-funded our segment of customers who have higher credit risk business with a good track record profiles with our home credit offer and our digital business model offers significant growth potential.
of offering products that are valued by our customers and delivering sustainable returns to shareholders.
Operating in a growing sector There is growing demand for unsecured, small sum consumer 2.5M credit.
Our business model focuses on serving customers with Customers low to middle incomes who are underserved by mainstream financial operators.
We know these customers better than most and have responded to their changing needs with products that meet their specific requirements and financial circumstances.
We see significant growth potential in our IPF Digital and Mexico home credit businesses.
For more information see market review Q&A on pages 8 to 9 Good returns for shareholders We are a long-established profitable business with a track 11.6% record of providing attractive returns to shareholders and Return on assets reinvesting for growth.
We have achieved this even during periods of macroeconomic and financial market volatility, and periods of competitive and regulatory change for 17.7% our business.
Return on equity For more information see financial review on pages 32 to 35 14 Strategic Report Our investment case Strong financial profile We are committed to maintaining a strong financial profile 45.7% with a robust balance sheet and funding position.
The equity Equity to receivables to receivables ratio balances good returns with a resilient capital ratio target 40% capital position.
We have a diversified debt portfolio at competitive cost with appropriate terms, with a mix of 429.5M bonds and bank facilities, and a balanced maturity profile.
Net assets 152M Headroom on debt facilities For more information see financial review on pages 32 to 35 Effective risk management We have a good track record of responding to risk, and have adapted our business and product offering to comply with consumer credit regulation.
Our control framework and the processes we implement to identify and manage risks underpin our decision-making.
This dynamic, well-developed system is integrated at all levels of the Group and aligned to our strategic objectives to deliver long-term growth and protect our people, assets and reputation.
For more information see principal risks and uncertainties on pages 36 to 43 Experienced team We are committed to supporting the development and 65% engagement of our people in order to grow an ethical, Agent retention sustainable business.
We have a highly experienced Board and management team with a unique combination of international home credit and digital expertise.
We attract and 74% retain experienced, high potential individuals who understand Employee retention our customers and the products we provide.
For more information on our Board and committees see pages 46 to 47 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 15
