Market review Q&A Our strategy reflects the changing dynamics in our markets.
Gerard Ryan Chief Executive Officer Changing dynamics in consumer finance It is important to note that, despite advances in For CEOs review Our CEO, Gerard Ryan, discusses technology, many of our home credit customers value see pages 16-19 the key market drivers in consumer the convenience and flexibility of our agent service and the forbearance it offers.
Additionally, most of our home finance and how they are influencing credit customers would not currently be accepted for a our strategy.
digital loan and so we see our home credit model maintaining its key competitive advantage.
Is demand for consumer credit growing?
What are the biggest risks to your business?
Yes, demand is increasing in our markets driven largely by digital lending specifically short-term payday loans, and In a nutshell, regulation and competition.
Regulators and bank consolidation loans.
We expect growth to continue politicians continue to be active in our European markets albeit with some slowdown in developed markets over and have introduced new legislation around price and the medium term.
We have identified significant growth affordability.
It is clear that pre-election populist agendas opportunities within our business and our strategy have also resulted in less market consultation in the reflects this.
legislative process than would normally be the case.
Regarding competition, preference for digital loans is Q.
How is consumer behaviour changing?
driving growth in the unsecured consumer finance market in Europe and digital lenders are also starting to Technology is driving changes in consumer behaviour.
launch in Mexico, though this market is significantly less The rapid increase in smartphone and internet developed compared with Europe.
penetration is enabling a growing number of the best credit quality consumers in our target segment to borrow online.
This has brought intense competition in some of our markets but also presents an exciting opportunity and, as a result, our digital business is growing strongly in this space.
8 Strategic Report We are engaging with Polish Government ministries and Demand is increasing in our interested parties to try to achieve a markets driven largely by more positive solution that is good both for consumers and businesses.
In Romania, more stringent and restrictive creditworthiness assessments for non-banking financial Q.
How have changes to regulation impacted institutions and the requirement for the separation of your product offering and returns?
duties between sales and credit vetting became effective Where there are rate caps in markets in which we at the end of 2016.
These changes are expected to operate, we have adapted our business to ensure impact growth significantly in this market.
New total cost of credit regulations New licensing regulations were introduced in the Czech introduced in Poland in March 2016 meant we had to Republic in December 2016 with the key changes being introduce a new product structure and the effect of this the requirement for agents to have either a secondary new requirement has, as expected, resulted in a education or at least three years of financial service reduction of profit and returns.
experience, a clear separation of duties between sales and The impact of an amendment to the Civil Code in credit decisioning teams and modifications to proof of Slovakia in December 2015, which meant the charges income processes.
We submitted our licence application, for our previously optional agent service would need made changes to our business processes and are offering to fall within one loan agreement and therefore assistance to agents to become accredited.
become subject to the existing price cap, was hugely We continue to await the outcome of the appeal against disappointing.
Following a detailed review early in new collections regulations introduced in Mexico in 2016, we took the decision to wind down the December 2015 banning weekend and late hour Slovakian business.
Lenders do not have In terms of our product offering, we have introduced to comply with the law until the case is closed and we digital lending which can, typically, operate within are working with interested parties to change the lower rate caps because of the lower cost base.
We respective elements of the legislation to better reflect have also increased loan sizes and terms for our best both the needs of customers and businesses.
customers and are offering insurance products to drive incremental profits.
What is the global economic outlook for your business?
How are you responding to growing competition?
The results of the Brexit vote and US presidential election We now operate in a marketplace where payday in 2016 have created global market uncertainty and the operators, digital lenders and, to a lesser extent, banks general expectation is that there may be longer-term are willing to take more risk and compete for our most impacts on global economic growth.
To compete more effectively, we GDP forecasts for 2017 are for a continuation of recent have responded by broadening our product offering to For our strategy moderate growth in our European markets but for a attract and retain a wider range of customers in our see pages 10-11 slowdown in Mexico.
We now offer shorter and longer-term loans and micro-business loans for self-employed Q.
How do these factors feed into your strategy?
customers, preferentially priced loans for loyal customers We are operating in a dynamic environment which is and a range of insurance products sourced from being driven increasingly by digital lending, and where third parties.
competition and regulation have intensified.
Our strategy, We also have a range of digital instalment loan offerings which is described overleaf, reflects these market drivers and a credit line facility available from IPF Digital under in seeking sustainable growth and enhanced profitability.
the Credit 24, Hapiloans, Creditea and Sving brands.
Our Provident-branded digital offering in Poland is building momentum with 8,000 customers and we plan to introduce this product in the Czech Republic during 2017.
What current regulatory risks are on the horizon?
In December 2016, the Polish Ministry of Justice proposed, amongst other details, a significant reduction to the existing cap on non-interest costs that may be charged by lenders in connection with a consumer loan agreement.
This was an unexpected proposal, particularly as the existing cap had only been enacted in March 2016.
During a 14-day public consultation, many organisations evaluated and commented on the draft bill, and we await an update from the Ministry of Justice on its proposal.
International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 9
