Corporate Governance Directors report The highest standards of governance underpinned Compliance by process and culture are an absolute necessity.
with the UK Dan OConnor Chairman Corporate For our GovernanceCode statement of overall compliance see page 44 A.
2: Division of responsibilities A: Leadership The Board has approved a statement of the A.
1: The role of the Board division of responsibilities between the Chairman The Board is responsible for the long-term success of see A.
3 below, the Senior Independent Director the business and for ensuring that it operates in the see A.
4 below and the Chief Executive Officer.
best interests of all its stakeholders.
It meets regularly The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for throughout the year providing leadership and developing and implementing the strategy strategic direction.
Our strategy and business model agreed by the Board and for all executive matters can be found on pages 10 to 13.
There is a formal apart from those reserved to the Board and the schedule of matters reserved specifically for decision Board committees and delegates accordingly.
by the Board, published at www.
Other matters are delegated specifically to six principal Board committees.
The Chairman of each committee A.
3: The Chairman briefs the Board at each meeting on the principal The Chairman is responsible for chairing Board items that were discussed, decisions made and key meetings and monitoring their effectiveness, and issues.
Their terms of reference are also available at chairing the AGM and Nomination Committee.
co. uk and from the Company Secretary.
The Chairman was independent on appointment.
The ongoing test of independence does not The day-to-day running of the business is delegated apply to the Chairman.
In 2016, this comprised the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer until 30 September 2016, the Chief Commercial A.
4: Non-executive directors Officer until 23 February 2016 and the Interim Chief The independent non-executive directors have Financial Officer from 30 September 2016.
The been appointed for a fixed period of three years, Executive Committee met frequently during the year subject to re-election by shareholders.
The initial to process a wide range of matters.
period may be extended for a further period.
Their letters of appointment may be inspected at our The Disclosure Committee met as required to registered office and are available from the consider whether an announcement to the London Company Secretary.
Each of the non-executive and Warsaw Stock Exchanges was required.
During directors has been formally determined by the 2016, it comprised the Chief Executive Officer, the Board to be independent for the purposes of the Chief Financial Officer until 30 September 2016, the Code.
In the case of Tony Hales, the Board Chief Commercial Officer until 23 February 2016, considered that notwithstanding the duration of the Interim Chief Financial Officer from his tenure he continued to be independent in 30 September 2016 and the Company Secretary.
It character and judgement and that his met seven times.
experience was invaluable to the Company.
Our governance framework extends to operational activities, with decision-making and oversight responsibilities delegated to a series of Group governance committees, as shown in Our Governance and oversight structure at www.
International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 59 Directors report continued Tony Hales is the Senior Independent Director.
4: Development available to shareholders should they have concerns Our policy is to provide appropriate training to which contact through the normal channels of directors.
Training takes into account each individuals Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial qualifications and experience and includes Officer has failed to address or for whom such contact is environmental, social and governance training as inappropriate.
The Senior Independent Director will review appropriate.
Training needs are reviewed annually the performance of the Chairman on an annual basis.
In following the outcome of the Board evaluation process.
carrying out this review, the Senior Independent Director Training also covers generic and specific business topics will consult with other Board members and consider the and in 2016 included presentations to the Board on relationship between the Chairman and the Chief subjects including a strategic review of the business and Executive Officer.
training on the new Market Abuse Regulation, which came into effect on 3 July 2016, ensuring the Board is The Chairman has held a number of sessions with the cognisant of the current rules on disclosure.
A non-executive directors without executive directors comprehensive, individually tailored induction plan is present, and the non-executive directors have met prepared for new directors.
The Board also visited the without the Chairman.
businesses in Mexico and Poland and received updates Where directors have concerns about the running of the from the management teams in these markets.
Company, which cannot be resolved, these are recorded in the Board minutes.
No such concerns have been raised during the period under review.
Case study: The Board in Warsaw In October, the Board visited our home credit and B: Effectiveness digital businesses in Poland.
1: The composition of the Board Manager, David Parkinson, and his management At 31 December 2016, the Board comprised five nonteam, the Board gained a deeper insight into the executive directors, one executive director and the Polish home credit business, its current performance Chairman.
A further executive director, Justin Lockwood, and outlook for the future.
The Board received joined the Board on 23 February 2017.
Biographical updates on the competitive and regulatory details and committee membership are shown on pages environment in Poland.
Discussion focused on the 46 and 47.
Details of our diversity policy can be found in teams plans to create further value through the the Nomination Committee report on page 51. continued development of Provident Direct and profit optimisation initiatives.
In an energetic three-hour session in the afternoon, particular attention was B.
2: Appointments to the Board given to dissecting the key drivers of value.
The Board There were no new appointments to the Board in 2016. also visited the IPF Digital team based in Warsaw.
Further detail relating to the recruitment process During their time with the digital team, the Board underway to find a new Senior Independent Director and heard presentations on our Hapiloans business, the the appointment in 2017 of a new Chief Financial Officer wider IPF Digital portfolio performance and strategy.
can be found in the Nomination Committee Report on Non-executive director, Jayne Almond, commented: pages 50 and 51.
The enthusiasm of the Polish management teams shone through.
Debating issues directly with the B.
3: Commitment teams on the ground gave me a real feel for the Our policy is that the Chairman and the non-executive challenges they face and the opportunities open directors should have sufficient time to fulfil their duties, tothem.
including chairing a Board Committee as appropriate.
A non-executive director should not hold more than four other material non-executive directorships.
5: Information and support an executive role in another FTSE 350 company, he she All directors are able to consult with the Company should not hold more than two other material nonSecretary, who also updates the Board on developments executive directorships.
relating to governance on a regular basis.
The The Board has approved a policy on other directorships: appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a any request for an exception to this is considered on its matter for the Board.
Ben Murphy, Group Legal Director merits.
An executive director will be permitted to hold one and Company Secretary, was Company Secretary non-executive directorship and to retain the fees from throughout 2016 and left IPF on 20 January 2017.
The that appointment provided that the Board considers this Board is in the process of recruiting his replacement and will not affect his her executive responsibilities adversely.
the role of Company Secretary is being undertaken by During his tenure as Chief Financial Officer, Adrian Trudy Ellis in the interim.
The Company Secretary is Gardner was also a non-executive director of secretary to the Board Committees other than the Amdocs Limited.
Disclosure Committee of which the Assistant Company Secretary is secretary.
Any director may take The external commitments of the Chairman, Senior independent professional advice at the Companys Independent Director and non-executive directors have expense relating to the performance of his her duties.
been reviewed and the Board is satisfied that these do not conflict with the commitment required of them to the Company.
6: Board and committee evaluation C. 2: Risk management and internal control In January 2016, the Board considered the output of the The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the 2015 Board and committee evaluation.
An action plan principal risks facing the Company, including those that was put in place and executed during 2016 to address would threaten our business model, future performance, the main areas of development highlighted, which solvency or liquidity.
Details can be found on pages 36 to related to: increased focus on longer-term strategic 43.
The Board determines the Companys risk appetite issues: more concise financial reporting: regular and has established risk management and systems of monitoring of critical risks: and consideration of whether internal control.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit and the Board had the appropriate skill mix and level of Risk Committee has monitored the Groups systems of diversity and whether these were being leveraged internal control and its processes for managing principal appropriately.
The Board carried out an externally risks throughout 2016. facilitated evaluation of its performance in late 2016 led by David Mensley of EquityCommunications Limited.
An C. 3: Audit Committee and auditors external evaluation is required by the Code at least every The report of the Audit and Risk Committee is set out on three years.
Directors completed a questionnaire, the pages 52 to 56.
This details its composition, role and results of which were collated and assessed by David responsibilities, work during 2016, its interactions with the Mensley prior to his report being presented to the Board external auditor and our policy regarding external auditor in January 2017.
The 2016 evaluation found no sense of a tendering and rotation.
The Committees terms of board which lacked unity or reluctance to share feelings reference are available at www.
or opinions and the Board members supported this finding and considered it important.
Areas for focus For our continued to include communication of strategy and the D: Remuneration Directors strength of the leadership team.
These will form the basis D. 1: The level and components of remuneration Remuneration of our action plan for 2017.
Report Full details of the Companys policy on remuneration are see pages contained in the Directors Remuneration Report.
7: Election re-election 71-93 Under our Articles of Association, each director must offer D. 2: Procedure himself herself for re-election every three years.
After nine Development of the policy on executive remuneration is years, a director, other than an executive director, must delegated to the Remuneration Committee.
Details are offer himself herself for re-election annually.
A director who set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
No director is appointed initially by the Board is subject to election at is involved in deciding his her own remuneration.
Consequently, Justin Lockwood will stand for election at our AGM in 2017.
In accordance with best corporate governance practice, all other directors will offer E: Relations with shareholders themselves for re-election again at our AGM in 2017.
E. 1: Dialogue with shareholders Details of the directors, including their key strengths and The executive directors communicate with institutional contribution, are shown on pages 46 and 47. shareholders regularly.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director also meet with shareholders from C: Accountability time to time.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that appropriate channels of communication are C. 1: Financial and business reporting established between the executive directors and A statement of the directors responsibilities in relation to shareholders and for ensuring that the views of the Financial Statements and the Groups status as a shareholders are made known to the entire Board.
A going concern is on page 70.
The Groups strategy and programme of investor engagement is in place and the business model, key performance indicators and relevant Board is updated on a regular basis.
The Board is also risks are on pages 10 to 13, 20 to 21 and 37 to 43. briefed regularly on shareholdings and we seek feedback A statement confirming that the Board considers that the from major shareholders twice a year on their views on Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a strategy, performance and management.
whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to The Board seeks to present IPFs position and prospects assess the Companys position, performance, business clearly.
The Annual Report and Financial Statements, model and strategy is on page 70. circulars and announcements we make to the London and Warsaw Stock Exchanges are posted on our website: www.
Shareholders, whatever the size of their shareholding, are able to express their views via email or telephone with the Investor Relations Manager.
The Investors section of our website gives shareholders and potential investors access to a wealth of Company information.
In 2016, we upgraded our website which is now device responsive and so allows users easy access on mobiles, tablets and PCs.
International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 61 Directors report continued E. 2: Constructive use of general meetings Case study: Investor engagement We give at least 20 working days notice of the AGM.
Our policy is that the Chairman of each of the Board We undertook an active programme of investor committees will be available to answer questions from engagement in 2016.
480 connections were made shareholders and there is an opportunity for shareholders with current and potential investors through face-toto ask questions on each resolution proposed.
Details of face meetings, conference calls, email dialogue, proxy votes are made available to shareholders and web casts, roadshows, conferences and results other interested parties by means of an announcement presentations.
Key topics included performance, to the London Stock Exchange, the Warsaw Stock regulation, competition, funding and IPF Digital.
The Exchange and on our website.
Chairman and Senior Independent Director held a private lunch for major shareholders in November, Shareholders are invited each year to the AGM.
Our 2017 which was attended by seven fund managers and a AGM will be held at 10.30am on Wednesday 3 May 2017 constructive discussion covered performance in at International Personal Finance plc, Number Three Mexico, succession planning and our digital strategy.
Leeds City Office Park, Meadow Lane, Leeds LS11 5BD.
An In September and October, we sought shareholder explanation of the items of business will be contained in views on our proposed 2017 Directors Remuneration the Notice of Annual General Meeting 2017 to be sent to Policy.
Subsequently, a number of individual shareholders and dated 21 March 2017. discussions were held between shareholders and the Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Initial feedback focused on deferral levels and proposals around outperformance.
This engagement helped us refine the proposed policy, which can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 71 to 93.
Other disclosures In addition to the Code, we are required to comply with the Companies Act 2006, the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules.
Where not covered elsewhere, these requirements are covered in this section.
4R disclosures You can find the disclosures required under the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rule 9.8.
4R in the sections of the Annual Report and Financial Statements shown below: Listing Rule 9.8.
4R Disclosure required Cross-reference 1 Interest capitalised and related tax relief Not applicable 2 Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable 4 Details of long-term incentive schemes Not applicable 5 Waiver of emoluments by a director Not applicable 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a director Not applicable 7 Non-pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable 8 Non-pre-emptive issues of equity for cash by major subsidiary undertakings Not applicable 9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary Not applicable 10 Contracts of significance Page 67 11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Not applicable 12 and 13 Shareholder waiver of dividends Not applicable 14 Statement by the Board Not applicable 62 Corporate Governance Voting Incorporation and constitution There are no restrictions on voting rights except as set out International Personal Finance plc is registered in in the Articles in circumstances where the shareholder England and Wales under Company Number 6018973. has not complied with a statutory notice or paid up what Our Articles of Association the Articles may only be is due on the shares.
amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of Alteration of share capital and variation of rights shareholders and are available online at www.
co. uk, Sub-division: any resolution authorising the Company to by writing to the Company Secretary or from Companies sub-divide its shares, or any of them, may determine that, House in the UK.
as between the shares resulting from the sub-division, any of them may have any preference or advantage or be Share capital subject to any restriction as compared with the others.
Details of our share capital are shown in note 27.
On Fractions: whenever as a result of a consolidation, 31 December 2016, there were 234,244,437 ordinary consolidation and sub-division or sub-division of shares shares of 10 pence each in issue.
No shares were issued any holders would become entitled to fractions of a during the year.
None were bought back, transferred to share, the Board may deal with the fractions as it thinks fit treasury or cancelled.
including by aggregating and selling them or by dealing The ordinary shares can be held in certificated or with them in some other way.
Variation of rights: subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, all or any of the rights attached to any Shareholders rights and obligations existing class of shares may from time to time be varied The full rights and obligations attached to the Companys either with the consent in writing of the holders of not less ordinary shares, in addition to those conferred on their than three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares holders by law, are set out in our Articles.
A summary of of that class excluding any shares of that class held as those rights and obligations can be found below.
treasury shares or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the Restrictions on shareholders rights holders of those shares.
Subject to any rights attached to existing shares, any share may be issued with or have attached to it such Profit and dividends rights and restrictions as the Company may decide by ordinary resolution or, if no such resolution has been Our policy is to adopt a progressive dividend policy, passed or so far as the resolution does not make specific reflecting the profitability of the Groups businesses provision, as the Board may decide.
Such rights and together with its capital and cash flow requirements, to restrictions shall apply to the relevant shares as if the target a pay-out ratio of 35% of earnings.
same were set out in the Articles.
Details of the proposed final dividend for 2016 payable in Restrictions on holding securities 2017 can be found on page 33.
Details of past dividend No person shall be recognised by the Company payments can be found on page 136. asholding any share upon any trust.
Transfer There are no restrictions on the transfer including requirements for prior approval of any transfers or limitations on the holding of ordinary shares subject tothe fact that the Board may refuse to register the transfer of: a partly-paid share: an uncertificated share in the circumstances set out in the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001: and a certificated share if a duly executed transfer is not provided together with any necessary document of authority.
International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 63 Directors report continued Interests in voting rights As at 31 December 2016, we had been notified, pursuant to the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules, of the following notifiable voting rights in our issued share capital.
% of issued share 1 2 Name Voting rights capital Nature of holding Standard Life Investments Holdings Limited 24,761,883 11.13 Direct Indirect FIL Limited 14,008,597 6.31 Indirect FMR LLC 11,682,426 5.28 Indirect Norges Bank 11,353,366 5.10 Direct Marathon Asset Management LLP 12,841,168 5.01 Indirect Franklin Templeton Investments Ltd 12,062,651 5.01 Indirect Aberforth Partners LLP 11,605,513 5.01 Indirect Old Mutual Asset Managers UK Ltd 12,547,167 4.88 Direct Indirect Schroders plc 12,287,572 4.77 Indirect BlackRock, Inc. 11,670,102 4.54 Indirect Investec Asset Management Ltd 8,995,482 3.50 Indirect Oppenheimer Funds Inc Baring Asset Management Ltd 7,769,836 3.02 Indirect BNP Paribas Investment Partners 7,017,954 3.02 Indirect Between 1 January and 28 February 2017, we were notified pursuant to the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules of the following notifiable voting rights in our issued share capital.
% of issued share 1 2 Name Voting rights capital Nature of holding Standard Life Investments Holdings Limited 26,355,459 11.85 Direct Indirect 1.
The holdings set out in the tables above relate only to those institutions which have notified us of an interest in our issued share capital and the information is based on the last notification received.
The percentage of issued share capital in the table above is based on the Companys issued share capital at the point of notification.
Agreements on change of control We do not have any agreements with any director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover.
We are not party to any significant agreements that would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid, apart from: our bank facility agreements, which provide for a negotiation period following a change of control and the ability of a lender to cancel its commitment and for outstanding amounts to become due and payable: 1 our Euro Medium Term Note programme, which entitles any holder of a Note to require us to redeem such holders Notes if there is a change of control and, following such change of control, the Notes are downgraded: 2 our Polish Medium Term Note programme, which entitles any holder of a Note to require the issuer to redeem such holders Notes if there is a change of control and, following such change of control, the Euro Medium Term Notes are then downgraded or if no such Notes are then outstanding, in certain other circumstances : and provisions in our share incentive plans may cause awards granted to directors and employees to vest on a takeover.
The Euro Medium Term Note programme was established in 2010.
The following Notes listed on the London or Irish Stock Exchanges have been issued under the programme and are outstanding as at the date of this report: Hungarian forint 4 billion issued in January 2013 with a five-year term and an 11.0% coupon: sterling 101.5 million issued in May 2013 and November 2013 with a seven-year term and a 6.125% coupon: Czech crown 250 million issued in November 2013 with a five-year term and a 5.25% coupon: euro 300.0 million issued in April 2014 with a seven-year term and a 5.75% coupon: euro 40.0 million issued in May 2014 with a four-year term and a 4.25% coupon: euro 100 million tap of our existing Eurobond issued in April 2015 with a six-year maturity and a 5.75% coupon: Czech crown 200 million issued in December 2015 with a three-year term and a 5.5% coupon: Romanian lei 43.5 million and 22.0 million bonds issued in December 2015 with a three-year term and a 7.0% coupon: and Romanian lei 79.5 million bond issued in December 2016 with a three-year term and a 8.0% coupon listed on the Irish Stock Exchange.
Under the Polish Medium Term Note programme, a subsidiary company, IPF Investments Polska Sp.
z o. o. issued 200 million Polish zloty Notes which are listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange: they mature on 3 June 2020 and the coupon is a floating rate of six-month WIBOR plus a margin of 425 basis points.
64 Corporate Governance Power to allot securities and pre-emptive rights Employees As at 31 December 2016, the directors had authority Employee engagement is key to our People Strategy to allot further securities up to an aggregate nominal and we survey employees across the Group annually to amount of 7,366,000 and, broadly, up to a further understand their views.
In 2016, we carried this out in 7,366,000 for a rights issue.
Further authorities will be conjunction with Gallup.
78% of employees across the sought at the 2017 AGM including the disapplication of Group completed the survey.
Overall, the results showed pre-emption rights in certain circumstances.
a marginal improvement in overall engagement over the previous year which was pleasing especially given the Borrowing powers and other restrictions level of change in the business.
The area which showed The directors are responsible for the management of the highest increase in score was recognition of the work the Company and may exercise all the powers of the performed by colleagues.
This demonstrated to us that Company, subject to the provisions of the relevant not only do our teams work hard to support each other, statutes and our Articles.
For example, our Articles contain they are also appreciative of the support they receive.
specific provisions and restrictions regarding IPFs powers Results were fed back to all our teams and action plans to borrow money: provisions relating to the appointment developed in conjunction with them as part of our of directors, subject to subsequent shareholder approval: continued commitment to empower our people.
delegation of powers to a director or committees: and, subject to certain exceptions, a director shall not vote on We update employees on matters that concern them via or be counted in a quorum in relation to any resolution of staff meetings and our intranet and, where appropriate, the Board in respect of any contract in which he she has seek feedback on decisions that affect their interests.
Our an interest which he she knows is material.
Ask Gerard Tell Gerard process gives employees a direct communication channel with our CEO.
We also update Directors conflicts of interest employees on financial and economic factors impacting the Company and management promotes a culture To take account of the Companies Act 2006, the directors where two-way communication is encouraged.
adopted a policy on conflicts of interest and established a register of conflicts.
The directors consider that these Employees are able to participate in our equity share procedures have operated effectively in 2016 and up to incentive schemes which are shown on page 66.
We encourage employees to take part in our SAYE Scheme, as a way of involving them in the Directors indemnities and insurance Companys performance.
Our Articles permit us to indemnify our directors or those Information on the Groups employment policies is given of any associated company in accordance with the on page 68, and on the gender split across the Group at Companies Act 2006.
However, no qualifying indemnity 31 December 2016 on page 23. provisions were in force in 2016 or at any time up to 1 March 2017 other than under the International Personal Appointment and removal of directors Finance plc Pension Scheme the Pension Scheme.
The Board may appoint any person as a director of the Under the deed establishing the Pension Scheme, we Company to hold office until the next AGM, when they grant an indemnity to the trustee and the directors of the may stand for re-election by shareholders.
Two of these directors are directors of subsidiaries Articles, directors retire by rotation on a three-yearly basis.
However, in line with the Code, all directors of the We have appropriate Directors and Officers liability Company stand for re-election annually.
Directors powers Financial instruments Authority to purchase shares Information on financial instruments is given on pages At the 2016 AGM, we received shareholder authority to 34 and 35 and in notes 20, 21 and 22 to the Financial buy back up to 22,100,898 of our own shares until the Statements on pages 119 to 127. earlier of the conclusion of the 2017 AGM or 30 July 2017.
Any ordinary shares so purchased could be cancelled or held in treasury.
This authority was not exercised in 2016.
A further authority to purchase our own shares will be sought at the 2017 AGM.
International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 65 Directors report continued Share incentives Equity incentive schemes The Company currently operates six equity incentive schemes.
Details of individual grants to directors made in 2016 are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 91 to 92.
The schemes are as follows: Scheme Abbreviated name Eligible participants The International Personal Finance plc CSOP Executive directors and Approved Company Share Option Plan senior managers The International Personal Finance plc Deferred Executive directors Deferred Share Plan Share Plan and senior managers The International Personal Finance plc Have Your Overseas employees Have Your Share Plan Share Plan The International Personal Finance plc Performance Executive directors and Performance Share Plan Share Plan senior managers The International Personal Finance plc SAYE Scheme Executive directors and Employee Savings-Related Share Option Scheme UK employees The International Personal Finance plc Discretionary Employees other than Discretionary Award Plan Award Plan executive directors Details of outstanding awards are as follows: Awards Awards Awards exercised outstanding at Awards Awards outstanding at vested from 31 December lapsed exercised vested 31 December Exercise price Normal exercise vesting 1 January to Scheme 2015 in 2016 in 2016 2016 if any date 28 February 2017 23 Jul 2013 1 CSOP 213,812 89,973 9,783 390,626 208p 636p 22 Mar 2026 Deferred Share 24 Mar 2014 Plan 1,490,878 161,492 448,803 1,314,751 22 Mar 2026 Have Your Share 2 June 2017 Plan 309,257 55,478 253,779 2 September 2018 Performance Share 23 Jul 2013 1 Plan 4,420,849 999,869 1,071,111 4,329,193 22 Mar 2026 5,391 01 Oct 2015 2 SAYE Scheme 407,587 289,017 16,214 433,509 187p 509p 30 Apr 2022 Discretionary Award 8 May 2018 Plan 120,000 320,000 5 September 2019 1.
Half of the awards that vest are not released for a further year.
Exercise dates vary depending on whether the employee has chosen a three, five or seven-year savings contract.
66 Corporate Governance Key contracts and other arrangements Budgetary process and This information is given pursuant to Section 417 5 c of financial reporting the Companies Act 2006.
Our trading subsidiaries have The Board approves a detailed budget each year entered into contracts with their agents, who are selfusually in December for the year ahead.
The exception to this is Hungary and Romania performance against budget is monitored regularly and where agents are employed for regulatory reasons.
reported monthly for review by the directors.
The Board Certain Group companies have entered into agreements requires its subsidiaries to operate in accordance with with Fujitsu Services Limited, HCL Great Britain Limited, corporate policies.
Mastek UK Limited, T-Mobile Polska S. A. and KIO Networks in relation to IT services provided to the Group.
The Financial Statements for the Group are prepared by aggregating submissions from each statutory entity.
Prior The Groups activities in the Czech Republic, Poland, to submission to the Group reporting team, each country Mexico and Spain are subject to general trade licences submission is reviewed and approved by the Finance only, as opposed to any licensing or supervision by a Director of the relevant country.
When the submissions financial authority.
In Romania and Lithuania, the have been aggregated and consolidation adjustments business is included in a register of credit providers made to remove intercompany transactions, the maintained by the respective National Bank and in consolidated result is reviewed by the Chief Financial Finland by the Regional State Administrative Agency of Officer.
The results are compared with the budget and South Finland.
The Groups operations in Bulgaria, prior year figures, and any significant variances are Hungary and Slovakia are subject to an operating clarified.
Checklists are completed by each statutory licence issued by the respective National Bank and in entity and by the Group reporting team to confirm that all Estonia to a licence by the Financial Supervision Authority required controls, such as key reconciliations, have been and in Latvia to a licence by the Consumer Rights performed and reviewed.
The business in Australia holds a credit licence issued by the Australia Securities and Investment The Financial Statements, which are agreed directly to Commission Australia.
A licensing regime was the consolidation of the Group results, are prepared by introduced in the Czech Republic in 2016 and the the Group reporting team and reviewed by the Group business in the Czech Republic has submitted its Finance Controller and the Chief Financial Officer.
The application for a licence to the Czech National Bank.
supporting notes to the Financial Statements are prepared by aggregating submission templates from each market and combining them with central Whistle-blowing information where applicable.
The Financial Statements We have a third-party whistle-blowing service in and all supporting notes are reviewed and approved by operation.
This allows employees to raise issues of the Chief Financial Officer and they are signed by the concern about possible improprieties in matters of Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.
financial reporting or other matters on a confidential and, if preferred, anonymous basis.
Reports are received on any matters raised through these services and we Employee benefit trust monitor their use throughout the Group.
We operate two employee trusts with an independent trustee, Capita Trustees Limited, to hold shares pending Anti-bribery policy employees becoming entitled to them under our equity incentive schemes.
On 31 December 2016, the trustees The Group is committed to conducting its affairs so as to held 528,160 shares in IPF.
The trusts waive their dividend combat bribery and corruption.
The Groups trading entitlement and abstain from voting at general meetings.
activities must be conducted with honesty and integrity Shares to be acquired through our share plans rank pari and in accordance with the law, ensuring that the Group passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
is compliant with anti-bribery and or anti-corruption legislation of any jurisdiction applicable from time to time to any Group company.
The Group operates controls and Other external stakeholders procedures to ensure that no one acting on its behalf: Supplier policy statement offers, promises or gives a bribe: We agree terms and conditions for our business requests, agrees to accept or receives a bribe: nor transactions with suppliers and payment is made in accordance with them, subject to the terms and bribes a public official to obtain or retain business or conditions being met by the supplier.
IPF acts as a an advantage.
holding company and had no material trade creditors at 31 December 2016.
The average number of days credit taken by the Group during the year was 27 days 2015: 18 days.
International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 67 Directors report continued All companies, employees and agents are required to During 2016, we continued to build on the success of our comply with the relevant anti-bribery and corruption business ethics programme with a focus on legislation in their markets.
In addition, because of the communications and training around our Code of Ethics.
extra-territorial application of the UK Bribery Act 2010 99% of employees completed business ethics training overseas subsidiaries, their employees and agents are and in 2016, this training has been extended to our also required to comply with the provisions of this Act.
agents and 85% of agents completed it successfully.
The training, which utilises ethical dilemmas that our employees and agents may face, ensures that Human rights, diversity and modern slavery employees and agents are fully aware of our business Our approach to human rights and diversity is outlined ethics programme and Code of Ethics.
Our statement on the Modern Slavery Act Ethics is available on our website at www.
2015 is available on our website at www.
We view the health and safety of our employees, agents and other people who may be affected by our activities Report on environment, social and as a key strategic priority.
Our arrangements for safety governance ESG matters have been assessed independently against OHSAS 18001 and all home credit markets, including Group The Board takes regular account of the significance head office, were certified as compliant.
The framework is of ESG matters to the Group and has identified overseen by the Group Loss Prevention Committee, which and assessed the significance of ESG risks to the reports annually to the Board by means of a written Companys short and long-term value as part of the risk report.
Each subsidiary board is responsible for the management process.
It recognises that a proactive implementation of its own health and safety policy, and programme of reputation management through a range health and safety is considered regularly at Group Board of progressive, responsible business initiatives adds to meetings.
In 2016, we successfully implemented Helplines the sustainable long-term value of the Company.
in all home credit markets to provide support and Responsibility for this area rests with the Chief Executive guidance for agents and staff concerned about their Officer who sits on the Reputation and Regulation safety or wellbeing.
Committee, which sets guidance, provides direction and oversees policies and progress in ESG matters.
Key Community investment activity is focused on the needs ESG issues that impact our stakeholders are: business of the communities we serve and we utilise London ethics: public perception and ensuring that work with Benchmarking Group LBG methodology to measure communities is relevant: social and financial exclusion: this investment.
health and safety: and attracting and retaining skilled and well-motivated people.
Corporate affairs activity, In terms of charitable donations in 2016, we invested health and safety, people management and business 488,878 in local communities across the Group ethics issues were all discussed at Board meetings in 2015: 571,284.
This represents 0.53% of our profit before 2016.
The Board has received adequate information to tax.
48% of our community investment focused on make an assessment against ESG risks.
education and 23% on social welfare.
2,740 employees volunteered in Company time 2015: 3,408, representing There is a range of appropriate corporate standards, 30% of all employees, and they donated 3,545 hours policies and governance structures covering all 2015:11,301.
2,484 employees also volunteered in their operations.
The Group is an equal opportunities employer.
own time and have raised a further 46,208 for It is our policy that no job applicant, member of staff or community investment purposes.
agent will receive less favourable treatment because of race, colour, nationality, ethnic or other national origin, No political donations were made.
gender, sexual orientation, marital status, age, disability When setting incentives, the Remuneration Committee or religion.
The aim of this policy is to ensure recruitment takes account of all implications, including the need to and progression is based purely on merit and that all avoid inadvertently motivating inappropriate behaviour.
employees have the same access to training and career In setting performance targets account is taken of ESG development opportunities.
Details of the bonus scheme are set out in the bonus section of the statement of the Companys policy on directors remuneration in the Directors Remuneration Report.
ESG matters are taken into account in the training of directors.
68 Corporate Governance Carbon reporting We have reported on the carbon emissions sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
Our emissions data has been calculated in line with the Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, and we have used emissions factors from the UK Governments Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factor Repository and the International Energy Agency IEA.
The emissions data covers our operations in the UK, Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovakia, Mexico, Romania, Bulgaria and Lithuania.
Limited emissions data are available from our digital markets.
However, we are working to bring reporting in line with our Environmental Management System.
Where available data is incomplete, we have extrapolated data.
When normalised by customer number, our scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions fell by 0.3% compared with 2015 and 12.7% compared with our base-year 2013. Business travel by car increased by 6% due largely to the fact that data now includes car travel of agents in our Romanian and Hungarian markets where agents are employees of the business.
Our carbon emissions report has been reviewed by 27,013 Ricardo Energy & Environment.
We aim to further improve Gas our environmental data collection and management Business travel by car system considering recommendations provided by Purchased electricity Ricardo Energy & Environment.
Full information on ESG matters and how these are managed can be found in the sustainability section of our website: www.
International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 69
