DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 in force in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may Act and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR incur or have incurred in connection with their duties, powers of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA, the following section or office.
describes the matters that are required for inclusion in the DIRECTORS INTERESTS Directors report and were approved by the Board.
Further details Other than the Directors Service Agreements or letters of of matters required to be included in the Directors report that are appointment, none of the Directors of the Company had a incorporated by reference into this report are set out below.
personal interest in any business transactions of the Company or DIRECTORS its subsidiaries.
The terms of the Directors Service Agreements or The Directors who held office during the year are set out below: letters of appointment and the Directors interests in shares and Share Awards of the Company, in respect of which transactions Sir David Reid Chairman are notifiable to the Company under Rule 3 of the DTR of the FCA Andr Lacroix Chief Executive Officer are disclosed in the Remuneration report on pages 65 to 80.
Edward Leigh Chief Financial Officer DIRECTORS POWERS Edward Astle Non-Executive Director stepped down 25 May 2016 The Directors are responsible for the strategic management of the Company and their powers to do so are determined by the Alan Brown Non-Executive Director provisions of the Act and the Companys Articles of Association.
Dame Louise Makin Non-Executive Director Andrew Martin Non-Executive Director DIVIDEND appointed 26 May 2016 The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 43.0p per Gill Rider Non-Executive Director ordinary share 2015: 35.3p making a full year dividend of 62.4p Michael Wareing Senior Independent per ordinary share 2015: 52.3p which will, if approved at the Non-Executive Director AGM, be paid on 2 June 2017 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 19 May 2017.
Mark Williams Non-Executive Director passed away 6 March 2016 SHARE CAPITAL Lena Wilson Non-Executive Director The issued share capital of the Company and details of the movements in the Companys share capital during the year The biographies of the Directors at the date of this report are set are shown in note 15 to the financial statements.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION when declared, to receive the Companys Annual Report and The Companys Articles of Association contain provisions relating Accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to the retirement, election and re-election of Directors but, in to appoint proxies and exercise voting rights.
A waiver of dividend accordance with best practice, all Directors who wish to continue exists in respect of 493,629 shares held by the Intertek Group to serve will stand for election or re-election at the Annual Employee Share Ownership Trust Trust as at 31December 2016.
Details of the shares purchased by the Trust during the year are The Articles of Association set out the internal regulation of the outlined within note 15 to the financial statements.
There are no Company and cover such matters as the rights of shareholders, restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company.
the appointment or removal of Directors and the conduct of the The rights attached to shares in the Company are provided by Board and general meetings.
Copies are available upon request the Articles of Association, which may be amended or replaced from the Group Company Secretary and are available at the by means of a special resolution of the Company in a general Companys AGM.
Further powers are granted by members in meeting.
The Directors powers are conferred on them by UK general meeting and those currently in place are set out in detail legislation and by the Companys Articles of Association.
in the appropriate section of this report.
No ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to control DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES of the Company and there are no restrictions on voting rights The Board believes that it is in the best interests of the Group to except that a shareholder has no right to vote in respect of a attract and retain the services of the most able and experienced share unless all sums due in respect of that share are fully paid.
Directors by offering competitive terms of engagement, including There are no arrangements known to the Company by which the granting of indemnities on terms consistent with the financial rights carried by any shares in the Company are held by applicable statutory provisions.
In accordance with the Articles of a person other than the holder of the shares, nor are there any Association, the Company has executed deed polls of indemnity arrangements between holders of securities that may result in for the benefit of Directors of the Company.
restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights These provisions which are deemed to be qualifying third-party known to the Company.
All issued shares are fully paid.
indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Act, were Shares are admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange in force during the financial year ended 31 December 2016, for and may be traded through the CREST system.
the benefit of the Directors and, at the date of this report, remain 88 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION ALLOTMENT OF SHARES The rules of the Companys incentive plans contain clauses At the AGM held in 2016 the shareholders generally and relating to a change of control resulting from a takeover and in unconditionally authorised the Directors to allot relevant securities such an event awards would vest subject to the satisfaction of up to approximately two-thirds of the nominal amount of issued any associated performance criteria.
MATERIAL INTERESTS IN SHARES It is the Directors intention to seek renewal of this authority in Up to 28 February 2017, being the latest practicable date before line with guidance issued by the Investment Association.
The the publication of this report, the following disclosures of major resolution will be set out in the Notice of AGM.
holdings of voting rights have been made and have not been amended or withdrawn to the Company pursuant to the At the AGM in 2016 the Directors were also empowered by the requirements of Rule 5 of the DTR of the FCA.
There have shareholders to allot equity securities, up to 5% of the Companys been no changes since the year-end.
issued share capital, for cash under section 570 of the Act.
It is intended that this authority be renewed, at the forthcoming AGM.
At the date of notification Number of % of voting In line with guidance issued by the Pre-Emption Group it is the Shareholder voting rights rights Boards intention to propose an additional special resolution to be BlackRock Inc. 11,865,413 7.35 passed at the AGM to allow the Company to allot equity securities MFS Investment Management 9,547,182 5.92 up to a further 5% of the Companys issued share capital for Mawer Investment Management Ltd 8,110,417 5.03 transactions which the Board determines to be an acquisition or Marathon Asset Management LLP 8,050,509 4.99 other capital investment, as defined by the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles.
In the event that this additional 5% EMPLOYMENT disapplication of pre-emption right is used the Company will Information about the Groups employees, employment of outline the reason for its use and the consultation process they disabled persons and employment practices is contained within have undertaken within six months of the date that it is used.
the Sustainability and CSR report on pages 47 to 49.
Information PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES on employee share schemes appears in note 17 to the Shareholders also approved the authority for the Company to buy financial statements.
back up to 10% of its own ordinary shares by market purchase GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS GHG until the conclusion of the AGM to be held this year.
The Directors Information about the Groups Greenhouse Gas emissions is given will seek to renew this authority for up to 10% of the Companys in the Sustainability and CSR report on page 50. issued share capital at the forthcoming AGM.
This power will only be exercised if the Directors are satisfied that any purchase will POLITICAL DONATIONS increase the earnings per share of the ordinary share capital in At the AGM in 2016 shareholders passed a resolution, on a issue after the purchase and accordingly, that the purchase is in precautionary basis, to authorise the Company to make donations the interests of shareholders.
The Directors will also give careful to EU political organisations and to incur EU political expenditure consideration to gearing levels of the Company and its general as such terms are defined in the Act not exceeding 90,000. financial position.
Any shares purchased in this way may be held During the year the Group did not make such political donations in treasury which, the Directors believe, will provide the Company 2015: nil.
It is the Companys policy not, directly or through any with flexibility in the management of its share capital.
Where subsidiary, to make what are commonly regarded as donations to treasury shares are used to satisfy Share Awards, they will be any political party.
classed as new issue shares for the purpose of the 10% limit on At the forthcoming AGM of the Company, shareholders approval the number of shares that may be issued over a 10 year period will again be sought to authorise the Group to make political under the relevant share plan rules.
donations and or incur political expenditure as such terms are SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS CHANGE OF CONTROL defined in sections 362 to 379 of the Act.
Further information is The Company is not a party to significant agreements which contained in the Notice of AGM.
take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following BRANCHES a takeover bid apart from a number of credit facilities with banks The Company, through various subsidiaries has established together with certain senior notes issued by the Company.
The branches in a number of different countries in which the business total amount owing under such credit facilities and senior note operates.
The list of subsidiaries is available on pages 134 to 139. agreements as at 31 December 2016 is shown in note 14 to the financial statements.
These agreements contain clauses such AUDITOR that, in the event of a change of control, the Company can offer The auditor,  LLP, have expressed their to or must repay all such borrowings together with accrued willingness to continue in office.
Upon the recommendation of interest, fees and other sums owing as required by the the Audit Committee, resolutions to reappoint them as auditor individual agreements.
and to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 89 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION continued FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4C R, the information required to be Details about the Groups use of financial instruments are disclosed by LR 9.8.
4 R can be found in the following locations: outlined in note 14 to the financial statements.
Topic Location ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 1.
A mount of interest capitalised Not applicable The Notice of AGM, which is to be held on 26 May 2017, 2.
A ny information required by Not applicable is available for download from the Companys website at LR 9.2.
The Notice details the business unaudited financial information to be conducted at the meeting and includes information 3.
D etails of long-term incentive Directors Remuneration concerning the deadlines for submitting proxy forms and schemes report pages 65 to 80 in relation to voting rights.
W aiver of emoluments by a Not applicable Director STATEMENT OF DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO 5.
W aiver of future emoluments by Not applicable AUDITORS a Director The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this 6.
N on pre-emptive issues of equity Not applicable Directors report confirm that, so far as they are aware, there for cash is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor 7.
I nformation required by 6 above Not applicable is unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that he or for any unlisted major subsidiary she ought to have taken as a Director of the Company to make undertaking of the Company themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to 8.
C ompany participation in a Not applicable establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
placing by a listed subsidiary ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS AND COMPLIANCE WITH 9.
A ny contracts of significance Other statutory information LISTING RULE LR 9.8.
4 R page 89 The Board has prepared a Strategic report pages 2 to 51 which 10.
A ny contracts for the provision Not applicable provides an overview of the development and performance of of services by a controlling the Companys business during the year ended 31 December shareholder 2016 and its position at the end of that year, and which covers 11.
Shareholder waivers of dividends Other statutory information likely future developments in the business of the Company page 88 and Group.
S hareholder waivers of future Other statutory information dividends page 88 For the purposes of compliance with DTR 4.1.
Agreements with controlling Not applicable 4.1.
8 R, the required content of the Management Report can be shareholders found in the Strategic report and this Directors report, including the sections of the Annual Report and Accounts incorporated by reference.
90 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
