DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION PRINCIPAL RISKS LONG-TERM VIABILITY STATEMENT of principal risks and uncertainties as set The Group is affected by a number In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of out in the following pages in a number of risk factors, some of which, including the UK Corporate Governance Code, of severe, but plausible, scenarios, as macroeconomic and industry specific the Directors have assessed the viability well as the effectiveness of any cyclical risks, are outside the Groups of the Group over a five-year period to mitigating actions.
Some risks are particular to 31 December 2021, by carrying out a The Group has a broad customer base Interteks operations.
The principal risks robust assessment of the potential across its multiple business lines and in of which the Group is aware are detailed impact of the principal risks and its different geographic regions, and is on the following pages including a uncertainties on the Group's current supported by a robust Balance Sheet and commentary on how the Group mitigates position, including those that would strong operational cash flows.
These risks and uncertainties threaten the Groups business model, considers that the diverse nature of do not appear in any particular order future performance, solvency business lines and geographies in which of potential materiality or probability or liquidity.
the Group operates significantly mitigates of occurrence.
The Directors have determined that a the impact that any of these scenarios There may be other risks that are currently five-year period is an appropriate period might have on the Groups viability.
unknown or regarded as immaterial which over which to provide the viability Based on this assessment, the Directors could turn out to be material.
Any of these statement of the Group, as the Groups confirm that they have a reasonable risks could have the potential to impact strategic review covers a five-year period.
expectation that the Company will be the performance of the Group, its assets, In addition to the bottom-up strategic able to continue in operation and meet its liquidity, capital resources and review process where the prospects liabilities as they fall due over the period its reputation.
of each business line are reviewed, a to 31 December 2021. robust assessment has been made of the potential operational and financial impacts on the Group of combinations OPERATIONAL PRINCIPAL RISK CONTEXT POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION 2016 UPDATE REPUTATION Reputation is key to the Group maintaining and Failure to meet financial performance expectations.
Quality Management Systems: adherence to these is regularly audited This risk remains stable compared with 2015. growing its business.
Reputation risk can occur in a Exposure to material legal claims, associated costs and reviewed by external parties, including accreditation bodies.
The Group continues to invest in staff and wasted management time.
development, quality systems and standard number of ways: directly as the result of the actions Risk Management Framework and associated controls and assurance Destruction of shareholder value.
processes to prevent operational failures.
of the Group or a group company itself: indirectly processes, including contractual review and liability caps where appropriate.
Loss of existing or new business.
due to the actions of an employee or employees: Code of Ethics which is communicated to all staff, who undergo Loss of key staff.
or through the actions of other parties, such as regular training.
joint venture partners, suppliers, customers or Zero-tolerance policy with regard to any inappropriate behaviour by any other industry participants.
individual employed by the Group, or acting on the Groups behalf.
Whistle-blowing programme, monitored by the Audit Committee, where staff are encouraged to report, without risk, any fraudulent or other activity likely to adversely affect the reputation of the Group.
Relationship management and communication with external stakeholders.
CUSTOMER A failure to focus on customer needs, to provide May lead to customer dissatisfaction and Net Promoter Score 'NPS' customer satisfaction, customer sales trends This risk remains stable compared with 2015.
SERVICE customer innovation or to deliver our services in customer loss.
accordance with our customers expectations and Gradual erosion of market share and reputation Global and Local Key Account Management 'GKAM' 'LKAM' initiatives our customer promise.
if competitors are perceived to have better, more in place.
responsive or more consistent service offerings.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 35 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued OPERATIONAL PRINCIPAL RISK CONTEXT POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION 2016 UPDATE PEOPLE The Group operates in specialised sectors and Poor management succession.
HR strategy policies and systems.
This risk remains stable compared with 2015.
RETENTION needs to attract and retain employees with Lack of continuity.
Development and reward programme to retain and motivate employees.
New Remuneration Policy consistent relevant experience and knowledge in order Failure to optimise growth.
Succession planning to ensure effective continuation of leadership throughout the Group.
to take advantage of all growth opportunities.
Impact on quality, reputation and and expertise.
Loss of talent to competitors and lost market share.
OPERATIONAL Any health and safety incident arising from our Individual or multiple injuries to employees Quality management and associated controls, including safety training, This risk remains stable compared with 2015.
This could result in injury to Interteks and others.
appropriate PPE Personal Protective Equipment, Health & Safety policies There were zero work-related fatalities in the AND SECURITY employees, sub-contractors, customers and or any Litigation or legal regulatory enforcement including due diligence on sub-contractors, meetings and communication.
year for the second year running.
action including prosecution leading to Avoiding fatalities, accidents and hazardous situations is paramount.
It is expected that Intertek employees will operate to the highest Loss of accreditation.
standards of health and safety at all times and there are controls Erosion of customer confidence.
in place to reduce incidents.
FACILITIES Environment an adverse impact on the environment Environment environmental damage, potential Business Continuity Plans BCPs and Disaster Recovery Plans DRPs This risk remains stable compared with 2015. due to inadequate sample storage disposal, and or litigation and fines, impact on reputation.
There has been no downtime in operational inappropriate use of materials dangerous to the Lease Renewals loss of key sites, financial impact Health & Safety policies, Environmental policy and Sample Storage activity, except for where tests of BCPs or environment.
in terms of relocation costs, or increased premiums policy implemented.
Regular review of contracts leases.
Lease Renewals a failure to secure the renewal Security possible injury or fatality to our people of a critical lease, or having to agree unfavourable and general public, inability to deliver key services, renewal terms.
impact on revenue and reputation.
Security loss of a critical site due to natural Restructuring loss of financial or other internal disaster catastrophe, with alternative sites controls, loss of revenues, adverse customer unavailable unfeasible.
Restructuring an adverse impact on operations caused by restructuring or moving multiple facilities or locations.
INDUSTRY AND A failure to identify, manage and take advantage Failure to maximise revenue opportunities.
GKAM and LKAM initiatives in place.
COMPETITIVE of emerging and future risks.
Examples include Failure to take advantage of new opportunities.
The Groups results have been impacted by the LANDSCAPE the opportunities provided by new markets and Lack of ability to respond flexibly.
Focus on new services and acquisitions.
lower levels of capital expenditure in the energy customers, a failure to innovate in terms of service Erosion of market share.
Tracking new laws and regulations.
sector, driven by lower oil prices, but more than offering and delivery, the challenge of radically new Impact on share price.
Regular strategic and business line reviews.
offset by the diverse nature of the Group and and different business models, and the failure to Failure to respond to macroeconomic factors.
Development of ATIC cross-selling initiatives.
its ability to grow revenue and manage the foresee the impact of, or adequately respond to and Sanctions and fines for non-compliance NPS customer research to understand customer satisfaction.
comply with, changing or new laws and regulations.
Macroeconomic factors such as a global market downturn and contraction changing requirements in certain sectors.
IT SYSTEMS Systems integrity Major IT systems integrity issue, or Loss of revenue due to down time.
Information systems policy and governance structure.
This risk remains stable compared with 2015. data security breach, either due to internal or external Potential loss of sensitive data with associated Regular system maintenance.
Review of data security performed including factors such as deliberate interference or power legal implications.
data storage, retention policy, access controls shortages cuts etc.
Potential costs of IT systems replacement Disaster recovery plans that are constantly tested and and encryption.
improved to minimise the impact if a failure does occur.
Systems functionality a failure to define the right IT Loss of customer confidence.
Global Information Security policies in place strategies, maintain existing IT systems or implement Damage to reputation.
IT, Data Protection, Cyber Security.
new IT systems with the required functionality and Loss of revenue profitability if we fail to adopt an Adherence to IT finance systems controls which are fit for purpose, in each case to support IT investment strategy which supports the Groups part of Core Mandatory Controls 'CMCs'.
the Groups growth, innovation and competitive growth, innovation and customer offering.
Adherence to IT general controls and IT finance systems controls.
Internal and external audit testing.
36 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION OPERATIONAL PRINCIPAL RISK CONTEXT POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION 2016 UPDATE PEOPLE The Group operates in specialised sectors and Poor management succession.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 37 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued LEGAL AND REGULATORY PRINCIPAL RISK CONTEXT POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION 2016 UPDATE LITIGATION Claims resulting from mistakes in Interteks work Financial impact fines by regulators, Effective Quality Management Systems and assurance procedures and This risk remains stable compared with 2015. resulting in disputes with clients and or other relevant suspension of accreditation, compensation.
controls, including contractual review and liability caps where appropriate.
Compliance personnel have been utilised to third parties.
Financial impact from defending and settling claims.
Claims management policy and process in place.
manage contract reviews and assist the wider Impact of fines.
Contract review process including risk review.
Potential impact on insurance premiums.
Use of standard Intertek Terms & Conditions.
Ongoing training and education in respect of Loss of customer confidence.
All significant incidents that could potentially result in a claim against the contractual liabilities being assumed.
Group are immediately reported to compliance officers and logged in an Impact on share price.
incident database so that they can be properly managed.
The Group General Counsel reports any significant claims to the Audit Committee.
External legal counsel is appointed where appropriate.
Insurance liaison seeking contractual protection from loss or insurance cover for loss where possible.
BUSINESS ETHICS Non-compliance with Interteks Code of Ethics 'Code' Litigation, including significant fines and debarment Annual Code of Ethics training and sign-off requirement.
This risk remains stable compared with 2015. and or related laws such as anti-bribery, anti-money from certain territories activities.
Whistle-blowing programme, monitored by the Group Risk Committee, Ongoing annual confirmations ensure that staff laundering, and fair competition legislation.
where staff are encouraged to report, without risk, any fraudulent or other verify compliance with the Code of Ethics.
compliance could be either accidental or deliberate, Loss of accreditation.
activity likely to adversely affect the reputation of the Group.
Local compliance officers perform due diligence and committed either by our people or sub-contractors Erosion of customer confidence.
Zero-tolerance policy with regard to any inappropriate behaviour by any on sub-contractors that they have signed the who must also abide by the Code.
The Group employs local people in each country who are aware of local legal During 2016, 287 2015: 249 HR and nonand regulatory requirements.
There are also extensive internal compliance compliance issues were reported through the and audit systems to facilitate compliance.
Expert advice is taken in areas whistle-blowing hotline and other routes.
All where regulations are uncertain.
were investigated with 57 2015: 51 The Group continues to dedicate resources to ensure compliance with the substantiated and corrective action taken.
UK Bribery Act and all other anti-bribery legislation, and internal policy.
FINANCIAL FINANCIAL RISK Risk of theft, fraud or financial misstatement by Financial losses with a direct impact on the bottom The Group has financial, management and systems controls in place to This risk remains stable compared with 2015. employees.
On acquisitions or investments, the line.
ensure that the Groups assets are protected from major financial risks.
'Doing Business the Right Way established financial risk or exposure arising from due diligence, Large scale losses can affect financial results.
Adherence to Authorities Cascade which sets approval limits for as core principle within Intertek.
integration or performance delivery failures.
Potential legal proceedings leading to costs and financial transactions.
Review and update of core mandatory controls management time.
Legal, financial and other due diligence on M&A and other investments.
Corresponding loss of value and reputation could A detailed system of financial reporting is in place to ensure that monthly result in funding being withdrawn or provided at financial results are thoroughly reviewed.
The Group also operates a higher interest rates.
rigorous programme of internal audits and management reviews.
Independent external auditors review the Groups half year results and audit the Groups annual financial statements.
38 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION LEGAL AND REGULATORY PRINCIPAL RISK CONTEXT POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION 2016 UPDATE LITIGATION Claims resulting from mistakes in Interteks work Financial impact fines by regulators, Effective Quality Management Systems and assurance procedures and This risk remains stable compared with 2015. resulting in disputes with clients and or other relevant suspension of accreditation, compensation.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 39
