STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS MODEL DELIVERING INVESTOR RETURNS 1.
On the Initial Public Offer issue price of 100 pence per ordinary share.
There are many factors that may influence the actual achievement of long-term cash flows to the Company.
These include both internal as well as external factors and investors should not treat the chart as being more than an indicative profile and not a projection, estimate or profit forecast.
The actual achieved profile will almost certainly be different and may be higher or lower than indicated.
See pages 27 to 28 for information relating to the Companys use of sensitivity analysis.
See pages 23 to 28 for the methodology used to determine NAV.
Future profit projection and dividends cannot be guaranteed.
Projections are based on current estimates and may vary in future.
Share price plus dividends assumed to be reinvested.
Asset under management represents INPPs proportional ownership of each projects Total Development Value at inception 9 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 10 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE AGAINST STRATEGIC PRIORITIES INPPs strategy covers three interlinked areas of focus.
This three-pronged approach helps us to manage our assets and finances throughout the investment cycle and also to identify new opportunities that meet our investment objectives.
We link Key Performance Indicators to these Strategic Priorities and review our performance against these KPIs twice a year.
We also assess the risks relating to each KPI as identified in the Risk Management of this Report.
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES DESCRIPTION - VALUE-FOCUSED PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMENT - Make new primary early-stage investments that enhance prospects for INVEST IN ASSETS THAT ENHANCE PORTFOLIO future value growth RETURNS RELATIVE TO RISK AND MAINTAIN A WELL-BALANCED INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO - Make additional acquisitions off-market or through preferential access e. g. sourced through pre-emption rights or via Amber Hunt - Manage portfolio composition with complementary investments, in line with the Companys Investment Policy and enhancing at least one of the following aspects: Blend of risk to return Inflation linkage Cash flow profile Capital attributes such as construction risk and residual value growth potential - ACTIVE ASSET MANAGMENT - Focus on delivery of target returns from existing investments ACTIVE AND EFFECTIVE MANAGEMENT OF - Maintain high levels of public sector client satisfaction and asset ASSETS performance - Deliver additional value from existing assets through management of construction risk and delivery of operational improvements to meet client requirements - Enhance prospects for capital growth by investing in construction phase assets where available EFFECTIVE FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT - Provide efficient management of cash holdings and debt facilities EFFECTIVE MANAGEMENT OF COMPANYS available for investment and appropriate hedging policies FINANCES - Efficient management of INPPs overall finances, with the intention to reduce ongoing charges where possible - Manage portfolio in a cost-efficient manner 11 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS PERFORMANCE IN 2016 - - Value of new early stage investments - Early stage investments of 31.9 million into Westermost Rough offshore transmission project and Priority Schools Building Aggregator Programme Batch 5 - Value of additional investments acquired off market - Acquisitions totalling 81.1 million secured through pre-emption rights or through preferred access - Acquisition of investments into U. S. sourced through strong relationship with Hunt - Improvement of risk return, inflation linkage and - Investments in Australia and U. S. adding to geographical diversification diversification of cash flows, including geographical - All assets acquired exhibited robust cash flow profiles diversification - Further investment into TTT and OFTOs complemented the capital attributes of the portfolio - Proportion of investments in construction - Most investments in 2016 are forecast to generate inflation-linked cash flows.
Overall portfolio inflation linkage increased from 0.76% to 0.78% for every 1% increase in the assumed inflation rate - - Availability for all controlled investments at 98% or - Availability for investments at 98% or greater above - returns from investments in line with - Performance reductions below 3% for all projects expectations - Over 680 change requests undertaken - Performance deductions below 3% for all projects - Majority of construction projects managed on time and to budget.
Costs - Number of change requests from existing contracts of small project delays absorbed by construction partners - Management of investments during the course of construction projects in line with overall delivery timetable - Number of investments in construction - Dividends paid to investors covered by operating cash - Dividends paid to investors 1.2 times covered by net operating cash flow flow - All investments in 2016 funded through excess cash in priority to the - New investments made from available cash after corporate debt facility payment of dividend ahead of using corporate debt - Market tested cash deposit rates and reset where possible - Competitive cash deposit rates - 39.7 million of foreign exchange forward contracts in place to mitigate - Use of appropriate hedging strategies short-term foreign exchange cash flow volatility - Management of ongoing charges - Ongoing charges 1.13% 12 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CASE STUDY DIFFERENTIATION OF THE OPERATING MODEL INPP, through its Investment Adviser, Amber, takes an active investor role to deliver best value for its shareholders.
Amber employs more than 90 staff to support INPP and its investment portfolio entities with project origination, financial and asset management services.
This operating model contrasts with that of other market particpants, who often use investment advisers with smaller teams, and outsource asset management activities.
Amber also identifies, develops and originates investment opportunities that meet INPPs risk return profile, and puts these forward for initial consideration and, where appropriate, investment approval.
Under the terms of the Investment Advisory Agreement with Amber, INPP has the right of first look at investments that are being realised by Amber.
This includes certain opportunities being identified by Hunt Companies a U. S. -based group and 50% shareholder in Amber.
INPPs access to these primary opportunities alongside access to secondary opportunities broadens the base for new investments.
Certain market opportunities take years to gestate: Amber researches and tracks particular investment opportunities from conception, through to development and consultation stages, long in advance of an investment formally coming to market.
This developer approach gives INPP significant early-mover advantages.
At 31 December 2016, 82% of projects by value were acquired by INPP as an early-stage investor.
Ambers ability in forming partnerships with like-minded investors, both domestic and international, enables INPP to participate in large-scale infrastructure projects such as Tideway and National Grid Gas.
INPP AN EARLY STAGE INVESTOR INTO OFFSHORE TRANSMISSION INPP was one of the first investors into offshore transmission assets OFTOs in the U. K. where investment is made into the cables and substations that link offshore wind farms to the national electricity grid.
It is now a leading investor in procuring, owning and operating OFTOs, a core infrastructure sector in the U. K. with an attractive risk return profile.
Two years ahead of the official launch of the OFTO programme by Ofgem, the electricity and gas regulator, Amber created a targeted team to track the sector: this included a strategic technical partner, Transmission Investment LLP, former colleagues and ex-National Grid employees.
This team helped to design the structure of the OFTO investment regime in consultation with Ofgem and industry experts.
INPP was the first investor to close an OFTO project in 2011 and has since invested in six OFTO projects.
INPP holds a number of other firsts in the offshore transmission sector: the first to deploy an innovative capital structure: the first to access rating agencies with an OFTO: the first to access the private institutional debt market.
Key OFTO investment features include: - A 20-year revenue term, with the potential for extension after this initial period - Revenues with protected downside potential deductions capped at 10% of base revenue in any year, and fully linked to U. K. RPI - An availability-based revenue stream with no exposure either revenue or penalties to wind farm performance or credit - Revenues contracted by National Grid Electricity Transmission plc NGET, a subsidiary of National Grid, in their statutory, ringfenced role as national electricity systems operator quasi-government revenue risk - A robust financial structure with no refinancing risk 13 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 OFTOs now represent 26% of INPPs portfolio.
Recently, INPP was shortlisted for the Burbo Bank Extension OFTO project, which is targeting completion at the end of 2017, and it has successfully pre-qualified for the next three projects, also to be tendered during 2017.
From its first-mover advantage and in-depth knowledge of the OFTO sector, INPP has created significant value for its investors.
More information can be found in the Business Model section 14 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEW VALUE-FOCUSED PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMENT New investments that meet the Companys Investment Policy are made after assessing their risk and return profile relative to the existing portfolio.
In particular, we seek investments to complement the existing portfolio through enhancing long-term, predictable cash flows and or to provide the opportunity for higher capital growth.
Primary early stage investor e. g. the Company is an early-stage investor in a new asset developed by Amber 4.
Preferential access e. g. sourced through pre-emptive rights or directly from Amber Hunt 5.
Enhanced capital attributes e. g. potential for additional capital growth through construction fide-risking or the potential for residual terminal value growth During the year to 31 December 2016, INPP invested a record 209.9 million and made commitments of 279.4 million across 18 projects.
The majority of these projects were sourced by Amber, the Investment Adviser, either from the start of the project i. e. primary early stage developments in response to an initial Government procurement process : through increasing its interest in existing assets: or as part of a larger consortium, building on the Companys experience and credibility to participate in multi-billion pound regulated infrastructure transactions.
These three procurement approaches are INPPs preferred route to market: and avoid bidding in the competitive secondary PPP market.
Details of investments made during 2016 are provided below.
INVESTMENT INVESTMENT COMMITMENT LOCATION KEY ATTRIBUTES OPERATIONAL STATUS COMMITMENT DATE 1 2 3 4 5 INVESTMENTS MADE DURING 12 MONTHS TO 31 DECEMBER 2016 Westermost Rough OFTO U. K. Operational 26.8 million 4 February 2016 Thames Tideway Tunnel U. K. Under construction 70.2 million Various Priority School Building U. K. Under construction 5.1 million 26 April 2016 Aggregator Programme Batch 5 Wolverhampton Building U. K. Operational 7.1 million 29 June 2016 Schools for the Future Halton Place Building Schools U. K. Operational 2.2 million July - September 2016 for the Future Building Schools for the Future U. K. Operational 72.3 million 22 August 2016 Portfolio 1 U. S. Military Housing U. S. Operational 24.6 million 28 September 2016 1 Gold Coast Light Rail Phase 1 Australia Operational 1.6 million 22 December 2016 209.9 million INVESTMENT COMMITMENTS MADE DURING THE 12 MONTHS TO 31 DECEMBER 2016 1 Gold Coast Light Rail Phases 1 Australia Phase 1 - Operational, 4.4 million 28 April 2016, & 2 Phase 2 - Under 22 December 2016 construction 2 National Grid Gas Distribution U. K. Operational Up to 275 million 8 December 2016 279.4 million 1 GBP translated value of investment 2 Acquisition expected to reach financial close in early 2017 15 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 WESTERMOST ROUGH OFFSHORE TRANSMISSION PROJECT OFTO In February 2016, Transmission Capital Partners a consortium with INPP, Amber Infrastructure and Transmission Investment, reached financial close for the long-term licence and operation of its sixth U. K. offshore transmission project, Westermost Rough OFTO.
Westermost Rough OFTO connects a windfarm containing 35 turbines, generating 6MW, located 8km off the coast of Yorkshire to the onshore grid network, providing enough electricity to power around 150,000 U. K. homes.
INPP made a 26.8 million investment for 100% of the equity and subordinated debt of the OFTO.
The asset is fully operational and is expected to provide investment returns over its 20-year concession life and potential for additional capital value with the Company retaining the residual interest in the assets.
TIDEWAY PROJECT UPDATE The Tideway investment relates to the design, build and operation of a 25-kilometre super-sewer under the River Thames in London.
The Company is part of a consortium committed to investing 4.2 billion in developing this asset regulated by Oftwat.
The project is currently under construction.
During the year, Tideway made good progress against the projects indicative construction timetable, including the development of a new pier at Blackfriars Bridge, which will allow hard construction works to begin at the site of the former Millennium Pier.
Over 2016, the Company invested 70.2 million into the Tideway project, leaving 78.2 million committed to be invested by early 2018 currently supported by a letter of credit.
PRIORITY SCHOOLS BUILDING PROGRAMME AGGREGATOR The Priority Schools Building Programme PSBP is a U. K. Government initiative to develop new schools under the PF2 framework.
These projects use an innovative financing model based upon an Aggregator funding vehicle which can warehouse loans and thereby aggregate total financing requirements across all five schools batches.
The Aggregator is financed by a consortium including the Company, with Aviva Investors and the European Investment Bank providing senior debt.
During 2016, the Company invested 5.1 million into the fifth and final batch of schools being delivered through PSBP.
ADDITIONAL INVESTMENT IN BUILDING SCHOOLS FOR THE FUTURE BSF PROJECTS Building Schools for the Future is a U. K. Government programme for the redevelopment of all secondary schools in the U. K. financed using a combination of design and build contracts and private finance initiative arrangements.
The programme for new developments was cancelled in July 2010.
Since August 2011, INPP has been increasing its minority stakes in the majority of these projects.
During 2016, the Company continued to build on its BSF expertise with three education infrastructure transactions.
In June, INPP acquired an additional 72% investment in the Wolverhampton BSF concession, increasing its 10% investment in the project to 82%.
It has invested 7.1 million into two secondary schools, Heath Park Academy in the Fallings Park area and St. Matthias School in the Wardle area of Wolverhampton.
Both schools are a mixture of new build and refurbished pre-existing buildings.
INPP has also purchased a 45% share of the subordinated debt and equity cash flows of HTP Grange Limited, a BSF project in Halton, Cheshire for 2.2 million.
In August, 2016 INPP invested 72.3 million to acquire investment interests in ten U. K. schools projects.
The investment opportunity was secured through pre-emption rights that INPP gained as part of its ownership of Building Schools for the Future Investments BSFI, acquired from the Department of Education and Partnerships U. K. in August 2011.
ADDITIONAL INVESTMENT IN U. S. MILITARY HOUSING INPPs U. S. military housing interests are underpinned by junior ranking security over seven operational  PPP military housing projects.
These projects encompass 19 operational military bases in the U. S. with approximately 21,800 individual housing units.
In September 2016, the Company invested a further US$32.0 million 24.6 million in the U. S. military housing sector.
The investment is in the form of interest-bearing subordinated debt and is secured on the same underlying military housing assets as those purchased in October 2015, but with higher ranking priority.
The investment provides the Company with further exposure to one of the U. S. infrastructure markets most established sectors.
ADDITIONAL INVESTMENT IN GOLD COAST LIGHT RAIL PROJECT In April 2016, the Company committed to invest AUD$7 million 3.8 million into a 7.3km extension to the Gold Coast Light Rail PPP concession project in Queensland, Australia.
The commitment is supported by a letter of credit provided by the Company.
16 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 In December 2016, INPP acquired a further 3.33% interest in the Gold Coast Light Rail project from Aveng Group.
The follow-on investment arose from shareholder rights to acquire proportionate shares from fellow consortium members disposing of their interests.
The acquisition increased the Companys total investment in the Gold Coast Light Rail project to 30% previously 26.67%.
NATIONAL GRID GAS DISTRIBUTION The Company has agreed to acquire a 61% interest in National Grids gas distribution network GDN as part of a consortium see page 6.
This investment strengthens the Companys performance in originating regulated assets with long-term, sustainable, inflation-linked revenues.
INPP expects to invest up to 275 million, with the remaining risk capital funded by consortium partners leading U. K. and international institutional investors.
CURRENT MARKET ENVIRONMENT AND FUTURE OPPORTUNITIES UNITED KINGDOM The U. K. remains committed to the development of infrastructure as a key component of its economic policy.
Prime Minister May has positioned infrastructure as an integral component of her Productivity agenda viewing investment in the sector as a key driver of economic and social growth.
The U. K. Governments new 23 billion National Productivity Investment Fund will focus on housing, transportation and digital infrastructure.
Its broader planning programme also positions energy, water and waste as key areas for the U. K. s economic infrastructure development.
It anticipates overall investment of 500 billion, with 300 billion committed into projects by 2020 21, with more than half of this funded by the private sector National Infrastructure and Construction Pipeline, Autumn 2016.
The U. K. Government is also committed to supporting private sector infrastructure development through stimulating demand through a number of approaches.
It is continuing the U. K. Guarantees Scheme to assist in development and risk sharing of larger public infrastructure projects.
In 2017, it is developing a new pipeline of projects structured as traditional PFI PPP procurements similar to those in which the Company has historically participated, through the Private Finance 2 PF2 initiative.
We anticipate a variety of projects in which we could invest, with similar risk return dynamics to its existing portfolio.
We are particularly interested in the U. K. Governments willingness to use the regulated asset model for infrastructure procurement, where investors receive a permitted and pre-specified return on capital invested as determined by the relevant regulator.
This methodology is used in the Thames Tideway Tunnel transaction and the water regulator, Ofwat, provides regulatory oversight.
The regulated model could be used to procure other core infrastructure assets, which INPP and Amber are well-placed to pursue.
INPP has analysed the attractive characteristics of offshore transmission OFTO.
These projects are some of the most attractive in the infrastructure sector, providing long-term income without demand risk.
There is no exposure to volume of electricity generated by the wind farm.
INPP is bidding for additional OFTO investments, although the positive sector dynamics have attracted new entrants, and bidding for new projects is expected to become more competitive.
INPPs experience in the energy sector and understanding of Ofgems requirements positioned us well for the National Grid Gas Distribution transaction, and we expect similar high-quality and regulated projects will become available in the future.
EUROPE EXCLUDING UNITED KINGDOM Demand for the PPP asset class remains strong, with steady volumes of transactions in the European market.
In the first half of 2016, the European PPP Expertise Centre reported 49 PPP transactions had reached financial close in the European market including the U. K., totalling investment of 15.6 billion, with 40 transactions representing 7.8 billion of investment.
While the U. K. is the largest market in Europe by value and number of transactions, Germany, France and the Netherlands continue to see substantial deal flow.
In Europe ex U. K., INPP is focusing on stable and well-structured Northern European economies including Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, Austria, Ireland and parts of Scandinavia.
These jurisdictions offer new primary market infrastructure opportunities across a range of sectors, including accommodation and transportation.
Benelux, Germany and Norway are particularly attractive investment opportunities, given INPPs expertise and relationships with likely partners in those markets.
Moreover, existing investments in central Europe allow for attractive and partly exclusive secondary opportunities, providing a source of growth to strengthen investments in those markets.
17 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 Future success will depend on securing opportunities through bid processes in primary and secondary markets, while ensuring that every opportunity fits within the Companys risk and reward parameters.
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND Australia has a history of private sector organisations providing and financing public sector infrastructure.
It has a well-developed market for infrastructure investment and debt finance, with an active pool of domestic and overseas investors and banks.
Over the medium to long term, much of Australias infrastructure development will be undertaken within the strategic and policy framework of Infrastructure Australias Australian Infrastructure Plan, February 2016.
This Plan envisages a range of reforms to promote more efficient infrastructure markets and investments, and has received substantial support from Australias Federal Government, which has accepted 69 out of 78 of the Plans recommendations.
Infrastructure Australia has also published an Infrastructure Priority List, identifying key infrastructure projects.
Many are large-scale multi-billion A$ transport projects, responding to population growth in Australias biggest cities.
Over A$3 billion of PPP transport projects closed in Australia during 2016, with a further A$3.5 billion procured using public sector capital, with the intention of 1 privatisation in the near term.
Australian States are also developing smaller scale  projects in health, housing and education sectors.
In keeping with policy recommendations in the Infrastructure Plan, some States are adopting infrastructure procurement models that outsource operator services to the private sector, as well as seeking private sector capital to develop the asset.
New Zealand is an important market and is privatising several  energy and infrastructure businesses.
Amber, the Investment Adviser, continues to monitor projects as they come to market, resourcing these opportunities from its Australian offices.
INPP is positive about the prospects for further investments in the region, although it is mindful of the recent significant depreciation of Sterling against the Australian and New Zealand Dollars giving rise to unattractive overall levels of return for new investments.
INPP is also cautious of the refinancing risk prevalent within Australias current primary PPP market.
NORTH AMERICA The American Society of Civil Engineers ASCE estimated in 2017 that the U. S. needs to spend US$4.6 trillion above current levels of investment over the period to 2025 to ensure that its infrastructure is brought to a good state of repair.
To maintain the existing condition of infrastructure, ASCE estimates that an additional $2.1 trillion investment is required.
There is a great deal of optimism and an emerging bipartisan commitment to foster a considerable pipeline of U. S. infrastructure projects.
A cornerstone of Donald Trumps campaign for U. S. Presidency was his Americas Infrastructure First policy, supporting investment into transportation, clean water, energy, telecommunications, security and other core domestic infrastructure.
President Trumps 2 Infrastructure Plan outlines a 10-year programme to direct $1 trillion of investment into major infrastructure projects.
A list of 50 Emergency and National Security Priority infrastructure projects has also been identified.
This Infrastructure Plan represents a departure from the typical infrastructure financing mechanism in the U. S. Historically, the countrys infrastructure has been financed through state and local Governments using a mix of their own revenues, federal aid and taxexempt municipal bond proceeds.
This new Plan places particular emphasis on the use of public-private partnerships as the primary funding and delivery mechanism.
This reliance on public-private partnerships is motivated by a belief that construction costs tend to be higher and take longer when the Government builds projects, instead of the private sector.
The ability for the private sector to participate in more U. S. infrastructure projects provides INPP with many opportunities.
It is wellpositioned to capitalise on these developments through its relationship with Hunt described in more detail on page 13, where it has right of first look over investment opportunities in the U. S. originated or sold by Hunt, which meet the Companys investment criteria.
Canada has a track record of investment into infrastructure.
It is a highly-developed market and attractive to private investors.
INPP has an ongoing presence in the country through two operational projects.
In the 2016 Budget, the Canadian government announced that it would make immediate investment of C$11.9 billion in public transit, green infrastructure and social infrastructure.
The 2016 Fall Economic Statement proposed an additional C$81 billion through to 202728 in public transit, green and social infrastructure, transportation infrastructure to support trade, and rural and northern communities.
Taking into account existing infrastructure programs and these new initiatives, the Canadian government expects that investment of around C$180 billion will be made.
1 Source: Infra Deals 2 https: www.
com policies  18 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 CURRENT PIPELINE Selected opportunities identified by Amber are outlined below.
INPPs performance does not depend upon additional investments to deliver projected returns.
Further investment opportunities will be judged by their anticipated contribution to overall portfolio returns relative to risk.
CURRENT INVESTMENTS LOCATION ESTIMATED INVESTMENT OPPORTUNITY PROJECT EXPECTED INVESTMENT STATUS OPPORTUNITIES SECTOR CAPITAL VALUE CONCESSION LENGTH Thames Tideway Tunnel U. K. c. 78 m investment Commitment 120 years The Company is part of the 1 remaining Bazalgette consortiumawarded a licence to finance and operate the project.
Investment is being made in phases until early 2018 2 National Grid Gas U. K. Up to 275m Investment committed Operational Expected to reach financial Distribution business close H1 2017 2 Digital U. K. c. 50m Various Opportunities being reviewed 3 Education Australia and c. 70m Various Opportunities through U. K. variations to existing PPP contracts and through Ambers wider relationships 3 Health U. K. c. 10m Various Currently under construction 3 Police Germany c. 140m 30 years One of two bidders 3 Regulated U. K. c. 230m Various OFTO and other regulated opportunities at varying stages 3 Transport Germany, c. 4.5bn Various Variety of larger scale projects.
Australia and INPP is typically part of a U. K. consortium of investors.
Includes follow-on opportunities 1 This project has reached financial close and the Company has committed to further investments of up to c. 78m.
The remaining value is supported by letter of credit.
2 Represents current estimated total future investment commitment by the Company.
3 Represents the estimated current unaudited capital value of the project and includes both debt and equity.
The above represents potential opportunities currently under review by the Investment Adviser including current bids, preferred bidder opportunities and the estimated value of opportunities to acquire additional investments including under pre-emption first refusal rights.
There is no certainty these will translate to actual investment opportunities for the Company.
The value referenced in relation to the pre-emption opportunities represents the estimated potential investment value which reflects the current estimate of the total likely acquisition value at that time.
In relation to opportunities where the current estimated gross value of the relevant project is given which includes an estimate of both debt and equity, the estimates provided are not necessarily indicative of the eventual acquisition price for, or the value of, any interest that may be acquired.
19 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 ACTIVE ASSET MANAGEMENT Ensuring that the Companys assets are available for use and are performing in accordance with contractual expectations is critical for INPP and its service providers.
As the Investment Adviser acting on behalf of INPP, Amber closely monitors relationships between service providers and public sector clients.
It is actively involved in managing assets to ensure performance standards are met, and works with public sector clients on variation projects as they arise.
Amber has the flexibility and experience to quickly respond to the changing requirements of public sector clients.
OPERATIONAL PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMENT During 2016, INPPs public sector clients commissioned over 680 variations under PPP resulting in over 9.4 million of additional project work, with individual variations ranging in value from 200 to over 1 million.
These project variations were overseen by Amber as part of its day-to-day asset management activities, in conjunction with the project facilities manager and each public sector client.
Across the portfolio, Amber works with its public sector counterparties to ensure each project delivers ongoing value and savings.
In 2016, a number of benchmarking exercises were performed.
This included reviewing facilities management services delivered on the projects in order to assess value for money for the public sector.
We also continued to focus on energy efficiency, resulting in savings to the public sector counterparties.
PROJECTS UNDER CONSTRUCTION Progress on the Thames Tideway Tunnel construction schedule is ahead of the regulatory baseline plan: the main tunnel drive sites in the West, Central and East sections of the tunnel have been mobilised three to five months early with two of the six tunnel boring machines TBMs on order from the manufacturer.
Over 2016, the project team has continued its innovative approach to health and safety and are pleased to report no major injuries to date.
Construction work on the New Schools PPP Project in Australia Victorian Schools 2 is also advancing well, with eight of the schools achieving construction completion in line with expectations.
The remaining seven new build schools across twelve different sites in outer metropolitan Melbourne are under construction and are expected to complete in line with expectations by 1 January 2018.
The 7 kilometre Gold Coast Stage 2 light rail project extension in Australia is progressing in line with programme expectations.
In the U. K. there has been a mixed performance: three of the batches of schools financed through the Aggregator platform have completed in line with expectations: construction in the remaining batches of schools fell behind schedule.
As INPP is debt provider only and not equity provider to these PSB schemes, the programme is largely determined by the supply chain, which takes the risk for delivery.
Given the nature of INPPs investment, the delays will not have an impact on INPPs returns.
Projects under construction as at 31 December 2016 are set out in the table below.
ASSET LOCATION CONSTRUCTION DEFECTS COMPLETION STATUS % OF FAIR VALUE COMPLETION DATE DATE OF INVESEMENT Priority School Building Aggregator U. K. 2018 2019 Modest delays.
No financial 2.60% 1 Programme impact on Company Thames Tideway Tunnel U. K. 2024 2027 On Schedule 9.12% Victorian Schools PPP Project Australia 2018 2019 On Schedule 0.13% Gold Coast Light Rail Stage Two Australia 2018 2019 On Schedule 0.00% 1 Two batches behind schedule at 31 December 2016 with one of these completing in January 2017.
As debt only provider the programme is largely determined by equity providers and their management supply chain.
20 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 EFFECTIVE FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT The Company aims for effective financial management through a strategy of minimising its unutilised cash holdings, while maintaining the financial flexibility and ability to pursue its growth targets.
This is achieved through active monitoring of cash, both held and generated from operations, appropriate hedging strategies, and prudent use of the Companys corporate debt facility CDF.
SUMMARY OF CASH FLOWS SUMMARY OF CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW YEAR TO 31 DECEMEBER 2016 YEAR TO 31 DECEMEBER 2015 MILLION MILLION Opening cash balance 72.4 29.4 Cash from investments 94.7 76.0 Operating costs recurring 16.1 13.7 Net financing costs 2.3 3.5 Net cash before non-recurring operating costs 76.3 58.8 Non-recurring operating costs 4.0 2.8 1 Net operating cash flows 72.3 56.0 Cost of new investments 209.9 143.1 Net repayment of corporate debt facility - 16.3 Proceeds of capital raisings net of costs 198.1 195.0 Distributions paid 61.9 48.6 Net cash at period end 71.0 72.4 Cash dividend cover 1.2x 1.2x 1 Net operating cash flows as disclosed above c. 72.3 million include net repayments from investments at fair value through profit and loss c. 27.2 million, exchange gains and losses on cash and cash equivalents c. 0.4 million and finance costs paid c. 2.3 million which are not included in the net cash inflows from operations c. 46.9 million as disclosed in the statutory cash flow statement on page 68 of the financial statements.
The Companys cash balance of 71.0 million at 31 December 2016 was broadly consistent with the cash held at 31 December 2015 of 72.4 million.
Cash balances include amounts anticipated to be invested in the early part of 2017.
Cash receipts from investments increased in the year to 94.7 million 2015: 76.0 million, reflecting the continued growth of the portfolio, and include distributions from recent investments such as Thames Tideway Tunnel.
This growth was partially offset by an increase in recurring operating costs to 16.1 million 2015: 13.7 million.
These costs, which include management fees paid to the Investment Adviser, grew in the year reflecting the growth seen in the value of the portfolio.
The Company funded its acquisitions during the year through cash draw-downs on its corporate debt facility, which was subsequently repaid using the proceeds from share capital issuances.
Therefore, there was no overall movement in the cash drawn balance of the facility in the year.
It is the Companys policy not to have long-term corporate level debt - the facility is intended to be drawn only as a short-term arrangement to fund acquisitions, with equity funding by means of capital raising sought to repay outstanding debt balances as soon as practicable where market conditions allow.
In November 2016, the Company increased the size of its corporate debt facility to 400 million 2015: 300 million.
As at 31 December 2016, the facility was nil cash drawn, 107.4 million was issued as letters of credit and 292.6 million remained uncommitted and available for investment in new and existing projects noting that the Company has agreed to invest up to 275 million in the National Grid gas distribution network in early 2017.
The interest rate margin on the corporate debt facility is 175 basis points over Libor.
The loan facility matures in November 2019 and is secured over the assets of the Group.
Net financing costs paid reduced in the year to 2.3 million 2015: 3.5 million, reflecting a reduced level of cash drawn under the corporate debt facility during 2016.
Cash investments made in 2016 detailed in note 12 totalled 209.9 million 2015: 143.1 million, with further amounts also being committed for future investment.
This increased investment activity contributed to higher one-off operating costs of 4.0 million 2015: 2.8 million.
21 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 Cash dividends paid in the year of 61.9 million 31 December 2015: 48.6 million were in respect of the six-month periods ended 31 December 2015 and 30 June 2016.
INPP seeks to generate dividends paid to investors through its operating cash flows and in 2016 cash dividends were 1.2 times covered by net cash flow from operations.
The Company remains confident of its ability to continue to grow dividends going forward.
SUMMARY OF CORPORATE EXPENSES AND ONGOING CHARGES CORPORATE EXPENSES YEAR TO 31 DECEMEBER 2016 YEAR TO 31 DECEMEBER 2015 MILLION MILLION Management fees 14.4 12.5 Audit fees 0.3 0.2 Directors fees 0.3 0.2 Other running costs 1.1 0.8 Operating costs ongoing 16.1 13.7 ONGOING CHARGES YEAR TO 31 DECEMEBER 2016 YEAR TO 31 DECEMEBER 2015 MILLION MILLION 1 Annualised Ongoing Charges 16.1 13.7 2 Average NAV 1,421.8 1,143.3 Ongoing Charges 1.13% 1.20% 1 The Ongoing Charges ratio was prepared in accordance with the Association of Investment Companies AIC recommended methodology, noting this excludes non-recurring costs.
2 Average of published NAVs for the relevant period.
22 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 INVESTOR RETURNS INPP delivered another successful year with strong performance against all investor return benchmarks.
The Company continues to deliver consistent dividend growth, NAV growth, Total Shareholder Return and inflation linkage from underlying cash flows.
DIVIDEND GROWTH AND PERFORMANCE INPP targets predictable and, where possible, growing dividends.
During the year, the Company delivered a 6.65 pence per share dividend 2015: 6.45 pence and forecasts to pay 6.82 pence per share and 7.00 pence per share for 2017 and 2018 respectively.
Since inception, the Company has delivered an impressive c. 2.5% per annum average dividend increase.
INPPs dividend growth is illustrated in the chart on page 3.
This was achieved through a strong financial performance in the year.
Profit before Tax was 175.3 million 2015: 79.9 million with Earnings per Share of 17.18 pence 2015: 9.54 pence.
Returns from portfolio investments investment income in the year was 206.8 million 2015: 100.2 million including fair value movements, dividends and interest.
These returns were partially offset by operating expenses including finance costs of 24.6 million 2015: 21.6 million and other operating expenses of 6.8 million 2015: other operating income of 1.3 million as shown in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN INPPs Total Shareholder Return share price growth plus reinvested distributions for investors since IPO in November 2006 to 31 December 2016 has been 148.5% 9.4% on an annualised basis.
This compares to a FTSE All-Share index total return over the same period of 74.3% 5.6% on an annualised basis.
INPP has exhibited relatively low levels of volatility compared to the market, as evidenced by the graph below showing the Companys share price since IPO against the price performance of the major FTSE indices.
INPP Share Price Performance INFLATION LINKED CASH FLOWS In an environment where investors are increasingly focused on achieving long-term real rates of return on their investments, inflation protection is an important consideration for the Company.
At 31 December 2016, the majority of assets in the portfolio had some degree of inflation linkage and, in aggregate, the weighted NAV return of the portfolio would be expected to increase by 0.78% per annum in response to a 1.00% per annum inflation increase across the whole portfolio over the currently assumed rates.
NET ASSET VALUATION AND NAV PER SHARE The Company reported a 24.3% increase in NAV, up to 1,603.7 million at 31 December 2016 2015: 1,290.2 million.
This represented an increase of 9.2% in the NAV per share, increasing to 142.2 pence at 31 December 2016 2015: 130.2 pence.
The NAV represents the fair value of the Companys investments plus the value of cash and other net assets held within the Companys consolidated group.
23 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 The key drivers of the change to the NAV between 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2016 are highlighted in the graph that follows and are described in more detail below.
Net Asset Value Movement m 1 2 1 Represents movements in the forward rates used to translate forecast non-GBP investment receipts and the spot rates used to translate non-GBP cash balances.
2 The NAV Return represents, amongst other things, i variances in both realised and forecast investment cash flows, ii the unwinding of the discount factor applied to those future investment cash flows and iii changes in the Companys other net assets.
During 2016, approximately 200 million of new capital was raised before costs from capital raising and a subsequent tap issue.
Proceeds were used to repay the cash drawn balance of the corporate debt facility and acquire new investments.
For the twelve months to 31 December 2016, Government bond yields decreased in all countries in which INPP holds investments, with the exception of the U. S. resulting in a net positive impact on the NAV.
This was partly offset by an increase in the project premium applied, reflecting a lack of observable market-based evidence to justify revaluing the Companys assets in line with the reduction in bond yields.
The portfolio also benefited from a reduction in discount rate risk premia applied with respect to particular assets that moved out of the construction defects liability phase and into full operation.
Sterling weakened significantly against all major currencies in which the Company holds its overseas investments, particularly after the results of the U. K. referendum on EU membership.
The net impact over the year to 31 December 2016 was a positive impact on NAV, with the most pronounced impact on Euro-denominated investments.
In 2016, two cash dividends were paid to INPP shareholders totalling 61.9 million.
The NAV Return of 96.7 million captured the impact from the following: - Unwinding of the discount factor the movement of the valuation date and the receipt of forecast distributions - Optimisation of cash flows actual distributions received above the forecast amount due to active management of the Companys portfolio, including negotiating and optimising project cash flows to ensure cash can be extracted from the underlying investments earlier than forecast and optimising utilisation of group tax loss relief - Updated cash flow forecasts updated operating and macroeconomic assumptions to reflect current expectations of future cash flows - Movements in the Companys working capital position INVESTMENT VALUATION PROJECTED FUTURE CASH FLOWS The Companys investments are expected to continue to exhibit predictable cash flows.
As the Company has a large degree of visibility over the forecast cash flows of its current investments, the chart below sets out the Companys forecast investment receipts from its current portfolio.
The majority of the forecast investment receipts are in the form of dividends or interest, and principal payments from senior and subordinated debt investments.
The Companys portfolio comprises both investments with finite lives determined by concession or licence terms and perpetual investments including for example ownership interests in regulated trading companies.
Over the life of concession-based investments, the Companys receipts from these investments represent a return of capital as well as income.
The fair value of the Companys concession-based investments is expected to reduce to zero over time.
24 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 INPP Projected Cash Flow Note: There are many factors that may influence the actual achievement of long-term cash flows to the Company.
These include both internal as well as external factors and investors should not treat the chart above as being more than an indicative profile and not a projection, estimate or profit forecast.
No new investments other than those committed as at 31 December 2016 have been included.
PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE AND RETURN The valuation of the Companys investment portfolio is determined by the Board, with the benefit of advice from the Investment Adviser and auditors and is considered quarterly for approval by the Companys Directors.
Investments at fair value as at 31 December 2016 were 1,515.2 million, an increase of 26.2% since 31 December 2015 1,201.1 million.
Investments at Fair Value Movements m 1 2 1 The Portfolio Return represents, amongst other things, i variances in both realised and forecast investment cash flows and ii the unwinding of the discount factor applied to those future investment cash flows 2 Represents movements in the forward rates used to translate forecast non-GBP investment receipts and the spot rates used to translate non-GBP cash balances.
The Portfolio Return of 123.2 million represents a 9.4% increase in the rebased Investments at Fair Value and can be attributed to: - Unwinding of the discount factor the movement of the valuation date and the receipt of forecast distributions - Optimisation of cash flows actual distributions received above the forecast amount due to active management of the Companys portfolio, including optimising project cash flows to ensure cash can be extracted from the underlying investments earlier than forecast and utilisation of Group tax losses - Updated cash flow forecasts updated operating and macroeconomic assumptions to reflect current expectations of future cash flows In addition, there was: - An increase of 209.9 million in the Investments held at Fair Value owing to new investments that were made during the year - A decrease of 94.7 million due to investment cash flows that were paid out of the portfolio - A net decrease in the discount rates across jurisdictions in which the Company invests, leading to a 32.4 million increase in the fair value of investments - A net decrease of 12.1 million, which reflects the changes made to the macroeconomic assumptions - A net increase of 55.4 million due to foreign exchange rate movements in all four currencies the Company has exposure to 25 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 MACROECONOMIC ASSUMPTIONS The Company reviews the macroeconomic assumptions underlying its forecasts on a regular basis and, following a thorough market assessment during the period, certain adjustments have been made to some of the assumptions used to derive the Companys portfolio valuation.
The key assumptions used as the basis for deriving the Companys portfolio valuation are summarised below with further details provided in note 11.
Across the portfolio, the weighted average long-term inflation assumption as at 31 December 2016 was 2.58% 2015: 2.57% and the weighted average deposit rate assumption was 2.07% 2015: 3.11%.
The Net Asset Valuation Section above provides further details on the impact of these assumptions on the valuation during the period.
S investments is in the form of subordinated debt and therefore not directly impacted by inflation, deposit and tax rate assumptions.
3 The reduction in U. K. tax rates reflects the latest substantively enacted rates at 31 December 2016 and therefore captures the reduction to 19.00% from 1 April 2017 and 17.00% from 1 April 2020.
DISCOUNT RATES The discount rate used to value each investment comprises the appropriate long-term Government bond yield plus an investmentspecific risk premium.
The risk premiums take into account the perceived risks and opportunities associated with each investment.
The majority of the Companys portfolio 87% is comprised of investments where the Company only holds the Risk Capital in the underlying investments.
The remaining portfolio 13% is comprised of investments where the Company holds both the Risk Capital and the senior debt or the senior debt has been fully repaid.
In order to provide investors with a greater level of transparency, the Company publishes both a Risk Capital weighted average discount rate and a portfolio-weighted average discount rate, which captures the discount rates of all investments including the senior debt interests.
The weighted average discount rates are presented in the table below.
These rates need to be considered against the assumptions and projections upon which the Companys forecast cash flows are based.
MOVEMENT 31 DECEMBER 2015 METRIC 31 DECEMBER 2016 30 JUNE 2016 31 DECEMBER 2015 -31 DECEMBER 2016 Weighted Average Government Bond Rate Nominal 1.55% 2.00% 2.31% 0.76 % Risk Capital and senior debt Weighted Average Project Premium over Government 5.82% 5.37% 5.22% 0.60% Bond Rate Risk Capital and senior debt Nominal Weighted Average Discount rate 7.37% 7.37% 7.53% 0.16 % - Risk Capital and senior debt 1 Weighted Average Discount rate - Risk Capital only 7.90% 7.88% 8.09% 0.19 % NAV per share 142.2p 138.2p 130.2p 12.0p 1 Risk Capital includes both equity and subordinated debt investments.
The changes in both the Portfolio and Risk Capital weighted average discount rates are principally due to the reduction in Government bond yields during the period.
26 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 For accurate comparison to peer group valuations, these rates need to be considered against the assumptions and projections upon which a companys anticipated cash flows are based.
In the Companys view, comparisons of average discount rates between competitor investment portfolios or funds are only meaningful if there is a comparable level of confidence in the quality of forecast cash flows and assumptions the rates are applied to: the risk and return characteristics of different investment portfolios are understood: and the depth and quality of asset management employed to manage risk and deliver expected returns are identical across the compared portfolios.
As such, assumptions are unlikely to be homogenous, and any focus on average discount rates without an assessment of these and other factors would be incomplete and could therefore derive misleading conclusions.
For transparency and to aid comparability, the Companys approach to such cash flows is set out below.
PORTFOLIO LEVEL CASH FLOW ASSUMPTIONS UNDERLYING NAV CALCULATION The Company is aware that there are subtle differences in approach to the valuation of portfolios of investments among different infrastructure funds.
INPP regards its key cash flow and broad valuation assumptions and principles as: - Key macroeconomic variables outlined in the section above continue to be applicable - Concession contracts under which payments are made to the Company and its subsidiaries remain on track and are not terminated before their contractual expiry date - Any deductions suffered under such contracts are fully passed down to subcontractors - Lifecycle costs risks are either not borne by the Company and are passed down to a third party such as a facilities management contractor or where borne by the Company are incurred per current expectations - Cash flows from and to the Companys subsidiaries and the infrastructure asset-owning entities in which it has invested will be made and are received at the times anticipated - Where assets are in construction they are either completed on time or any costs of delay are borne by the contractors not the Company - Where the operating costs of the Company or the infrastructure asset-owning entities in which it has invested are fixed by contract such contracts are performed, and where such costs are not fixed, that they remain within projected budgets - Where the Company or the infrastructure asset-owning entities in which it has invested owns the residual property value in an asset that the projected amount for this value is realised - Foreign exchange rates remain consistent with 31 December 2016 four-year forward rates, and that hedging only applies in relation to short-term forecast cash flows, not NAV valuation - There are no tax or regulatory changes in the future which negatively impact cash flow forecasts - Perpetual investments are assumed to have a finite life and therefore residual terminal value SENSITIVITIES FOR KEY MACROECONOMIC ASSUMPTIONS AND DISCOUNT RATES The Companys NAV is based on the factors outlined above.
The Company has also provided sensitivity analysis showing an indication of the impact on NAV per share from changes in macroeconomic assumptions and discount rates, as set out below.
Further details can be found in note 11.
This analysis is provided as an indication of the likely impact of these variables on the NAV per share on the basis that they apply uniformly across the portfolio whereas in practice the impact is unlikely to be uniform.
These sensitivities should be used only for general guidance and not as accurate predictors of outcomes.
Impact of Changes in Key Macroeconomic Variables to 31 December 2016 NAV 142.2p per Share 27 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 INFLATION Forecasting the impact of possible future inflation deflation on projected returns and NAV in isolation cannot be relied on as an accurate guide to the future performance of the Company as actual inflation is unlikely to follow any of these scenarios exactly and invariably, many other factors and variables will combine to determine what actual future returns are available.
The analysis provided above should therefore be treated as being indicative only and not as providing any form of profit or dividend forecast.
FOREIGN EXCHANGE The Company has a geographically diverse portfolio and therefore revenues are subject to foreign exchange rate risk.
The impact of a 10% increase or decrease in these rates is provided for illustration.
The Company does not hedge exposure to foreign exchange rate risk on long-term cash flows and therefore changes in NAV are to be expected from changes in the foreign exchange forward curve against Euros, Australian Dollars, Canadian Dollars and U. S. Dollars.
DEPOSIT RATES The long-term weighted average deposit rate assumption across the portfolio is 2.07% per annum.
While operating cash balances tend to be low given the structured nature of the investments, project finance structures typically include reserve accounts to mitigate certain costs and therefore variations to deposit rates may impact the portfolio.
The impact of a 1% increase or decrease in these rates is provided for illustration.
TAX RATES The Company has a  portfolio and therefore post-tax investment cash inflows are impacted by tax rates across all relevant jurisdictions.
Other potential tax changes are not covered by this scenario.
PROJECT LIFECYCLE SPEND Over a projects lifecycle there is a process of renewal required to keep the physical asset fit for use and at the standard required of it under the agreement with the occupying public sector body.
The proportion of total cost that is lifecycle spend will depend on the nature of the asset.
In order to enhance the certainty around cash flows, around 90% of the Companys assets by value currently are structured such that lifecycle cost risk is taken by a subcontractor for a fixed price isolating equity investors from such downside risk.
As a result, the impact of any changes to the Companys lifecycle cost profile is relatively small.
FUTURE GROUP TAX LOSS RELIEF Under current U. K. group tax loss relief rules, losses within the U. K. group companies can be, subject to U. K. tax law, offset against taxable profits in other U. K. group companies including controlled project entities.
This group tax loss relief can reduce the overall tax charge across the portfolio and potentially reduce taxable profits substantially below the levels currently modelled by the Company.
The Company has taken a conservative approach to the valuation of future tax losses and, to date, has not incorporated these into the NAV.
Changes to U. K. tax loss relief rules are expected to come into force from April 2017, however these are not expected to a have a significant impact on the portfolio valuation.
By order of the Board Rupert Dorey John Whittle Chairman Senior Independent Director 29 March 2017 29 March 2017 28
