DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION INTERTEK EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM 1 2 3 5 4 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 22 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION Andr Lacroix 1 Tony George 6 Rajesh Saigal 10 Chief Executive Officer Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Human Resources South & South East Asia See full bio on page 58 Joined Intertek in 2015.
Tony is Joined Intertek in 2007.
Rajesh has 2 Edward Leigh responsible for Human Resources.
He has responsibility for South & South East Asia.
Chief Financial Officer over 28 years experience in HR, General Prior to this he was Regional Managing See full bio on page 58 Management and Business Development Director for Interteks South Asia having held senior leadership positions operations.
He has over 27 years general 3 Nimer Al-Hafi in international FMCG, chemicals, management and operational experience Senior Vice President, Group ATIC telecommunications and retail companies with Fortune 500 companies covering Operational Excellence, North-East including Vodafone plc, Starbucks, Diageo consumer durables, industrial products Asia and Australasia plc and ICI.
Prior to joining Intertek, he was and engineering.
Before joining Intertek, Joined Intertek in 1995.
Nimer is Group HR & Business Development Rajesh was CEO South Asia for GEWISS responsible for the Groups ATIC Director at Inchcape plc.
and General Manager at Honeywell.
operational excellence as well as 7 11 Ken Lee Julia Thomas sustainability and health & safety Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President, programmes, and has responsibility for Marketing and Communications Corporate Development North-East Asia and Australasia.
Prior to this, he was responsible for the Group's Joined Intertek in 2016.
Ken has Joined Intertek in 2013.
As SVP Corporate Global Customer Service agenda and responsibility for Interteks marketing Development, Julia has responsibility President of Interteks US Products group as well as internal and external for Interteks acquisition and disposal covering testing, inspection, certification, communications.
He joined the company activities.
Before joining Intertek, consulting and quality assurance services, from Inchcape plc where he spent 13 Julia spent 12 years in investment having started with the Company as an years in various senior marketing roles, banking with J. P. Morgan Cazenove Engineer in 1995. most recently as Chief Marketing and and Rothschild, focusing primarily Communications Officer.
Prior to this he on mergers and acquisitions.
4 Ann-Michele Bowlin held marketing leadership positions with 12 Chief Information Officer Mark Thomas RAC Motoring Services and Hyundai Group General Counsel Joined Intertek in 2009.
Ann-Michele Car UK Ltd. is Chief Information Officer and joined Joined Intertek in 2015.
Mark has 8 Jan-Jrg Mller-Seiler Intertek from Ernst & Young consulting responsibility for Interteks legal, risk and Executive Vice President, where she led shared services compliance functions.
He joined Intertek Global Resources transformation programmes.
Prior from Inchcape plc where he was Group to Ernst & Young, Ann-Michele held Joined Intertek in 2008.
Prior to this, Mark was in leadership and operations roles in responsibility for Global Resources private practice with Slaughter and May in technology companies, including comprising our business lines of Industry London, advising on a wide range of public Hotels.
com, and in the manufacturing Services and Minerals.
Prior to assuming and private M&A transactions, equity and and services sectors.
his current role, Jan-Jrg was President of debt financing, and general corporate Industry Services and Country Managing law issues.
5 Ian Galloway Director for Germany, Switzerland and 13 Executive Vice President, MiddleGregg Tiemann Austria.
Before joining Intertek, he worked East, Africa and Global Trade Executive Vice President, Americas for TV SD Industrie Service GmbH, as a Joined Intertek in 2011.
Ian is responsible member of the Board, with responsibility Joined Intertek in 1993.
Gregg has for the Middle-East, Africa and Global for their plant engineering and foreign responsibility for the Americas.
Prior Trade comprising our business lines of business sectors.
to assuming his current role, Gregg was Government & Trade Services, Cargo & responsible for the Americas, North Asia 9 Graham Ritchie Analytical Assessment and Agricultural and Australasia as well as the former Executive Vice President, Europe Services.
Prior to assuming his current Consumer Goods and Commercial & role Ian held senior finance and business Joined Intertek in 2014.
Graham is Electrical divisions, having started as roles within Intertek.
He has previously responsible for Interteks operations in General Manager of the Los Angeles held international roles in finance Europe, including Russia, and Central Asia.
Before joining Intertek, management with BG Group in the UK, Prior to assuming his current role, Graham Gregg worked in sales and marketing Egypt and Tunisia.
Ian is a qualified was Interteks Group Financial Controller.
Before joining the Company he held senior financial positions at BT Group plc and other technology services organisations, having started his career with PwC.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 23
