ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOUR Schedule A to the directors report The board may withhold payment of all Additional information Deadlines for exercising or any part of any dividends or other for shareholders voting rights monies payable in respect of Investecplcs shares from a person with a 0.25% or Set out below is a summary of certain Votes are exercisable at a general meeting more interest in nominal value of the provisions of Investec plcs current Articles of Investec plc in respect of which the issued shares if such a person has been of Association the Articles and applicable business being voted upon is being heard.
served with a notice after failure to provide English law concerning companies the Votes may be exercised in person, by Investecplc with information concerning UK Companies Act 2006.
This is a proxy, or in relation to corporate members, interests in those shares required to be summary only and the relevant provisions by corporate representatives.
The Articles provided under the Companies Act 2006. of the Articles or the Companies Act 2006 provide a deadline for submission of proxy should be consulted if further information forms of not less than 48 hours before isrequired.
the time appointed for the holding of the Voting rights meeting or adjourned meeting.
Subject to any special rights or restrictions Share capital attaching to any class of shares, at a Variation of rights The issued share capital of Investec plc at general meeting, every member present in 31 March 2016 consists of 617418864 person has, upon a show of hands, one Subject to the Companies Act 2006, the ordinary shares of 0.0002 each, vote and on a poll every member who is Articles specify that rights attached to 15081149 non-redeemable, any class of shares may be varied with present in person or by proxy has one non-cumulative, non-participating preference vote for each share.
In the case of joint the written consent of the holders of not shares of 0.01 each, 2 275 940ZAR less than three-fourths in nominal value holders of a share, the vote of the senior non-redeemable, non-cumulative, nonwho tenders a vote whether in person or by of the issued shares of that class, or with participating preference shares of R0.001 the sanction of an extraordinary resolution proxy shall be accepted to the exclusion of each, 285 748 623 special converting passed at a separate general meeting of the votes of the other joint holders and for shares of 0.0002 each, the special voting the holders of those shares.
At every such this purpose seniority shall be determined share of 0.001, the UK DAN share of separate general meeting the quorum by the order in which the names stand in 0.001 and the UK DAS share of 0.001 shall be two persons or, if there is only the register of members in respect of the each class as defined in the Articles.
one holder, that holder at least holding or share.
Under the Companies Act 2006 representing by proxy at least one-third in members are entitled to appoint a proxy, nominal value of the issued shares of the who need not be a member of Investecplc, Purchase of own shares class calculated excluding any shares held to exercise all or any of their rights to Subject to the provisions of the as treasury shares.
The rights conferred attend and vote on their behalf at a general Articles, the Companies Act 2006, the upon the holders of any shares shall not, meeting or class meeting.
A member may uncertificated securities regulations 2001 unless otherwise expressly provided in appoint more than one proxy in relation to a and every other statute for the time the rights attaching to those shares, be general meeting or class meeting, provided being in force concerning companies deemed to be varied by the creation or that each proxy is appointed to exercise and affecting Investec plc, the approval issue of further shares ranking pari passu the rights attached to a different share or of shareholders as provided in the with them.
Where, under the companys shares held by that member.
Amember Investecplc Articles, and without prejudice share incentive plan, participants are the that is a corporation may appoint an to any relevant special rights attached beneficial owners of the shares, but not the individual to act on its behalf at a general to any class of shares, Investec plc may registered owners, the participants are not meeting or class meeting as a corporate purchase, or may enter into a contract entitled to exercise any voting rights until representative.
The person so authorised under which it will or may purchase, any the shares are released to the participants.
shall be entitled to exercise the same of its own shares of any class, including Under the companys employee trust, powers on behalf of such corporation as without limitation any redeemable shares, the trustee does not vote in respect of the corporation could exercise if it were an in any way and at any price whether at unallocated shares.
individual member of Investec plc.
Transfer of shares Restrictions on voting Dividends and All transfers of shares may be effected by No member shall be entitled to vote either transfer in writing in any usual or common distributions in person or by proxy at any general form or in any other form acceptable to the meeting or class meeting in respect of any Subject to the provisions of the Companies directors.
The instrument of transfer shall be shares held by him if any call or other sum Act 2006, Investec plc may by ordinary signed by or on behalf of the transferor and resolution from time to time declare then payable by him in respect of that share except in the case of fully paid shares by remains unpaid.
In addition, no member dividends not exceeding the amount or on behalf of the transferee.
Transfers of recommended by the board.
The board shall be entitled to vote if he has been shares which are in uncertificated form are may pay interim dividends whenever served with a notice after failure to provide effected by means of the CREST system.
the financial position of Investec plc, Investec plc with information concerning in the opinion of the board, justifies interests in those shares required to be suchpayment.
provided under the Companies Act.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 149 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOUR Schedule A to the directors report continued The directors may, in the case of shares in Investec plc may, at its option, redeem The pr eference dividend or any certificated form, in their absolute discretion all or any of the plc preference shares for part thereof remains in arrears and without assigning any reason, refuse the time being issued and outstanding and unpaid as determined to register any transfer of shares not on the first call date or any dividend inaccordance with Article 150.2 e ii after six months from being fully paid shares, provided that such payment date thereafter discretion may not be exercised in such a the due date thereof: and or Holders of plc preference shares will way as to prevent dealings in the shares of A r esolution of Investec plc not be entitled to attend and vote that class from taking place on an open and is proposed which resolution at general meetings of Investec plc.
The directors may also refuse directly affects the rights Holders will be entitled to attend and to register an allotment or transfer of shares attached to the perpetual vote at a classmeeting of holders of whether fully paid or not in favour of more preference shares or the plcpreference shares.
If the directors interests of the holders thereof, refuse to register an allotment or transfer or a resolution of Investec plc they shall within two months after the date is proposed to wind up or in Non-redeemable, on which the letter of allotment or transfer relation to the winding-up of non-cumulative, was lodged with Investec plc send to the Investec plc or for the reduction allottee or transferee a notice of the refusal.
of its capital, in which event non-participating the preference shareholders The directors may decline to recognise any preference shares shall be entitled to vote only on instrument of transfer unless the instrument The following are the rights and suchresolution.
of transfer is in respect of only one class of privileges which attach to the perpetual share and, when submitted for registration, preferenceshares: Rand-denominated is accompanied by the relevant share certificates and such other evidence as the Each perpetual preference share will rank non-redeemable, directors may reasonably require.
Subject as regards dividends and a repayment of non-cumulative, to the Companies Act and regulations and capital on the winding up of Investecplc applicable CREST rules, the directors may prior to the ordinary shares, the plc non-participating determine that any class of shares may special converting shares, the UK DAN perpetual preference be held in uncertificated form and that share, the UK DAS share, but pari title to such shares may be transferred by passu with the plc preference shares.
shares the ZAR means of the CREST system or that shares The perpetual preference shares perpetual preference of any class should cease to be so held shall confer on the holders, on a per andtransferred.
perpetual preference shares and equal shares basis, the right on a return of capital The ZAR perpetual preference shares are A number of the companys employee on the winding-up of Investec plc of an subject to substantially similar terms and share plans include restrictions on transfer amount equal to the aggregate of the conditions as the existing Pounds Sterling of shares while the shares are subject to nominal value and premiums in respect non-redeemable, non-cumulative, the plans, in particular, the share incentive of perpetual preference shares issued, non-participating preference shares, plan.
divided by the number of perpetual as outlined above, save that they are preference shares in issue denominated in South African Rand.
Plc preference shares Each perpetual preference share may The following are the rights and privileges confer upon the holder thereof the right which attach to the plc preference shares: to receive out of the profits of Investec plc which it shall determine to distribute, On a return of capital, whether or in priority to the ordinary shares, the not on a winding up but not on a plc special converting shares, the UK redemption or purchase of any shares DAN share and the UKDAS share, but by Investecplc or otherwise, the plc paripassu with the plc preference shares, preference shares will rank, pari passu the preference dividend calculated in interse and with the most senior ranking accordance with the Articles preference shares of Investec plc in issue if any from time to time and with The holders of the perpetual preference any other shares of Investec plc that are shares shall be entitled to receive notice expressed to rank pari passu therewith of and be present but not to vote, either as regards participation in the capital, in person or by proxy, at any meeting of and otherwise in priority to any other Investec plc, by virtue of or in respect class of shares of Investec plc of the perpetual preference shares, unless either or both of the following circumstances prevail at the date of themeeting: Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 150 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOUR Schedule A to the directors report continued Shares required for the Powers of directors Subject to the Articles, the Companies DLC structure Act 2006, the CREST regulations and Investec SSC UK Limited, a UK trust every other statute for the time being in company, specially formed for the purpose force concerning companies and affecting of the DLC structure, holds the plc special Investec plc, and any directions given voting share, the plc special converting by ordinary or special resolution, the shares, the UK DAN share and the UK DAS business of Investec plc will be managed share.
These shares can only be transferred by the board who may exercise all the to another UK trust company, in limited powers of Investec plc.
The board may exercise all the powers The plc special voting shares are specially of Investec plc to borrow money created shares so that shareholders of both and to mortgage or charge any of Investec plc and Investec Limited effectively its undertaking, property, assets and vote together as a single decision-making uncalled capital and to issue debentures body on matters affecting shareholders of and other securities, whether outright or both companies in similar ways, as set out as collateral security for any debt, liability in the Articles.
or obligation of Investecplc or of any thirdparty.
Prior to a change of control, approval of termination of the sharing agreement which regulates the DLC, liquidation or Significant agreements: insolvency of Investec plc, the plc special converting shares have no voting rights, change of control except in relation to a resolution proposing The Articles of Association of both the: i variation of the rights attaching to Investecplc and the Memorandum of the shares or ii winding-up, and they Incorporation of Investec Limited ensure have no rights to dividends.
The special that a person cannot make an offer for converting shares are held on trust for the one company without having made an InvestecLimited ordinary shareholders.
equivalent offer to the shareholders of Investecplc and Investec Limited have both companies on equivalent terms.
established dividend access trust arrangements as part of the DLC.
Pursuant to the terms of the agreements establishing the DLC structure, if Investec plc has issued two dividend either Investec plc or Investec Limited access shares, the UK DAS share and serves written notice on the other at UKDAN share which enables Investecplc any time after either party becomes a to pay dividends to the shareholders of subsidiary of the other party or after Investec Limited.
This facility may be used both Investec plc and Investec Limited by the board to address imbalances in become subsidiaries of a third party the distributable reserves of Investec plc the agreements establishing the DLC and Investec Limited and or to address structure will terminate.
the effects of South African exchange controls and or if they otherwise consider it All of Investec plcs share plans contain necessary or desirable.
provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable Appointment and on a change of control and, where applicable, subject to the satisfaction of replacement of directors anyperformance conditions at that time.
Directors shall be no less than four and no more than 20 in number.
A director is not required to hold any shares of Investec plc by way of qualification.
Investec plc may by special resolution increase or reduce the maximum or minimum number of directors.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 151
