Our Governance Other Statutory Directors Report Report of the Directors Significant agreements The Directors present their report together with the The Group has entered into various agreements to audited financial statements for IP Group plc and its form partnerships with 14 UK universities and five US subsidiaries for the year ended 31 December 2016. universities.
In addition, the Group has entered into agreements to act as general partner and investment Corporate governance statement manager to three limited partnerships.
Further details can be found in the strategic report and in the notes Information that fulfils the requirements of the to the financial statements.
corporate governance statement can be found in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 54 to Share capital and related matters 68 and is incorporated into this Directors report by reference.
Details of the structure of the Companys share capital and the rights attaching to the Companys Results and dividends shares are set out in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements.
There are no specific restrictions During the period, the Group made an overall loss on the size of a holding or on the transfer of shares, after taxation for the year ended 31 December 2016 which are both governed by the general provisions of of 14.8m 2015: 75.1m profit.
The directors do not the Companys Articles of Association the Articles recommend the payment of a dividend 2015: nil.
Directors At the last Annual General Meeting of the Company The names of directors who currently hold office or held on 12 May 2016 the 2016 AGM, authority did so during 2016 are as follows: was given to the Directors pursuant to the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006 to allot shares Executive Directors and grant rights over securities in the Company up to Alan Aubrey a maximum amount equivalent to approximately oneMike Townend third of the issued ordinary share capital on Greg Smith 8 April 2016 at any time up to the earlier of the David Baynes conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company and 1 August 2017.
In Non-executive Directors addition, at the 2016 AGM, the Directors were also Mike Humphrey Chairman given authority effective for the same period as Jonathan Brooks the aforementioned authority to allot shares and Doug Liversidge grant rights over securities in the Company up to Prof Lynn Gladden a maximum of approximately two-thirds of the Dr Elaine Sullivan total ordinary share capital in issue on 8 April 2016 in connection with an offer by way of a fully preDetails of the interests of directors in the share emptive rights issue.
The Directors propose to renew capital of the Company are set out in the Directors both of these authorities at the Companys next AGM Remuneration Report on page 81. to be held on 10 May 2017.
The authorities being sought are in accordance with guidance issued by the Principal risks and uncertainties and Investment Association.
financial instruments A further special resolution passed at the 2016 AGM The Group through its operations is exposed to granted authority to the Directors to allot equity a number of risks.
The Groups risk management securities in the Company for cash, without regard objectives and policies are described on pages 38 to to the pre-emption provisions of the Companies Act 45 and in the Corporate Governance report on page 2006, both: i up to a maximum of approximately 67.
Further information on the Groups financial risk two-thirds of the total ordinary share capital in management objectives and policies, including those issue on 8 April 2016 in connection with a fully prein relation to credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk, emptive rights issue: and ii up to a maximum of is provided in note 2 to the consolidated financial approximately 5% of the aggregate nominal value statements, along with further information on the of the shares in issue on 8 April 2016, each authority Groups use of financial instruments.
exercisable at any time up to the earlier of the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company and 93 Stock Code: IPO www.
com 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Directors Report CONTINUED 1 August 2017.
These authorities have not been used Directors indemnity during the year.
The Directors will seek to renew these and liability insurance authorities for a similar period at the next AGM to be During the year, the Company has maintained liability held on 10 May 2017. insurance in respect of its Directors.
Subject to the Under Part 18, Chapter 5 of the Companies Act 2006, provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Articles the Company has the power to purchase its own provide that to the extent that the proceeds of any shares.
At the 2016 AGM, a special resolution was liability insurance are insufficient to meet any liability passed which granted the Directors authority to make in full, every Director is entitled to be indemnified out market purchases of the Companys shares pursuant of the funds of the Company against any liabilities to these provisions of the Companies Act 2006 up to incurred in the execution or discharge of his or her a maximum of approximately 10% of the Companys powers or duties.
A copy of the indemnity is available issued share capital on 8 April 2016 provided that the for inspection as required by the Companies Act authority granted set a minimum and maximum price 2006. at which purchases can be made and is exercisable at any time up to the earlier of the conclusion of the Regulation next AGM and 1 August 2017.
This authority has not Top Technology Ventures Limited, a 100%-owned been used during the year.
The Directors will seek to subsidiary of the Company, is authorised and renew the authority within similar parameters and for regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority under a similar period at the next AGM to be held on the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Post balance sheet events Articles of Association Material events occurring since the balance sheet The Companys Articles may be amended by a special date are disclosed in the Strategic Report and in note resolution of the shareholders.
26 to the Groups financial statements.
Substantial shareholders Disclosure of information to auditor As at 3 March 2017, the Company had been advised Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of of the following shareholders with interests of 3% approval of this Annual Report confirms that: or more in its ordinary share capital.
Other than as shown, so far as the Company and its Directors so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant are aware, no other person holds or is beneficially audit information of which the Companys Auditor interested in a disclosable interest in the Company.
is unaware: and the Director has taken all steps that he she Shareholder % ought to have taken as a Director in order to Invesco Asset Management Limited 25.4 make himself herself aware of any relevant audit Woodford Investment Management LLP 14.2 information and to establish that the Companys Lansdowne 12.2 Auditor is aware of that information.
Bailie Gifford 8.8 This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of Sand Aire Limited 5.1 the Companies Act 2006.
Oppenheimer Funds Inc. Massachusetts 3.7 Mutual Life Insurance Company Appointment of auditor A resolution to reappoint KPMG LLP, together Political donations with a resolution to authorise the Directors to The Group did not make any political donations determine their remuneration, will be proposed at the during 2016.
Corporate and social responsibility ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD Details on the Groups policies, activities and aims Angela Leach with regard to its corporate and social responsibilities, Company Secretary including details of its greenhouse gas emissions, are 6 March 2017 included in the Sustainability section on pages 46 to 49.
94 IP Gr IP Group plc oup plc Annual R Annual Report and A eport and Ac cc counts f ounts for the y or the year ended 31 Dec ear ended 31 December 20 ember 2016 16 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM
