Governance Directors Report Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The Directors Report required under the Companies Act 2006 comprises this report and the entire Governance section including the Chairmans Governance Statement.
Articles of Association Unless expressly specified to the contrary, the Articles of Association may only be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The Articles are available on our website.
com investors governance Auditor During the year the Audit and Risk Committee considered the performance and audit fees of the external auditor, and the level of non-audit work undertaken.
They recommended to the Board that a resolution for the reappointment of KPMG LLP for a further year as the Companys auditor be proposed to shareholders at the AGM in May 2017.
Change of control No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions and proration for time where appropriate.
Certain of the Groups bonds borrowing facilities have change of control clauses whereby the issuer can require ITV to repay redeem bonds in the event of a change of control.
The Company is not aware of any other significant agreements to which it isparty that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company.
Directors Appointments: A table showing Directors who served in the year can be found on page 65.
Biographies for Directors currently inoffice can be found on pages 60 and 61 and on our website.
com about board-of-directors Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial three-year period and annually thereafter.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, each Director will retire and submit himself or herself for election or re-election at the AGM on 10 May 2017.
Detail on compensation for loss of office can be found in the Remuneration Report on page 84.
Conflicts of interest: The Board has delegated the authorisation of conflicts to the Nomination Committee and has adopted aConflicts of InterestPolicy.
The Board has considered in detail the current external appointments of the Directors which may give rise to a situational conflict and has authorised potential conflicts where appropriate.
This authorisation can be reviewed atany time but will always be subject to annual review.
The Board is confident that these procedures operate effectively.
Contracts of significance: No Director had any interest in any contract with the Company or its subsidiary undertakings.
Powers: The powers of the Directors are set out in the Articles of Association.
The Articles and a schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board can be found on our website.
com investors governance 98 Governance ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Dividends The Board has proposed a final dividend and a special dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Details of these and other dividends paid for the year are as follows: 2016 2015 Interim dividend 2.4p 1.9p Final dividend 4.8p 4.1p Total ordinary dividend 7.2p 6.0p Special dividend 5.0p 10.0p Total dividend payment 12.2p 16.0p The final dividend and special dividend for 2016 will be paid on 25 May 2017 to shareholders on the register on 28 April 2017.
Employees Disability: The Company has been certified a Disability Confident employer by the Department for Work and Pensions and gives full and fair consideration to the employment of people with a disability or long-term health condition in accordance with the Equality Act 2010.
Our employment and recruitment policies are based on equal opportunities and non-discrimination.
ITV is a member of Diversity Jobs, which connects people to employers who place high importance on a diverse staff population.
The Company provides tailored measures to ensure colleagues are fully supported and that reasonable adjustments are made.
We are committed to ensuring that all training, career development and promotional opportunities are accessible and inclusive to all colleagues with a disability.
The Company's commitment around the disability agenda extends beyond our legal obligations and we partner with a variety of specialists to drive best practice.
Further information can be found on our Responsibility website.
com Diversity: Our goal is to reflect modern society through our programmes, channels, workforce and services, ensuring we are relevant and accessible to all.
It's integral to our business aims to reflect, represent and appeal to the breadth of communities that characterise modern society.
The Company has four strategic commitments to diversity: inclusive programming, inclusive workforce, inclusive culture and inclusive access to programmes and services.
The Company has a number of policies to support this, for example the Code of Conduct, Equal Opportunities Policy and Social Partnership framework for programme-makers.
The Corporate Responsibility Board is responsible for the implementation plans to deliver on these commitments and embed practices into the business.
com Engagement: Attracting and retaining talent is critical to our success.
It is therefore in our interest to ensure that we provide theappropriate rewards and opportunities for development so that colleagues feel engaged with the Company.
In 2016 the Management Board led a series of roadshows across the business.
This gave colleagues an opportunity to feed back their thoughts and concerns about the business.
Engagement was reinforced through forums such as the intranet, regular soft and hard-copy newsletters and briefings between management and their teams.
These channels enabled colleagues to understand the financial and economic factors affecting the Companys performance, how their role contributed towards the execution of the strategy and how they could benefit from Company success through involvement in employee share schemes and information on their rights and benefits.
99 Governance Directors Report Directors Report continued To further promote colleague engagement, the Company has a network of Ambassadors who are nominated and elected by their colleagues to represent each part of the business.
These Ambassadors share the views of colleagues with the business, enabling us to understand ways to make ITV a better place to work.
The Ambassadors also keep colleagues up to date with what is going on across the business.
We have continued to measure and listen to colleagues through employee surveys.
This year, in line with best practice, we changed the way we measured engagement globally by including additional questions in order to capture a more rounded picture.
90% of employees said they were proud to work for ITV 2015: 89.33%, and the score for total engagement was 83%.
Remuneration: When the Company reviews pay it takes a number of factors into consideration, including the need to stay competitive.
Our focus on cash and costs remains incredibly important for the future health of our business.
We need to balance our business and financial commitments with our continuing investment in our programming and people.
The Company continues to be committed to ensuring colleagues earn at least the Living Wage or greater.
Where appropriate wehave agreed additional increases.
On 1st January 2017, all eligible colleagues received a pay increase of 1.5% 2016: 3.0%, withall those on a full-time equivalent basic salary of 100,000 or above receiving no salary increase, including the Executive Directors.
In addition a bonus arrangement extends to all our colleagues, providing a comprehensive incentive framework which rewards everybody when the Company is successful.
The all-colleague bonus award for 2016 was paid at 1,300 2015: paid in full at1,500.
The Company also operates a successful and popular Save As You Earn scheme that encourages voluntary investment in Company shares and a package of voluntary benefits, which provides valuable cost savings for both colleagues and the Company.
Information about remuneration for the Directors is included in the Remuneration Report on pages 75 to 88.
Succession planning: When planning succession within the Company consideration is given to emergency cover together with medium and long-term succession and this is reviewed annually by the Nomination Committee.
There is particular emphasis on growing the internal leadership pipeline through the launch of the following key programmes: Next generation potential Management Board successors, giving them an opportunity to develop their management potential Executive and gain a greater understanding of the business.
Development Programme Delegates selected from across the business identified as a result of the performance review process.
Content Developing includes understanding what it means to be a leader at ITV, how to manage performance effectively, coaching skills Future Leaders and change management.
Programme A comprehensive portfolio of development courses and workshops is in place for all colleagues which address common development needs.
Greenhouse Gas emissions The Company is required to report annually on the quantity of carbon dioxide equivalent emissions in tonnes emitted as a result of activities for which it is responsible.
All data for the financial year ended 31 December 2016 is disclosed below for direct and indirect electricity consumption emissions.
More information on how we minimise our environmental impact can be found on our Responsibility website.
com Indicator 2016 2015 Total gross CO e emissions 26,984 tCO e 31,196 tCO e 2 2 2 Scope 1: Direct emissions 7,793 tCO e 8,294 tCO e 2 2 Scope 2: Indirect emissions 19,191 tCO e 22,902 tCO e 2 2 Total revenue 3,527m 3,383m Emissions per unit m revenue 7.7 tCO e 9.2 tCO e 2 2 Source: Mitie Energy analysis of ITV data.
The emissions data covers our global operations.
The latest conversion factors from the Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy were used to calculate emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents.
34% of our data set is based on estimated data.
Estimates are calculated from previous consumption trends and published benchmarks.
100 Governance ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 As 90% of our greenhouse gas emissions are generated within our UK operations we have concentrated our efforts this year in our oldest buildings by starting to replace the ageing infrastructure with more efficient plant.
In the last year we have seen a 12% reduction in energy use at our main site in Leeds as the replacement programme has delivered benefits.
We have been able to reduce energy use in our Birmingham studio by almost 20% by replacing the air conditioning with a more efficient system and have reduced our gas consumption in London by 10% by conducting a review of building operations and varying the operating hours of the heating plant.
Further investment in 2017 should deliver continued steady reductions.
Health and safety The health and safety of our colleagues, contractors and those participating in our productions is always a high priority.
The significant loss of human life as the result of a major incident has been identified as a Principal risk to the organisation.
The Companys professional Health and Safety team continue to develop and refine our management system to ensure it meets the specific risk profile of the business and embeds the ownership of risk with business owners.
In 2016 we rolled out a Leading Risk programme with the leadership teams in ITV Studios UK, supported by a research project being undertaken in collaboration with the London School of Economics to give us a greater understanding of risk taking beliefs and behaviours within our production business.
We will build on this in 2017 across our International business and we and will continue to underpin our Health and Safety Management system with three key principles: People are the solution.
Safety is about positive outcomes.
Performance indicators UK 3 2016 2015 Non Non Staff Staff Total Staff Staff Total 1 Lost time accidents reported under RIDDOR 4 1 5 5 7 12 2 Specified injuries reported under RIDDOR 2 2 4 1 8 9 Performance indicators international Australia France Germany Talpa USA Finland Norway Sweden Denmark 2016 0 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 Serious injuries sustained at work by staff 1 3 or people directly involved in our activities 2015 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 1.
This indicates accidents that have led to people being unable to undertake their normal role for seven days or longer.
Specified injuries in this context means injuries such as broken bones not fingers or toes, amputation, serious burns, loss of consciousness caused by a head injury or inpatient hospitalisation.
These are reported if they were caused by our work activity.
Reported data excludes Mammoth, TwoFour and Talpa as these were not integrated into the ITV Health and Safety Management system in the year ended 31 December 2015.
Due to differing local legislative reporting requirements figures for lost time accidents have not yet been integrated into the ITV Health and Safety Management System.
Insurance and indemnities The Company maintains liability insurance for its Directors and officers that is renewed on an annual basis.
The Company has also entered into deeds of indemnity with its Directors and other Senior Executives.
A copy of the indemnity can be found on our website.
com investors governance The Company operates a pension scheme that provides retirement and death benefits for colleagues.
Qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions, as defined in Section 235 of the Companies Act 2006, were in force for the financial year ended 31December 2016 and remain in force for the benefit of each of the directors of ITV Pension Scheme Limited.
These indemnity provisions cover, to the extent permitted by law, certain losses or liabilities incurred as a director of ITV Pension Scheme Limited.
101 Governance Directors Report Directors Report continued Listing rule 9.8.
4 disclosures There are no disclosures to be made other than that the trustee of the ITV Employees Benefit Trust EBT waived their rights to receive dividends on shares held by them which do not relate to restricted shares held under the ITV DSA.
Political contributions It is the Companys policy not to make cash contributions to any political party.
However, within the normal activities of the Companys national and regional news-gathering operations there may be occasions when an activity might fall within the broader definition of political expenditure contained within the Companies Act 2006.
Shareholder authority for such expenditure was given at the 2016 AGM.
However, during 2016 the Group made no payments falling within this definition 2015: nil.
Report and Accounts disclosures Financial risk management: The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the Principal risks facing the Company, including in relation to its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
Details of our risks and associated mitigations together with details of our approach to risk management are set out on pages 50 to 57.
Note 4.3 to the accounts on page 161 gives details of the Groups financial risk management policies and related exposures.
Thisis deemed to form part of this report.
Future developments: Our strategy is set out in the Strategic Report.
Going concern: The going concern statement is set out on page 116.
This note is deemed to form part of this report.
Subsequent events: Details of post balance sheet events are set out in the Strategic Report on page 49 and in Note 5.3 on page 172.
Research and Development: Relevant information is set out in the Strategic Report.
Share capital Issued: At the date of this report there were 4,025,409,194 ordinary shares of 10 pence each in issue, all of which are fully paid up and quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
Purchase of own shares: The Directors have the authority to purchase up to 402.5 million of the Companys ordinary shares.
Theauthority remains valid until the AGM in 2017 or 10 August 2017, if earlier.
Restrictions: There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company other than those which may be imposed by law from time to time.
In accordance with the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTRs, Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibility are required to seek approval to deal in ITV shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
Rights: The rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are set out in the Articles of Association.
Share Schemes: Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 4.7.
The Companys EBT is funded by loans to acquire shares for the potential benefit of employees.
Details of shares held by the EBT at31 December 2016 are set out on page 171.
During the year shares have been released from the EBT in respect of share schemes for employees.
The trustee of the EBT has the power to exercise all voting rights in relation to any investment includingordinary shares held within the EBT.
102 Governance ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Substantial shareholders Information regarding interests in voting rights provided to the Company pursuant to the DTRs is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website.
As at 1 March 2017, the information in the table below had been received, in accordance with DTR5, from holders of notifiable interests voting rights in the Companys issued share capital.
It should be noted that these holdings may have changed since notified tothe Company.
However, notification of any change is not required until the next applicable threshold is crossed.
% interest % interest Nature of in financial Total number of shares in shares interest in shares instruments Nature of interest in financial instruments or interest in shares Liberty Global Incorporated Limited 9.90 Direct 398,515,510 Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its group 4.95 Indirect 0.01 Equity swap 201,233,569 Blackrock Inc. 3.41 Indirect 3.08 Securities lending 284,240,487 0.56 Contract For Difference The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. 0.07 Indirect 0.27 Stock Loan physical 826,553,051 20.19 Swap cash Contract For Difference cash Over The Counter option physical or cash The number of shares is based on announcements made by each relevant shareholder using the Companys issued share capital at that date.
103 Governance Directors Report Directors Report continued The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, isfair, The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts in accordance balanced and understandable andprovides with applicable law andregulations.
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys and the Groups Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial position andperformance, business model statements for each financial year.
Underthat law they are required toprepare the Group and strategy.
financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted bythe EU andapplicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance Each of the Directors, whose names and with UK AccountingStandards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
functions are listed on pages 60 and 61, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group the Group accounts, which have been and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
Inpreparing each of the prepared in accordance with IFRSs as Group and parent company financial statements, theDirectors are required: adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position to select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: and profit of the Group: and to make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: the Strategic and Directors Reports include for the Group financial statements, to state whether they have been prepared a fair review of the development and inaccordance with IFRSs as adopted by theEU: performance of the business and the for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting position of the Group, together with Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and adescription of the Principal risks explained in the parent company financial statements: and anduncertainties that it faces.
to prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continuein business.
In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors confirm The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient that, so far as they are each aware, there is to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable no relevant audit information of which the accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to Companys auditor is unaware: and each ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have Director hastaken all steps that they general responsibility for taking such steps asare reasonably open to them to safeguard ought to have taken as a Director in order the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
to makethemselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible forpreparing the Companys auditor is aware of a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Remuneration Reportand Corporate Governance that information.
Statement that comply with that law andthose regulations.
The Board has conducted a review of The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and theeffectiveness of the Groups systems financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing of internal controls for the year ended the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in 31 December 2016.
In the opinion of other jurisdictions.
theBoard, the Company has complied with the internal control requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code throughout the year, maintaining anongoing process for By order of the Board identifying, evaluating, and minimising risk.
Ian Griffiths Group Finance Director 1 March 2017 ITV plc Registered number 4967001 104
