Strategic Report Strategy and Operations Our Strategy and Business Model We remain focused on our original vision for ITV as an owner, producer and broadcaster of content.
We are confident that our strategy to maximise our value as an integrated producer broadcaster, creating, owning and distributing content around the world, is the right longterm path for ITV.
Our strategy Our sources of competitive advantage Our strategy is focused The UKs biggest marketing platform delivering unrivalled on three key priorities: commercial audiences The scale of our channels and the significant investment we make in quality content gives ITV unique scale and reach on our main channel and more targeted audiences on our family of channels and the ITV Hub.
maximising maximise audience 80% and revenue share from Our channels reach around 80% of the television owning freetoair broadcast population each week and VOD business S ee page 20 for more World-class content At the core of ITV is our focus on creativity and content, whether selling unique content around the world or investing in thirdparty content to broadcast across multiple platforms.
Internationally we have built production and distribution scale in key global creative markets through organic growth and selective acquisitions.
growing grow an international 1bn content business We invest over 1bn annually in content for our family of channels S ee page 24 for more Global distribution ITV has built relationships globally, with major networks, platform owners and local broadcasters, and owns the rights to a diverse portfolio of shows, particularly drama and entertainment, for international distribution.
building build a global pay and 40,000 distribution business Hours of television and film content S ee page 28 for more Our strategic assets Our strategic assets underpin ITVs competitive advantage Creating and Our strong brand Our talented, owning the rights creative people to quality content 12 Strategic Report ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Pictured left to right: This Time Next Year is a reality programme presented by Davina McCall in the UK and produced by Twofour Group, part of ITV Studios UK.
The format has been sold to six countries in 2016: Family Guy launched on ITV2 in 2016.
The Seth McFarlane collection reached 25 million viewers on ITV2 during 2016, 59% of which were 1634s.
Our diversified revenue streams Creating value By developing and managing the rights to content, ITV For advertisers is able to maximise the value of its programme brands Through delivering unique across a range of revenue streams, making ITV a more scale and breadth of balanced business and enabling it to drive value from demographics and new different revenue models.
innovative ways of engaging with consumers around quality programme brands Advertising Our family of channels and the ITV Hub drive significant advertising revenues from the mass audiences and more targeted demographics it delivers, which funds our investment in the For audiences programme budget.
Through a varied, highquality programming schedule Commercial We work with advertisers and advertising agencies partnerships to provide unique commercial partnerships and sponsorship opportunities that extend beyond For broadcasters and pure spot advertising.
platform owners Through delivering quality programming that they can Pay & We earn pay revenues primarily from licensing our then monetise through their interactive HD channels, our pay channel ITV Encore and our own business models online VOD services.
In the first half of 2017 we are launching a joint venture JV with the BBC, BritBox US, a SVOD service offering the best of British television.
For shareholders Through a track record of We also monetise our consumer interaction with our creating shareholder value biggest shows through competitions and voting.
and delivering significant shareholder returns Original We produce original content commissions for production broadcasters and platform owners internationally from our production bases in the UK, the US, the For our people Netherlands, Germany, France, Australia and Investing in and developing our the Nordics.
creative, onscreen, commercial and operational talent Distribution We own the rights to a significant catalogue of revenues programmes and formats that we sell and license to broadcasters and platform owners internationally.
The strong global demand for content provides a significant opportunity for us.
11% growth in total revenue derived from sources other than traditional spot television advertising 13
