Governance ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Remuneration Policy The tables below summarise the main elements of the remuneration package for Directors and will be effective from the date approved by shareholders in 2017 and will apply until shareholders next consider and vote on the policy.
Executive Directors Purpose and link Maximum potential Fixed elements to strategy Operation payment Performance metrics Proposed changes Reflects the individuals Reviewed annually Ordinarily salary None, although Introduce a formal cap Base skills, responsibilities and paid monthly in increases will be in overall individual and on salaries: this is a cap salary and experience.
Consideration line with the average business performance and not an aspiration.
is typically given to a increase awarded to is considered when Supports the range of factors when other employees in the setting and reviewing recruitment and determining salary Company.
retention of Executive levels, including: may be made above Directors of the calibre this level to take required to deliver the Personal and account of individual business strategy within Company-wide circumstances, which the competitive media performance.
Typical pay levels in relevant markets for Increase in size or each executive whilst scope of the role or recognising the need responsibility.
for an appropriate Increase to reflect premium to attract the individuals and retain superior development and talent, balanced performance in role.
against the need to provide a costNo salary will exceed effective overall 1.13 million being 120% remuneration of the CEOs current package.
salary as further The wider employee increased by RPI over pay review.
89 Governance Remuneration Policy Remuneration Policy continued Purpose and link Maximum potential Fixed elements to strategy Operation payment Performance metrics Proposed changes To provide competitive Executives can choose The maximum None No change.
Provision post-retirement to participate in the ITV contributions or cash for an benefits or cash defined contribution allowances for the income in allowance as a scheme, receive a cash Executive Directors are retirement framework to save allowance or receive 25% of base salary.
payments into a personal pension or a Supports the combination thereof.
recruitment and retention of Executive Contributions are set Directors of the calibre as a percentage of required to deliver base salary.
the business strategy Post-retirement within the competitive benefits do not form media market.
part of the base salary for the purposes of determining incentives.
Ensures the overall The Company provides Set at a level which the None Introduce a formal cap Benefits package is competitive a range of market Committee considers on benefits: this is a cap and provides financial competitive benefits to be appropriately and not an aspiration.
protection for including travel related positioned taking into Permit relevant employees and their benefits, private medical account typical market protection for families.
insurance and other levels for comparable expatriate executives.
roles, individual circumstances and the Additional benefits overall cost to may also be provided in the business.
certain circumstances, if required for business The overall cost of need.
For example benefits will not exceed but not limited to, 100,000 300,000 in relocation expenses, the case of a director housing allowance and required to relocate education support.
between countries in any year.
In addition, the Company may reimburse relocation expenses and or provide for tax equalisation arrangements.
90 Governance ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Purpose and link Maximum potential Variable elements to strategy Operation payment Performance metrics Proposed changes Incentivises executives Measures and targets The maximum bonus Performance measures No material changes.
Bonus and and colleagues to are set annually based opportunity for any and targets are set by DSA achieve key strategic on business plans at the Executive Director will the Committee each outcomes on an start of the financial not exceed 200% of year based on corporate annual basis.
year and pay-out levels salary.
The current objectives closely linked are determined by the bonus opportunities to the Strategic Focus on key financial Committee following are 180% of salary for Priorities and individual metrics and objectives the year-end based Adam Crozier and 165% contributions.
The to deliver the business on performance of salary for Ian Griffiths.
majority of the bonus strategy.
Increases above the opportunity will be current opportunities, based on the corporate The element Paid once the results up to the maximum and financial measures.
compulsorily deferred have been audited.
limit, may be made The remainder of the into shares rewards Annual bonus to take account of bonus will be based on delivery of sustained calculations that are individual circumstances, performance against long-term performance, based on the financial which may include: individual and or provides alignment results for the year are strategic objectives.
with the shareholder audited by Internal Audit Increase in size or experience and and reviewed by the scope of the role Up to 20% of the supports the retention Audit and Risk or responsibility.
Committee before Increase to reflect will be received for consideration by the individuals threshold performance.
development and performance in The Committee their role.
has the discretion to amend the bonus pay-out should any formulaic assessment of performance not reflect a balanced view of overall business performance for the year.
Not more than two-thirds of the bonus is delivered in cash with the balance deferred into shares under the DSA normally for a period of three years.
During the deferral period share awards may be reduced or cancelled in certain circumstances.
Further detail is provided on page 96.
Dividends are paid to participants on the deferred shares during the deferral period.
91 Governance Remuneration Policy Remuneration Policy continued Purpose and link Maximum potential Variable elements to strategy Operation payment Performance metrics Proposed changes Incentivises executives Awards are made under Our current operational The Committee may Consistent with market LTIP to deliver performance the LTIP rules.
practice is to make set such performance practice, greater which is aligned to the awards of 225% of conditions on LTIP flexibility to set relevant Awards are normally business strategy over salary each year.
awards as it considers performance conditions made annually with the longer term and the appropriate whether for new awards.
vesting dependent on Under the LTIP rules, the creation of shareholder financial or business performance maximum annual award value.
non-financial and during the performance that may be granted in whether corporate, Acts as a retention tool period.
The any financial year is divisional or individual.
to retain the executives performance period will 350% of salary.
required to deliver the be not less than three The Committee has business strategy.
years, other than in sought to set measures exceptional which are closely linked circumstances.
to the Companys financial and strategic The Committee priorities and will has discretion to amend continue to do so.
the final vesting level should any formulaic The proportion of assessment of each element of the performance not reflect award that will vest for a balanced view of the threshold performance business performance against a metric will be during the performance not more than 20%.
Performance Awards will be required periods may be over to be held for an such periods as the additional two-year Committee selects at holding period after the grant, which will not be end of the performance less but may be longer period.
Dividends are earned on deferred shares during the holding period.
During the holding period awards may be reduced or cancelled in certain circumstances.
Provides all Executive Directors are Participation limits are None No changes.
SAYE employees, including entitled to participate as per the rules of the Executive Directors in the plan on the plan and in accordance the opportunity to same basis as other with HMRC limits.
Should the Company choose to implement a tax efficient all-employee share participation plan for example a SIP the Executive Directors would be eligible to participate in accordance with any shareholder approved plan rules and HMRC limits.
92 Governance ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Legacy arrangements The Committee may make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Remuneration Policy set out above.
This would apply where the terms of the payment were agreed before the policy came into effect or at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
Malus and claw-back Malus and claw-back provisions may be operated at the discretion of the Committee in respect of any cash and deferred share elements of the bonus and awards made under the LTIP.
Under malus, unvested share awards including any LTIP shares subject to a post vesting holding period can be reduced down to zero if considered appropriate or be made subject to additional conditions.
Claw-back allows for repayment of bonuses previously paid and or shares previously received following vesting.
Malus claw-back can be operated up to four years following the start of the relevant bonus year for bonuses, and up to six years from the relevant date of grant for LTIP awards.
The circumstances in which the operation of these provisions may be considered from time to time and currently include material misstatement of results, gross misconduct or fraud.
Performance measures and target setting The annual bonus is assessed against both financial and individual targets determined by the Committee.
This enables the Committee to reward both annual financial performance delivered for shareholders, and performance against specific financial, operational or strategic objectives set for each director, which are closely linked to the Strategic Priorities of the business.
The Committee sets targets for the long-term incentive plans taking into account external forecasts, internal budgets and business priorities.
Targets are set to be appropriately stretching in this context with maximum performance being set at a level which is considered to be the delivery of exceptional performance.
When considering performance outcomes the Committee will look beyond formulaic results to ensure the outcomes align with the overall business performance.
Non-executive Directors The table below summarises the main elements of remuneration for Non-executive Directors: Component Approach of the Company Maximum potential payment The Committee determines the fees of the Chairman and The aggregate fees together with any shares and or Chairman fees sets the fees at a level that is considered to be appropriate, benefits including the reimbursement of travel and other taking into account the size and complexity of the business expenses if subject to taxation and an amount to meet and the expected time commitment and contribution of any tax arising on such expenses of the Chairman and of the role.
Non-Executive Directors will not exceed the limit from time to time prescribed within the Companys Articles of Association currently 1,500,000 p. a..
The Board determines the fees of the Non-executive As above.
Non-executive Directors and sets the fees at a level that is considered to fees be appropriate, taking into account the size and complexity of the business and the expected time commitment and contribution of the role.
Fees are currently structured as a basic fee with additional fees payable for membership and or chairmanship of a committee or other additional responsibilities but may be restructured within the overall limits.
Additional benefits may also be provided in certain As above.
Benefits circumstances, if required for business purposes.
This includes the reimbursement of any travel expenses and associated tax on those expenses.
93 Governance Remuneration Policy Remuneration Policy continued Application of the Remuneration Policy The chart below provides an indication of the level of remuneration that would be received by each Executive Director under the following three assumed performance scenarios.
Fixed elements of remuneration only base salary, benefits and pension Below threshold performance Assumes 60% pay-out under the annual bonus On-target performance Assumes 20% pay-out under the LTIP aligned with threshold performance Assumes 100% pay-out under the annual bonus Maximum performance Assumes 100% pay-out under the LTIP Adam Crozier Below threshold 100% 1,194,891 On-target 45% 39% 16% 2,634,545 Maximum 24% 34% 42% 5,005,739 Ian Grifths Below threshold 100% 733,143 On-target 47% 36% 17% 1,561,179 Maximum 25% 32% 43% 2,975,741 Notes: 1.
The scenarios do not include any share price growth assumptions or take into account any dividends that may be paid.
Fixed pay is the salary as at 1 January 2017, pension is 25% of salary, and the value of benefits is equivalent to that included in the remuneration table on page 80.
Annual bonus is based on 180% of salary for Adam Crozier and 165% of salary for Ian Griffiths.
LTIP amount is based on 225% of salary for both Executive Directors.
94 Governance ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Recruitment Remuneration When agreeing the components of a remuneration package for a new Executive Director, the Committee will apply the principles detailed below.
The package will be competitive to attract and retain the most suitable candidate for the job.
Where possible, the Committee will always seek to align the remuneration package with the Remuneration Policy outlined above.
However, where appropriate, elements of the package may be outside of this policy to meet the circumstances of the individual upon recruitment.
The Committee will ensure that the arrangements are in the best interests of both ITV and its shareholders and remain subject to the overall variable pay limits set out below.
In determining an appropriate remuneration structure and levels, the Committee will take into account all relevant factors to Ongoing ensure they are able to recruit the most appropriate candidate for the job and that the arrangements are in the best interests of remuneration both ITV and its shareholders.
The Committee will typically seek to align the ongoing remuneration package with the ongoing Remuneration Policy outlined on pages 89 to 97.
Consistent with the DRR Regulations, the caps contained within the Remuneration Policy for fixed pay do not apply to new recruits whether internal or external, although the Committee does not currently envisage exceeding these caps in practice.
The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be granted to a new director upon appointment excluding any buy-out awards for forfeited remuneration will not be greater than 550% of salary the sum of the maximum bonus and maximum new LTIP opportunities.
The Committee may make awards to 'buy out' a candidates remuneration arrangements that are forfeited as a result of leaving Buy-out awards their previous employer.
for forfeited In doing so, the Committee will take account of relevant factors including any performance conditions attaching to the forfeited remuneration awards, the likelihood of the awards vesting and the form and timing of the awards.
The Committee will typically seek to make buy-out awards on a comparable basis to those that have been forfeited but, particularly where the performance period is substantially complete, may reflect such conditions in some other way such as through a significant discount to the face value of awards forfeited.
Exceptionally, where necessary, this may include a guaranteed or non-prorated annual bonus in the year of joining.
In exceptional circumstances, the Committee may grant a buy-out award under a structure not included in the policy but that is consistent with the principles set out above any may rely upon Listing Rule 9.4.
The Committee will take all relevant factors into account including the candidates location, the calibre of the individual, external influences, internal relativities and the overall business context when determining the new remuneration package and seek to ensure that no more is paid than necessary.
In the Remuneration Report following the appointment, the Committee will fully explain to the shareholders the remuneration package for the appointed individual and the rationale for such arrangements and will display such information on the ITV plc website and announce via a regulatory information service as soon as practicable following the appointment.
95 Governance Remuneration Policy Remuneration Policy continued Service contracts and loss of office Executive Directors Executive Directors have rolling service contracts that provide for 12 months notice on either side.
For a new joiner, the contract may commence with a notice period of up to two years reducing to the standard 12 months over time.
There are no special provisions that apply in the event of a change of control.
A payment in lieu of notice, including base salary, contractual benefits and contractual provision for an income in retirement may be made if: the Company terminates the employment of the executive with immediate effect, or without due notice: or termination is agreed by mutual consent.
The Company may also make a payment in respect of outplacement costs, legal fees and the cost of settling any potential claims where appropriate.
With the exception of termination for cause or resignation unless the Committee determines otherwise, Executive Directors will be eligible for a bonus award prorated to reflect the proportion of the financial year for which they were employed and subject to the performance achieved, provided they have a minimum of three months service in that bonus year.
The treatment of shares awarded under the DSA and LTIP on termination are set out below.
Good leaver Mutual agreement Other circumstances Change of control Injury, ill health, disability The Committee has the right Awards lapse.
Awards release in full at DSA or transfer of undertakings.
to exercise its discretion as to effective date of change.
Awards release in full at the the extent to which awards, if leaving date.
any, may release, for example where someone is asked to For other good leaver reasons leave because of a change in awards release at the end of circumstances outside of the deferral period unless the their control.
Committee decides to release the shares earlier.
Injury, ill health or disability, The Committee has the right Awards lapse.
Outstanding awards would LTIP redundancy, retirement or to exercise its discretion to normally vest and become During the transfer of undertakings, or apply good leaver treatment, exercisable subject to performance otherwise at the discretion for example where someone satisfaction of performance period of the Committee.
is asked to leave because of conditions and capped based a change in circumstances on the time in the performance Awards are typically prorated outside of their control.
period since grant, subject for time served and subject to the discretion of the to achievement of the Committee.
performance conditions during the performance period.
Awards become exercisable at the end of the holding period unless the Committee decides to release the shares earlier.
Awards become exercisable at Awards become exercisable at For resignation, awards Awards become exercisable at LTIP the end of the holding period the end of the holding period become exercisable at the end the effective date of change.
During the unless the Committee decides unless the Committee decides of the holding period unless the additional to release the shares earlier.
to release the shares earlier.
Committee decides to release holding period the shares earlier.
In the case of misconduct awards will lapse.
96 Governance ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Non-executive Directors Each Non-executive Director, including the Chairman, has a contract of service with the Company.
Non-executive Directors will serve for an initial term of three years, subject to election and annual re-election by shareholders, unless otherwise terminated earlier by and at the discretion of either party upon one months written notice 12 months for the Chairman.
The directors service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
External appointments With specific approval of the Board, Executive Directors may accept external appointments as non-executive directors of other companies and retain any related fees paid to them.
Employment conditions elsewhere in the Company When setting the policy for directors remuneration, the Committee considers the pay and employment conditions of employees elsewhere in the Company.
The Company does not consult directly with employees in respect of determining the Directors Remuneration Policy.
However, the Committee does receive general feedback from employees via the HR function as part of the output from the employee engagement survey and receives a report on employment practices elsewhere in the Company.
Shareholder views The Committee maintains regular and transparent communication with shareholders.
We believe that it is important to regularly meet with our key shareholders to understand their views on our remuneration arrangements and what they would like to see going forward.
We welcome feedback from shareholders at any time during the year.
Where we are proposing to make any significant changes to the ongoing operation of this Remuneration Policy we shall seek major shareholders views and take these into account.
