Strategic Report Strategy and Operations Pictured: Cold Feet returned to ITV after a 13 year hiatus and was the most watched drama on ITV in 2016 with an average of 8.2 million viewers across the series.
20 Strategic Report ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Priority 1: Maximise audience and revenue share from free-to-air broadcast and VOD business The media environment in which we operate is constantly changing and our Broadcast business remains strong, adaptable and ready to take advantage of the opportunities that arise.
ITV, through its commercial channels, offers unique scale and breadth reaching around 80% of the television owning population every week.
At the same time, the ITV Hub, the digital home for all our channels and services, is growing rapidly helped by the significant growth in audience appetite for Video on Demand VOD.
See page 22 for more 21 Strategic Report Strategy and Operations Strategic Priority 1 continued As a result there continues to be significant for all key audiences: and providing We continue to target key demographics demand for advertising on our family of advertisers with creative access to the through our digital channels and the ITV Hub broadcast channels and on the ITV Hub, biggest and most effective marketing and have seen a very significant increase in which generates substantial profit and cash platform in the UK.
our younger audiences, with 16-34 SOV up to reinvest across ITV.
Additionally, as an 25% on ITV2 helped by the successful launch integrated producer broadcaster, our Strong viewing and online performance of American Dad and Family Guy as well as channels provide an important platform to ITV performed strongly on-screen in 2016 the return of Love Island.
showcase ITV Studios content, providing it with main channel SOV up 3% and ITV family with a proven track record before exploiting SOV up 1% with programmes supplied by both ITV3 and ITV4 have not performed as well it internationally.
ITV Studios and independent producers.
ITV3 was impacted by the aired seven out of the top ten new dramas: launch of new free digital drama channels Remaining responsive to a changing the most watched soap in Coronation Street: and the allocation of some of our media environment the most watched sporting event in England programming exclusively to ITV Encore, Traditional linear television viewing remains vs. Iceland, during the 2016 European Football and ITV4 was affected by the loss of the resilient despite significant changes in the Championships and the most watched Europa League and the Champions League.
market and in the availability and delivery current affairs programme with our coverage Improving their performance is a focus of content.
On average viewers watch 212 of the EU Referendum Debate.
On-screen for 2017. minutes of television a day, which is a similar successes included a range of new dramas, level to 216 minutes in 2015.
The majority of such as Victoria, The Durrells, Marcella and Looking ahead we believe that around television viewing is live at an estimated 81% the return of Cold Feet.
Our sporting schedule 1billion is the appropriate programme as television continues to have the power to has performed strongly, particularly the Six budget for ITVs family of channels to ensure bring audiences together.
VOD is growing Nations Rugby Championships and the we continue to deliver standout content that rapidly although it still only accounts for 7% European Football Championships, as has our drives the scale and breadth of the audiences of total viewing.
Meanwhile, PVR viewing, at daytime schedule including Good Morning that advertisers demand.
12%, has remained relatively constant over Britain, This Morning and Loose Women.
also continue to drive significant audiences The programme budget will be 25 million with Coronation Street and Emmerdale, lower in 2017 than 2016 at around 1,025 Three key attributes lie at the heart of which are the two largest soaps, and with million due to the absence of a major sports ITVs successful Broadcast proposition: our returning brands such as Vera, Endeavour, tournament.
We have a strong slate across its first class distribution and reach across Britains Got Talent, Im a Celebrity Get Me key genres including new programmes The broadcast and OTT platforms: owning the Out Of Here!, Saturday Night Take Away, Halcyon, Good Karma Hospital, Prime Suspect rights to high-quality, must have content, The Chase and Tipping Point.
1973, Lethal Weapon, Little Big Shots, The Voice, The Voice Kids, Dance Dance Dance, 5Gold Rings, The Nightly Show and horse racing, and returning programmes including Victoria, Cold Feet, Broadchurch, Unforgotten, Safe House, Im A Celebrity Get Me Out Of Here!, Britains Got Talent, Saturday Night 23m Takeaway, The Chase and the Six Nations mobile Rugby Championships.
downloads The ITV Hub one year on Available on ITVs online business has grown rapidly over the last few years and is contributing 17 m 27 meaningful revenue to the Group, growing the registered platforms users overall ITV audience and advertising revenues.
The ITV Hub, which was launched last year, was a major step forward in the quality, innovation and ease of use of ITVs online services.
It is now available on 27 platforms, the app has been downloaded over 23 million Hub times and it has 17 million registered users.
Onine It drives very significant volumes of viewers viewing up one year on both for simulcast viewing and catch up and over 50% is growing faster than the BBC iPlayer.
of the UKs 16-24 year olds are 42% Long-form video requests continue to grow registered in 2016 strongly up 24% with over 1 billion requests users made in 2016.
Online viewing consumption, Delivered which measures how long viewers are spending online, increased 42%.
1bn video requests in 2016 22 Strategic Report ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Pictured left to right: Celebrity Juice is a celebrity comedy programme in its 16th series on ITV2: When Ant & Dec Met the Prince was watched by 7.7 million viewers and had a 28% SOV.
The ITV Hub also helps ITV reach valuable ITV Commercial Audiences Developing ITVs digital broadcast assets younger audiences.
Over 50% of the UKs Live television continues to demonstrate 16-24 year old population are registered a growing relevance as viewers increasingly users of the ITV Hub as younger audiences connect through social media.
To drive increasingly use it for simulcast viewing as viewing and enhance engagement with our well as catch up.
Programmes such as ITV2s content, we are further developing our social very successful Love Island, delivered record media assets across our international VOD viewing via the ITV Hub.
We have 147 2016 YouTube branded channels delivering over 95% The ITV Hub is more than a catch up TV 14 billion views, 32 million Facebook 99% service.
In 2016, it featured previews and followers, 22 million Twitter followers and 12 13 14 15 16 premieres, such as Marcella and The Secret, 28 programme apps including Love Island, Over 3 million as well as original commissions around the Dance, Dance, Dance, Im A Celebrity Get Me Over 5 million European Football Championships.
Looking to Out Of Here!, horse racing and The Voice.
Our 2017, there will be more short and long-form digital engagement has grown significantly original content, including The V Room, The Television remains the most efficient and and in 2016 we received around 100 million Voices switchover show as well as content effective advertising medium for advertisers votes across our entertainment shows from AwesomenessTV, the global youth to achieve mass simultaneous reach and, primarily via our programme apps.
brand we have formed a partnership with as viewing and advertising becomes more for exclusive UK television and VOD rights.
fragmented, the scale of advertising that 2017 and beyond television, and particularly ITV, delivers We remain committed to our integrated We will also be using the insight we gain becomes increasingly valuable.
The cost producer broadcast model, and key to that from our 17 million registered users to of advertising is similar to 2004 levels and, is maintaining the strength and scale of our develop more targeted advertising on the compared to many other advertising media, Broadcast & Online business.
We have started ITV Hub and to increasingly drive viewing it remains good value, especially given the the year well with main channel SOV up 4% through personalisation.
reach and scale it delivers.
and ITV family SOV up 3% for the first six weeks of 2017.
ITVs strong advertising proposition Maximising the value of our airtime and driven by our unique offering our brands As the viewing and advertising landscape While political and economic uncertainty has ITV is also focused on maximising the value continues to fragment, the scale of our linear led to more cautious behaviour by advertisers, of its airtime and driving new revenue audiences become increasingly valuable and ITVs unique ability to deliver mass audiences, streams through sponsorship, interactivity we will also continue to drive significant and as well as more targeted demographics and branded content.
ITV utilises the core growing value from our digital assets, most across the family of channels and the ITV Hub, assets of its strong brand and reputation, significantly the ITV Hub.
has enabled us to again increase our SOB to unique commercial relationships and quality 47.4%.
In 2016 ITV delivered 99% of all production capability to deliver a wide variety We expect ITV NAR to be down 6% over commercial audiences over five million and of marketing solutions.
We have developed the first four months of 2017, impacted 95% of all audiences over three million.
SOV many innovative sponsorship and licensing by the current economic uncertainty, provides an overall measure of viewing deals including: Aunt Bessies for Im A although over the full year we expect to performance, but because advertisers are Celebrity Get Me Out Of Here!
: Dominos again outperform our estimate of the buying scale and breadth of audience, SOV Pizza for The Voice and William Hill for ITV television advertising market.
is not necessarily a direct indicator of Racing.
We have also produced branded advertising performance.
content solutions with our new service ITV AdVentures for a number of customers, including Suzuki in Saturday Night Takeaway, Matalan and I Am TeamGB.
23 93 99 96 100 95 99 93 98 95 99 Strategic Report Strategy and Operations Pictured: The Voice from Talpa Media, is one of the biggest selling entertainment formats in the world.
It is broadcast in more than 180 countries with the format produced locally in 63 countires.
24 Strategic Report ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Priority 2: Grow an international content business Growing a scaled international content business is also central to our strategy as an integrated producer broadcaster.
As ITV creates and owns more content, our channels provide a platform to showcase our programmes before distributing them across multiple platforms in the UK and internationally.
See page 26 for more 25 Strategic Report Strategy and Operations Strategic Priority 2 continued Growing global demand for content Fast growing, international producer They are Hells Kitchen, which has been The strong global demand for content of scale commissioned for two series in 2017 and from broadcasters and platform owners Since 2010 we have almost doubled the Texas Rising and Best Time Ever, which are provides a significant opportunity for ITV number of hours of content we produce.
We delivered the second series Studios.
We estimate that the global content In 2016 we produced around 7,800 hours of two US dramas, The Good Witch and market is growing at about 5% per annum, of content, through our 60 labels, supplying Aquarius.
We have also benefited from the with some genres such as drama growing over 234 channels in 10 countries.
ITV is delivery of a high volume of programmes more rapidly than others.
To capitalise on this, becoming an increasingly scaled and from our stable portfolio of unscripted series, our strategy remains to develop, own and international business: we are the number including Pawn Stars, American Restoration, manage content rights in genres that return one commercial producer in the UK and a Alone, Rich Kids of Beverly Hills and First 48 and travel internationally namely drama, leading producer in Europe and the US, with and new commissions, including American entertainment and factual entertainment.
50% of total Studios revenues coming from Grit, Killing Fields and Millionaire Matchmaker.
As well as strong demand from broadcasters, Across ITV RoW, we have seen very significant we are seeing significant demand from a In 2016 ITV Studios total revenues grew 13% growth with revenues up 67% to 355 million variety of OTT platforms who want library to 1,395 million 2015: 1,237 million and 2015: 213 million driven by Talpa Media.
and close-to-broadcast content rights as adjusted EBITA increased 18% to 243 million Our production bases in Australia, Germany, well as digital first content.
2015: 206 million, driven by the acquisitions France, the Netherlands and the Nordics we have made.
produce original content as well as local versions of ITV Studios formats.
We now Studios revenue growth m ITV Studios has three production divisions produce 14 different formats in three or 1,395m ITV Studios UK, ITV America and ITV Rest more of our production territories, for of World RoW and across these businesses, example: Come Dine With Me, The Chase, ITV agreed 228 new commissions and 188 The Voice from Talpa Media and Love Island.
13% YoY Talpa Media is performing well and continues The US and UK are the dominant creative to develop many new formats including markets, with the US the largest exporter of Dance, Dance, Dance, CannonBall and 5 Gold scripted content and the UK the world leader Rings which are all selling well.
It has also had 134% for exported formats.
Over the last few years the benefit of a four-year licensing Increase on 2009 we have built scale in these key markets, agreement for The Voice of China.
09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 organically and through acquisitions, and we now have a significant portfolio of successful Across ITV RoW, we have delivered a number series and formats that travel.
of new and returning commissions including Studios adjusted EBITA growth m The Voice in the UK and USA, The Chase in 243m ITV Studios UK performed strongly with Australia, Im A Celebrity Get Me Out Of overall revenues up 14% at 626 million Here!
in Australia and Germany, Come Dine 2015: 547 million and with good growth With Me in Denmark, Sweden and Germany in sales to ITV and to other UK Broadcasters.
and The Price of Beauty in Denmark and 18% Our off-ITV revenues have grown by 20% as Sweden.
In Norway ITV has delivered its first YoY we have continued to strengthen and grow drama, Aber Bergen, with the second series the business.
Our deliveries to other UK already commissioned.
In Australia, ITV has broadcasters included Poldark, NW and had a particularly successful year with a new Witness for the Prosecution for the BBC, management team in place and now 167% Increase The Jump and Come Dine with Me for produces for all the major television channels.
on 2009 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 Channel 4, Hotel Inspector for Channel5 and Agatha Raisin for Sky.
Investing in content with international appeal Overall, we have seen 13% growth in revenues To continue growing internationally we must to ITV with programmes such as Victoria, Cold keep expanding our portfolio of successful Feet, Tutankhamun, Saturday Night Take series and formats that return and can be Away, The Chase, The Next Great Magician distributed globally.
We have a strong mix of and Im A Celebrity Get Me Out Of Here!
all programmes across genres and also across delivered in 2016.
We have again grown ITV their content life cycle, which balances our Studios UKs share of original content risk and financial exposure.
Since 2010 our commissions on ITV main channel to 63%.
total hours produced has increased by 90%, our drama hours have increased by 370%, ITV Americas revenue was down year-on-year entertainment hours by 109% and factual by 27% to 235 million 2015: 320 million, hours by 189%.
predominantly as a result of three shows we had in 2015 which have not returned in 2016.
26 91 597 81 554 83 612 107 712 133 857 162 933 206 1,237 243 1,395 Strategic Report ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Pictured left to right: Poldark has been sold to around 90 countries: The Chase is an internationally popular gameshow.
It is the biggest daytime programme in the UK and is produced by ITV Studios in five countries with 31 format sales since it launched in 2009.
Demand for drama is growing strongly, as Investing in our digital and RocketJump, all of which helps to standout, original content becomes brand content capabilities improve ITV Studios content capability as well defining for both broadcasters and OTT Through building our digital assets and as provide new programming for the ITV Hub.
To capitalise on this, we are looking content we are increasingly able to engage This is as well as our existing investments to expand our global scripted business and with younger audiences.
in US digital content companies Believe develop a strong portfolio of international Entertainment Group and Indigenous Media.
and returning drama, particularly in the US.
While demand from traditional broadcasters We are strengthening our development and continues to be strong we are also seeing an 2017 and beyond creative capabilities internally and have increasing demand from OTT platforms for We have a strong international pipeline invested in a number of producer original long-form content, secondary rights of new and returning programmes and development relationships we now have and short form digital content.
Our UK and US pipeline of scripted around 20 projects in development in the US programmes has never been stronger and we with broadcast networks, cable networks and We are distributing more content to OTT have a very good slate of new entertainment OTT platforms.
players through Global Entertainment as well shows coming through this year.
This gives us as co-producing and jointly commissioning a confidence that in 2017 we will deliver good Recent successes include a number of US number of programmes with OTT platforms.
organic revenue growth and we have already drama commissions which will deliver in 2017 We currently have over 200 programme secured over 150 million more revenue than a ten part drama Somewhere Between, for supply agreements in place with the major at this point last year.
However, with increased ABC, Sun Records for TNT and a pilot for ABC, OTT platforms, including co-producing investment, particularly in US scripted and the Snowpiercer, through Tomorrow Studios.
Robozuna, an original kids cartoon for Netflix reversal of the one-off benefit of the The and Harlots, which we are co-producing for Voice of China in 2016, ITV Studios profits in With the acquisition of Talpa Media we have Hulu in the US and ITV Encore in the UK.
2017 are likely to be broadly in line with 2016. significantly strengthened our capability in entertainment and formats.
Across our To further expand our digital assets we are ITV is now a global business and going businesses we have grown a solid portfolio increasing our exposure to new types of forward we aim to use our scale to grow of high volume and high margin formats that content, particularly youth focused our market share and expand the number travel internationally and which we produce programming, and new types of distribution.
of networks and OTT players we work with, in many of our production bases.
These In 2016 we made an investment with Sky in particularly in the US.
We will further include The Voice, The Voice Kids, Pawn Stars, Ginx TV, an eSports channel for the UK and strengthen our creative capability, both Come Dine with Me, Im A Celebrity Get Me international markets.
We also agreed a organically and through partnerships and Out Of Here!, Hells Kitchen, Keeping the partnership with global youth content acquisitions, as we continue to reduce our Nation Alive, The Chase, 5 Gold Rings, This company AwesomenessTV and made reliance on the UK market.
Time Next Year, Big Stars Little Star and minority investments in two digital first Love Island.
youth content studios in the US, New Form Key new and returning scripted programmes Key new and returning entertainment programmes 27 Strategic Report Strategy and Operations Pictured: Love Island is a reality programme produced by ITV Studios UK.
It had huge success on-screen and online, averaging 1.3 million viewers on ITV2 across the series and around 1 million requests on the ITV Hub per episode.
64% of the linear audience were 16-34s.
Internationally, Love Island has been broadcast in 15 countries with the format being produced by ITV Studios in three countries.
28 Strategic Report ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Priority 3: Build a global pay and distribution business The environment in which we operate is constantly evolving and we are seeing significant changes in digital media and consumer behaviour.
ITV, as a creator, owner and distributor of sought after content, is well positioned to take advantage of the opportunities that arise from these changes as we seek to further monetise our content.
ITV continues to explore and trial new ways, both free and pay, to distribute content to broadcasters and platform owners as well as directly to consumers.
See page 30 for more 29 Strategic Report Strategy and Operations Strategic Priority 3 continued Building our pay offering in the UK stake in Cirkus, a best of British SVOD service In the UK our pay business includes deals with and internationally in Sweden, Norway, Finland and Iceland which Sky and Virgin for our HD digital channels and As we look to build our pay offerings we will shortly launch in Germany on Amazon.
catch-up VOD, ITV Encore for Sky and a deal are developing a range of SVOD services Cirkus has developed a second SVOD service, to make ITVs content available through Skys to target direct to consumer pay revenues.
Curio, due to launch in Norway in 2017, which connected platforms.
We also agreed a new We have recently announced the creation is focused on high-quality documentaries.
deal with Vodafone to carry ITVs free-to-air of a joint venture with the BBC, through BBC We have also set up ITV Essentials, an online FTA channels and VOD for their customers, Worldwide, to create BritBox US, an ad-free service for expats available in 13 countries as well as with TV Player to carry ITVs SVOD service offering unrivalled content from and ITV Choice, a general entertainment FTA channels.
ITV already has a strong channel for emerging markets available advertising VOD proposition in the ITV Hub in 100 countries.
Expanding our global distribution network but the launch of BritBox gives us access to Global Entertainment, the distribution arm the fast growing SVOD market in the US.
We are continuing to develop ITV Hub, our within ITV Studios, delivered revenue growth ad-free subscription version of ITV Hub.
In of 14% to 179 million in 2016 2015: 157 BritBox US, which is a direct to consumer 2017 we will roll out ITV Hub onto more million as we continue to drive value from service, will launch in the first half of 2017 platforms and we have already added new the investment we have made in creating with the most comprehensive SVOD functionality, such as download on iOS and owning rights to quality content with collection of British content available in the devices for off-line viewing.
The service will feature drama premieres of foreign exchange, Global Entertainment never seen before in the US, a selection of Looking ahead it is our intention to roll out our grew 6% to 166 million.
soaps and series that will be available best of British SVOD services internationally Global Entertainment revenue growth m 24 hours after their UK broadcast, and a through BritBox and our other SVOD services, collection of British classics.
ITV and BBC taking advantage of the significant global 179m each have a 40.5% voting share, while US demand for UK content and changing cable network AMC has a 19% non-voting viewing habits.
Further developing our pay revenues 14% Over the last few years we have also ITVs pay revenues again grew strongly as we YoY established a number of smaller pay continue to earn revenue from pay television propositions.
We now own a controlling through licensing our channels and content across multiple platforms.
42% Increase on 2009 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 ITVs distribution business has over 40,000 hours of television and film content that we distribute globally to over 3,500 broadcasters and platforms.
In 2016 we continued to ESSENTIALS enhance our distribution network, benefiting from ITV Studios continued growth, increased rights ownership both within ITV Studios and with third parties and strong network relationships, selling to around 190 countries around the world.
Through our ongoing investment in ITV Studios, we are building an extensive and balanced portfolio of scripted and unscripted programmes in the key genres of drama, entertainment and factual entertainment.
We are using our strong cash flows not only to fund and create new content from ITV Studios, but also to invest in third-party producers and their content from all over the world, such as Harlots and Schitts Creek.
30 126 123 126 133 135 144 157 179 Strategic Report ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Pictured left to right: Big Stars Little Star is a primetime entertainment programme on ITV.
The format is selling well internationally with six format sales in 2016: Endeavour is a detective based drama produced by Mammoth Screen, it has been sold to 180 countries internationally.
Our scripted programmes such as Victoria, Retransmission fees to package and sell our content to take Poldark, Endeavour, Vera and The Good Witch, We are continuing to drive the debate around advantage of demand for quality content in are all selling to over 150 countries.
Our the implementation of retransmission fees the UK and internationally from consumers, entertainment and factual entertainment in the UK to ensure that we are fairly broadcasters and platform owners.
programmes also continue to sell well, compensated for our investment in content including titles such as Come Dine With Me, for the main channel when it is carried on pay A particular focus for 2017 will be the The Voice, The Voice Kids, The Chase, Hells TV platforms.
We see the publication of the launch of BritBox US and in time we will Kitchen, Autopsy and River Monsters.
Digital Economy Bill proposing the repeal of look to further roll out our SVOD services Section 73 as an important step forward in internationally as we continue to explore even In 2016 we sold 80 different formats around achieving retransmission fees.
more ways to drive value from our content.
the world, 24 of which were produced by ourselves or other producers in three or 2017 and beyond more countries.
As we continue to rebalance ITV and diversify our revenue streams, we are We are increasingly doing multi-year and further developing our pay and distribution multi territory deals with OTT platforms business to drive more value from our including Netflix, Amazon, Hulu and a range investment in content and reflecting the of smaller platforms.
As well as library deals, changes in the way people are consuming we are distributing close-to-broadcast or first content.
We are exploring new ways broadcast rights to these OTT platforms across territories.
We currently have over 200 content supply agreements in place, including Thunderbirds Are Go!
series one and two for Amazon in the UK, US, Germany and India, as well as The Good Witch, Mr Selfridge and Poldark for Netflix.
We are also co-producing and jointly commissioning a number of programmes with OTT platforms, including Robozuna for Netflix and Harlots for Hulu.
Pictured right: Thunderbirds Are Go!
has been sold to over 100 countries which includes a pan-territory deal with Amazon.
