Strategic Report Overview Market Review The market environment in which we operate is dynamic and constantly changing.
Consolidation of media and telecoms companies and the increasing influence of technology brings both challenges and opportunities.
Key market trends The US is by far the largest content market in Global Content Global demand for content continues to the world, dominating the global production grow, with more channels, more platforms sector, with the UK the second largest and new entrants increasing spend on market.
This represents a significant high-quality programming.
We estimate opportunity for ITV Studios, which has that the global content market is growing a strong presence in both regions.
at around 5% per annum, with some genres such as drama growing faster than others.
Demand for drama, particularly US drama, has increased significantly in the last few This growth can be attributed to a number years.
Original scripted content becomes of factors, including: a larger international brand defining for broadcasters and OTT pay television market: the consolidation of players in an increasingly competitive global pay providers with content companies and environment.
US studios continue to distributors coupled with the convergence dominate the market for drama in the US and in the television market, where telecom and internationally.
However, the rise of Netflix new media companies are competing with and Amazon, who are investing heavily in traditional media companies for content and creating high-quality original scripted viewers: online players such as Netflix and content, has significantly increased Amazon investing heavily in new original competition in the market.
content and archive: and online advertising driven platforms like YouTube and Facebook This increased competition for high-quality creating a new market for short form and content has driven up the cost of production.
Deficit financing has therefore become increasingly important in financing productions, where distributors are often funding the difference between what the content buyer is paying for the original broadcast and the cost of production, which is then covered by global sales, second-run windows and sales to OTT providers.
ITV as a distributor as well as a producer is in a strong position to deficit finance its own productions and therefore produce high-quality content and retain the rights to it.
Leveraging our network relationships and international distribution network, we are looking to expand our global scripted business and develop a strong portfolio of international and returning drama.
ITV America has developed several scripted programmes over the last few years and has a healthy pipeline of content in development.
Our 2016 scripted deliveries included The Good Witch and Aquarius and scripted deliveries for 2017 are expected to include Sun Records, Somewhere Between, a pilot of Snowpiercer and the third series of The Good Witch.
Pictured: The Good Witch is a scripted format produced by ITV America for the Hallmark channel in the US and will go into its third season in 2017.
8 Strategic Report ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Pictured: Come Dine With Me continues to sell well internationally with 13 format sales in 2016, four of which were produced by ITV Studios.
The US is by far the largest content market in the world, dominating Hells Kitchen Hells Kitchen has been a huge international the global production sector, with success with 34 format sales worldwide over the last ten years.
the UK the second largest market.
This represents a significant In the UK, there is stronger demand and higher viewing figures for UK content over opportunity for ITV Studios, imported series.
We are a major producer of scripted content and have further reinforced which has a strong presence this position through our acquisitions of Mammoth Screen and Twofour Group in in both regions 2015.
Our 2016 scripted deliveries in the UK included Victoria, Cold Feet, Poldark and Witness for the Prosecution.
Scripted deliveries expected in 2017 include Prime Suspect 1973, Fearless, the second series of Victoria and the second series of Cold Feet, all of which have international appeal.
While not growing as quickly as scripted content, demand for non-scripted content remains strong as networks continue to require lower cost, high volume popular series.
The UK remains the dominant producer of unique non-scripted formats.
ITV significantly strengthened its capability in this area with the acquisition of Talpa Media in 2015.
Along with the established entertainment and factual entertainment genres, scripted reality programming, where we have focused our US acquisitions, has grown quickly with formats such as Pawn Stars, Real Housewives and Fixer Upper.
ITV is now a genuine global player in non-scripted content, being a leading unscripted independent producer in the US and Europe as well as the largest commercial production company in the UK.
The large independent production companies, such as Endemol Shine Group and Fremantle Media, continue to be ITV Studios main competitors in non-scripted content.
The eight-part series has been a huge success for ITV Studios UK, selling to around 190 countries.
It has been recommissioned for a second series.
9 Strategic Report Overview Market review continued Television viewing Broadcast & Online Over recent years the number of ways to watch TV has greatly increased with viewers able to choose a variety of platforms, both SOV by broadcaster free and pay.
Traditional linear television ITV Family 21.4% viewing remains resilient despite significant BBC Family 31.9% changes in the market and in the availability Channel 4 Family 10.5% and delivery of content.
Viewing habits also Five Family 6.2% vary by demographic with younger viewers Sky Family 8.3% watching more non-linear content than Other 21.7% older demographics.
Source: BARB In the UK linear television viewing remains the most popular form of media entertainment Non-linear viewing, while currently only a despite year-on-year fluctuations.
UK average small proportion of total viewing, is growing television viewing in 2016 was 212 minutes per fast, particularly via SVOD services such as day which is similar to 2015 216 minutes and Netflix and Amazon, which have seen a similar level to ten years ago Source: BARB.
exponential growth over the last few years.
We continue to invest in ITVs online offering, the ITV Hub, along with rolling out our SVOD service, BritBox in the US to enable us to compete in this market.
ITV competes for viewers with the BBC and commercial broadcasters including Channel 4, Sky and Channel 5.
Over the last few years, the number of available channels has grown which has impacted the SOV of the traditional broadcasters.
SOV for the other channels increased to 21.7% in 2016 from 21.1% in 2015.
Despite an increase in the number of channels, ITV and BBC1 continue to be the only channels consistently able to deliver mass audiences as well as targeted demographics, and in 2016 ITV delivered 99% of all commercial audiences over five million viewers and 95% over three million.
In 2016 the ITV family of channels increased their SOV to 21.4% 2015: 21.2%, second only to the BBCs family of channels at 31.9% which lost share during the year 2015: 32.7% as a result of BBC3 moving online.
Viewing data is based on Weeks 1-52 for 2016 compared to Weeks 2-53 for 2015.
Pictured top to bottom: Family watching VOD via their television set: The ITV Hub logo.
10 Strategic Report ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Pictured: This Morning continues as one of the longest running daytime programmes in the UK.
Its audience grew by 2% in 2016 reaching 5.2 million viewers a week.
Pay television Non-linear viewing Advertising revenue Long-form content viewing Televisions share of the The platform advertising market Live including simulcast 81% Television 27.5% mix in the UK Timeshifted PVR Press 15.6% is roughly 50% up to 28 days 12% Radio 3.3% VOD: Broadcaster Cinema 1.3% free-to-air catch-up 3% Outdoor 5.7% and 50% linear VOD: Other 4% Internet 46.6% pay TV Source: 2015 Internal estimates Source: Advertising Association January 2017 Free-to-air television in the UK is delivered Non-linear viewing of long-form content ITV generates revenues from advertising through services including Freeview, YouView includes recorded, or timeshifted viewing through traditional broadcast, sponsorship and Freesat, while linear pay television is up to 28 days and catch-up of live television and online, and competes with commercial delivered through operators such as Sky, linear television up to 7 days, and also broadcasters and other advertising media, BT, Virgin and Talk Talk.
The platform mix encompasses Video on Demand VOD and for its advertising revenues.
In the UK, between free-to-air and traditional linear OTT delivery of other long-form content such television advertising including VOD, pay television has remained constant for a as box sets and movies.
sponsorship and other television revenues number of years at around 50:50.
Linear pay continues to hold a significant share of the television revenues continue to grow but the While non-linear viewing has grown fast it overall advertising market with a share of market dynamics are changing rapidly as still accounts for a small proportion of total 27.5% in 2016, 2015: 28.7%.
Internet established pay television providers such as viewing time.
In the UK we estimate 81% of advertising search, classified and display Sky and Virgin face increasing competition all viewing of legal long-form content is live has grown its share to 46.6% in 2016 2015: from relatively new entrants to the market including simulcast, with a further 12% 42.7%, making the UK one of the most such as BT, Netflix and Amazon.
timeshifted via a Personal Video Recorder developed markets for online advertising.
PVR and watched within 28 days of the This growth is at the expense of print Increasingly homes are supplementing their original broadcast date.
Of the estimated advertising, which declined to 15.6% in free television with other forms of paid 7% of content viewed on demand, 3% is 2016 2015: 18.2%.
content including SVOD services such as catch-up viewing of broadcaster content via Netflix, or by purchasing additional channels the television set or to other devices such as The UK television advertising market through no-contract providers such as Now tablets and mobiles.
The remaining 4% of is extremely difficult to measure as all TV or Talk Talk TV Store.
Around 30% of homes content is other VOD viewing, where viewing broadcasters have different definitions.
in the UK have an SVOD service and this is of box sets via services such as Netflix is We estimate ITVs SOB which is based on weighted towards those homes that have replacing viewing of DVDs.
This is growing pure linear television advertising excluding linear pay TV Source: BARB.
Including SVOD quickly driven by increased availability of VOD, sponsorship and self promotion to be pay services, the platform mix in the UK is devices such as smartphones, tablets and 47.4% in 2016 including UTV, up from roughly 40% free-to-air and 60% paid viewing.
This increase is because of ITVs unique ability to deliver mass ITV participates in the pay television market, There is currently no industry measure for audiences across multiple regions and earning revenue from various third parties, online viewing.
BARB are in the process of in key demographics.
including Sky and Virgin, through the licensing developing a joint-industry, audited measure of channels and content.
ITV also has its pay of viewing online television.
only television channel, ITV Encore, on the Sky platform along with our other pay channels, ITV2 HD, ITV3 HD and ITV4 HD.
ITV also recently announced the creation of a joint venture with the BBC to launch BritBox, Non-linear viewing, while currently a new SVOD service in the US.
The service offers a significant amount of content from only a small proportion of total both broadcasters and gives ITV access to the fast growing SVOD market in the US.
viewing, is growing fast and we continue to invest in ITVs VOD and SVOD services 11
