Strategic report Governance Financial statements OUR BR A NDS Businesses increasingly know exactly what they want from their workspaces.
Our line-up of different flexible formats is rapidly adaptable to individual requirements meaning theres no need for them to ever compromise on quality, style or value.
Places to work Creative working Exclusive, Friendly, sociable Our Flexible, for everyone, environments high-status places to work, entrepreneurial outsourced turnkey worldwide for businesses business properties offering great community managed office of all sizes that make a value for money connecting solutions meeting powerful statement partners from the customer worlds of business requirements in and learning any location OUR SERV ICE S The line-up of services that we offer at all our sites is industry leading and continuously growing.
From 24 7 network monitoring to enterprise-level connectivity, IT helpdesks, firewall security, reception, food and beverage and facilities management services, we provide everything required under a single, cost-effective customer contract.
Office Home Mobile Workplace Across the world, companies The proportion of selfIn only a few years time, the recovery of all sizes are successfully employed and outsourced global workplace will be In the event of a disaster, growing their business out people in the global dominated by employees who access to our international of our workplaces, from workforce is growing every have never known anything network of business centres major global headquarters to year as they seek freedom other than the liberating and 24 7 support from our regional centres and satellite from the daily commute.
dedicated operations teams sales or support offices.
Enterprises are now looking These tech-savvy, always on enable our customers to for greater flexibility in their individuals already make up For them, the beauty of ensure business continuity.
a high proportion of the working with us is that Our award-winning Dynamic worlds workers and it is they can be flexible in their This means continued Workplace Recovery solution second nature for them to property commitments at growth in the number provides SLA-guaranteed expect no barriers to them the precise moment they of people who work from local recovery in optimal working wherever and need to be.
Theyve found home but still need places locations dependent upon whenever they want.
that premises dont have to be to meet or work as well as the type of disaster.
Combined Our sites and services are can fit their property solutions with our global network of helping businesses across around the needs of their co-working space, business the world marry their need business and their people lounges, meeting rooms and for greater agility with not the other way round.
day offices, our Virtual Office employees growing demands solution gives them the for greater flexibility and access they need to better work life balance.
3 WE ARE L E A D IN G IWGs position at the forefront of the WaaS sector is unchallenged, with approaching 3,000 locations throughout over 1,000 cities worldwide.
And our industry leadership is set to grow, driven by market demand and the liberating impact of technology.
M A IN DRIVER S OF FLE XIBLE 1 W O RKI N G Businesses expanding abroad 19% Businesses hoping to attract top staff 23% Businesses hoping to improve staff retention 25% Businesses wanting to be more reactive to market changes 35% Businesses wanting to scale staff numbers more flexibly 35% 37% Businesses avoiding fixed leases Businesses wanting to be more agile as they seek to grow 38% 41% Workers demanding to work remotely 43% Workers demanding to work closer to home 51% Businesses wanting to reduce office costs 4 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements What does Mobile Technology The this mean workforce enabling productivity for IWG?
demanding change challenge flexibility The demand for Increasingly, the flexible Research shows that IWG is uniquely well workplace flexibility is 64% of companies see workplace is becoming positioned to take becoming increasingly a source of competitive enabling their people to advantage of these urgent, driven by achieve more effective advantage for powerful trends.
On the one mobile working as a key are already the worlds 3 employers, by customers priority.
As a result, hand, its about utilising largest provider of flexible and by cost-conscious space in a way that helps 89% of companies see workspace solutions, accountants.
Of these, mobile working as the people work together with customers including the workers voice is better, share knowledge main driver behind the successful entrepreneurs, loudest.
With tech-savvy, take-up of cloud more easily and innovate the self-employed 1 creative Millennials set to more.
On the other, its technologies.
This is no and multi-billion dominate the workplace surprise.
In a world about enabling work-life dollar corporations.
Companies integration, empowering where devices, services Through our range of office are having to provide the and people are people to work, formats and our growing organisational structures independently or increasingly connected mobile, virtual office and in which they are most by technology, digital collaboratively, wherever workplace recovery effective, collaborative they might be.
Getting disruption is making businesses, we are and innovative.
54% spend on a fixed physical this right pays great enabling people and of people are already dividends, with location increasingly businesses across the working remotely for obsolete.
More companies across planet to work wherever, more than half the importantly, mobilisation the world reporting however and whenever 1 week, so giving them is shown over and that flexible working they want all at a range the ability to work where over again to result in contributes directly of price points to suit they want, how they want a more engaged, more to the bottom line.
and when they want is committed and more And our competitive crucial.
advantage will only strengthen further as demand increases and we continue to grow our network, our range of services and our varied formats.
54% 89% 80% of people now see mobile working of global workers work remotely as the main driver say that flexible for more than of cloud technology workers are better 1 1 Sources: half of the week take up able to manage the 1 MindMetre Research demands of work 2 Millennials at work, PwC 1 and personal life 3 The expanding role of mobility in the workplace, Cisco Systems 5 GLOBA L TR ENDS WE ARE INN O V A T I V E Innovation is not all about technology.
As well as major upgrades to our mobile app during 2016, we focused our innovation resources on areas as diverse as customer satisfaction, format design, business continuity and improving productivity for the mobile workforce.
The Citizen of the World organisation has named our Spaces format, aimed particularly at workers seeking to think, create and collaborate, as one of Australias coolest places to work.
This reflects the formats balanced approach that includes entertainment and wellbeing opportunities for people to bond and connect as well as work.
Our mission to make business travel more productive for our customers continued in 2016, with the opening of new Regus Express locations at airports serving cities including Prague, Mumbai, Osaka, Sydney, Amsterdam and London Stansted.
As part of our strategy to sustain best-in-class service levels, we introduced a new customer-service feedback loop and courtesy-call programme in 2016.
This is already enabling us more easily to develop new or improved service features based precisely on customer feedback.
6 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements What attracted us to Regus Business Continuity Offerings and more specifically their award-winning Dynamic Workplace Recovery solution was the SLA-guaranteed, global reach.
This covers our sites in multiple cities throughout Asia Pacific and Europe and offers the scope to support possible additional requirements in the UK and Ireland.
We were also highly impressed with the ease of working with the 24 7 business continuity operations team it has been incredibly quick in scheduling test rehearsals and other urgent requirements, such as the activation of work area recovery locations on three separate occasions across Europe in the last 12 months.
The Regus Dynamic Workplace John Frost Recovery solution received Head of Business the 2016 BCI Continuity and Continuity, Resilience Innovation of the Year Marks & award in both Europe and Asia.
Spencer 2016 saw a four-fold increase in downloads and a three-fold increase in revenue booked through our mobile app compared to 2015.
This reflects the growing role of mobile and digital self-service solutions at the heart of our relationship with customers, enabling them to easily carry out all short-stay bookings.
We delivered many improvements to the app during 2016, including streamlined payment, admin and booking processes.
4x increase 3x increase in downloads in revenue booked through our app 7 WE ARE F LE X I B LE From office space to creative co-working solutions, access to business lounges, day offices and meeting rooms in thousands of locations, we give our customers and their employees endless opportunities to work in the way that suits them best.
As youre growing, you require dedicated communication lines, a fully serviced reception, meeting rooms for your companys reputation, and a facility for video conferencing.
Weve looked at a number of places for the company, but Regus made sense for us.
Bayanda Khwela Headlines Media Group and W8 Records, Johannesburg, South Africa 8 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Even though I have my own office space, I love working in the business club and connecting with other Spaces members it really gives me a buzz throughout the working day.
Add the services and the event programme and Ive got the perfect working environment.
Sandra Tanahatoe Spaces Vijzelstraat Amsterdam, The Netherlands I considered the office choice from a clients perspective.
Im actually quite easy-going because of how much I travel, so I dont mind too much how my office looks or where it is.
For me its the people around me who are more important, so I really considered how the infrastructure would be for our clients that was one of the reasons I chose Regus.
Stefan Khn Partner and CEO of INCS AG, Regus, Zurich, Switzerland.
