Strategic Report Great products and services at fair prices Our customers trust us to deliver great quality at fair prices across all of our products and services.
Our commitment to deliver on this is at the heart of our strategy.
Sales growth by area The provenance of our ingredients is Leading on quality Food is our core business but growing nonimportant to our customers, and the vast The quality, range and provenance of our food is an important part of our strategy.
majority of wheat we use is sourced from food differentiates us from our competitors Our customers value greater choice and the UK.
and we continue to lead on quality there is a firm correlation between increased 1 perception.
This year we have tailored many loyalty and spend across our whole offer We are focused on offering our customers of our ranges, focusing on the products that when customers buy into non-food.
nutritious, tasty food with a wide choice we know are loved by customers.
Thedepth of healthy meal options.
This year we and variety of the product ranges we offer Definition: Year-on-year growth of total launched 19 new lines in our My Goodness!
is a point of difference for us and we will sales, including VAT.
range including four innovative raw fish continue to make sure customers have products that are steam-cooked in the pack Sales growth by area choice across all price tiers.
when microwaved, ensuring a fresh, tasty Food % result.
We continue to reformulate the sugar, We are investing in further improving the salt and saturated fat content of our own- 2013 14 2.4 quality of 3,000 own-brand products.
During brand products to make them healthier, the year we improved the quality of around 2014 15 1.0 and in each of the past two years we have 70 of our own-brand fish lines, pairing our 2015 16 0.5 removed more than 2,370 tonnes of sugar fish with delicious new sauces and butters from our own-brand soft drinks.
and introducing innovative vacuum pack Clothing % technology that helps to improve freshness Our own-brand ranges account for around 2013 14 9.6 and reduce waste.
Our commitment to half of our food sales.
Our premium Taste responsible sourcing remains of critical 2014 15 11.9 the Difference range grew volumes by nearly importance to us: we are the UKs biggest 2015 16 8.5 two per cent and continues to gain industry retailer of Marine Stewardship Council MSC recognition, voted the Best Supermarket certified seafood for the sixth consecutive Range by the Good Housekeeping Institute General merchandise % year.
We have over 180 MSC-labelled for the third year running.
products, more than twice as many as any 2013 14 8.1 other UK retailer.
HPI Brand & Communications Tracker National sample data 2014 15 7.3 of Sainsburys customers between 2014 and 2016 2015 16 3.5 We also improved our in-store bakery products, and expanded our core by Bank % Sainsburys bread range.
Our new Taste the Difference loaves are freshly baked in-store 2013 14 4.2 every day and we have added artisan 13.5 2014 15 breads made from grains such as spelt, 2015 16 5.4 ryeand quinoa to the range.
16 Investing in the quality of our products Investing in the quality of 3,000 own-brand products Innovative new options Commitment Sainsburys offers to responsible a lot of low sugar alternatives and they sourcing advertise clearly how much sugar is in each product per serving which is very helpful.
It helps me to make better food choices SAINSBURYS CUSTOMER SOUTH EAST Strategic Report Great products and services at fair prices Like-for-like transactions The structural change in the market means that customers have more choice than ever when it comes to doing their grocery shopping.
This means that like-for-like transactions are at risk and we need to ensure that we execute our strategy effectively.
Customers will then continue to see that we offer great products at great prices.
Definition: Year-on-year growth in transactions from stores that have been Strong value open for at least a year.
proposition Like-for-like transactions % We offer customers lower regular prices 2013 14 0.1 helping them to 2014 15 0 Live Well for Less 2015 16 0.3 Product quality We know customers value quality when Strong value proposition deciding where to shop and it is therefore At Sainsburys we offer customers a strong important for us to be ranked above our value proposition that helps them to Live peers in relation to the quality perception Well for Less.
As well as improving the of our brand.
quality of our food we have also invested Clothing in our prices.
Our price satisfaction scores Definition: Our rank based on a sample Our clothing business is well-established 2 have increased again this year and our of approximately 1,000 consumers who and we continue to increase sales and investment in lower regular prices is driving rated product quality of each of the market share across womenswear, volume and transaction growth, making us following brands: Sainsburys, Tesco, menswear, childrenswear and lingerie.
the only one of our main supermarket peers Morrisons andAsda.
Our Tu clothing brand is now the UKs sixth to maintain market share this year.
largest clothing retailer by volume and 2013 14 2014 15 2015 16 3 tenth largest by value.
Our talented inWe have simplified our trading strategy in st st st house design teams source good quality, favour of lower regular prices, and reduced fashionable clothing, and our long-standing 1 1 1 the number of promotions.
By the summer partnership with Gok Wan and the more we will have phased out the vast majority of HPI Brand & Communications Tracker recent collaboration with the Admiral mens multi-buy promotions.
sportswear brand are proving popular Price perception with our customers.
We are one of the UKs Growth opportunities in Our new pricing strategy of lower regular biggest retailers of dressing-up outfits for prices reassures customers that they clothing, general merchandise children, and we had great success in the can always get a good price on and off and financial services run-up to Halloween, Christmas and World promotion.
We have seen strong growth in our clothing Book Day with strong growth across all these and general merchandise businesses events.
We launched Tu online nationwide Definition: Our rank based on a sample of this year, both in stores and online as we in August 2015, giving our customers approximately 1,000 consumers who rated continue to invest in our ranges to give our access to our full clothing offer.
This channel value of each of the following brands: customers high street style at supermarket is proving popular, and the majority of Sainsburys, Tesco, Morrisons and Asda.
Our strategy for growth focuses on customers collect their orders from more increasing our non-food ranges in stores, 2013 14 2014 15 2015 16 than 700 in-store collection points.
and growing our Tu online business, th th th alongside changing visual merchandising 2.
CSI Cus tomer Satisfaction Tracking for superstores 2015 16 4 4 4 3.
Ka ntar Worldpanel for the 52 weeks to 28th February 2016 more frequently and emphasising our quality and design-led approach.
HPI Brand & Communications Tracker 18 Strategic Report General merchandise Total accounts held by customers now Against a backdrop of other credit card We have a general merchandise business stand at nearly 1.7 million.
We performed providers reducing or removing rewards of scale, comprising homeware, cookware, strongly in the competitive personal loans from their products, Sainsburys Bank has small domestic appliances, toys, books, market, with 15 per cent year-on-year maintained its Nectar loyalty reward as well stationery and entertainment ranges.
growth in the number of advances to new as increasing points offers for a limited Thisis a strong area of growth for us and we customers.
The Banks portfolio of insurance period to new card customers.
have increased our market share across all products continued to perform well categories.
We now design more than half resulting in new business growth of over ten The Bank Transition Programme to move our ranges in-house and offer customers per cent year-on-year.
This year we saw a to a new, more flexible banking platform new products more often.
Events including particularly strong performance in home continues to progress and this year we took Halloween and Christmas enabled us to grow insurance where sales of new policies delivery of the new technology platform, sales this year as we invested in our ranges increased by more than 25 per cent which is a key milestone in building a and the presence given to these occasions year-on-year.
The Bank also introduced a standalone bank and creating long-term instore.
double Nectar points offer to new Travel shareholder value.
Although the build of Insurance customers taking out an Annual the platform is materially complete, testing Sainsburys Entertainment Trip policy which, in its first month, resulted continues and we plan to migrate savings Our on demand online music site was rein a ten per cent uplift in sales year-on-year.
The launched in January 2016, giving customers We now have 207 Travel Money bureaux migration of cards and loans customers is a one stop shop for eBooks, magazines and and have enjoyed a strong performance in currently being re-planned, particularly in now music.
The site offers customers more this area, with a 30 per cent increase in the light of the Groups potential acquisition music choice than ever before, with over transactions year-on-year.
We expect 20 million tracks and 2.5million albums transition costs to remain at the top of available for download as high quality MP3s.
The Banks free-to-use ATM estate grew by the340 million to 380 million range.
over four per cent to 1,646, ATM transactions Financial Services grew by nearly two per cent year-on-year Pharmacy Sainsburys Bank offers customers to nearly 240 million and 1 of every 11 In July 2015, we announced a strategic innovative, good value products and services.
dispensed from a LINK ATM transaction is partnership that will see LloydsPharmacy Underlying profit this year was up nearly five from Sainsburys Bank.
acquire Sainsburys pharmacy business per cent to 65 million.
Total income was up for 125 million.
In addition, we will receive over five per cent to 274 million.
Given the Banks strong trading performance commercial annual rent payments from and the trust people have in the Sainsburys LloydsPharmacy for each of the 277 in-store brand, we have decided to launch new pharmacies.
The Competition and Markets mortgage products in 2017.
We believe Authority is currently undergoing the final these products will complement our existing stages of a phase two regulatory review.
financial services portfolio and we expect Provisional findings announced in April customers to respond well.
2016 found that Celesio may have to sell pharmacies in 13 areas of England and Wales.
The final outcome and completion of the deal are expected in the summer of 2016.
Mobile by Sainsburys Growth Our joint venture with Vodafone ceased to opportunities operate in January.
We know that mobile is important to our customers and we are in clothing, general looking at other network options.
Customers merchandise and can still buy phones and accessories and financial services access other mobile operator contracts and pay as you go options online and in our 38 Phone Shops.
Alibaba In September 2015 we began a partnership with the Alibaba Group, becoming the first UK grocer to export goods to China through Tmall Global, Alibabas online store.
