Strategic Report Our values make us different Our values remain at the core of our business and are part of our long-term strategy for growth.
The market context we operate in has In 2015 we were one of only 37 companies The scale of our business changed significantly since we launched on the FTSE 350 Climate Disclosure means we have an important our original Sustainability Plan in 2011.
Leadership Index CDLI, and the only UK role in contributing to Consequently, we have updated the plan retailer on the CDLI to achieve a Band A sustainable development.
to focus on the issues that are most rating.
We were identified as a UK leader in important to our customers, colleagues and environmental performance and recognised Our Sustainability Plan shows stakeholders now, and on the areas in which for the quality and transparency of our journey to address the we can make the most positive impact.
information disclosed to investors through opportunities and challenges Our five values, outlined below, underpin the Carbon Disclosure Project.
that are relevant to our our strategy, make good business sense and give us real competitive advantage.
Our 355,000 sq ft distribution centre in business and the wider world.
Tamworth was fitted with over 4,000 solar panels as well as the infrastructure to Respect for our environment export surplus power back to the National In 2015 we launched Waste less, Save more, Band A Grid at times of peak national demand.
In an ambitious initiative to tackle high levels some stores we have started to trial aerofoil of food waste across the UK.
Food waste is One of only 37 technology on our fridge systems to reduce an important issue for our customers, with companies awarded a the amount of cool air that escapes from the average household throwing away 700 fridge units, thereby using less energy position on the FTSE worth of food each year.
We are investing to keep the fridge units cool and to keep 10 million over five years to identify 350 Climate Disclosure shopping aisles warm.
These innovations practical, easy ways to help people across have contributed to a 1.07 per cent Leadership Index CDLI the UK reduce their household waste.
From reduction in energy used in 2015 16. the 189 towns that applied, Swadlincote in South Derbyshire won the opportunity to be our innovation test-bed town, and to receive our initial 1million investment.
We reduced our energy usage by 1.07 per cent during 2015 16 and our greenhouse gas emissions reduced by 3.11 per cent 26 Tackling food waste Innovation test-bed town, Swadlincote Food waste is one of the biggest issues facing us all today, with households unaware of just how much food they are binning PAUL CREWE HEAD OF SUSTAINABILITY AT SAINSBURYS 111 Discovery Communities 10 million investment Strategic Report Our values make us different Living healthier lives The sugar content of food has received significant media coverage, and a sugar tax was announced in the Governments 2016 Budget.
During the year we removed sugar from our chilled juice drinks, Oriental ready meals and 16 by Sainsburys yoghurts.
Taking our combined previous sales of these products, we anticipate that this will remove 15% a total of 80.3 tonnes of sugar from our customers baskets per year, equivalent to uplift in courgette 321 million calories.
sales this year and new courgetti exceeding We launched new prepared produce lines in January, demonstrating that we can help sales forecast our customers achieve their 5-a-day through product innovation and inspiration.
Sales of by Sainsburys courgetti have exceeded Sourcing with integrity sales forecasts and fresh courgette sales are Customers care about where the products also 15 per cent higher than last year.
they buy come from and they put their trust in us to do the right thing on their behalf.
We have increased the number of healthier This is why sourcing with integrity is key to products we carry, particularly in our our work with farmers, growers and suppliers better for you ranges such as Be Good in the UK and around the world.
to Yourself and My Goodness!, where we have introduced new and inspirational We continue to invest in the future of British meal solutions.
range farming and work closely with our farmers With nearly currently has 33 ready meals for customers and growers across the UK.
7,000 Sainsburys supporting five agriculture apprentices own-brand food and within our poultry and livestock supply Now in its 12th year, we have continued chains, to help them develop knowledge drink products to develop our Active Kids programme, and expertise in the industry.
In addition, encouraging children to lead healthier, active available, we make seven British farmers and growers completed lives.
We will continue to develop Active a considerable our first Sainsburys farming scholarship Kids, with emphasis on both calories in and programme in partnership with Imperial investment in our calories out, helping children to understand College London supported by Alastair Leake the importance of both diet and exercise.
programme to improve from the Allerton Trust.
Even By working closely with our 822 sheep small changes can farmers we were able to extend our British make a significant lamb season by five weeks compared to impact on the healthy 100% the 2014 season.
This ensured great quality and availability for our customers, and balance of our of farmed seafood gave confidence to our sheep farmers at a customers baskets time of low market prices.
We have shown is independently similar support to our Sainsburys Dairy DR DANIELLE MCCARTHY certified as sustainable Development Group SDDG farmers at COMPANY NUTRITIONIST a time when sections of the British dairy AT SAINSBURYS industry were facing issues with volatile pricing.
Since 2012, we have paid the 280 SDDG farmers who supply our own-brand milk on a Cost of Production model which directly reflects their costs, builds in a profit for them, and rewards outstanding animal welfare and environmental standards.
28 29 Strategic Report Making a positive difference A great place to work toour community We know we can do more to ensure that the make-up of our workforce reflects During the year, we donated nearly the diversity of the customers we serve, 46million to charities, including over particularly at a managerial level.
Over 55 7million raised for charities which are per cent of our colleagues are female and local to our stores and distribution centres, we want to help them develop their careers and which are selected by colleagues with us.
External and internal research shows and customers.
343 charities received an that mentoring is a great way to support additional 69,000 through our Local Heroes women with their career development, so we scheme, which provides financial support to have launched a new initiative that makes charities where our colleagues volunteer in mentoring available to up-and-coming their free time.
We also supported flooded female colleagues who have the potential communities located near our stores in the and desire to progress their careers.
So far north west of England and Yorkshire, donating over 1,400 colleagues have signed up to be over 100,000 worth of emergency supplies.
As Operating Board mentored through the scheme.
We are also Sponsor for the Lesbian, proud to be co-sponsors of the largest ever Nationally, it was a milestone year for our survey of race at work in the UK.
The survey, Gay, Bisexual and partnership with Carers UK, as the charity run by Business in the Community, was celebrated its 50th anniversary and we Transgender LGBT completed by 24,000 working people over marked our fifth year of support.
We also community, I work with 4,000 of whom were Sainsburys colleagues raised over 7 million for this years Sport to better understand the experience of ethnic our LGBT Network to Relief campaign, and have now raised over minorities at work in the UK.
We want to help 100 million for Comic and Sport Relief since create an environment all our colleagues fulfil their potential, so we our partnership began in 1999.
We continue of equal opportunities are using the results of this survey to build to support the Royal British Legion, raising on our own action plans and understand how in which we can all be over 2 million, and our colleagues went we can help colleagues from all backgrounds the extra mile to ensure the safety of Poppy the best we can be, progress in their careers with us.
Appeal collectors by banking funds raised confident that diverse in store on their behalf.
Our 2015 Mogs views are listened to Christmas Calamity campaign raised more than 1.5million for Save the Childrens SARAH WARBY literacy campaign Read on, Get on and we MARKETING DIRECTOR also signed the Vision for Literacy Business AT SAINSBURYS Pledge 2016, to support the National Literacy Forum and help close the literacy gap.
100m raised for Comic Relief 33,500 colleagues trained at and Sport Relief since our Food Colleges since 2010 our partnership began in 1999 28 29
