Our business model How we create value Once again, our progress in 2016 justified our confidence in the Groups business model, which is unchanged following the introduction of a new holding company, IWG plc.
During the year we carried out rigorous planning, stress-testing and constant review.
These clearly demonstrate that our business model remains fit for purpose.
Our Returns Customers business The geographic scale of our operations Our customers from self-employed Our approach to investment ensures is unmatched.
As our physical network entrepreneurs to multinational corporations we deliver strong post-tax cash returns, grows, so does our lead over alternative use our centres and services because generating long-term shareholder value workspace providers.
Our business they want to be in the best places to through post-tax returns on net investment comprises four fundamental and focus on their business and its priorities.
that are well in excess of our cost of capital.
interconnected elements: our people, They stay because we provide them with Our focus is on optimising revenue our network, our products and our brands.
an excellent service at competitive rates, generation through improving the We underpin these with: with a product that flexes to meet their performance of each location in our every requirement.
This gives us the solid rigorous planning and business review foundation we need to deliver strong processes that support the execution returns, particularly when combined of our growth strategy: with our discipline on overhead costs, constant investment in innovation which continue to fall as a percentage to differentiate us from our of revenues.
competitors: and disciplined management procedures How we calculate our returns that enable us to minimise and control We base our returns on the post-tax the risks inherent in rapid growth.
return divided by the net growth capital investment.
Post-tax cash return EBITDA less amortisation of partner contribution, less tax based on EBIT, less maintenance capital expenditure.
Net growth capital investment growth capital less partner contributions.
Turn to pages 116 and 117 to see how our calculation 10 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 of post-tax cash return on net investment reconciles to our audited statutory accounts.
25.4 14.3 31.1 21.3 16.6 13.9 10.0 2.6 15.8 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Investment Cash in growth A particularly attractive feature of the IWG We continue to invest significantly in business model is our strong conversion growth, both through organic openings of profit into cash.
The cash flows we and selective acquisitions, and we continue Returns to generate from our locations support to find many high-quality opportunities our continued investment in developing that meet our stringent returns criteria.
Strong cash generation Our network growth is enhanced by our underpins the Groups progressive continued investment in developing new dividend and share buybacks as well as location formats and a greater focus on funding the addition of locations to our and diversity in partner relationships.
We are highly disciplined in Under our progressive dividend policy, Together, these are enabling us to grow our use of cash, undertaking rigorous risk in a more capital-efficient way with lower we have proposed to increase the 2016 analysis prior to any decision being taken.
We acquired treasury levels of risk.
Our ability to adapt our growth plans to reflect changing market conditions is another important aspect of our capability to manage risk through the economic cycle.
With relatively short lead times between contracting with a partner and opening a new location, depending on where we are in the economic cycle, we can either rapidly capitalise on a favourable investment environment or restrict growth.
