Governance Report Other disclosures Dividends Directors interests The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 8.1 pence per The beneficial interests of the Directors and their families in the shares of the share 2015 16: 8.2 pence, making a total dividend for the year of 12.1 pence Company are shown in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 74 and per share 2015 16: 13.2 pence, a decrease of 8.3 per cent over the previous 76.
The Companys Register of Directors Interests contains full details of year.
Subject to shareholders approving this recommendation at the Annual Directors interests, shareholdings and options over ordinary shares of the General Meeting AGM, the dividend will be paid on 8 July 2016 to Company.
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 13 May 2016.
During the year, no Director had any material interest in any contract of significance to the Groups business.
Share capital and control Except as described below in relation to the Companys employee share Directors indemnities schemes, there are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares or the transfer of securities in the Company: no The Directors are entitled to be indemnified by the Company to the extent person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to permitted by law and the Companys Articles of Association in respect of all control of the Company: and the Company is not aware of any agreements losses arising out of or in connection with the execution of their powers, between holders of securities that may result in restrictions in the transfer of duties and responsibilities.
The Company has executed deeds of indemnity securities or voting rights.
Further details of the rights, restrictions and for the benefit of each Director in respect of liabilities which may attach to obligations attaching to the share capital of the Company, including voting them in their capacity as Directors of the Company.
The Company purchased rights, are contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Articles of and maintained Directors and Officers liability insurance throughout Association may only be changed with the agreement of shareholders.
Neither the indemnities nor the insurance provide cover in the event that the Director is proved to have Shares acquired through the Companys employee share plans rank pari acted fraudulently.
passu with shares in issue and have no special rights.
Where, under the Companys All Employee Share Ownership Plan, participants are beneficial Employment policies owners of the shares but the Trustee is the registered owner, the voting rights The Company is committed to an equal opportunities policy for recruitment are normally exercised by the registered owner at the direction of the and selection, through training and development, performance reviews and participants.
The J Sainsbury Employee Benefit Trusts waive their right to promotion through our A Great Place to Work strategy.
The Company has vote and to dividends on the shares they hold which are unallocated.
Some of well developed policies for the fair and equal treatment of all colleagues and the Companys employee share plans include restrictions on transfer of shares the employment of disadvantaged persons.
During the year, a number of while the shares are held within the plan.
training courses have been held to ensure that our policies are understood throughout the organisation.
We will adapt and retrain colleagues who have At the AGM held in July 2015, the Company was authorised by shareholders become disabled during their employment.
See page 57 for further to purchase its own shares, within certain limits and as permitted by the information on our diversity strategy.
The Company made no purchases of its own shares during the year and no shares were acquired by forfeiture or surrender or As well as creating jobs we are committed to providing a workplace where made subject to a lien or charge.
people feel they are given the right opportunities to succeed in a safe, healthy and respectful environment.
We know this is important and this is the reason All of the Companys employee share plans contain provisions relating to a why a Great Place to Work is one of our five values.
Our Sustainability Plan change of control.
On a change of control, options and awards granted to includes a number of commitments within the category: for further employees under the Companys share plans may vest and become information see our website at http: www.
co. uk responsibility exercisable, subject to the satisfaction of any applicable performance factsheets.
Human rights Certain of the Companys credit facilities and banking arrangements The Company does not have a specific human rights policy but fairness and contain change of control clauses under which lenders may cancel their integrity are an important part of the responsible way we run our business, as commitments and declare all outstanding amounts immediately due and shown by the values and policies described above and throughout this report.
There are no other significant agreements that would take effect, In addition, our customers want to be confident that the people who make alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid.
and sell our products are not being exploited, or exposed to unsafe working conditions.
Our Code of Conduct for Ethical Trade covers the employment Ordinary shares practices we expect from our suppliers, both in the UK and abroad.
As we are Details of the changes to the ordinary issued share capital during the year are a founder member of the Ethical Trading Initiative ETI, our Code of Conduct shown on page 121.
At the date of this report, 1,925,075,512 ordinary shares is consistent with the ETI Base Code and national and international laws.
4 of 28 pence have been issued, are fully paid up and are listed on the 7 For further information on this Code of Conduct see our website at London Stock Exchange.
Major interests in shares Political donations As at 3 May 2016, the Company had been notified by the following investors The Company made no political donations in 2015 16 2014 15: nil.
of their interests in three per cent or more of the Companys shares.
These interests were notified to the Company pursuant to Disclosure and Essential contracts Transparency Rule 5: Sainsburys has contractual and other arrangements with numerous third parties in support of its business activities.
None of the arrangements is % of voting rights individually considered to be essential to the business of Sainsburys.
Judith Portrait 3.31 Qatar Holdings LLC 25.02 80 Governance Report The following information is also incorporated into the Directors Report: Taxation The Company complies with relevant tax laws, regulations and obligations Location regarding the filing of tax returns, payment and collection of tax.
Sainsburys in Annual Report does not undertake any tax planning schemes that seek to use so-called tax Interest capitalised See note 11 havens for aggressive tax planning and for the purpose of tax avoidance.
Publication of unaudited financial information Leverage ratio, see note 29 Details of any long-term incentive schemes See Remuneration Report Sainsburys aims to develop an open, honest relationship with the tax and note 32 authorities and involve them at an early stage should any complex tax issues arise.
The taxation policy is reviewed annually by the Board.
Tax is a key item Shareholder waiver of dividends See note 26 on the Audit Committee agenda and is discussed quarterly where large or Shareholder waiver of future dividends See note 26 complex tax items will feature, together with compliance and key risk management updates.
Other information requirements set out in LR9.8.
4R are not applicable to the Company.
All of Sainsburys stores are based in the UK, and all our sales are generated here.
As such, substantially all more than 99 per cent of our taxes are paid By order of the Board here.
The Group also includes companies based in the following jurisdictions: Hong Kong, China, India and Bangladesh these offices source many of our non-food products, and local taxes of 2 million were paid in the year Tim Fallowfield 2014 15: 1 million : Isle of Man our insurance company is based here for Company Secretary and Corporate Services Director regulatory reasons, as are many other insurance companies: Ireland, Jersey, 3 May 2016 and the USA these companies are all dormant and accordingly do not pay any tax.
There are also other Group companies that were incorporated in Ireland, USA and Jersey that are UK tax resident, meaning that all relevant taxes are payable to the UK Government.
Post balance sheet events There were no post balance sheet events.
Financial risk management The financial risk management and policies of the Group are disclosed in note 29 on pages 126 to 134 to the financial statements.
Disclosure of information to the external auditor Each of the Directors has confirmed that, so far as he she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditor is unaware.
Each Director has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
Appointment of the external auditor Ernst & Young have expressed their willingness to be reappointed as auditor of the Company.
Upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee, resolutions to appoint them as auditor and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
Directors Report The Directors Report comprises pages 1 to 65 and 80 to 82 of this Annual Report and Financial Statements.
