Strategic Report Market context The UK food retail market is changing rapidly.
We will continue to adapt to reflect evolving customer needs.
The Market Shopping habits Future retail trends The market Customer confidence Over the last two years, UK household Index score disposable incomes have continued to 5 rise thanks to wage growth coupled with falling fuel and food prices.
The food retail 0 sector has yet to benefit from this growth, 5 as consumers are choosing to spend their 10 discretionary income on items that they 15 gave up during the recession such as 20 holidays and eating out.
In recent months, 25 as deflation gradually eases and pay growth stabilises, there have been signs that 30 household income growth is slowing.
35 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 The grocery sector has experiencied Source: GfK Consumer confidence Index sustained food price deflation for nearly twoyears, driven in part by lower commodity Average UK household discretionary income prices, and in part by the competitive per week pricing environment.
The continued 200 expansion of the discount retailers, offering 195 a limited number of products at low prices, has forced the established grocery retailers 190 to cut their prices and tailor their offer.
185 Food price deflation has eased slightly in 180 recent months and we anticipate macro- 175 economic factors will eventually lead 170 to the return of food inflation.
There are 165 also encouraging signs in volume growth with customers buying more items than 160 previously, albeitnot enough to offset the 155 deflationaryeffects.
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Source: CEBR 12 Strategic Report Shopping habits Grocery market channel share 200722F % of market Shopping habits are evolving with customers choosing to buy their groceries 2007 more frequently and from the broader range of channels now available to them.
2015 We expect volumes will continue to reduce 2018F in the supermarket channel as consumers shop more often in convenience stores, 2022F online and with discount retailers.
However, 0 20 40 60 80 100 we anticipate the supermarket will remain the most popular destination for customers.
Supermarket Discount Convenience Online It is therefore important that this channel Source: Company estimates adapts to reflect and meet changing customer needs.
With conflicting demands and increasingly busy lifestyles, consumers are seeking greater convenience in their The transaction may then take place either shopping missions.
Grocery retailers need in store or online, with a range of delivery to respond to this by offering them greater options: in store, to home, or Click & flexibility in how they shop and making it The market is Collect.
Grocery retailers are again uniquely easier for them to buy the products they positioned to serve customers in all of these competitive and it need whenever andwherever they want, ways.
As customer shopping habits evolve whilst enjoying great value.
will remain so for the as a result of these new retail capabilities forseeable future so too will their expectations.
Those food Future retail trends retailers that will be successful in the future The UK food retail landscape is changing MIKE COUPE will needto develop new technologies rapidly.
The disruptive impact of technology SAINSBURYS CEO increasing the speed, flexibilityand is empowering customers and heightening convenience of their offer.
their expectations of how retailers will serve them in the future.
Customers are increasingly developing deeper relationships with retailers, sharing a greater amount of data and insight about their purchases as part of more sophisticated loyalty programmes.
The grocery retailers in particular have an unrivalled insight into the weekly shopping habits of customers and will need to invest in customer insight tools to anticipate and better serve changing customer needs.
In addition, the rise of the smart phone and increased levels of connectivity are enabling customers to research easily any planned purchase online.
The broad range of channels now on offer enables customers to shop whenever and wherever they want 13
