Board of Directors Building our future growth Douglas Sutherland Mark Dixon Dominik fide Daniel Lance Browne Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer and Senior Independent Chief Operating Officer Non-Executive Director Committee membership N N A R Appointment to Old Regus 27 August 2008 Founder 1 November 2015 27 August 2008 Appointment to IWG 14 October 2016 14 October 2016 27 September 2016 14 October 2016 Experience Douglas was Chief Financial Chief Executive Officer and Dominik served for over nine Lance was previously Officer of Skype during its founder, Mark Dixon is one years as the Chief Financial Chief Executive Officer acquisition by eBay and was of Europes best known Officer of Adecco Group, the then Chairman of Standard also Chief Financial Officer at entrepreneurs.
Since founding world leading provider of Chartered Bank China Ltd, SecureWave during its the Regus Group in Brussels, human resource solutions: Non-Executive Director of acquisition by PatchLink.
Belgium in 1989, he has Dominik was also the Adecco IMI plc, Senior Advisor to achieved a formidable Groups Head of Global the City of London, Chairman Prior to this, Douglas was an reputation for leadership and Solutions and was responsible of China Goldmines plc, Arthur Andersen Partner with innovation.
Prior to Regus for global information and Director of Business international management he established businesses in management and for Adecco Development at responsibilities.
He has served the retail and wholesale food Groups activity in China.
as a director of companies in industry.
A recipient of several multiple jurisdictions and was Dominik previously held the awards for enterprise, Mark the founding Chairman of the Chief Financial Officer position has revolutionised the way American Chamber of at DIS AG, the market leader business approaches its Commerce in Luxembourg.
in professional staffing in property needs with his Germany, before the company vision of the future of work.
was ultimately acquired by Adecco Group.
External appointments Douglas is currently also a Lance is Chairman of Director of Median Gruppe Travelex China, and a S. r. l. and Socrates Health WS Atkins International Solutions Inc.
Board gender diversity Balance of Non-Executive BOARD BALANCE and Executive Directors AND DIVERSITY 1 1 1 Female: 25% 1 Chairman: 1 2 The role of the Board is to 2 Male: 75% 2 Executive: 2 3 Non-Executive: 5 provide entrepreneurial 2 leadership and to review the overall strategic development 5 of the Group.
36 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Elmar Heggen Florence Pierre Franois Pauly Nina Henderson Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Director Director Director Director A A A N A R N R N R N R 1 June 2010 21 May 2013 19 May 2015 20 May 2014 14 October 2016 14 October 2016 14 October 2016 14 October 2016 Elmar has extensive Florence has over 30 years Franois has over 30 years of During her 30 year career with management experience.
Since of international corporate management experience in the Bestfoods and its predecessor 2006 he has been the Chief finance practice, holding senior banking sector.
Until April company CPC International, Financial Officer, Head of the positions at BNP, Financire 2016 Franois served as Chief Nina held a number of Corporate Centre and a Rothschild, Degroof Corporate Executive and Chairman of the international and North Member of the Executive Finance, 3i Infrastructure plc Management Board of Banque American general management Committee of the RTL Group, and her own M&A advisory Internationale Luxembourg.
and executive marketing the leading European boutique.
Florence has an Previous management positions, including Vice entertainment network.
Joining international perspective, experience includes Executive President of Bestfoods and the RTL Group in 2000 he has having worked in Chicago, New appointments at BIP President of Bestfoods Grocery.
previously held the positions of York, Paris and Brussels.
She Investment Partners S. A. Dexia She has also served as a director Vice President of Mergers and has also taught economics and Group and at Sal.
Oppenheim of numerous companies Acquisitions and Vice President finance, published a number of jr. & Cie. S. C. A. including AXA Financial Inc, of Strategy and Controlling.
books and articles on valuation, Royal Dutch Shell plc.
Del Prior to joining RTL, Elmar was and has been a member of Monte Food Company and Vice President & General several French Pactiv Corporation.
Manager of Felix Schoeller entrepreneurship and Digital Imaging in the UK.
Elmar is Chief Financial Officer Florence is a director at ESL Franois serves as the Senior Nina is currently a Nonand Member of the Executive Network, and also shares her Advisory Partner at Castik Executive Director of Hikma Committee of the RTL Group.
time between directorships, Capital Partners and as Pharmaceuticals PLC and He is also a Board Member of consulting and venture Non-Executive Director of Director of CNO Financial Group Atresmedia Spain and investments in companies Group la Luxembourgeoise Bankers Life, Washington Metropole television France providing innovative and SA, Edmund fide Rothschild National and Colonial Penn and Chairman of the Broadcast internet services.
Holding SA, Quilvest Wealth insurance companies.
Management SA, M&C S. p. A and also Managing Partner of Cobepa SA.
Franois also serves Henderson Advisory which on the Boards of several provides consumer industry Length of tenure of charitable organisations.
Non-Executive Directors Additionally, Nina is a Trustee of Drexel University where she 2 Key 1 0-3 years: 2 holds a Bachelor of Science with R Member of Remuneration Committee 2 3-6 years: 1 honours and received the 2010 3 6-9 years: 3 Member of Audit Committee A AJ Drexel Distinguished Alumni Award.
She is also a Director of N Member of Nomination Committee the Visiting Nurse Service of R Chairman, Remuneration Committee New York and the Foreign 1 A Chairman, Audit Committee Policy Association.
