Strategic Report Colleagues making the difference Our colleagues provide industry-leading customer service.
We support them with extensive skills training and apprenticeship opportunities, which helps them to exceed our customers expectations.
Committed, well-trained colleagues provide We were named Grocer magazines Grocer 33 Availability 1 our customers with great service day in, day Store of the Week 19 times during the year, Offering our customers the products they the highest of any grocery retailer, and we out, creating a major point of differentiation want ensures they have a good shopping also won the Grocer Gold Customer Service from our competitors.
In stores, online or experience.
This makes availability very and Availability Awards for the third year over the phone, colleagues work hard to important.
We offer colleagues job satisfaction, help customers and to meet their changing daily and have a minimum standard we a wide range of job roles, career progression shopping needs.
We have exceeded all our expect to achieve.
This helps to generate strong customer service targets again this year.
loyalty within our workforce, and nearly Definition: Minimum standards have Our colleagues deliver industry leading 28,000 of our colleagues have worked been exceeded.
customer service and we are committed with Sainsburys for 15 years or more.
Over to rewarding them well for their hard work.
Christmas and New Year we recruited nearly In August, we announced a four per cent 12,000 temporary colleagues to serve our pay increase for 137,000 colleagues who customers at the busiest time of year, giving Supermarket Convenience Online work in our stores across the country.
Our them valuable experience and a stepping new standard hourly rate is well above the stone into the workplace.
Governments National Living Wage and Customer service We provide extensive skills training, which will also apply to around 40,000 colleagues Our colleagues make the difference helps colleagues serve our customers better.
under the age of 25. by delivering great customer service.
We have seven Food Colleges for colleagues We monitor this every fortnight with It is important that colleagues are fully who work on our fresh food counters and a Mystery Shopper programme which engaged with business activities that in our store cafs.
The courses on offer measures the service level of the three directly relate to them, and that they have enhance craft and customer service skills, main components of the customer the opportunity to communicate their views and can lead to apprenticeship diplomas.
Every location has a Great We are also growing our digital capability Place to Work forum comprising colleagues to prepare us for the future, hiring 480 new Definition: Minimum standards have digital-focused colleagues.
nominated by their peers to represent been exceeded in all three of the them.
These have been designed to give We support colleagues who want to develop main components of the customer colleagues a voice and an opportunity to and progress their career within our business shoppingexperience.
get involved in helping to shape and guide and have a robust process in place to identify change in the business.
They are supported and nurture talent.
There is further opportunity Supermarket Convenience by a number of other initiatives used to within our business forwomen and minority understand and respond to the needs of our groups at senior levels of management colleagues, such as our Talkback survey, Gold Gold and we have established abusiness-wide performance reviews, listening groups and a mentoring scheme to help colleagues colleague suggestion scheme.
overcome barriers to career progression.
The Grocer 33 Service & Availability was year-to-date 2015 16 24 Our colleagues deliver industry-leading customer service each and every day AwardTraining & winning apprenticeship customer opportunities service Colleagues are cheerful, proactively look to help, provide product information when asked and seem to value us as customers SAINSBURYS CUSTOMER EAST MIDLANDS Commitment to diversity & inclusion
