James Fisher and Sons plc Business model and strategy Business model Our business model is based on high quality niche businesses offering a range of marine services predominantly to large multinational customers and governments globally.
High quality marine services Our businesses are linked together by a set of common marine service skills.
The Group provides solutions to customers through the provision of specialist equipment which is coupled with the detailed knowledge of our people, who are industry experts in their specific operations.
The equipment is often designed and assembled by our people, who then operate it and provide through-life support to our customers.
Whilst our expertise originates in the UK, the Group provides these solutions and support internationally and focuses on servicing less mature markets.
Addressing such customer demands for quality and improvement requires the continuous development of innovative products to maintain market leadership in our areas of service.
Entrepreneurial culture The Group has a decentralised management structure and encourages managers to be responsible for making timely decisions in the best interests of their businesses but with the back-up and resources of a larger group.
Our businesses have strong, experienced management teams that are rewarded according to the success of their businesses.
An entrepreneurial culture means that decisions are made quickly and in response to changes in the market and the competitive environment.
Buy and build Acquisitions are a key part of our business model which broaden our product range and service portfolio, deepen our management pool and $ potentially extend our geographical coverage for our large multinational customers.
James Fisher has acquired a number of owner-managed companies with specific expertise.
The Groups global reach has facilitated the internationalisation of the operations of these companies.
Subsequent strong organic growth has been achieved through investment in people, working capital and equipment.
