Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc Board of Directors Chairman Executive Directors Charles Rice Nick Henry Stuart Kilpatrick Chairman of the Board and Nominations Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director Committee Appointed: Joined the Board in April 2004 and Appointed: Joined James Fisher in February Appointed: Joined the Group in July 2010 and was appointed as Non-Executive Chairman on 2003 as Managing Director of James Fisher was appointed to the Board as Group Finance 1 August 2012.
Tankships Limited and was appointed Chief Director in December 2010.
Skills and experience: Charles has wide Skills and experience: Stuart is a member experience in commercial shipping having held a Skills and experience: Nick worked for of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of number of commercial and operational roles with 20 years for P&O Containers and P&O Ports, England and Wales and qualified with BDO Overseas Containers Limited.
During the 1990s of which 10 years were in senior management Binder Hamlyn.
Stuart was formerly Group he was responsible for the development of P&Os positions based in Singapore, Hong Kong, Finance Director of Empresaria Group plc, and he Trans European logistics and services division Australia, Netherlands and the Indian Subpreviously held senior finance roles with Vodafone and was appointed as a main board Director of Continent.
Nicks experience encompasses a Group plc, Charles Baynes plc and Elementis The Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation wide range of commercial and operational roles, Group plc.
Company P&O in 2001. including fleet management and information External appointments: None.
External appointments: Following a number of other directorships, Charles is currently Chairman External appointments: Member of the of the Transport Research Foundation.
Supervisory Board of the UK Chamber of Shipping.
Non-Executive Directors Malcolm Paul Aedamar Comiskey David Moorhouse Michael Salter Non-Executive Director # Senior Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director # CBE and Chairman of the Audit and Non-Executive Director # Remuneration Committees # Appointed: Joined the Board in Appointed: Joined the Board in Appointed: Joined the Board in Appointed: Joined the Board in February 2011.
Skills and experience: Aedamar Skills and experience: David was Skills and experience: Michael was Skills and experience: Malcolm is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered has been a partner at Linklaters LLP formerly Executive Chairman of formerly Chief Operating Officer at Accountants in England and Wales since 2001 and is a member of the Lloyds Register and earlier in his Abbot Group plc and earlier in his and was a founder and former firms International Board.
Aedamar career, CEO of John Brown plc, a career, CEO of Smedvig Limited and Finance Director of WSP Group plc specialises in international and director of Trafalgar House plc and General Manager of Bawden Drilling domestic mergers and acquisitions, Executive Vice President of Kvaerner UK Ltd. between 1987 and 2009.
Prior to that Malcolm was a principal at the joint ventures and fundraisings and is where he had particular responsibility External appointments: corporate finance boutique Financial very involved in expanding Linklaters for their engineering and process Non-Executive Director of SAR Decisions and an equity partner at business in Latin America.
joining Linklaters, Aedamar worked External appointments: for two years as a consultant with External appointments: Chairman Chairman of Braemer Shipping plc: Accenture in Dublin, Chicago and of Anthesis Consulting Group, a Non-Executive Director of OAO Belfast.
private equity backed international Sovcomflot: Life member of the environmental company.
UKs Foundation for Science and Technology.
Audit Committee # Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Annual Report and Accounts 2016 27
