Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc Directors report The Directors submit their report together with the audited financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31December 2016.
The Annual Report and Accounts have been drawn up and presented in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 and the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules.
The liabilities of the Directors in connection with this report are subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
The Strategic report together with Board of Directors, Corporate governance report, the Audit Committee report and the Directors remuneration report all form part of the Directors report.
The Directors report and Strategic report comprises the management report for the purposes of the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Principal activities, development and performance The Strategic report on pages 1 to 26 includes a description and review of the Groups principal activities and provides an indication of the likely future trends and factors that might affect the Groups development and performance.
The report also details the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company and the Groups approach to mitigating such risks.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company will be held at 11.00am on 4May 2017 at the Abbey House Hotel, Abbey Road, Barrow-in-Furness, Cumbria, LA13 0PA.
The Notice of AGM is set out on pages 108 to 113.
Results and dividends The Groups profit after tax for the financial year was 38.1m 2015: 40.7m.
The results are shown fully in the consolidated financial statements on pages 62 to 65 and summarised in the Financial review on pages 16 to 18.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 17.6p per share 2015: 16.0p making a total dividend of 26.15p per share for the year 2015: 23.80p.
Subject to approval at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 9May 2017 to ordinary shareholders who are on the register on 7April 2017.
Post balance sheet events There have been no post balance sheet events since 31December 2016.
Share capital The structure and details of the Companys share capital is set out in note 26 on page 95.
As at 28February 2017 the total number of ordinary shares in issue was 50,172,548.
Substantial shareholders At 17February 2017 the Company had been notied of the following interests of 3% or more in its issued ordinary shares: Ordinary shares Shareholder Number % Rowland Frederick Hart Jackson non-beneficial 8,703,093 17.35 Schroder Investment Management 4,982,612 9.93 Therapia Investments Limited 3,732,220 7.44 Baillie Gifford & Co Limited 2,582,577 5.15 Montanaro Asset Management 2,297,600 4.58 Standard Life Investments 2,182,541 4.35 Aberdeen Asset Management Limited 1,978,056 3.94 BlackRock Investment Mgt UK 1,773,732 3.54 Fidelity Worldwide Investment FIL 1,538,236 3.07 29,770,667 59.35 Total number of ordinary shares in issue 50,172,548 100 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 53 James Fisher and Sons plc Directors report continued Ordinary shares The Companys issued ordinary shares are fully paid and rank equally in all respects.
Subject to rights attaching to existing shares, any share may be issued with such rights or restrictions as the Company may by advisory resolution determine, or if the Company has not so determined, as the Directors may determine.
In addition to those rights conferred by law the holders of ordinary shares of 25p each are entitled to receive dividends when declared, the Companys Reports and Accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
These rights and obligations are set out in the Companys Articles of Association Articles.
Other than those specic provisions set out in the Articles, there are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them except that: certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws and market requirements relating to close periods : and pursuant to the Listing Rules, whereby certain employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys shares.
Deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote on the resolutions to be considered at the Companys forthcoming AGM are specified in the notes to the Notice of AGM on pages 108 to 113.
Preference shares The total number of preference shares in issue is 100,000, all of which are held by Therapia Investments Limited.
The 3.5% cumulative preference shares of 1 each carry a xed cumulative dividend of 3.5% per annum, payable in priority to any dividend on the ordinary shares and payable half yearly in arrears on 30June and 31December.
The preference shares carry one vote for every 1 in nominal amount.
On a winding up of the Company the preference shareholders have a right to receive, in preference to payments to ordinary shareholders, repayment of the capital paid up on such shares plus any accrued dividend.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Shares held by the Employee Share Trust As at 31December 2016, the James Fisher and Sons plc Employee Share Trust, held 45,368 ordinary shares 2015: 148,275 of the Company in trust against future Company obligations for share incentive schemes referred to in this report.
During the year, the Trust purchased 38,823 ordinary shares on the open market 2015: 120,000.
The rights attaching to these shares are controlled by independent trustees, who may take into account any recommendation by the Company.
Powers of Directors The powers of the Directors are determined by the Companys Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and the directions given by the Company in general meeting.
The Directors are authorised to issue and allot ordinary shares, to dis-apply statutory pre-emption rights and to make market purchases of the Companys shares.
The Directors will be seeking to renew the authorities granted to them in prior years at the forthcoming AGM.
Any shares purchased may be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
Purchase of own shares At the AGM held on 28April 2016, the Company was given authority to purchase up to 2,508,207 of its ordinary shares until the date of its next AGM.
No purchases were made during the year by the Company.
Directors The biographical details, together with their skills and experience, of our Directors who served on the Board for the financial year ended 31December 2016 are set out on page 27.
54 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors interests The beneficial interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company are: Holdings of ordinary shares of 25p each At 31 December At 31 December 2016 2015 Number Number Charles Rice 24,310 22,016 Nick Henry 191,022 158,917 Stuart Kilpatrick 38,045 28,210 Malcolm Paul 5,000 5,000 1 Between 31December 2016 and 28February 2017, there were no changes to the Directors shareholdings: 2 No Director has an interest in the preference shares of the Company, or in the shares of any subsidiary or associated undertaking.
Appointment, retirement and re-election of Directors A Director may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of shareholders in general meeting following nomination by the Board or a member or members entitled to vote at such meeting, or following retirement by rotation if the Director chooses to seek re-election at a general meeting.
In addition, the Directors may appoint a Director to ll a vacancy or as an additional Director, provided that the individual retires or is elected at the next AGM.
A Director may be removed by the Company in certain circumstances set out in the Articles for example bankruptcy or resignation, or by an ordinary resolution of the Company in general meeting.
Our Articles provide that any Director who has held ofce for more than three years since his last appointment must offer himself or herself up for re-election at the AGM and at least one-third of the Board is subject to re-election at each AGM.
However, having regard to the recommendation contained in the Code that all Directors should be subject to annual election by shareholders, all of our Directors will retire at the 2016 AGM and stand for re-election.
Directors and ofcers liability insurance The Company maintains directors and ofcers liability insurance for the Directors and ofcers of the Company and its subsidiaries and, to the extent permitted by section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors may be granted indemnity by the Company pursuant to the Companys Articles.
Copies of the Companys Articles may be obtained from the Company Secretary and are available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce during normal business hours.
Directors conict of interest Under the Companies Act 2006, a director must avoid a situation where a direct or indirect conict of interest may occur.
The Board has adopted established procedures to address the management of any potential and actual conicts of interest.
Stuart Kilpatrick, Group Finance Director, is a trustee of the Groups Shore Staff Pension Scheme.
This role could give rise to a situation where there is a conict of interest and after due consideration, the Board approved him to act as a trustee.
Were a conict to arise, Stuart Kilpatrick is required to excuse himself from participating in the relevant trustee discussion and decision making process.
Additional information for shareholders The Articles may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
Emissions reporting The information required to be included in this Directors report pursuant to the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 in respect of greenhouse gas emissions is included in the Corporate responsibility report on page 25.
Employment of people with disabilities People with disabilities are given full and fair consideration, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities, when applying for vacancies.
In addition to complying with legislative requirements, the Group strives to ensure that disabled employees are treated fairly and that their training, career development and promotion needs are met.
For those employees who become disabled during the course of their employment, the Group will provide support, whether through re-training or re-deployment, so that they will continue to be employed, wherever practicable, in the same job, or if this is not practicable, every effort will be made to nd suitable alternative employment.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 55 James Fisher and Sons plc Directors report continued Employment policies The Chief Executive officer is the Board member responsible for employee matters and he is assisted by the Group Head of Human Resources.
The Group values the diverse backgrounds of all its people and works to create an open atmosphere of trust, honesty and respect.
Harassment or discrimination, including that involving race, colour, religion, gender, age, disability, sexual orientation or any other similarly protected status, is not acceptable.
The Group is committed to providing equal employment opportunities for all of its people and all job applicants based on abilities of the employee and the needs of the business Group-wide.
It is Group policy to comply with all applicable laws governing employment practices and not to discriminate on the basis of any unlawful criteria.
Employment arrangements are intended to be fair, equitable and consistent with the skills and abilities of the employee and the needs of the business.
The Group also actively encourages the training of its employees through participation in industry training schemes.
Additionally, both in-house and external training is provided for staff.
The Groups diversity policy is reviewed annually and approved by the Board and is available on the Companys website.
Employee involvement Developing and maintaining employee engagement with the Company is important.
The Group communicates with its employees on matters of concern to them as employees and on the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the Company principally through regular presentations by senior management and by means of publication of a Company newsletter.
Where decisions are being made which are likely to affect employees interests, such employees or their representatives are consulted so that their views can be taken into account.
The Group also operates a number of option schemes and long-term incentive plans to encourage employees to participate in the ownership of the Company.
significant agreements change of control The Company is a guarantor of all of the Groups bilateral bank facilities which upon a change of control could be withdrawn.
The Singapore Submarine Rescue Service Agreement made between James Fisher Singapore PTE Ltd. and First Response Marine PTE Ltd. dated 17October 2008 may terminate upon a change of control of the Company or James Fisher Singapore PTE Ltd.
The rules of the Companys LTIP, ESOS and Sharesave schemes set out the consequences of a change of control on the rights of participants under those schemes.
Participants are generally able to exercise their options on a change of control, provided that the relevant performance conditions have been satisfied.
Except as provided above, the Company is not party to any agreements which take effect, alter or terminate in the event of a change of control of the Company.
Furthermore there are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of ofce or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that arise in the event of a change of control of the Company.
Financial instruments, research and development Information on the Groups financial risk management objectives and policies, including its exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash ow risk can be found in note 25 on page 89.
The Group is committed to continue investing in research and development.
Details of the Groups expenditure on research and development is set out in notes 4, on page 70, and 13, on page 75.
Information required by UK listing rule 9.8.
4 There are no disclosures to be made under listing rule 9.8.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, the financial position of the Group and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties are set out in the Strategic report on pages 21 to 22.
The Groups primary sources of funding are bilateral facilities with a small core group of banks.
These bilateral facilities totalled 175m at 31December 2016 2015: 185.0m.
Compliance with banking covenants is tested half yearly for the ratio of net debt: EBITDA, interest cover and xed charge cover.
No breaches in covenants occurred during the year.
The Group meets its day to day working capital requirements through operating cash ows, with borrowings in place to fund acquisitions and capital expenditure.
The Group had 49.7m 2015: 67.4m of undrawn committed facilities as at 31December 2016.
The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonable changes in trading performance, confirm that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current banking facilities.
56 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Group uses cash ow forecasts derived from budgets, forecasts and medium-term planning to identify headroom under the covenant tests.
After making enquiries and having evaluated the on-going trading of the businesses, the Directors have reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue to operate for a period considered to be at least 12 months from the date of this report.
Accordingly, the Directors consider it appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Viability statement The Directors have assessed the Groups viability over a three year period to 31December 2019.
The Directors have determined that this is most relevant time period because it is consistent with the Groups planning process whereby the Board reviews the Groups strategy and its detailed three year plan.
This is reviewed and considered in light of the Groups current position and prospects together with factors that might affect the three year plan.
The Board carefully assesses the performance and prospects of each business regarding entering new markets and geographies, current and expected growth rates, prospective new projects and the timing of such projects and the robustness of individual business performance.
The Group three year plan overlays a number of assumptions and sensitivities which are reviewed by the Board: this includes a review of whether additional bank facilities will be required and available in the plan period.
The review also includes a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group as set out on pages 21 and 22, and the potential impact on its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity over the period.
The potential consequence of Brexit and continued global economic uncertainty and the Groups ability to mitigate the impact of any of these risks was a particular focus in 2016.
The Directors have also taken account of the diverse markets and geographies in which the Groups businesses operate, and their ability to react quickly to change, to help minimise the effect of the principal risks effecting the Group.
Based on their assessment of the Groups prospects and viability, the Directors confirm they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue to operate and to meet its liabilities, as they fall due, for the period to 31December 2019.
Auditor Each Director in ofce at the date of approval of this Directors report confirms that: so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors is unaware: and he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
A resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG LLP as auditor of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
The Directors are satisfied that the auditor continues to remain independent of the Group.
The Audit Committee reports on the independence of the external auditor on page 36.
Directors responsibility statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Company financial statements each financial year in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements on the same basis.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue in business.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 57 James Fisher and Sons plc Directors report continued The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing the Strategic report, Directors report, Directors remuneration report and Corporate governance report that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors responsibility statement in respect of the annual financial report We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Strategic report and the Directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
We consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
N P Henry S C Kilpatrick Chief Executive officer Group Finance Director On behalf of the Board of Directors 28February 2017 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
