Strategic report Governance Financial statements Strategy The Groups strategy is to leverage marine skills in areas of specialist expertise to a global market.
James Fisher has a range of entrepreneurially led businesses which are market leaders in their specific operational niche.
Our businesses operate in demanding environments where strong marine service and specialist engineering skills are valued and rewarded.
We seek to provide solutions to our customers in the less mature and fast growing markets where they value trusted and quality suppliers.
Our niche operations are integrated into a wider service offering to a diverse range of end markets.
Our focus on operational excellence requires that our businesses: are cash generative: have operating margins in excess of 10%: and provide returns on capital employed in excess of 15%.
Bolt-on acquisitions broaden the range of products and services that we provide.
Our acquisition strategy has focused on niche businesses with a strong entrepreneurial culture which fit well with our operating style and growth strategy.
As a cash generative Group with a strong balance sheet, businesses are usually acquired using existing cash or borrowing resources.
The businesses acquired have a good track record and typically need additional resources for their next growth phase.
Where business bolt-on to existing businesses we seek to optimise shared back office functions, purchasing opportunities and cross-selling within the Group.
Galloper wind farm contract In February 2016, James Fisher Marine Services JFMS was awarded a marine services and support contract worth in excess of 25m by Galloper Wind Farm Limited GWFL, a joint equity partnership between RWE Innogy UK, UK Green Investment Bank, Siemens Financial Services and Macquarie Capital.
Under the contract, JFMS will be responsible for providing key elements of marine services and support to the GWFL team during the construction phase of the 336 mega-watt wind farm, located 27km off the coast of Suffolk, UK.
Services will include construction site set-up, marine co-ordination, Offshore Wind Management System OWMS, crew transfer vessels, vessel refueling and emergency response services.
JFMS will also provide ad-hoc diving services, if required, the operation of remotely operated vehicles ROVs, and unexploded ordnance identification and disposal.
The offshore construction phase of the project is scheduled to complete during 2017, and the wind farm is due to commence operation in March 2018.
