CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their report and audited consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2016.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE As a company with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange, we are committed to complying with the Code, which is available on the FRC website at frc.
Throughout the accounting period, we have complied with the provisions of Sections A to E of the Code as detailed below, with the exception of Section B.
1.2, as explained in the following table.
Provision Requirement Non-compliance Between 1 January 2016 and 25 April 2016, excluding the Chairman, there were six Non-Executive Directors four Independent and two Non-Independent and four Executive Directors.
On 26 April 2016, James Twining stepped down from the Board.
At least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise The Company became compliant with the Code on 1 May 2016, when Bruce Carnegie-Brown was B.
1.2 non-executive directors appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director.
determined by the Board to be The Company remained compliant with the Code until 31 December 2016, when Richard Harvey independent.
resigned as an Independent Non-Executive Director.
As at the date of this Report, excluding the Chairman, there are three Executive Directors, four Independent Non-Executive Directors and two Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman or an Independent Between 1 January 2016 and 12 June 2016 Lord Leach of Fairford a Non-Independent NonB.
2.1 Non-Executive Director should Executive Director chaired this Committee.
The Company become compliant with the Code on 12 chair the nomination committee.
June 2016 when Geoffrey Howe Chairman of the Board took over as Chairman of this Committee.
Since 1997, other than a short period following the cessation We believe our Board functions very well at its current of Lord Leach's role on 12 June 2016 and the appointment of size and that the Board has an appropriate combination Adam Keswick on 1 September 2016, JLT has appointed two of Independent and Non-Independent Non-Executive representatives from Jardine Matheson to the Board.
Jardine Directors, in-line with the Codes principle that no individual Matheson currently has a 40.16% interest in the Company.
or small group of individuals should be able to dominate the As a result, the Jardine Matheson-appointed Directors are Boards decision-making.
considered to be Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors.
There are at least three Independent Non-Executive The relationship with Jardine Matheson is maintained on an Directors on each Board Committee and all the Committees arms-length basis as detailed on page 60 and in note 32 on have a majority of independent directors.
The business and profits of JLT have grown significantly The Jardine Matheson-appointed directors, Lord Sassoon and in recent years and we believe the overall contribution of Adam Keswick, will be standing for re-election and election Jardine Matheson and its nominated Directors has been respectively, at the Companys AGM.
In addition to their Board material to this.
roles, the Jardine Matheson-appointed Directors hold Committee Jardine Matheson has clearly demonstrated that it is a memberships.
Lord Sassoon is a member of the Audit & Risk, committed, long-term shareholder.
We believe that its Nominations and Remuneration Committees and Adam Keswick interests are fundamentally aligned to the interests of all is a member of the Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
In the Boards experience, over many As a consequence of the above, JLT has, for a number of years, conflicts of interest between Jardine Matheson and years, not been in full compliance with Code provision B.
1.2. the other shareholders of JLT rarely occur, but, if they do for Nonetheless, JLT has always sought to satisfy shareholders example where Jardine Matheson has sought to increase with an appropriate explanation of any areas where it does its shareholding in JLT the Jardine Matheson-appointed not comply with the Code and to provide a full explanation Directors absent themselves from any relevant discussion.
for retaining two Jardine Matheson directors on the Board.
We believe that the continuing support of Jardine Matheson The Board strongly believes that the continuation of these has been, and will continue to be, of great importance to arrangements is in the best interests of the Companys the success of JLT, especially in Asia, a key growth market shareholders for the following reasons: for the Company, where Jardine Mathesons reputation and connections are of great value to us.
92 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The Independent Non-Executive Directors regularly consider the composition of our Board, and believe that the Board and its Committees have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company to enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively, as set out in the Code.
The following describes in more detail how we have complied with the respective provisions of the Code: A LEADERSHIP B EFFECTIVENESS A1 The role of the Board B1 The composition of the Board The Board is responsible for setting the Companys strategy The Nominations Committee annually reviews the balance and monitoring the performance of the Company as a whole.
and experience of the Board.
The Nominations Committee Details of matters discussed by the Board are set out on has also considered the issue of director independence and page 59. knowledge and confirmed that the Directors have the right level of experience to promote the long-term performance of the A2 Division of Responsibilities Company.
Details of the Directors experience are shown in the The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are chart on page 60. distinctly separate and are clearly defined.
The Chairman, B2 Appointments to the Board Geoffrey Howe, is responsible for the leadership and governance of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness, setting The process for the appointment of new Directors to the Board agendas, ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, timely is led by the Nominations Committee.
Further details of the and clear information and that there is effective communication appointments made during the year and succession planning with shareholders.
He facilitates the effective contribution to activities can be found in the Nominations Committees report the Board of the Non-Executive Directors in particular ensuring on pages 71 to 72. constructive relationships between the Executive and NonB3 Commitment Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors are advised on appointment of the time The Group Chief Executive, Dominic Burke, is responsible commitment expected of them, and this is reviewed regularly.
for the day-to-day operation of the business in line with the External appointments which might impact on existing time strategy and commercial objectives agreed by the Board.
commitments must be agreed with the Chairman.
He is also responsible for promoting and conducting the affairs of the Company with the highest standards of ethics, integrity B4 Development and corporate governance.
All new Directors are invited to take part in a comprehensive induction programme.
Details of the programme undertaken A3 Non-Executive Directors by Bruce Carnegie-Brown and Adam Keswick, who were both The Non-Executive Directors provide strong and robust appointed during the year, are set out on page 61. independent oversight to the proceedings of the Board.
In addition, they bring external experience from other financial B5 Information and Support services companies and international businesses.
The letters The Chairman and Group Company Secretary work together to of appointment for the Non-Executive Directors are available ensure that all Directors receive full and accurate information in for inspection at the AGM of the Company.
Directors confirm on appointment they have sufficient time to B6 Evaluation fulfil their commitments.
The Board and Committees undertake internal evaluations every year.
The Board underwent an external evaluation exercise in 2016 and the results the Board evaluation are shown on page 61.
B7 Re-election All Directors were subject to shareholder election or re-election at the 2016 AGM, and the same process will apply at the 2017 AGM.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 93 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND STRATEGIC REPORT C ACCOUNTABILITY Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc is a holding company, C1 Financial and Business Reporting domiciled and incorporated in the UK with Registered Number 01679424, for an international group of insurance brokers, risk The Strategic Report, which can be found on pages 12 to 53, specialists and employee benefits consultants.
sets out details of the Companys performance, business model and strategy, and the risks and uncertainties relating to the The Strategic Report on pages 12 to 53 covers the activities of Companys future prospects.
the Group, its performance during the year and likely future developments.
C2 Risk Management and Internal Control The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management and internal control systems, and for regularly reviewing their RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS effectiveness.
The activities of the Audit & Risk Committee, The financial statements for the Company for the year to 31 which supports the Board in this area, are described on pages December 2016 are detailed on pages 173 to 179.
These 63 to 70 and the Risk Management Report is included on are prepared in accordance with the Generally Accepted pages 42 to 45.
Accounting Practice in the UK, also known as UK GAAP.
C3 Audit & Risk Committee and auditors The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 20.6 pence The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the per share be paid on 4 May 2017 to shareholders on the Audit & Risk Committee, which is responsible for overseeing the register on 31 March 2017.
This brings the total dividend for the Companys financial reporting processes, internal controls and year to 32.2 pence per share, 5.2% higher than 2016. risk management framework, and the work undertaken by the external auditors.
SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATED COMPANIES A table of the Companys subsidiaries and associated D REMUNERATION companies is included on pages 164 to 171.
In addition, the Company operated though branches in a number of countries.
D1 The level and components of remuneration The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the IMPORTANT EVENTS Companys remuneration policy.
The key principles and framework adopted by the Committee are set out in the The Board decided during 2016 to sell the major part of the Committees report on pages 73 to 91.
Group's Thistle business and an agreement for its disposal was signed on 30 December 2016.
The remaining elements of the D2 Procedure business were incorporated into the JLT Specialty division.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the remuneration of all Executive Directors.
Details of the On 27 January 2017 an agreement was signed for the composition and the activities of the Committee are set out in acquisition by JLT of a 50.1% stake in Construction Risk the Committees Report on pages 73 to 91.
Partners LLC, a leading construction risk and surety specialist insurance broker in the US, for cash consideration of $50m, subject to the achievement of performance conditions in the 12 E RELATIONSHIPS WITH SHAREHOLDERS month period following completion.
The terms of the transaction allow JLT to increase its shareholding to 100% over time.
E1 Dialogue with shareholders The Board seeks to engage actively with all shareholders.
EMPLOYMENT POLICIES Details of activity undertaken in this area can be found on page 62.
The Group aims to provide an environment where individuals can excel.
Wide share ownership, share option schemes and E2 Constructive use of the AGM the Share Incentive Plan encourage employee engagement.
The AGM provides the Board with an important opportunity Regular briefings and consultation, using the JLT intranet where to meet with shareholders.
All of the Directors including the possible, keep the employees informed about the Groups Chairmen of the Board Committees are expected to attend performance and matters that affect them as employees.
and will be available to answer questions from shareholders attending the meeting.
94 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Additionally we offer a wide range of benefits for employees STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES including health and lifestyle benefits.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial DIVERSITY statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial The Group is an equal opportunities employer and encourages statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors diversity.
We are fully committed to ensuring that disabled have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance people are afforded equality of opportunity in respect of entering with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, as and continuing employment with us.
If existing employees adopted by the European Union, and the parent Company become disabled, every effort is made to make sure their financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom employment with the Group continues.
If such employees are Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom unable to continue to work, every effort is made to safeguard Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The Group aims to provide training, development and promotion opportunities that are identical, as Under company law, the Directors must not approve the far as possible, for disabled and non-disabled employees.
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and The information about the Groups employees, employment of the Company, and of the profit or loss of the Group and the disabled people and employment practices is in the Groups Company for that period.
Corporate Responsibility statement set out on pages 46 to 53.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: POLITICAL DONATIONS select suitable accounting policies and then apply them It is JLT Group policy not to make donations to any EU or nonconsistently: EU political party.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING and IFRS issued by the IASB and applicable UK Accounting The Groups Corporate Responsibility statement is set out Standards have been followed, subject to any material on pages 46 to 53.
This includes the Groups position on the departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent environment as well as the Groups Greenhouse Gas Emissions company financial statements respectively: and Report for the year ended 31 December 2016. prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting At 31 December 2016 and 10 February 2017 the latest records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys practicable date prior to the date of this report, the Company transactions and disclose, with reasonable accuracy at any had been notified of the following significant holdings of voting time, the financial position of the Company and the Group, and rights in its shares: enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies 31 December 10 February 2016 2017 Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for % of voting % of voting Shareholder rights rights safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and, hence, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and JMH Investments Limited 40.16 40.16 detection of fraud and other irregularities.
MFS Investment Management 8.85 8.76 The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and Royal Bank of Canada 4.16 3.98 integrity of the corporate and financial information included EBT Trustee on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 95 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 4.
Principal Risks & Environmental Factors Reviewing the Companys position, performance, business model and companys Principal Risks in the context of the key environment strategy.
Each of the Directors whose names and functions are factors considerations over the next three years.
These included listed on pages 56 and 57 confirms that, to the best of their key trends, issues, uncertainties eg regulatory environment, knowledge: known potentially impactful events eg UK EU Referendum and emerging risks eg geo-political risk.
the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true As a result of this assessment, the Directors can confirm it is and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and their reasonable expectation that, over the next three years, profit of the Group: and JLT will continue to operate and meet its on-going liabilities as they fall due.
This statement is underpinned by various the Strategic Report, contained in pages 12 to 53 of the mitigating factors including the Groups control environment, Annual Report, includes a fair review of the development capital requirements and resources and the quality and and performance of the business and the position of the accessibility of facilities.
Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Each Director as at the date of this report, further confirms that: GOING CONCERN a so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant The Strategic Report on pages 12 to 53 includes information audit information of which the Companys auditors are on the Group structure, the performance of our businesses, unaware: and the markets in which we operate and the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the business.
The Financial Statements b the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have on pages 101 to 171 include information on our Group financial taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of results, cash flow and balance sheet position.
any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The Directors have also considered the Group's cash flow projections presented in the review of the budget for the full This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in year to 31 December 2017 as well as work undertaken for the accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Viability Statement.
The Directors are satisfied that these cash Companies Act 2006. flow projections, taking into account reasonably possible risk sensitivities associated with these forecasts and the Group's JLT VIABILITY STATEMENT current funding and facilities, alongside the Group's funding strategy, show that the Group will continue to operate for the As prescribed by provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate foreseeable future.
Governance Code, the Board of Directors have conducted a detailed assessment of those risk events that could threaten The Directors therefore continue to have a reasonable JLT Groups ability to continue to operate and meet its liabilities expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue as they fall due.
For this assessment Directors have selected a in operational existence for the foreseeable future and continue period of three years over which the Viability Statement would to adopt a going concern basis in accordance with the be considered.
"This timescale is believed to be appropriate guidance ""Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for given its alignment with the Groups business and strategic the Directors of UK Companies 2009"" issued by the FRC in planning process."
JLT has undertaken a rigorous assessment, preparing the financial statements.
which included the following core components: There has been no significant change in the financial or trading 1.
Financial Sensitivity Testing For example: levels of planned position of the Group since 31 December 2016. revenue, the development of key strategic operations, changes in foreign exchange and interest rates, and cash consumption.
Risk Scenario Testing Assessing the impact of a Directors Indemnity and Insurance combination of principal risks crystallising during the viability period.
The Company provides the appropriate level of Directors' and Officers' Liability Insurance in respect of any legal actions 3.
Reverse Stress Testing Estimating the quantum of a loss, brought against its Directors, in addition to the indemnity which may ultimately threaten the companys viability, if not included in the Company's Articles of Association.
Neither the effectively managed, then reviewing this in the context of one of insurance nor the indemnity provides cover where the relevant the key risks facing an insurance intermediary eg E&O risk.
Director or Officer acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
96 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION LISTING RULE COMPLIANCE The Company has included in this report a Strategic Report on pages 12 to 53 which provides an overview of the Companys business, its position and performance during the year ended 31 December 2016.
The Strategic Report also includes any likely developments in the Group and the Company.
8 R, the content of the Management Report can be found in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report on pages 12 to 53 and pages 92 to 99 respectively.
4 C R, the information required by section LR 9.8.
4 R can be found at the locations provided in the table below: Section Subject Location 1 Interest capitalised Not applicable 2 Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable 3 N A Section 3 removed from the FCA handbook Not applicable 4 Long-term incentive schemes Page 125 5 Director waiver of emoluments Not applicable 6 Director waiver of future emoluments Not applicable 7 Non pre-emptive issues of shares for cash Not applicable 8 Non pre-emptive issues by a major subsidiary undertaking Not applicable 9 Any participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary undertaking Not applicable 10 Contracts of significance Not applicable 11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Not applicable 12 Shareholder waivers of dividend See paragraph below 13 Shareholder waiver of future dividend See paragraph below 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders Page 60 In relation to LR 9.8.
4R 12 and 13 the Trustees of the JLT Employee Benefit Trust agree to waive dividends on the shares held by the Trust to meet the awards under the Long Term Incentive Plans and Senior Executive Share Scheme.
All the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION to a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, SHARE CAPITAL AND SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions as may be appropriate at that time.
Movements in the share capital of the Company during the year ended 31 December 2016 are set out in note 24 on page At 31 December 2016, the Jardine Lloyd Thompson Employee 147.
At 31 December 2016, the issued share capital consisted Benefit Trust the Trust held 8,715,895 shares in the Company of 220,181,007 ordinary shares of 5 pence each, of which representing 3.98% of the issued capital excluding treasury 1,143,131 shares were held as treasury shares for which voting shares.
At 10 February 2017 being the latest practicable date rights would not be exercised.
prior to the posting of this report, the Trust held 8,667,083 shares representing 3.96% of the issued capital excluding The Company has one class of share capital, being ordinary treasury shares.
shares of 5 pence each, and all the shares rank pari passu.
No person holds securities carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company did not purchase any DIVIDENDS AND DISTRIBUTIONS shares during the year.
Shareholders can declare final dividends by passing an ordinary The Board has the power to implement the purchase by the resolution, but the amount of the dividend cannot exceed the Company of its own shares in accordance with the power amount recommended by the Board.
granted at the AGM each year, and will be seeking renewal of that power at the forthcoming AGM within the limits set out in The Board can pay interim dividends whenever the financial the notice of that meeting.
position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies such payment.
The Board can withhold payment of all or any part of any dividend or other monies payable in respect of the Companys shares from any person with a 0.25 per cent interest as set out in the Articles if that person has been served with Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 97 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE a notice after failure to provide the Company with information VARIATION OF RIGHTS concerning interests in those shares required to be provided If, at any time, the capital of the Company is divided into under the Companies Act.
The Directors may also retain any different classes of shares then, subject to statute, the Articles dividends payable on shares on which the Company has a lien, specify that rights attached to any class of shares may be and may apply the same in or towards satisfaction of the debts, varied with the written consent of the holders of at least 75% liabilities or engagements in respect of which the lien exists.
in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general VOTING RIGHTS meeting of the holders of those shares.
At every such separate general meeting, the quorum is two persons holding or On a show of hands at a general meeting, every member representing by proxy at least one third in nominal value of the present in person has one vote and on a poll, every member issued shares of the class calculated excluding any shares held who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for each as treasury shares.
In the case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior holder who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, will be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority will be determined We will, as in previous years, be seeking renewal of our by the order in which the names stand in the Register of standing share buy-back authority at the forthcoming Annual Members in respect of the share.
Voting rights in relation to General Meeting of up to a maximum of 10% of the Companys treasury shares are suspended and the voting rights are not issued capital.
normally exercised in respect of the shares held in the Trust.
As was the case last year, we will not be seeking shareholder The Trust holds shares which are used to satisfy awards made approval for a Rule 9 dispensation in relation to this authority under the Companys share plans.
pursuant to the Takeover Code.
This means that in the event that the Directors were to initiate a buy-back, in order to avoid RESTRICTIONS ON VOTING triggering a mandatory offer obligation upon Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited JMH under Rule 37 of the Takeover Code, No member, unless the Directors otherwise determine, is JMH would need to participate in any such buy-back so that entitled to vote either in person or by proxy at any general its overall percentage holding which at 10 February 2017 was meeting in respect of any shares held by the member if any call 40.16% did not increase following the buy-back.
or other sum then payable by the member in respect of that Although the Company has not utilised the authority to buy share remains unpaid.
In addition, no member is entitled to back shares since 2008, the Board believes that it would vote if the member has been served with a notice after failure to be in the interests of all shareholders for the Company to provide the Company with information concerning interests in continue to have the right to purchase its own shares in the those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act.
We would only exercise this authority if we believe that it is in the best interests of DEADLINES FOR VOTING shareholders and would result in an improvement in earnings per share.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy or in relation to corporate members, by corporate representative.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not less TRANSFER OF SHARES than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of All transfers of shares which are in certificated form may be the meeting or adjourned meeting, and the notice of AGM will effected by transfer in writing in any usual or common form, or specify the deadline for exercising voting rights.
in any other form acceptable to the Directors.
The instrument A member that is a corporation may appoint an individual to of transfer must be signed by or on behalf of the transferor act on its behalf at a general meeting or class meetings as and except in the case of fully-paid shares by or on behalf a corporate representative.
The person so authorised shall of the transferee.
The transferor shall remain the holder of the be entitled to exercise the same powers on behalf of such shares concerned until the name of the transferee is entered in corporation as the corporation could exercise if it were an the Register of Members of the Company.
Transfers of shares individual member of the Company.
which are in uncertificated form are effected by means of the CREST system.
98 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of certificated The final dividend proposed by the Board page 12 : shares that are not fully paid provided that partly paid shares An indication of likely future developments in the business must be transferable free from restrictions and investors must of the Company pages 12 to 53 : and be provided with sufficient information to allow dealing on Use of financial instruments, information on the Groups an open and proper basis.
The Directors may also refuse to financial risk management objectives and policies, its register an allotment or transfer of shares whether fully-paid or exposure to credit risk and foreign currency risk and its use not in favour of more than four persons jointly.
If the Directors of financial instruments pages 44 to 45. refuse to register an allotment or transfer, they must give the transferee notice of the refusal as soon as is practicable and, in ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING any event, within two months after the date on which the letter of allotment or transfer was lodged with the Company.
The AGM notice is included in the Circular that accompanies this Annual Report.
The meeting will be held at noon The Directors may decline to recognise any instrument of on Thursday 27 April 2017 at the St Botolph Building, transfer unless the instrument of transfer is in respect of only 138 Houndsditch, London, EC3A 7AW.
At that meeting, one class of share and, when submitted for registration, is shareholders will be asked to vote separately on the Annual accompanied by the relevant share certificates and such other Report, and on the Report on Directors Remuneration.
evidence as the Directors may reasonably require.
Separate resolutions will also be proposed on every Subject to statutes and applicable CREST rules, the Directors substantially different issue.
A poll will be held on each may determine that any class of shares may be transferred by resolution to ensure that the votes of shareholders unable to means of the CREST system, or that shares of any class should attend the meeting are taken into account, and the results of cease to be so held and transferred.
the voting will be placed on our website as soon as possible after the meeting.
The special business includes the renewal A shareholder does not need to obtain the approval of the within prescribed limits of: Company, or of other shareholders of shares in the Company, for a transfer of shares to take place.
The Directors authority to allot Company securities within The Investment Association guidelines: The Directors are not aware of any agreements between shareholders that might result in restrictions on the transfer of The disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights: and shares or on voting rights.
The authority of the Company to purchase its own shares by way of market purchases.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS The powers of the Directors are determined by UK legislation Following review, the Board proposes that and the Articles of Association.
The Directors are authorised  LLP are re-appointed as the to issue and allot shares, and to undertake purchases of Company auditors.
A resolution proposing this will be put to Company shares, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM.
Any amendment of the Articles requires shareholder approval in accordance with legislation in force from time to time.
Copies will be available at the Companys AGM and can also be accessed on the Groups website: jlt.
INFORMATION SET OUT IN THE STRATEGIC REPORT By Order of the Board.
As permitted by the Companies Act, the following information Jonathan Lloyd required by law to be included in the Report of the Directors Group Company Secretary has been included in the Strategic Report: 28 February 2017 Information about our people page 7 : Information about greenhouse gas emissions pages 47 to 48 : Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 99 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Includes the report of the Independent Auditor and the primary reporting statements as well as the accounting policies under which the financial statements have been prepared.
101 Independent Auditors Report 137 Trade and other receivables 108 Consolidated Income Statement 138 Cash and cash equivalents 109 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 138 Trade and other payables 110 Consolidated Balance Sheet 139 Financial instruments by category 111 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 142 Borrowings 145 Deferred income taxes 112 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 146 Provisions for liabilities and charges 113 Significant Accounting Policies 147 Share capital and premium 147 Non-controlling interests NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 148 Other reserves Contains the supporting notes to the financial statements 149 Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust which provide further detail and analysis 149 Cash generated from operations 119 Alternative income statement 150 Business combinations 120 Segment information 155 Business disposals 123 Operating profit 157 Retirement benefit obligations 124 Investment income 162 Related-party transactions 124 Finance income and costs 163 Commitments 125 Employee information 163 Subsequent events 127 Services provided by the Companys auditor and its 164 Subsidiaries and associated companies associates 128 Income tax expense COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 129 Earnings per share Includes UK GAAP accounts of the company 130 Dividends 130 Goodwill 173 Independent Auditors Report 132 Other intangible assets 174 Income Statement 133 Property, plant and equipment 174 Balance Sheet 134 Investments in associates 175 Statement of Changes in Equity 135 Available-for-sale financial assets 176 Significant Accounting Policies 136 Derivative financial instruments 177 Notes to the Company Financial Statements
