STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS MODEL CLIENTS AND SERVICES Risk & Insurance Employee Benefits Acting as an intermediary for our clients with insurers and reinsurers Acting as an advisor, intermediary and service provider in the and providing related risk management, analytical, advisory and pensions consultancy and administration, employee benefits other administrative services.
and healthcare, life insurance and wealth management sectors.
Clients include multinational corporations and other public and Clients include multinational corporations, public and private private sector organisations, retail insurance brokers and individuals.
sector organisations, pension trustees and individuals.
FEES AND COMMISSIONS Fees are typically charged either on a time-cost Commissions are typically based on a percentage of the or a fixed-fee basis and are earned in both the insurance or reinsurance premium being paid by the client.
Employee Benefits and Risk & Insurance business Frequently, the level of this commission payment is also groups.
These fees are paid by the client rather subject to negotiation with the client.
This commission is than the insurer or reinsurer.
paid by the insurer or reinsurer rather than the client and is largely earned in the Groups Risk & Insurance businesses.
ACQUISITIONS INVESTMENT INCOME PEOPLE Investment income arises from the holding of cash The Group continues to retain and recruit The Groups Strategy see page 23 includes and investments on behalf of clients.
The holding of market-leading individuals across all of its a commitment to grow its Specialty-led client monies largely relates to premium and claims global operations.
capabilities and build out its international payments which the business holds for a short period reach and relevance.
Acquisitions have JLT now has 10,232 employees working of time in its role as the intermediary.
been, and will continue to be, an important for the Group.
Key to the success of our element of delivering on this strategy.
recruitment approach has been retaining and attracting individuals who not only add In 2016, the Group made 7 new acquisitions further capabilities, but also fit JLTs distinctive for a total consideration of 25.3 million.
In the last 5 years, the Group has made The Group is committed to investing in the a total of 39 acquisitions for a total COSTS training and development of all its employees.
Two of the largest underlying costs to the business relate to staff and premises.
In 2016, these represented 62.3% and 5.1% respectively of total revenues.
There is a clear focus on cost discipline with the trading margin being a Key Performance Indicator of the Group.
In addition, the Group has a rolling programme of investment in areas such as information technology, process improvement and other enhancements to client service.
PROFIT REINVESTED IN BUSINESS REMITTED TO SHAREHOLDERS 22 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016
