STRATEGIC REPORT OUR MARKET CONTEXT JLT is one of the worlds leading providers of insurance, reinsurance and employee benefits related advice, brokerage and services.
Our business is influenced by seven major factors: 1 MACRO-ECONOMIC GROWTH TRENDS JLTs long-term growth prospects are shaped more by policies.
At the same time, a strong US dollar could adversely underlying macro-economic and demographic factors affect growth prospects in the US and weakening currencies than short-term insurance and reinsurance rating trends.
could exacerbate capital outflows from emerging economies, Higher levels of economic growth are both the cause especially China.
A plethora of political uncertainties exists as and effect of greater levels of corporate activity, a number of countries go to vote in early 2017 in Europe, the investment and increasing personal wealth.
This activity UK invokes Article 50 to trigger the process of leaving the EU stimulates demand for our services, whether that is and the new administration takes charge of the White House.
placing the insurance for a major infrastructure project, If political uncertainties are safely negotiated and various fiscal or helping a company arrange and manage its employee and structural reforms are implemented, the global economy benefits programme.
is likely to grow at a sound rate.
CURRENT TRENDS IMPACT ON JLT 2016 was a year of surprises and contrasts.
The year started A great deal of preparatory work is currently underway with the spectre of Chinas hard landing, falling bond yields, within the UK Government to formulate negotiating positions low commodity prices and crumbling global trade.
This was as regards both the UKs exit from, and the subsequent compounded by widespread volatility in the stock markets trading relationships with, the EU and the rest of the world.
which forced central bankers to adopt unconventional policies JLT is watching these developments closely, and has been such as negative interest rates to combat deflation.
However, contributing to the inputs being made to Government by much of this reversed towards the end of the year.
Inflation various insurance industry groups and the financial services expectations and growth prospects made a notable industry more generally, to ensure that we are well equipped comeback with the US presidential election and the for the range of possible Brexit outcomes.
Our commitment anticipation of promised pro-growth policies of a Trump is to ensure that our clients can depend on continuing quality administration.
The prospect of a reflationary trend in major service from their broker and uninterrupted access to markets.
economies resulted in higher bond yields and triggered a 'riskon' sentiment.
Commodity prices began to recover against the Macro-economic headwinds and a volatile geo-political backdrop of easing supply glut.
Global trade recovered and environment inevitably impact demand for insurance-related the stock markets rose to new highs.
Productivity growth and services as new projects and investments are delayed, scaled structural reforms, however, continued to remain elusive.
back or cancelled and companies look to drive more value out of their broker relationships.
Industries or countries with 2016 witnessed the outcomes of the Brexit vote and the US particular exposure to commodity prices such as mining elections in particular posing material risks to global trade and and energy or foreign exchange are particularly exposed.
migration, which are likely to shape the policy decisions and the major macro-economic trends of 2017.
JLT is a global business with a Specialty-led strategy that attracts and retains high quality talent and provides differentiated offerings to clients.
The business is well placed FUTURE OUTLOOK to collaborate with clients across geographies and capitalise on evolving opportunities.
2017 is likely to see strong growth in the US and Japan, backed by fiscal measures.
Populist and protectionist political agendas Over the longer term, we also believe that our strategy aligns us well with faster-growing sectors and geographies where could, however, adversely affect trade relations, impacting demand is driven by long-term and fundamental demographic emerging markets the most.
Stabilising commodity prices and factors and market trends such as population growth, ageing, low unemployment rates in the developed world could assist medical inflation in the case of international Employee Benefits, in reducing deflationary pressures and in normalising monetary urbanisation and accelerating middle-class wealth.
18 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 2 THE RE INSURANCE RATING ENVIRONMENT 3 INTEREST RATES The insurance and reinsurance industry is inherently Insurance brokers earn interest income on the fiduciary cyclical, with the price of insurance and reinsurance funds that they hold on behalf of clients.
This essentially fluctuating depending on demand for cover and the comprises premiums passing through to underwriters supply of capital into the market.
A lack of capital, and paid claims being passed back to clients.
typically caused by one or more large losses or by investors choosing to invest in alternative asset classes, CURRENT TRENDS can lead to a hard market, when the cost of insurance Since the global financial crisis, the world economy has been and reinsurance increases.
An over-supply of capital characterised by a sustained period of very low interest rates, can lead to a soft market, which results in premiums most notably in developed economies, as policy makers have reducing.
Today, near record levels of capital remain the sought to stimulate growth by reducing the cost of borrowing dominant force in maintaining soft pricing environments, and boosting exports, as well as injecting unprecedented levels as excess supply chases relatively muted demand.
of liquidity into the market in the form of quantitative easing stimulus programmes.
CURRENT TRENDS Base rates in the UK and the Eurozone today stand at 0.25% and 0%, respectively.
In December 2016, the US again Moderating capital inflows, the prospect of higher insured increased its short-term interest rate to 0.75%.
catastrophe losses, reserving volatility and inflationary and interest rate concerns are coalescing to counteract price declines.
As a result, downward reinsurance pricing pressure FUTURE OUTLOOK eased in 2016.
This was due to: Market expectations are that the US will continue to increase Limited scope for further price reductions for some classes interest rates in modest increments during 2017.
While of business as rates neared technical minimums: there can be no certainty as to future movements in interest Static levels of reinsurance supply due to a marked rates, those in the UK and Eurozone are expected to remain slowdown in the rate of third-party capital entry in particular: unchanged during 2017, particularly whilst uncertainty relating Growing demand for reinsurance as cedents recognised to the outcome of Brexit negotiations continues.
that current pricing levels presented opportunities: and Increased underwriting discipline amidst elevated loss IMPACT ON JLT experiences, growing reserving volatility with some notable instances of reserve strengthening and a changing Historically, investment income has provided JLT with a macroeconomic environment including rising inflation significant flow of revenue 17% of underlying trading profit in expectations.
However, for the reasons stated above, by 2016 this had reduced to 4.7 million, 2% of underlying trading profit, despite average balances increasing over the same period by 113% to 797 million.
Rising interest rates tend to lead to higher levels FUTURE OUTLOOK of economic activity, which in turn provide more opportunities Nevertheless, excess capital and historically low cession rates for JLT to grow its business.
The level of interest rates also has continue to prevent any meaningful pricing upturn at present, an impact on the Group's pension liabilities.
and unless 2017 sees the market hit by one or more major catastrophic events, and or there is a sharp increase in the We estimate that, for every 1% improvement in our average global interest rate environment which may drive capital to achieved deposit rate, JLT generates approximately 8 million other asset classes, it is hard to see insurance or reinsurance of additional investment income, assuming broadly consistent rates firming in the immediate future.
Taking into account the overall interest rate outlook for 2017, JLTs investment income is not expected to increase significantly from that of 2016.
IMPACT ON JLT JLT is affected by lower insurance and reinsurance pricing as a significant proportion of our income is based on commissions.
Lower pricing also often leads to rivals discounting heavily to retain and win business, increasing competition on our feebased business.
The rating environment creates challenges for the business delivering organic growth.
Our Specialty-led strategy aims to counter these headwinds by creating our own growth by focusing on our Specialty sectors and on economies where there is demand for our distinctive value proposition, and by winning market share from our competitors.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 19 STRATEGIC REPORT 2016 Foreign exchange rates 4 EXCHANGE RATES 0.85 USD: GBP AUD: GBP As a global business, JLT has both translational 0.8 ie reporting of foreign financial statements in sterling 0.75 and transactional foreign exchange exposures.
0.7 Our largest transactional exposure arises in our London 0.65 Market businesses, which have sterling cost bases, 0.6 but generate a large amount of US dollar revenue.
0.55 In 2016, this amounted to some USD 357 million.
0.5 0.45 CURRENT TRENDS 0.4 Sterling depreciated significantly against other major currencies 1 Jan 31 Dec during 2017, following the outcome of the EU referendum in June 2016.
Of particular relevance to JLT are the US dollar and Australian dollar.
During 2016, the US dollar versus sterling traded at an annual average rate of c1.36 0.74, compared 5 COMPETITION to a 2015 average rate of c1.53 0.65.
Sterling also weakened against the Australian dollar which is important to us given With owned insurance broking and employee benefits the relative size of the contribution of our Australian business operations spanning 40 territories, JLT faces a large to our profits, which traded at an average of 1.83 during 2016 number and range of local, regional and international compared to 2.04 in 2015. competitors.
Given this, it is impossible to comment on the relative individual strengths and weaknesses FUTURE OUTLOOK of all of our competitors.
Market consensus continues to suggest that the US dollar is expected to outperform sterling and other currencies during CURRENT TRENDS 2017.
This is primarily a reflection of expected relative interest Macro-economic headwinds and the continued weakening rate yields, with further moderate increases in US interest rates in the insurance and reinsurance rating environment have anticipated during 2017 compared to UK and Eurozone GDP combined, over recent years, to create a very challenging and growth forecasts, and the continued support from a lower competitive environment, with some rivals willing to discount oil price and uncertainty over Brexit negotiations continuing heavily, particularly on fee-based accounts, to retain and win to weigh on both sterling and euro during 2017. new business, as well as offer very significant remuneration packages to attract new staff.
IMPACT ON JLT A depreciation in the value of sterling in particular versus FUTURE OUTLOOK the US dollar increases JLTs revenue relative to its sterling The competitive environment is unlikely to ease significantly cost base transactional and affects the sterling equivalent in the near future.
The nature of our competition is changing, value of the income statements and balance sheets of our however, as we continue to grow.
international operations when consolidated at the Group level translational.
Overall, we experienced a favourable foreign exchange impact of 23.5 million on underlying trading profit IMPACT ON JLT in 2016 versus 2015.
JLT has historically been able to attract people and clients due JLT does not hedge its accounting translational foreign to its differentiated Specialty-led offering and distinctive culture.
However, to mitigate the transactional This can be seen, for example, in how we have been able to impact of foreign currency movements arising from actual consistently attract market-leading talent around the world.
cash flows, we operate a rolling currency hedging programme, We remain confident that our client and people proposition covering our US dollar exposures in particular, as well as other and growth momentum will allow us to continue to attract transactional currency exposures, to reduce the impact of weak and retain industry talent and win clients.
sterling on our overall business.
While this hedging programme helps smooth the effects of foreign exchange movements, it cannot eliminate these completely.
Further detail on our hedging programme and the impact of currency movements is provided on page 39 in the Finance Directors Review.
20 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 6 REGULATION 7 TECHNOLOGY JLT operates under the jurisdiction of a number of Technology influences every aspect of life, with different regulators around the world.
Its principal implications for the risks our clients face, how we operate regulator is the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
as a company and how we adapt to the rapidly-changing external and competitive environment.
CURRENT TRENDS CURRENT TRENDS The level of oversight exercised by the various financial services regulators around the world varies from country to country and As advances in technology take place, both JLT and its often by business activity.
In previous years, we have stated clients face rapid changes in how their businesses are run that the regulatory environments in some of the jurisdictions and the risks they face.
Technological developments create in which we operate are likely to strengthen, which is proving opportunities for JLT to find ways of carrying out its operations to be the case in countries such as Hong Kong, South Africa, more efficiently and cost-effectively.
They also allow us to Malaysia and Japan.
Moreover, several are in the process of enhance the service we provide to clients, for example through implementing conduct orientated regimes similar to the the collection and use of data to drive better insights for our UKs FCA.
clients, or through the adoption of new channels for engaging and communicating with them.
Technological change also gives We also observe that there is more consistency in the type rise to new areas, such as cyber risk, in which JLT's expertise in of regulation being introduced across many countries, in risk management can be applied to support and service clients.
areas such as data protection.
These trends place additional strain and cost on the business and increase the chances On the other hand, the level of risk to our own business from of some form of regulatory action being taken in those cyber risk continues to increase and requires substantial jurisdictions.
However, we recognise that good regulation also investment in systems and procedures to counter the threats creates a more level playing field and helps stimulate greater it poses.
Technological advances also potentially enable a client demand.
Proportionate and fair regulation is therefore new generation of competitors to disrupt existing industries something we welcome as being positive for our clients, and players.
our people and the industry as a whole.
FUTURE OUTLOOK IMPACT ON JLT The rapid pace of technological change is likely to lead to As JLT grows, we can expect a greater level of regulatory further operational efficiencies and a significant increase in scrutiny in line with our increased scale, particularly for those the volume of data that can be collected and analysed, which of our businesses that carry consumer conduct risk.
We could have a significant impact on the industrys actuarial continue to invest in our risk and compliance frameworks to understanding of underlying risk trends and how they should ensure that we have the right skills to enable us to advise our be priced.
businesses on the implications of the changing regulatory Cyber risk will continue to pose a significant risk for many environment, as discussed in the Risk Management Report on organisations, including ours, but also an opportunity for risk pages 42 to 45.
We are committed to working constructively management organisations.
with all of our regulators to ensure that we meet our regulatory commitments and protect our clients interests.
IMPACT ON JLT JLT is committed to using technology to improve its own operational efficiency and develop its data analytics capabilities, to deliver further insights for clients, and enhance its sales and marketing capability.
While the threat of digital disruption exists at the lower end of some of our smaller businesses, our core Specialty-led offering is less prone to disruption due its advice and advocacy-based model.
Cyber risk will continue to offer both a threat to our operations and an opportunity to provide risk management advisory services to clients.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 21
