Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Who We Are The Group has over 900 stores across a number of retail fascias and is proud of the fact that it always provides its customers with the latest products from the very best brands.
The Group embraces the latest online and instore digital technology providing it with a truly multichannel, international platform for future growth.
Oxford Street London, UK Sunway Pyramid, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 9 Overview Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Who We Are Northumberland Street, Newcastle Upon Tyne, UK Nieuwendijk, Amsterdam, The Netherlands Argyle Street, Glasgow, UK 11 Overview Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Who We Are Mary Street, Dublin, Ireland Fields Mall Fields Shopping Centre, Copenhagen, Denmark Mall of Scandinavia, Stockholm, Sweden Calle jacarilla, 7, Elche, Spain 13 Overview Annual R Annual Report & A eport & Ac cc counts 20 ounts 2016 16 Who We Are Kleistrasse, Monchengladbach, Germany Roma Est Mall, Rome, Italy Aeroville, Paris, France Meir, Antwerp, Belgium 15 Overview Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Who We Are Footpatrol, Berwick Street, London UK Manches Size?, Carnab ter, UK y Street, London, UK Elche Scotts, T, Spain he Trafford Centre, Manchester, UK 17 Overview Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Who We Are Chausport, Centre Commercial Auchan V2, Lille, France Sprinter, Poligono Vizcarra Nave 14, Elche, Spain Ultimate Outdoors, Deepdale Retail Park, Preston, UK Millets, Tulketh Street, Southport, UK Blacks, Sheffield, UK 19 Overview Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Who We Are Established in 1981 with a single store in the North West of England, JD Sports Fashion Plc is now a leading international multichannel retailer of sports fashion and outdoor brands.
Overview Who We Are JD is acknowledged as the leading specialist multiple Established in 2000, Size?
specialises in supplying retailer of fashionable branded and own brand sports the finest products from the best brands in footwear, and casual wear in the UK and Republic of Ireland apparel and accessories.
Initially set up to trial edgier combining globally recognised brands such as Nike, product collections before introducing them to the adidas and The North Face with strong own brand mass market through the JD fascia, the Size?
offer labels such as Mckenzie, Carbrini, Supply & Demand has since grown to include its own roster of highly and The Duffer of St George.
JD continues to increase sought-after worldwide exclusive product releases.
its presence in the European market with additional Outside of the UK and Republic of Ireland, Size?
now stores in all existing European territories.
The recently has stores in France, the Netherlands, Italy, Germany opened store in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia is JDs first and Denmark.
Footpatrol is Londons best-known destination sneaker Chausport operates throughout France retailing store, with a history in supplying the most exclusive leading international footwear brands such as Nike, footwear.
It has been at the heart of supplying the adidas and Le Coq Sportif together with brands sneaker fraternity with the most desirable footwear, more specific to the local market such as Redskins.
Specialising in new and classic sneakers, limited editions, Japanese exclusives and rare deadstock, Footpatrol is based in the heart of Soho on Berwick Street.
21 Overview Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Who We Are Sprinter is one of the leading sports retailers in Spain Scotts retails fashion and sport led brands with selling footwear, apparel, accessories and equipment authority to older, more affluent male consumers for a wide range of sports as well as lifestyle casual largely beyond school age, stocking brands such wear and childrenswear.
Their offer includes both as EA7, Lacoste, Fred Perry, adidas Originals and international sports brands and successful own brands.
K E LL B R OO K I B F WELT ERW E I G H T C H A MPI ON OF TH E W OR L D 160317 SCT15109 Annual Board Report DPS 210x297 3mm FA.
CO. UK Tessutis vision is to become the first choice retailer for Cloggs is an online niche retailer of premium branded branded premium menswear fashion in the UK.
Cloggs also has three stores in Shrewsbury, TESSUTIUK @TESSUTIUK @TESSUTIUK current stores offer customers a strong mix of brands York and Newcastle.
including Hugo Boss, Ralph Lauren Polo, Canada Goose and Stone Island.
Overview Who We Are Mainline Menswear is an online niche retailer Getthelabel.
com is an online and catalogue business of premium branded Mens apparel and footwear, which offers customers significant savings on branded stocking brands such as Armani, Hugo Boss and fashion and footwear.
Kooga Annual Report DPS PRINT.
pdf 1 3 21 16 3:19 PM C M Y CM MY CY CMY K JD Gyms offer exceptional fitness facilities in five prime Kooga design, source and wholesale rugby apparel city centre locations.
JD Gyms have the latest gym and equipment, with teamwear, replica and equipment and workout techniques, providing a whole leisurewear ranges.
Kooga is also sole kit supplier host of effective fitness classes and unrivalled onsite to a number of professional rugby clubs.
JD Gyms was announced as the Best Budget Gym at the 2015 National Fitness Awards.
23 Overview Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Who We Are Kukri Sports is an international sportswear Focus are involved in the design, sourcing and manufacturer supplying bespoke teamwear to many distribution of footwear and apparel both for own leading schools, colleges and universities.
In addition, brand and licensed brands, such as Peter Werth, Kukri is sole kit supplier to a number of high profile Fly 53, Ecko, Ellesse, and Voi Footwear, for both professional teams and will once again be the official Group and external customers.
kit supplier to Team England for the 2018 Commonwealth Games.
Source Lab Annual Report DPS PRINT.
pdf 1 3 21 16 3:15 PM C M Y CM MY CY CMY K Source Lab is a football license business in the UK Nicholas Deakins was launched in 1991 and is firmly working with some of the biggest and best known established as one of the UKs leading footwear and names in world football designing, sourcing and clothing lifestyle brands with a reputation for distributing mono branded apparel as well as innovative, original design and quality manufacture.
Source Lab has an Nicholas Deakins will celebrate their 25th Anniversary impressive license portfolio which includes Chelsea, in September 2016.
Arsenal, Manchester City and Barcelona.
Overview Who We Are Blacks is a long established retailer of specialist With a strong emphasis on own brands, such as Peter outdoor apparel, footwear and equipment.
Trading Storm and Eurohike, our Millets outdoor stores are the online and from approximately 60 stores, Blacks port of call for a more leisurely consumer.
Trading from primarily stock more technical products from premium approximately 100 stores, Millets supply a more casual brands such as Berghaus and The North Face helping outdoor customer who seeks value for money, the consumer, from weekend family users to more avid providing for a wide range of recreational activities, explorers, reach their goals, no matter how high.
such as walking or leisure camping.
Ultimate Outdoors is the ultimate destination for Tiso is Scotlands leading outdoor retailer, with the outdoor consumer offering high quality and 10 stores with unrivalled product ranges catering for technical product from the biggest names in outdoors those who take the outdoors a bit more seriously.
There are now six Ultimate Alpine Bikes is a quality cycle retailer, with five Outdoors stores.
standalone stores, stocking premium brands such as Trek and Cannondale.
Based in the heart of the Lake District, George Fisher is the UKs premium outdoor destination for more discerning explorers, who can expect the highest levels of customer service.
