Governance Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report and the Restrictions on Transfer of Shares audited financial statements of JD Sports Fashion Plc The restrictions on the transfer of shares in the the Company and its subsidiaries together referred Company are as follows: to as the Group for the 52 week period ended 30 January 2016.
The Board considers that the The Board may, in its absolute discretion, refuse Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, to register any transfer of shares which are not fully balanced and understandable and provides the paid up but not so as to prevent dealings in listed information necessary for shareholders to assess the shares from taking place, or which is in favour of Companys position and performance, business model more than four persons jointly or which is in relation and strategy.
to more than one class of share.
Certain restrictions may, from time to time, be Principal Activity imposed by laws and regulations for example, The principal activity of the Group is the retail of insider trading laws.
branded sports fashionwear and outdoor clothing Restrictions apply pursuant to the Listing Rules of and equipment.
the Financial Conduct Authority whereby Directors and certain of the Groups employees require prior In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, a review approval to deal in the Companys shares.
of the business providing a comprehensive analysis of the main trends and factors likely to affect the The Company is not aware of any arrangement development, performance and position of the business, between its shareholders that may result in restrictions including environmental, employee, social, community on the transfer of shares and or voting rights.
and human rights issues, together with the Groups Key Performance Indicators and a description of the Substantial Interests in Share Capital principal risks and uncertainties facing the business is As at 30 January 2016 the Company has been advised detailed in the Strategy Report on pages 49 to 63. of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its ordinary share capital pursuant to the Disclosure All of the information set out in those sections is and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct incorporated by reference into, and is deemed to form Authority DTRs : part of, this report.
Number of ordinary shares % of Ordinary share The Corporate Governance Report pages 68 to 72 voting rights held capital and the Directors Remuneration Report pages Pentland Group Plc 111,854,888 57.47 73 to 81 are incorporated by reference into, and are deemed to form part of, this report.
Sports World International Ltd 13,500,000 6.94 Fidelity Management and Research LLC 9,990,400 5.13 Share Capital As at 30 January 2016 the Companys issued share The Company has not been notified of any significant capital was 2,433,083 comprising 194,646,632 changes in interests pursuant to the DTRs between ordinary shares of 1.25p each.
30 January 2016 and the date of this report.
Shareholder and Voting Rights Relationship Agreement All members who hold ordinary shares are entitled In accordance with LR 9.2.
2AR 2 a, the Company has to attend and vote at the Companys Annual General entered into a written and legally binding relationship Meeting.
On a show of hands at a general meeting, agreement with its controlling shareholder Pentland every member present in person or by proxy shall Group Plc.
So far as the Company is aware, the have one vote and, on a poll, every member present independence provisions included within the in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every relationship agreement have been complied with during ordinary share they hold.
Subject to relevant statutory the period since the agreement has been in force.
provisions and the Companys Articles of Association, holders of ordinary shares are entitled to a dividend where declared or paid out of profits available for such purposes.
65 65 65 Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Directors Report continued Directors Contractual Arrangements Essential to the Business The names and roles of the current Directors together of the Group with brief biographical details are given on page 64.
The Board considers that continuing supply from Nike The Directors are responsible for the management and adidas, being the main suppliers of third party of the business of the Company and, subject to law branded sporting products, to the Groups core sports and the Companys Articles of Association Articles, fashion retail operation is essential to the business of the Directors may exercise all of the powers of the the Group.
Company and may delegate their power and discretion to committees.
Employees The Group communicates with its employees through The number of Directors at any one point in time shall team briefs and via the Companys intranet and notice not be less than two.
Views of employees are sought on matters of common concern.
Priority is given to ensuring that The Articles give the Directors power to appoint employees are aware of all significant matters affecting and replace Directors.
Any Director so appointed the Groups performance and of significant shall hold office only until the dissolution of the first organisational changes.
Annual General Meeting of the Company following appointment unless they are re-elected during The Groups employee remuneration strategy is set such meeting.
out in the Remuneration Report on pages 73 to 81.
The Articles require that, at each AGM of the Company, The Group is committed to promoting equal any Director who was elected or last re-elected at or opportunities in employment regardless of employees before the AGM held in the third calendar year before or potential employees gender, marital status, sexual the current calendar year must retire by rotation and orientation, age, race, religion, ethnic or social origin or such further Directors must retire by rotation so that disability.
Recruitment, promotion and the availability of in total not less than one third of the Directors retire training are based on the suitability of any applicant for by rotation each year.
A retiring Director is eligible the job and full and fair consideration is always given to for re-election.
disabled persons in such circumstances.
However, in accordance with the UK Corporate Should an employee become disabled during his or Governance Code the Board has determined that all her employment by the Group, every effort is made Directors will stand for re-election at the 2016 AGM.
to continue employment and training within their existing capacity wherever practicable, or failing that, Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association in some alternative suitable capacity.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting Auditor of shareholders.
KPMG LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office as auditor of the Company.
A resolution Change of Control Significant Agreements proposing their re-appointment will be proposed to In the event of a change of control of the Company, shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
the Company and the lenders of the 215 million bank syndicated facility shall enter into an agreement Disclosure of Information to the Auditor to determine how to continue the facility.
If no Each person who is a Director at the date of approval agreement is reached within 20 business days of the of this report confirms that: date of change in control, the lenders may, by giving not less than 10 business days notice to the Company, So far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit cancel the facility and declare all outstanding loans, information of which the Companys auditor is together with accrued interest and all other amounts unaware: and accrued immediately due and payable.
Each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Governance Directors Report continued Viability Statement Annual General Meeting In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate The Companys AGM will be held at 1pm on 17 June 2016 Governance Code, published by the Financial Reporting at Edinburgh House, Hollinsbrook Way, Pilsworth, Bury, Council in September 2014, the Directors have assessed Lancashire, BL9 8RR.
The notice of this years AGM the prospects of the Group over a longer period.
is included in a separate circular to shareholders and will be sent out at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Board conducted this review for a period of five This notice will be available to view under the Investors years.
The five year period of review was selected as section of the Companys website, www.
com this was linked to the retail property portfolio and investor-relations.
was considered appropriate as this is the average remaining life of the store leases.
The Directors consider that each of the proposed resolutions to be presented at the AGM is in the best In assessment of the viability of the Group, the Board interests of the Company and its shareholders and has considered the Groups current position and employees as a whole and most likely to promote strategy and performed a robust assessment of each the success of the Company for the benefit of its of the principal risks detailed on pages 51 to 52. shareholders as a whole.
The Directors unanimously These principal risks are considered to be those which recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each may threaten the business model, future performance of the proposed resolutions, as the Directors intend and liquidity.
Where appropriate, the Board has to do in respect of their own shareholdings.
evaluated the impact of the key principal risks actually occurring based on severe but plausible scenarios.
By order of the Board The evaluation included performing sensitivity analysis by flexing the main assumptions in the scenarios.
The Board has also considered the Groups income and expenditure projections, the Group cash flows and other key financial ratios over the period.
Based on the results of the analysis, the Board has Brian Small a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able Chief Financial Officer to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they 13 April 2016 fall due over the five year period of the assessment.
Going Concern After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company, and the Group as a whole, has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
