Annual Report & Accounts 2016 The Board Peter Cowgill Andrew Leslie Executive Chairman and Chairman of the Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Nomination Committee Aged 63 Remuneration Committee and Member of the Audit Peter was appointed Executive Chairman in March and Nomination Committees Aged 69 2004.
He was previously Finance Director of the Andrew was appointed to the Board in May 2010.
Group until his resignation in June 2001.
He is a He has over 40 years of experience in the retail, Non-Executive Chairman of United Carpets Plc and footwear and apparel sectors.
He was an Executive also held the position of Non-Executive Chairman Board Director of Pentland Brands Plc, from which of MBL Group Plc until June 2014. he retired in 2008.
Andrew also held a number of senior positions with British Shoe Corporation, Brian Small The Burton Group Plc and Timpson Shoes Limited.
Chief Financial Officer Aged 59 Brian was appointed Chief Financial Officer in Martin Davies January 2004.
Immediately prior to his appointment Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Audit he was Operations Finance Director at Intercare Group Committee and Member of the Nomination and Plc and has also been Finance Director of a number Remuneration Committees Aged 56 of other companies.
He qualified as an accountant Martin was appointed to the Board in October 2012. with Price Waterhouse in 1981.
Martin also holds the position of Chairman of Sentric Music Limited.
He was previously Group Chief Executive of Holidaybreak Plc from 2010 until its sale to Cox and Kings Limited in 2011.
He joined the Board of Holidaybreak Plc in 2007 when it acquired PGL where he had been Chief Executive.
He left Holidaybreak Plc in 2012.
Previously, he has had roles at Allied Breweries, Kingfisher and Woolworths.
Heather Jackson Non-Executive Director, Member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees Aged 50 Heather was appointed to the Board in May 2015.
Heather has extensive experience in IT and change management.
Heather is currently Managing Director at Actinista 2016 Limited and a Non-Executive Director of Ikano Bank AB.
Her former roles have included CIO of HBOS Plc and other director level roles with Capital One, Boots the Chemist and George at Asda.
Andy Rubin Non-Executive Director Aged 51 Andy was appointed to the Board in February 2016.
Andy is Chairman of Pentland Brands, a Director of Pentland Group Plc and the European Vice-President of the World Federation of the Sporting Goods Industry.
