Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Property and Stores Review Sports Fashion Asia - The first JD store outside of Europe opened in January 2016 at Sunway Pyramid in Kuala JD Lumpur where we are working with a local partner, The retail property strategy for the core JD fascia Stream Enterprise SDN BHD.
is consistent across all of our territories.
JD is a world class retail fascia and we strongly believe that our Size?
multichannel approach, which marries vibrant retail As with JD, we believe that the Size?
fascia with theatre with the latest retail digital technology, increases its independent feel and loyal consumer following the attractiveness and desirability of our product and has the potential to be successful internationally.
provides our stores with a real point of difference for Our international focus for this fascia is reflected in both our consumers and our branded supplier partners.
the fact that of the seven new Size?
stores which were opened during the year, three were in Europe We are committed to continually enhancing our retail with one further store in France Marseille together proposition for both customers and third party brand with our first Size?
stores in Germany Cologne partners and during the period we demonstrated this and Denmark Copenhagen.
commitment with the opening of new larger spaced flagship style JD stores in Oxford Street London, Chausport Glasgow, Newcastle and Amsterdam.
Including the It is still our belief that the Chausport fascia is more Trafford Centre, which was refurbished in the previous suited to the smaller regional towns and centres where year, there are now five stores in this style.
conflict with JDs expansion is unlikely.
We continue to be satisfied with the performance of the Chausport Further international expansion of the JD fascia is business and will support limited investment in this a clear strategic focus for the Group.
One smaller store, at Chenove, closed in we have opened additional stores in all existing the year.
We also saw the opening of our first JD stores in Belgium, Italy, Denmark and Sweden.
Sprinter More recently, we have opened our first store outside We continue to believe that the Sprinter proposition has of Europe at Sunway Pyramid in Kuala Lumpur, significant potential to expand beyond its traditional Malaysia.
Our international credibility with both major heartlands in the communities of Andaluca, Murcia and landlords and property agents is increasing and we Valencia and are supporting the Sprinter management continue to look at opportunities, in both our existing team in their store opening programme.
During the year and new territories, to develop the fascia with we opened a further 24 stores of which 12 were outside particular focus on major metropolitan areas.
of the traditional heartlands, including a further five stores in Catalonia to complement the opening at The major property developments in each area were: Badalona in the previous year and a first store off the Spanish mainland on the island of Mallorca.
The average UK & Republic of Ireland 25 new stores were retail footprint of the stores opened in the year was opened in the period with 14, generally smaller, 5,600 sqft which is less than 40% of the average retail stores closed.
The 25 new stores included nine footprint of the stores on acquisition in 2010.
We are relocations in towns or malls in the UK to a more confident that this lower footprint provides a more appropriately spaced store or a position of greater effective and efficient trading area for the business.
We also upsized in four locations where we were able to negotiate a favourable rent deal Scotts on additional space, the most significant one Whilst investment in the business has been limited in being Newcastle Northumberland Street where recent years, we are very encouraged by more recent the enlarged 16,000 sqft store has been presented performance.
Accordingly, we have supported a limited in the new flagship style.
investment in the fascia during the year with a new Europe - JD continues to develop momentum in store at Cardiff and relocations in St Helens, Bolton Europe with a net increase of 38 stores.
41 stores were opened in the year of which 34 were across the existing territories of France, Spain, the Tessuti Netherlands and Germany with seven new stores After a year of consolidation in the previous year, opened in the new territories of Belgium, Italy, we have been able to increase investment in the Denmark and Sweden.
The openings included Tessuti fascia in the year with five new stores at Amsterdam Nieuwendijk which, with a retail space Liverpool Speke, Blackburn, Ayr, Walsall and West of 9,500 sqft, is our largest store to date in Europe Bromwich.
In addition to the usual decision making and is the first flagship style store outside of the UK.
factors for new property of rent cost, retail footprint Three stores were closed in the year of which two, and strength of footfall, openings in the premium Berlin Gesundbrunnen and Almere the Netherlands, branded Tessuti business are also dependent on were relocations into larger space.
availability of third party brands in a particular location.
Strategic Report Property and Stores Review continued Outdoor Ultimate Outdoors: Two of the former Kiddicare stores, which we acquired in the previous financial Blacks, Millets and Ultimate Outdoors year, were opened in the year in the new larger Subsequent to our acquisition of the business in format Ultimate Outdoors style.
These stores, January 2012, we agreed short term leases with flexible at Merryhill and Nottingham both have retail break clauses with landlords in a number of locations footprints in excess of 30,000 sqft and, as the name which gave both parties the mutual ability to move suggests, provide the ultimate destination for the quickly if appropriate.
Consequently, whilst this gives Outdoor consumer.
This means that three of the maximum flexibility, it does mean that the Blacks and former Kiddicare stores are now trading with Millets store portfolios continue to be very dynamic: Aintree surrendered back to the landlord during the year and Southampton the subject of ongoing Blacks: Three new stores were opened in the period discussions with the landlord.
Four, larger space at Edinburgh Kinnaird, Cardiff Bay and Leeds with stores, where the footprint is more consistent with six stores closed.
A further six stores were converted the Ultimate Outdoors format were converted from to Millets and four, larger space, stores were Blacks although, subsequently, West Thurrock was converted to the new Ultimate Outdoors fascia.
closed as the landlord exercised his mutual right Millets: The Millets store portfolio has seen further to break the flexible lease.
considerable change during the year with nine new stores opened and the conversion of eight stores Tiso from other fascias of which six were formerly Blacks The underperforming Tiso store at Fort William was stores, one ex JD and one ex Scotts.
10 stores were closed in the year.
For a complete table of store numbers see page 27.
Peter Cowgill Executive Chairman 13 April 2016 57 57 57 Strategic Report
