Strategic Report Our Strategy Introduction During the year, we have further developed our new The Group has long been established as a leading flagship concept with new stores in London, Newcastle, retailer of branded and own brand sports fashion Glasgow and Amsterdam.
These stores are enhanced apparel and footwear in the UK and Ireland.
Our Sports by the latest innovations in digital technology and Fashion fascias are also now firmly established take our already market leading standards of visual in mainland Europe with the existing store presence merchandising to a new level.
in France, Spain, the Netherlands and Germany complemented by new openings for JD in the year The movements in store numbers and square footage in Belgium, Italy, Sweden and Denmark.
More recently, at the start and end of the period are documented we have extended our geography further with our first in the Where We Are section on page 27. store outside Europe in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia which necessitates the development of a different operating Multichannel model.
Building our reach in, and potentially beyond Multichannel activity has continued to grow significantly Europe, not only gives us significant potential for over the last 12 months as we continuously strengthen growth but it also cements the strong supplier each of our channels and focus on delivering a seamless relationships required to constantly bring in new and shopping experience for our customers across all of our exclusive products and to market them collaboratively.
The strength of our multichannel offer continues to differentiate us in the market place, We will sustain our market position through ongoing is highly regarded by our key global brand partners and investment in the retail store portfolio, development is very popular with our consumers.
We remain focused and nurture of global branded supplier relationships, on ensuring our customers choose to shop with us, and the acquisition of brands and retailers which we irrespective of which channels they choose to shop can develop and exploit to ensure our overall product in and across.
offers remain uniquely appealing and our stores retain a vibrant atmosphere.
In working towards these In the UK, we have again seen significant growth objectives we aim to act always in a responsible and in online sales, principally driven by our continued ethical manner with all our stakeholders including investment and strengthening of our mobile and apps suppliers, employees and of course our customers.
Our digital and social media channels continue to be important research destinations for our customers Our core business strength is branded retail and and there has been substantial growth in sales from our our consumers are either sports fashion or outdoor instore digital devices kiosks, web tills and iPads, both oriented.
Where we use own brands we will seek to through increased adoption of existing ones by present them as complementary to third party brands.
customers and through the roll out of additional We seek to build strong market positions which we devices.
These enable customers to order products will always seek to sustain and defend.
We maintain from the website but pay in cash, access extended these positions by constantly adding to our brand ranges not available in the store and access our full roster and endeavouring to be the partner of choice warehouse stock inventory.
Our new Oxford Street to as many brands as possible with as much exclusive flagship store showcases our latest instore digital product as possible.
Any business in the Group which technology.
Overseas, JD now has a local language and we now invest in will have relevance to our core local currency multichannel offer in: Belgium, Denmark, strength.
All businesses in the Group need to be Ireland, Italy, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Spain capable of enhanced profitability in the medium term.
Our ultimate objective is to deliver long term sustainable In 2016 we will continue our focus on optimising our earnings growth to enhance total shareholder returns digital channels profitably, improving the customer TSR through share price performance and dividends, experience, enhancing our multichannel proposition, whilst retaining our financial capability to invest in the exploiting group synergies and rolling out our growth and the sustainability of our propositions.
Recent TSR performance is shown in the graph within the Remuneration Report on page 80.
Multichannel sales represented 11.3% 2015: 9.9% of JD and Size?
fascia sales in the last year, excluding Stores kiosk sales.
We are engaged in omnichannel retail and we continue to invest considerable time and financial resources in our retail property portfolio.
Increasingly developments in the Sports Fashion fascias are focused overseas.
We believe that the combination of a largely exclusive product offering presented in a well fitted store with world class standards of retail theatre are major drivers of footfall to our stores.
49 49 Strategic Report Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Our Strategy continued Infrastructure and Resources Financial Key Performance Indicators Our most important resource is our people.
We are a large equal opportunities employer and we are 2016 2015 % particularly proud of our training resources.
We provide 000 000 Change direct employment and career development to Revenue 1,821,652 1,522,253 20% thousands of people.
The Group employs large numbers of recent school leavers and graduates and over Gross profit % 48.5% 48.6% 180 training courses were completed by employees Operating profit 133,406 92,646 44% in the last year.
We believe retention of our best staff Operating profit 158,902 102,173 56% is crucial to the success of our business as it preserves before exceptional items the DNA of each business.
Profit before tax and 157,127 100,023 57% We are continuing to invest in our central distribution exceptional items facility Kingsway in Rochdale with additional Profit before tax 131,631 90,496 45% mezzanine racking and machinery introduced in the Basic earnings per 50.16p 35.17p year.
This facility will be able to deal with further ordinary share growth in volumes although we have also acquired an additional plot of land to facilitate further 38.89p Adjusted basic earnings per 61.34p expansion in the near future.
ordinary share Total dividend payable per ordinary 7.40p 7.05p share Period ended Period ended Net cash at end of period a 209,421 84,230 30 January 2016 31 January 2015 59.58m 58.75m Number of items processed by Kingsway a Net cash consists of cash and cash equivalents together with interest-bearing loans Distribution Centre and borrowings.
59.22m 52.28m Number of items processed by Kingsway Distribution Centre continuing businesses On behalf of the Board only excluding Bank Fashion Limited During the year, we took the decision to halt the project to replace the bespoke legacy core systems with Oracle Retail as we have concluded that the legacy systems can manage further growth and Peter Cowgill change in the Group with more agility and at a lower Executive Chairman cost thus minimising the change risk to the business.
13 April 2016 We also recognise the importance of protecting our environment and are committed to carrying out all our activities with due consideration for their environmental impact, particularly with regard to ensuring efficient use of energy and other resources and materials, minimising waste by recycling wherever possible and ensuring compliance with relevant legislation and codes of best practice.
See also our Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 58 to 63.
The risks faced by the Group and our mitigation plans are reported separately on pages 51 to 52.
