44 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2016 DIRECTORS AND COMPANY SECRETARY EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2016 45 Dr Phil Nolan BSc PHD MBA Olivier Brousse EP, ENPC Chairman Chief Executive Officer Phil has been Chairman since joining John Laing in Olivier joined John Laing in March 2014 as Chief Executive January 2010.
He has a wealth of experience on the boards Officer.
Following graduation from cole Polytechnique of many companies, private and public and in both an and cole Nationale des Ponts et Chausses in France, executive and non-executive capacity.
He is non-executive he became Commercial Director of Unic Systems and Chairman of Affinity Water Limited, Chairman of Ulster then Chief of Staff to the Chairman and CEO of Compagnie Bank Ireland Limited and a non-executive director of Gnrale des Eaux in 1994, both in France.
He was Chairman of Infinis, a then privately moved to London as CEO of Connex Trains and then moved held, leading renewable energy generator between 2007 to Washington DC in 2003 as CEO of Veolia Transportation and 2010, Chairman of Sepura plc, a listed, global supplier Inc.
He came back to France in 2007 as Deputy CEO of of TETRA radios between 2007 and 2010 and CEO of Eircom, Veolia Transport Group, responsible for French and US Irelands national telecommunications supplier from 2002 businesses.
From 2008 to 2014, he served as CEO and then to 2006.
Prior to that, he served as an Executive Director of Executive Chairman of Saur SA in France.
In 2016, he was BG Group plc and CEO of Transco plc from 1998 and in 2000, awarded the Lgion d'Honneur by the French President led the demerger of Transco as CEO of the Lattice Group.
Age 52 Age 63 Patrick OD Bourke MA, ACA Anne Wade BA, MSc Group Finance Director Independent Non-Executive Director Patrick joined John Laing in 2011 as Group Finance Anne joined John Laing in December 2014 as a non-executive Director.
He graduated from Cambridge University and director.
An asset manager by background, Anne has qualified as a chartered accountant with Peat Marwick extensive experience in capital markets.
From 1995 to 2012, now KPMG before spending nine years in investment she was Senior Vice President and Director of Capital banking with first Hill Samuel and then with Barclays fide International.
Throughout her 17 year career with Capital, Zoete Wedd.
In 1995, he joined Powergen plc where he was she was responsible for  investments.
responsible for mergers and acquisitions before becoming Anne is a Director and member of the Audit Committee of Group Treasurer.
From 2000 to 2006, he was Group Finance Summit Materials Inc in the US, of the Heron Foundation Director of Viridian Group PLC, the Northern Ireland based in New York, and of Big Society Capital in London.
She is energy group, becoming Group Chief Executive in 2007 after also a Partner with Leaders Quest.
Anne was previously a Viridian was taken private.
He joined the Board of Affinity non-executive director and member of the Governance and Water Limited in 2013 as a non-executive director.
Age 59 Strategy Committee of Holcim, based in Switzerland.
Anne has a BA from Harvard and an MSc from the London School of Economics.
Age 44 Dr Jeremy Beeton CB, BSc, CEng, FICE Toby Hiscock MA Oxon, FCA Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Jeremy joined John Laing in December 2014 as a Toby joined John Laing in June 2009 as a non-executive non-executive director.
He is a Fellow of the Institution director.
He is a qualified chartered accountant with of Civil Engineers with 40 years of international experience 35 years experience as a finance professional.
He was the in project and programme management over very large Chief Financial Officer and an Executive Director of multi-site, multiple project operations portfolios for and Henderson Group plc from 2003 until his retirement in 2009, within government, public companies and private companies.
and was responsible for all aspects of financial stewardship He is also currently an independent non-executive director of the Henderson Group.
Before Henderson, he was a of SSE plc, an independent non-executive director of WYG plc, senior manager at Midland Bank Group in London and an Advisory Board member of  LLP from 1981 to 1988 worked for Binder Hamlyn, Chartered and Chairman of Merseylink Ltd.
He has also been appointed Accountants after graduating from Oxford University.
Toby as an independent non-executive director of OPG Power is also a non-executive director of and consultant to a Ventures Plc.
Additionally, Jeremy sits on the governing number of other public and private institutions.
Age 57 Court of Strathclyde University.
He was Director General of the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games from 2007 until the Olympic Baton was passed on to Rio fide Janeiro in 2012.
For eight years prior to this, he was a Principal Vice President with Bechtel, responsible for their worldwide civil operations and has lived and worked extensively in the Middle East and Asia Pacific.
He was awarded CB in the 2013 New Year Honours and holds an honorary Doctorate of Engineering from Napier University.
Age 63 David Rough BSc Hons COMPANY SECRETARY Senior Independent Director David joined John Laing in December 2014 as a non-executive Carolyn Cattermole LLB director.
He has spent his life working in the financial services Group General Counsel and Company Secretary sector predominantly in the investment management business.
He joined Legal and General in 1988 and was Carolyn joined John Laing in September 2012 as Group made head of securities in 1989.
In 1991, David was General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Her previous appointed to the group board as Group Director Investments roles were General Counsel and Company Secretary of responsible for the groups investment operations.
He DS Smith Plc, the international supplier of recycled retired from the business in 2002.
During that time he also packaging, for ten years, and Company Secretary of served as chairman of the Association of British Insurers Courtaulds Textiles plc for three years.
Prior to that, Investment Committee.
David has been a non-executive she was a senior legal adviser with Courtaulds plc, and senior independent director on a number of boards, having qualified as a solicitor with Norton Rose.
Age 56 including Land Securities, London Metal Exchange, Friends Provident and Xstrata.
Since 2003, David is a non-executive director of Brown Shipley, a wealth management business and he was appointed as a non-executive director of Hansteen Holdings plc in October 2015.
Age 66 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
