CONTENTS OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 02 KPIs and Highlights 08 Chief Executive 44 Directors and Officers Review Company Secretary 69 Statement of Directors 03 Our Business Model Responsibilities 12 Primary Investment 46 Directors Report 04 Our International Reach 70 Independent Auditors 18 Secondary Investment 48 Corporate Governance 06 Chairmans Statement Report to the Members Report 20 Asset Management of John Laing Group plc 52 Audit & Risk Committee 22 Portfolio Valuation 76 Group Income Statement Report 27 Financial Review 77 Group Statement of 56 Directors Remuneration 34 Viability Statement Comprehensive Income Report 35 Principal Risks 78 Group Statement of and Risk Management Changes in Equity 41 Corporate Responsibility 79 Group Balance Sheet 80 Group Cash Flow Statement 81 Notes to the Group Financial Statements 111 Company Balance Sheet 112 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 113 Company Cash Flow Statement 114 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 125 Additional Financial Information unaudited 130 Notice of Annual General Meeting 139 Shareholder Information OUR MARKETS Infrastructure can be defined as the physical assets and systems that support a country or community.
Infrastructure assets typically support services such as transportation, utilities and communications and also cater to social needs such as housing, health and education.
PPP projects Renewable energy projects Opportunities in other typically a consortium enters typically involve electricity infrastructure markets into a long-term concession generation assets which in sectors closely linked to contract with a public sector produce green energy and PPP and renewable energy.
body to design, build, finance benefit from long-term These include areas such as and operate maintain an governmental support high speed broadband, water infrastructure asset in mechanisms alongside resource management and accordance with agreed income for the amount large scale battery storage service standards.
The infrastructure asset usually reverts back to the public sector body at the end of the concession.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2016 01 John Laing Group plc John Laing or the Company or the Group is an international originator, active investor and manager of greenfield infrastructure projects.
The Group aims to create value for shareholders through originating, investing in and managing infrastructure assets internationally.
We are focused on major transport, energy, social and environmental infrastructure projects in regions of the world where we have expertise and where there is a legal and commercial environment supportive of long-term investment.
We hold a portfolio of investments in projects awarded under government backed Public-Private Partnership PPP programmes and renewable energy projects and have developed capabilities in other closely linked sectors which have similar operational and financial characteristics.
We typically invest in infrastructure projects at the greenfield, pre-construction stage.
We apply our management, engineering and technical expertise and invest equity and subordinated debt into special purpose companies which have rights to the underlying infrastructure asset.
These special purpose companies are typically also financed with ring-fenced medium to long-term senior debt.
We are a leading name in our core international markets and chosen sectors.
Since making our first infrastructure investment in 1969, we have committed to invest in 126 projects.
As at 31 December 2016, we held a portfolio of 42 investments in infrastructure projects in 11 countries with a book value of 1,166 million.
plus a shareholding in JLEN a listed environmental asset investment fund valued at 10 million, making an overall investment portfolio of 1,176 million.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
