20 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ASSET MANAGEMENT THE ASSET MANAGEMENT DIVISIONS ACTIVITIES COMPRISE INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT SERVICES AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT SERVICES.
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT SERVICES Value enhancement examples To promote a culture of continuous improvement with Investment Management Services IMS are provided to both public sector counter-parties: responding to their need JLIF and JLEN and also to our own investment portfolio.
for changes over the life of PPP infrastructure projects, External IMS JLCM provides advisory services to JLIF and JLEN reducing the public sector burden and, where possible, under investment advisory agreements.
As at 30 September 2016, to generate incremental revenues therefrom.
JLIF and JLEN had published portfolio values of 1,113.8 million To optimise SPV management costs and project insurance and 320.7 million respectively.
JLCM has an independent premiums through bulk purchasing or efficiency gains, chairman and two separate dedicated fund management teams thereby increasing investor returns.
whose senior staff are authorised and regulated by the FCA.
The teams focus their advice primarily on sourcing new investments To optimise major maintenance and asset renewal costs for and arranging capital raisings by the two funds.
They operate over the life of an infrastructure project and thereby behind information barriers in view of the market sensitive nature increase investor returns.
of their activities and to ensure the separation of buy-side and To maximise working capital efficiency within project sell-side teams when John Laing is selling investments to companies.
Both funds have a right of first offer over certain investments should they be offered for sale by the Group, and To ensure projects are efficiently financed over their both are stand-alone entities separate from the Group.
Each concessions or useful lives.
fund maintains an independent board of directors and is The total IMS income for the year ended 31 December 2016 independently owned.
of 17.8 million 2015 13.4 million includes 2.0 million At 31 December 2016, the Group also managed two PPP 2015 1.4 million of fee income for the provision of investments valued at 37.8 million held by JLPF.
directors on project company boards.
Fee income from external IMS grew from 12.0 million in 2015 PROJECT MANAGEMENT SERVICES to 15.8 million in 2016.
Internal IMS John Laing actively manages its own Primary and The Group also provides Project Management Services PMS, largely of a financial or administrative nature, to project Secondary Investment portfolios.
Our objective is to deliver the base case returns on our investments as a minimum and companies in which John Laing, JLIF or JLEN are investors.
These services are provided under Management Services additionally to enhance those returns through active asset management.
There are two main strategies, value protection Agreements MSAs.
and value enhancement: On 30 November 2016, the Group completed the divestment of its PMS activities in the UK to HCP Management Services Value protection examples Limited HCP.
As part of the sale, 81 staff roles and 52 MSAs To target PPP projects which have revenue streams based transferred to HCP.
The activities sold contributed 7.9 million on availability of the underlying infrastructure asset rather of the total PMS revenues of 14.9 million.
than revenues based on patronage or volume.
The remaining PMS activities are principally focused on MSAs To ensure construction risks associated with design, relating to projects outside the UK.
At 31 December 2016, workmanship, cost overruns and delays lie with our the Group held 19 MSAs 31 December 2015 75 MSAs.
construction supply chain partners who are best able to manage them.
PROJECTS UNDER CONSTRUCTION To ensure project operational performance and cost risks John Laings investments in projects are managed by the lie principally with our service supply chain partners.
An update on significant projects under construction is set out below.
To eliminate the risk of increased interest costs on third party project debt finance over the life of an infrastructure Intercity Express Programme IEP project by swapping variable interest rates to fixed interest rates.
John Laing is in partnership with Hitachi to manage the contracts that cover the design, manufacture, finance and To reduce the impact of short-term volatility on revenues delivery into daily service and maintenance of a fleet of in our renewable energy projects by entering into short 122 Super Express trains for the UKs Great Western Main or medium term power purchase agreements with Line Phase 1 24% interest and the East Coast Main Line electricity suppliers.
With a total capital expenditure across the two phases of 3.4 billion, it is one of the largest PPP projects to be awarded.
Construction of the Phase 1 Great Western depots completed in early 2016 and development of the Phase 2 East Coast depots is progressing well.
During 2016, trains commenced testing on the UK rail network for Phase 1 and remain scheduled to become operational during 2017.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2016 21 In November 2016, it was announced that electrification of Nordergrnde offshore wind farm, Germany 30% interest certain parts of the Great Western Route being undertaken The final turbine of 18 for this offshore wind farm was installed by Network Rail on behalf of the Department for Transport in December 2016.
In September 2016, the sub-contractor would be further delayed.
The Department for Transport has responsible for provision of the offshore electrical sub-station asked the Phase 1 project company to convert all trains for went into administration and this caused some delays to the use as bi-mode which can be powered by diesel or electricity.
The project company, with the support of its lenders, We are not expecting any negative impact on our investments has entered into an agreement with the administrator and from these delays.
work on the sub-station has resumed.
Operations are due to start in late 2017.
New Royal Adelaide Hospital NRAH, South Australia Sydney Light Rail, New South Wales, Australia 32.5% interest 17.3% interest This project is currently one of the largest building This light rail project will form an integral part of Sydneys public transport infrastructure network and pedestrianise construction projects in Australia.
Containing 700 single bedrooms and 100 same-day beds, NRAH will have the one of its busiest streets, providing a commuter route into the Central Business District and access to the south east of the capacity to admit over 80,000 patients per year.
Delays relating to this project are addressed in the Chief Executive city.
Services are scheduled to begin in the first half of 2019.
Technical completion is now Speyside Biomass, UK 43.35% equity interest expected to occur in March 2017 followed by commercial acceptance three months later.
This 15MW combined heat and power plant supplies the adjacent Macallan whisky distillery with heat and exports Denver Eagle P3, Colorado, US 45% interest power to the grid.
Its fuel is virgin wood sourced from the This project is to design, build, finance, maintain and operate local region.
In January 2017, the plant achieved functional take-over.
two commuter rail lines and a section of a third in the Denver Metropolitan area.
The fleet of rolling stock has been completed.
The first line A Line, East Corridor became operational in the second quarter of 2016, and the second Chris Waples line B Line, North West Corridor electrified segment in the GROUP MANAGING DIRECTOR, ASSET MANAGEMENT third quarter.
The third line G Line is scheduled to become operational in the first quarter of 2017.
I-4 Ultimate, Florida, US 50% interest This availability-based road project has total capital expenditure of US$2.3 billion and involves reconstructing 15 major interchanges, building more than 140 bridges, adding four variable toll Express Lanes, and completely rebuilding the general use lanes of 21 miles of the existing I-4 interstate in central Florida.
Construction commenced in 2015 and is anticipated to finish in 2021.
New Perth Stadium, Western Australia 50% interest The New Perth Stadium will be a major sporting and entertainment venue, capable of staging national and international events.
The stadium will predominantly be used for Australian-rules football but will be able to readily accommodate other sports, as well as entertainment events through the use of drop-in seats.
Construction works are on track for completion in advance of the 2018 Australian Football League season.
New Generation Rollingstock, Queensland, Australia 40% interest The project involves the provision and maintenance of 75 new six-car trains for Queensland Rail.
The first train is now being tested with progress slower than expected in part due to reduced availability of train drivers.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
