34 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2016 VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with the revised UK Corporate Governance The Directors assessment has been undertaken using a Code, the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group detailed financial model, which the Group uses consistently over the three year period to 31 December 2019, taking into for forecasting purposes and to monitor compliance with the account the Groups current position and the principal risks covenants in its corporate banking facilities.
Key output from set out on pages 35 to 40.
The assessment carried out supports this model is reviewed at monthly treasury meetings and by the Directors statements both on viability, as set out below, the Groups Executive Committee, Audit & Risk Committee and also in respect of going concern, as set out in the and Board.
Where appropriate, the model has been subjected accounting policies section.
to robust sensitivity analysis to stress test the resilience of the Groups forecasts to severe but plausible scenarios.
These The Directors selected a period of three years for their included i a scenario under which the Group is unable to assessment because this is the longest timescale over which make further investment realisations over an extended time the Group usually has visibility over the future investment period and accordingly materially reduces new investment opportunities which make up its pipeline.
It is also the key activity as well as its costs and ii a scenario where the Group period of focus in the Groups budget and planning process experiences a combination of a significant write down in one which is updated each year and looks forward up to four years.
or more of its largest investments, a six month delay in forecast disposal proceeds and material strengthening of The particular factors and or assumptions the Directors Sterling versus the currencies the Group invests in.
considered in making their assessment were as follows: The Company has a strong risk management culture, The Group makes primarily long-term investments which supported by a Management Risk Committee and an Internal are not publicly traded.
The minimum holding period for Audit function, which helps to ensure that key risks to the an investment is likely to extend beyond the construction business are identified, assessed and monitored appropriately.
time for the underlying asset which for a PPP asset may be as long as 5-6 years, and some assets may be held Based on the above assessment, the Directors have formed a to maturity: reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue New investments in greeneld projects are funded through its operations and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next three years from 31 December 2016. a combination of cash ow from existing assets, the Groups corporate banking facilities and realisations of investments in operational projects.
Realisations are dependent on continuing demand in a currently active secondary market: Availability of debt finance continues at Group level through the corporate banking facilities and at project level through non-recourse project finance facilities specic to each project: it is assumed that the 400.0 million corporate banking facilities which mature in March 2020 will be renewed or renanced before that date: The Group is exposed to potential increases in pension cash contributions as well as volatility in the JLPF pension deficit reported as part of NAV, principally because of movements in the main risks discount rate, ination rate and life expectancy which impact the value of pension liabilities.
The next triennial actuarial valuation of JLPF is due as at 31 March 2019: and The value of the Groups investment portfolio is dependent on a number of key assumptions including: discount rates derived from the secondary market: macro-economic factors such as exchange rates, taxation rates, ination and deposit rates: the construction stage and operational performance of underlying assets: forecast project cash ows: volumes where project revenue is linked to project usage : and forward energy prices and energy yields.
