12 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2016 PRIMARY INVESTMENT OUR PRIMARY INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES ARE FOCUSED ON GREENFIELD INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS.
These are principally those awarded under PPP programmes North America we continued to increase our activities as well as renewable energy assets and may also include in the market.
During the year, we secured a stake in similar long-term projects which have a strong private-sector the Sterling wind farm project in New Mexico, our first rather than governmental counterparty.
Asset management investment in renewable energy in this region, and we services in respect of the Primary Investment portfolio during made a small additional investment in the I-77 Managed the construction period are provided by John Laings Asset Lanes project in North Carolina.
When underlying projects reach the end Europe of construction, the investments transfer into our Secondary Investment portfolio.
We made a 9.0 million commitment to the A6 Parkway PPP project in the Netherlands: The Primary Investment portfolio comprises the Groups shareholdings in 11 PPP projects, and in ten renewable energy We acquired an additional 6% stake in the IEP Phase 1 projects, which are in the construction phase.
The Groups project in the UK from a co-investor: Primary Investment portfolio was valued at 696.3 million at We committed to four on-shore wind farm investments, 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 405.9 million.
one in each of the UK and Germany, and two in France: and NEW INVESTMENT COMMITMENTS We also secured and closed the Groups first During 2016, the Primary Investment team successfully secured investment in the offshore wind sector, acquiring ten new investments, and made additional commitments to a 30% stake in the Nordergrnde wind farm project one existing investment, resulting in total commitments of in Germany.
181.9 million: Our investment commitments for 2016 are summarised in Asia Pacific the Hornsdale 2 wind farm project in the table below: South Australia reached financial close in June 2016 and we closed the Kiata wind farm project in Victoria in November 2016, further strengthening the Groups presence in the renewable energy market in the region.
PPP RE Total Investment commitments Region million million million Intercity Express Programme IEP Phase 1 UK 37.0 37.0 Llynfi wind farm UK 24.9 24.9 A6 Parkway Europe 9.0 9.0 Nordergrnde offshore wind farm Europe 36.7 36.7 Sommette wind farm Europe 11.7 11.7 Horath wind farm Europe 14.3 14.3 SaintMartinLArs wind farm Europe 5.1 5.1 I77 Managed Lanes North America 1.1 1.1 Sterling wind farm North America 15.7 15.7 Hornsdale wind farm Phase 2 Asia Pacific 6.0 6.0 Kiata wind farm Asia Pacific 20.4 20.4 Totals 47.1 134.8 181.9 RE renewable energy Since 31 December 2016, we have committed 10.0 million for a 20% shareholding in the Hornsdale wind farm Phase 3 in Australia.
ACTIVITIES We target a wide range of infrastructure sectors: The Primary Investment team is responsible for all the Groups Transport rail including rolling stock, roads, street bid development activities.
The team takes responsibility for lighting and highways maintenance: developing and managing a pipeline of opportunities, including Environmental renewable energy including wind power, market research, project selection, bid co-ordination and solar power, energy storage and biomass, water treatment negotiations with public sector authorities, vendors and and waste management: lenders.
In each of our target markets of Asia Pacific, North America and Europe, we work with strong delivery partners.
Social infrastructure healthcare, education, justice, For instance, in the Asia Pacific and North American regions, stadiums, public sector accommodation and social housing.
the Group is currently working with leading international and We are also assessing opportunities in new infrastructure domestic contractors and service providers, including Acciona, sectors such as the emerging energy storage programmes ACS Group, Aecom, Alstom, Bombardier, Bouygues, Brookfield to support electricity grid performance, and broadband Multiplex, Cintra, Cubic, Downer, Fluor, Fulton Hogan, John infrastructure upgrades, where we believe our business model Holland, Laing ORourke, Leighton CIMIC, Lend Lease, Serco, could be successfully applied.
13 Project: Intercity Express Programme Location: United Kingdom The project is one of the Partners: Hitachi Rail Europe largest PPPs globally, Description: The IEP is an innovative scheme covering the finance, design, raising a total of 4.7 billion manufacture, delivery into daily service and maintenance of a fleet of 122 state-of-the-art Hitachi Super Express trains of funding.
John Laing has a over a guaranteed minimum usage period of 26 years for the Great Western Main Line Phase 1 and the East Coast Main Line Phase 2 in the UK.
24% interest in Phase 1 and Construction of the Phase 1 Great Western depots completed in early 2016 and development of the Phase 2 East Coast a 30% interest in Phase 2. depots is progressing well.
During 2016, trains commenced testing on the UK rail network for Phase 1 and remain scheduled to become operational during 2017.
Location: United Kingdom Strategic Report 14 Project: I-4 Ultimate, Florida Location: Orlando, Florida, USA This availability-based Partners: Skanska Infrastructure Development road project involves Description: This availability-based road project has total capital reconstructing 15 major expenditure of US$2.3 billion and involves reconstructing 15 major interchanges, building more than 140 bridges, interchanges, building adding four variable toll Express Lanes, and completely rebuilding the general use lanes of 21 miles of the existing I-4 interstate in central Florida.
Construction more than 140 bridges commenced in 2015 and is anticipated to finish in 2021. and adding four variable toll Express Lanes.
Location: US John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2016 15 PRIMARY INVESTMENT CONTINUED PROJECT FINANCE PIPELINE Pricing of project finance facilities remained broadly stable At 31 December 2016, our overall investment pipeline of during 2016, although the trend of falling prices and improving 1,859 million was higher than the pipeline of 1,494 million terms experienced in recent years appears to have levelled off.
The pipeline comprises opportunities We were able to secure financing for projects where required.
to invest equity in PPP projects with the potential to reach Institutional sources of long-term project finance were available financial close over the next three years, while the renewable in Europe, although commercial bank debt was typically more energy pipeline relates to the next two years.
In Australia and New Zealand, medium-term compared to 2015 reflects an increase in renewable energy bank debt and refinancing requirements are well established, pipelines in Asia Pacific and North America, as well as some with a large number of international banks being active in these impact from the devaluation of Sterling.
In Canada and the US, projects tend to be financed Our overall pipeline is constantly evolving as new opportunities in the debt capital markets rather than with bank financing.
are added and other opportunities drop out.
We budget a win Overall, financial markets in the regions in which the Group rate of 30% for PPP bids.
is active supported our growing levels of investment and we expect this to continue in 2017.
Our total pipeline broken down by bidding stage is as follows: Number of PPP RE Total Pipeline at 31 December 2016 by bidding stage projects million million million Shortlisted exclusive 18 234 173 407 Other active bids 4 185 185 Other pipeline 49 989 278 1,267 Totals 71 1,408 451 1,859 RE renewable energy The shortlisted PPP projects at 31 December 2016 comprised a prison project in Australia, a broadband upgrade project in Ireland, and six availability-based transportation and schools projects, spread across the US, Canada and Australia.
In terms of geography, our pipeline is well spread across our target markets: PPP RE Total Pipeline at 31 December 2016 by target market million million million Asia Pacific 491 142 633 North America 449 97 546 Europe including the UK 468 212 680 Totals 1,408 451 1,859 RE renewable energy Some 34% of our pipeline relates to the Asia Pacific region Selected countries in Europe, Asia Pacific and North America which continues to offer substantial opportunities.
In this region, will provide our main focus for renewable energy opportunities the Groups current bidding activities are focused on Australia in 2017.
Our pipeline includes many potential wind and solar and New Zealand, where the Group has built up a strong base.
projects as well as investment opportunities in biomass plant.
Our growing presence in the renewable energy sector in Our overall renewable energy pipeline was 451 million at Australia offers significant potential in the coming years.
31 December 2016, higher than at 31 December 2015.
In the In North America the US and Canada, which makes up 29% of main, we target investments where a substantial proportion the pipeline, our focus is on what is becoming a very substantial of revenue is supported by governmental support mechanisms PPP market, whilst continuing to progress our presence in the which leads to reduced exposure to energy price fluctuations.
renewable energy market, following our first US wind farm During the year, we closed our first offshore wind farm investment in 2016.
We continue to explore PPP opportunities investment, and this sector offers strong potential in the primarily in the transportation sector and also the growing coming years, though our pipeline does not currently include water and social infrastructure sectors.
The Canadian market any offshore wind opportunities.
continues to demonstrate strong PPP deal flow, which we are In addition to the above, the Group continues to monitor new actively pursuing.
At the end of 2016, we were shortlisted on geographic markets which offer potential in the medium to long four large PPP projects.
These include countries in South America, such as Chile The balance of our pipeline is in Europe, where PPP activity and Colombia, and other Asia Pacific markets such as Singapore.
remains at a satisfactory level in countries such as the I will be retiring at the end of March 2017 but I am confident in Netherlands.
However, in 2017 we expect to increase our activities the ability and experience of our teams within Primary Investment in markets such as Germany, Norway and the Czech Republic.
and the strength of our pipeline.
Following my retirement, the There is also a significant PPP programme in Turkey, but we have heads of Primary Investment in each of our three geographical deferred further work on this market following the challenges in regions will report directly to the Chief Executive Officer.
The UK government has given indications of a new pipeline of privately financed projects, and we are waiting for the programme to become more clearly defined.
Derek Potts GROUP MANAGING DIRECTOR, PRIMARY INVESTMENT Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 16 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Project: New Perth Stadium Location: Perth, Australia The stadium will predominantly Partners: Brookfield Multiplex be used for Australian-rules Brookfield Global Integrated Services Description: football but will be able to The New Perth Stadium will be a major sporting and entertainment venue with an initial 60,000 seat capacity, readily accommodate other capable of staging national and international events.
The stadium will predominantly be used for Australian-rules football but will be able to readily accommodate other sports, as well as entertainment sports, as well as entertainment events, through the use of drop-in seats.
Construction works are on track for events, through the use of completion in advance of the 2018 Australian Football League season.
Location: Australia John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 Project: Nordergrnde offshore wind farm Location: North Sea north of Wilhelmshaven, Germany Electricity generation will Partners: wpd AG and Gothaer Leben Renewables GmbH come from 18 turbines with Description: Nordergrnde, in which John Laing has a 30% stake, total capacity of 110.7MW.
is John Laings second German wind investment and its first investment in offshore wind.
Electricity generation will come from 18 Senvion 6.2 M126 turbines with total capacity of 110.7MW.
Location: Germany The project will benefit from the German feed in tariff mechanism and operations are due to start in late 2017.
