108 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 4.
Governance REMUNERATION REPORT OUR ROLE IS TO ENSURE THAT JOHNSON MATTHEY'S REMUNERATION ARRANGEMENTS ARE APPROPRIATE, ALIGNED WITH SHAREHOLDERS INTERESTS AND ARE MANAGED IN LINE WITH GOOD GOVERNANCE.
Dorothy Thompson, CBE Chair of the Remuneration Committee The last year has seen some challenging economic conditions INTRODUCTION and notable weakening in some of the markets in which the company operates but the company has still been able to deliver a robust As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee I am pleased to performance.
A number of business operations were restructured to present our report for the year ended 31st March 2016.
This report reflect the deterioration in their markets while those businesses in is intended to give an insight into the key matters considered by the markets with continued opportunity for growth, such as Emission committee during the previous 12 months and to give an indication Control Technologies ECT, focused on delivering sustainable growth.
of the matters we expect to consider over the next 12 months.
These challenging conditions are reflected in the annual bonus During the past year some of our key considerations included: payment to Executive Directors, which will be 15% of maximum reviewing the salaries of Executive Directors, as well as the payout for Robert MacLeod, 17% of maximum payout for Den Jones performance conditions of our incentive plans: setting the and 37% of maximum payout for John Walker.
The 2013 Long Term remuneration terms for departing Executive Directors: and reviewing Incentive Plan LTIP allocation will vest at 33% of maximum.
Looking forward to the next 12 months, in addition to our usual business, we will focus on reviewing our Future Incentives and Performance Conditions Remuneration Policy in time for its submission to shareholders at our 2017 Annual General Meeting AGM.
In view of the current economic outlook, we considered the The committee was pleased by the level of shareholder support performance range of the LTIP, which is currently a 6%-12% received for our 2015 directors Remuneration Report, our second compound annual growth rate CAGR in underlying EPS.
year of reporting under the new reporting regulations.
Our policy, To reflect the stage in the companys growth cycle, the low which was introduced in 2014 following strong shareholder support, inflationary environment and challenging outlook for global remains unchanged and I can confirm that there is no intention to economies and commodities, the committee propose a performance make any revisions to it ahead of our 2017 AGM.
We remain range for the 2016 LTIP allocation of 4% 10% compound annual committed to continued transparency and engagement with our growth in underlying EPS, with threshold vesting remaining shareholders on proposed changes to our executive arrangements unchanged at 15% of the award.
and will continue to consult with our shareholders prior to any In setting the performance range of the 2016 LTIP allocation change in our policy.
the committee carefully reviewed how the business plan approved by the board would be translated into performance targets that Corporate Performance and Incentive Outcomes are appropriately challenging, aligned with shareholder expectations and provide executives with a meaningful incentive to drive The overall objective of the company is to deliver superior long term performance.
The LTIP and its performance targets will be growth from value adding sustainable technologies and therefore the reviewed again next year as part of the triennial review of executive remuneration strategy focuses on ensuring alignment with long term director remuneration to ensure continued appropriateness and success and growth.
Long term variable reward is firmly based on shareholder alignment.
growth as measured by increases in underlying earnings per share The committee also reviewed the composition and performance EPS, and annual bonuses require strong near term delivery against conditions attached to our annual bonus plans and decided that challenging targets.
these will remain unchanged for the coming year.
109 Salary Reviews The Year Ahead The salaries of executive directors are reviewed in August each year.
Over the coming year the committee will review its Remuneration John Walker received a higher increase of 7.5% in 2015 to reflect Policy and consult with major shareholders on any changes prior to his performance and increasing level of experience and skill on the the 2017 AGM.
In the meantime we believe that our current policy board, following his appointment to it in October 2013.
John will continues to align with the interests of our shareholders whilst receive an increase of 6% in August 2016 after which it is expected providing appropriate incentives for our executives relative to his salary will increase in line with other employees in Johnson performance.
With continuing uncertainty in global markets the year Matthey.
Robert MacLeod will receive an increase of 2.25% in ahead will be challenging but the variable elements of executive August 2016, which is broadly in line with that awarded to other remuneration will remain strongly focused on the simple and employees in Johnson Matthey.
transparent measures of underlying profit before tax PBT and underlying EPS with targets that are appropriately challenging.
Board Changes During the year a number of announcements have been made about changes to the board.
In October 2015, we announced Larry Pentzs intention to retire from Johnson Matthey on 31st March 2016 and in Dorothy Thompson March this year we announced that Den Jones would step down as Group Finance Director during the summer of 2016.
Larry joined Johnson Matthey in 1984 and during his long and distinguished career led a number of significant businesses within the group.
The remuneration terms agreed by the committee in respect of Larrys retirement are in line with our policy and include no special arrangements, further details are set out on page 124.
The leaving terms of Den will be discussed by the committee prior to his departure but I can confirm that it is intended that the terms will be in line with our policy and include no special arrangements.
The process for identifying a suitable successor is ongoing and the committee will apply its approach to recruitment remuneration set out in the policy.
In addition to these Executive Director changes, I will retire as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, having served for nine years, with effect from the close of the companys AGM on 20th July 2016.
I will be succeeded as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee by fellow Non-Executive Director, Colin Matthews.
Adviser Review During 2015 we took the decision to undertake a review of our committee adviser.
 LLP PwC has been adviser to the committee for many years and the committee believes periodic reviews are good governance practice.
As a result of this review, the committee appointed New Bridge Street as our adviser with effect from 16th November 2015.
PwC and New Bridge Street are both signatories to the Code of Conduct of the Remuneration Consultants Group.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
