16 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 1.
Overview OUR GLOBAL MARKETS DEMAND FOR CHEMISTRY-LED SUSTAINABLE TECHNOLOGIES REMAINS STRONG Production in Western Europe grew In other segments, such as formaldehyde, Overview by 6%, supported by strong demand butanediol and ammonia, there has The global economy remained turbulent in the UK, France and Germany.
been a slowdown in new plant builds 1 with overall growth of 3.1% in 2015, The proportion of diesel cars produced in and in turn, less demand for catalysts down from 3.4% in the previous year.
Western Europe remained steady, despite following capacity ramp ups in recent The baseline projection for global negative commentary in the media years.
There has also been a reduction growth in 2016 is a modest 3.2%.
relating to emissions from these vehicles.
in the commercial prospects to convert However, the recovery is projected to The market in Asia was mixed, as coal into natural gas projects in China strengthen in 2017 and beyond, driven India showed strong growth of 8% and due to environmental concerns.
primarily by emerging markets and China was steady.
However, in Japan, The short term outlook for the developing economies.
light duty vehicle production was chemicals industry remains subdued.
The economic backdrop has had weaker, down 4%, and the market in Recent industry growth has been driven a mixed impact on Johnson Matthey in South East Asia was also slightly down.
by China, where the market grew by 2015 16 as a result of the diversity of our In North America, light duty vehicle around 15% per annum from 1998 to key markets.
Our automotive facing production was up 4% in the year.
However, the industry is now businesses have benefited from the Although in South America production adapting to a lower rate of growth and to introduction of tighter legislation to was significantly down.
the fact that in China, there is generally control emissions from vehicles and In the heavy duty market, Western sufficient capacity for the production of from continued growth in production of Europe experienced a recovery in truck key chemical intermediates.
Whilst we both light duty vehicles mainly cars and production in 2015 16.
However, in dont envisage market conditions heavy duty vehicles mainly trucks and North America, the market was flat year deteriorating further in 2016 17, short buses.
This trend is set to continue over on year.
This followed a period of strong term growth opportunities are expected the next five years, with further tightening production for the large, intracontinental to remain limited.
of legislation to control emissions and Class 8 trucks which peaked in the compound annual growth rates CAGRs first half of our financial year and then Read more on pages 48 to 50. of 3.3% and 9.2% for production of light reduced sharply during our second duty vehicles and heavy duty vehicles half.
Production of Class 8 trucks has Pharmaceuticals requiring emission control, respectively.
continued to soften at the start of The chemicals industry, on the other Johnson Matthey supplies APIs which 2016 17 but we currently expect hand, has experienced a challenging are used in the pharmaceutical industry.
production levels to stabilise later in period, adversely impacted by the low oil The global API market is expected to the year.
price and the economic slowdown in rise from $150 billion in 2015 to reach Looking ahead, global growth is China.
In addition, with capacity in place over $200 billion by 2020, a CAGR of anticipated in both light duty and 3 that meets or exceeds current demand 6.5% during the period.
regulated heavy duty vehicle production for products in Johnson Mattheys value Market growth driven by factors volumes over the next five years.
This, chain, investment in new chemical plants such as the increasing incidence of together with tightening emissions is currently at very low levels.
lifestyle and age related diseases, legislation, should support demand for More generally, the muted economic increasing prevalence of cancer across Johnson Mattheys technologies.
outlook is weighing on other industrial the world, technological advancements markets and on prices of commodities in the manufacture of APIs and Read more on pages 44 to 47 and such as the platinum group metals increasing scope for highly potent active 56 and 57. pgms.
This, in turn, has created ingredients are driving market growth.
challenging trading conditions in some On the other hand, stringent regulatory Chemicals of Johnson Mattheys markets.
requirements and global economic In our pharmaceutical facing recession may restrict market growth.
Trading conditions within the chemicals markets, demand for active industry have been challenging in North America remains the largest pharmaceutical ingredients APIs, the segment for APIs, supported by growth 2015 16, with the low oil price and the active components of drug products, economic slowdown in China having in the pharmaceutical industry in the has remained robust, with increased region.
This is driven by both increasing a significant impact on a number of requirements driven by growing and chemical industry segments.
In those government focus on lower cost ageing populations.
medicines and rising demand for segments where prospects relied on feedstocks with more favourable biological and speciality drugs.
Our API facing businesses focus economics than oil, advantage has Johnson Mattheys Key Markets been eroded, making significant on complex, small molecule APIs.
Automotive Regardless of where the API is made, commercialisation difficult.
This has Around 60% of our sales are to impacted the prospects of technologies we must adhere to strict safety and automotive markets and global light duty quality standards set by the country to convert gas into fuels and for the vehicle production increased by 1% in production of chemical intermediates where the API will be used.
There are 2 the year ended 31st March 2016. opportunities in the marketplace through such as mono ethylene glycol MEG.
coinvesting in and codeveloping formulated drug products.
1 International Monetary Fund, World Economic Outlook: Too Slow for Too Long, April 2016.
17 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY DRIVERS Population Growth Natural Resource Environmental Factors Health and Nutrition Constraints Urbanisation Climate Change Ageing Population Increasing Wealth Regulation Opportunities and Challenges Potentially Addressed by Chemistry-Led Sustainable Technologies Growing demand in emerging markets Ageing population driving increased demand for healthcare: pressure on healthcare costs Increasing drive for lower emissions and improved air quality Expectation on companies to act responsibly and sustainably Major focus on resource efficiency and energy security Our Strategic Response Investment in New Businesses Customer Focus In response to global sustainability trends, we are investing We have five global divisions, each focused on key markets and with commercial and operational infrastructure aligned in new areas where we believe our expertise can create solutions to major global challenges.
Our investment in new to our customers needs.
This enables us to access markets where customers require and value high technology business areas, such as technologies to enable electric vehicles, purify water or reduce food waste, will benefit the solutions and creates opportunities for superior growth for Johnson Matthey.
world we live in and support growth in the future for Johnson Matthey.
Developing Innovative Products and Technologies Sustainability 2017 R&D lies at the heart of Johnson Mattheys success, To us, good performance is not just about profit.
It is underpinning all of our businesses.
We have deep expertise about running our business in the most responsible and in chemistry and its applications which we use to develop sustainable way.
We made our commitment to this in 2007 products that perform a vital function in our customers with the launch of our Sustainability 2017 programme.
At the same time, our products enable broader Since then, we have made sustainability part of the way sustainability benefits through their positive impact on the we do business, realising benefits for ourselves and our environment, on natural resource use or on peoples health stakeholders.
Sustainability 2017 will come to an end on and wellbeing.
31st March 2017 and we will renew our commitment through a broader programme designed to ensure we Read more on pages 22 and 23 and in the Strategy in Action continue to create value through the development of value section at the front of this report.
With growth supported by global drivers Commodity Prices Expectations of weakness in the Chinese such as population growth and an ageing jewellery market proved overstated, Platinum Group Metals population, the market remains relatively and demand from investors increased.
Pgm prices were significantly lower in well insulated from macroeconomic Use of platinum in vehicle emission 2015 16 with platinum averaging $991 oz factors that have impacted several of control catalysts was strong, while down 26% and palladium averaging Johnson Mattheys other markets.
industrial offtake was stable, leaving $631 oz down 23%.
The platinum total demand for platinum up 4% in market suffered from negative sentiment, 4 calendar year 2015.
Read more on pages 54 and 55. but demand trends were broadly positive.
4 Johnson Matthey Pgm Market Report, May 2016.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 18 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 1.
Overview OUR GLOBAL MARKETS CONTINUED On the supply side, a recovery in sales These catalysts will enable customers across many of our product ranges, by South African producers was partly to meet emissions standards under a even when the market environment is offset by a reduction in recycled real world testing cycle.
material, both from emission control the Euro 6c standard, also effective for In emissions control, we are subject catalysts from scrapped vehicles and new models from September 2017, to annual price reductions by our from old jewellery, leaving the market will lead to some gasoline petrol cars customers, the automotive original in significant deficit.
in the EU requiring particulate filters.
The palladium market moved closer In North America, the Environmental However, we continue to invest in to balance in the 2015 calendar year Protection Agency EPA has previously operational improvements to offset the due to a strong recovery in South announced its plans for the next ten years, impact of this on our margins.
In addition, African supplies, despite investment and its Tier 3 legislation will impose to meet tightening legislation, we invest in demand moving into negative territory.
tighter restrictions on emissions of new product developments to ensure that Global primary supplies of palladium hydrocarbons and oxides of nitrogen, and we have a technological advantage.
This 4 rose by 6%, while gross demand fell by impose a particle mass limit for vehicles.
allows us, on average, to maintain stable 4 13%, almost entirely due to a reversal We are expecting significant pricing.
In other areas of our business we in purchasing for investment purposes.
regulatory change in Asia, with both enter into longer term contracts to assure This greatly offset overall increases in China and India advancing legislation pricing over a longer period.
towards vehicle emissions standards We endeavour to pass on the costs The markets for both platinum and equivalent to Europe and North America of raw materials, such as pgms, to our palladium are expected to remain in around 2020. customers to reduce our susceptibility 4 deficit in calendar year 2016.
For heavy duty vehicles, the main to fluctuations in raw material prices.
Weaker average prices had a regulatory changes are also coming significant impact on Johnson Mattheys from Asia, where tightening legislation in Intellectual Property Pgm Refining and Recycling business.
China and India towards the end of the The generation and application of Whilst intake volumes in the business decade will enhance our opportunities technology know-how and intellectual were relatively stable, margins were in these markets.
These regulatory property, together with the monitoring adversely affected.
changes offer good medium term growth of third party intellectual property, is opportunities for Johnson Matthey.
vital to maintaining our competitive The regulatory landscape in the Read more on pages 51 to 53. advantage.
We dedicate resources pharmaceuticals industry offers to identify and protect our intellectual opportunities for the group.
When a Oil property and to identify and mitigate branded drug product comes off The price of oil decreased by 28% in against third party intellectual property patent, the first manufacturer to file 2015 16 on account of strong supply rights.
This is important in ensuring for approval with the US Food and from members of the Organisation of we have freedom to operate and to Drug Administration FDA is entitled the Petroleum Exporting Countries protect our business advantage, our to 180 days exclusivity when the and Russia and concerns about the technologies and our reputation.
non-branded drug first enters the market.
resilience of global demand and medium During that period, other drug makers term growth prospects.
Oil prices are prohibited from entering the market.
Competition recovered some ground in March 2016 This presents opportunities for our API Our products are advanced materials and have subsequently improved further, Manufacturing business which partners based on complex chemistry and its on the back of improved sentiment in with pharmaceutical customers in the applications and we invest in them financial markets.
Subdued oil prices development and supply of APIs for to differentiate ourselves from our have impacted investment sentiment in non-branded drug products.
The sectors in which we the chemicals market, as noted earlier.
major markets in the UK and North compete generally have a number of However, low prices have been broadly America, the production of controlled common features: they have a small supportive of increased demand for drug substances is tightly regulated and number of significant players: their high light and heavy duty vehicles.
this acts as a significant barrier to entry technology nature creates significant for potential competitors.
barriers to entry: and we generally hold Read more on pages 48 to 50. the number one or number two position.
Pricing Customers in our sectors value Regulation technology and the competitive Johnson Matthey operates in highly Regulation to control emissions from environment is fast paced and evolving.
competitive markets in which innovative, vehicles remains a key driver for growth Consequently, we maintain high levels competitively priced, fit for market in our Emission Control Technologies of ongoing investment in R&D to products are essential.
Johnson Mattheys ECT Division and the regulatory outlook maintain our competitive advantage.
competitive advantage is based on shows further tightening of emissions our expertise in complex chemistry standards in the coming years.
Read more on pages 22 and 23. and its applications, coupled with In the light duty segment, the phased high operational efficiency and strong introduction of tighter standards called customer focus.
Through positioning Real World Driving Emissions or RDE ourselves in markets where technology in the EU, starting from September 2017, is valued and investing to continually will lead to a shift towards more improve our technology, we are able complex and high value catalyst systems.
to maintain relatively stable pricing 4 Johnson Matthey Pgm Market Report, May 2016.
