20 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 1.
Overview OUR STRATEGY FOCUSED ON DELIVERING SUPERIOR LONG TERM GROWTH 3 C OUR 3C STRATEGY WILL ENABLE US TO BUILD OUR 3RD CENTURY THROUGH VALUE ADDING SUSTAINABLE TECHNOLOGIES.
WE HAVE Customer Create focus value NINE BUILDING BLOCKS THAT MAKE UP OUR STRATEGY PYRAMID AND WE ARE FOCUSING ON THREE POWERFUL THEMES: Growth Collaborate The best COLLABORATE CUSTOMER FOCUS CREATE VALUE from new to leverage of big business our expertise and small Invest in Build on Operational The Johnson people, our core excellence and Matthey products, strengths sustainability culture technology Our strategic priorities Progress in 2015 16 Key challenges in 2015 16 COLLABORATE Focus on our core value, health and safety is our Changing employees attitudes and embedded We aim to collaborate more to priority, supported by global launch of safety principles behaviours so we can drive our health and better leverage our expertise and other efforts to enhance behavioural safety.
across the group and with Working together to deliver continual improvement.
Communicating learnings following fatal our external partners.
This, Launch of global 3C Awards programme to accident at Fine Chemicals facility to prevent supported by our culture engage employees in strategy and recognise such an incident happening again.
and values, will help enable their achievements.
Complexity of implementing business systems our transition to a small Upgrade and relaunch of groupwide collaboration transformation programme.
Impact on employee morale during programme Continuation of global programme to update core of planned redundancies in response to business systems.
challenging conditions in some markets.
Developed roadmap for small big company transition.
CUSTOMER FOCUS Customer focus model developed and initial Managing the groups businesses during Our aim is to become truly programmes underway.
challenging trading environment resulting from customer centric.
We are adverse macroeconomic conditions.
Reorganisation within divisions to better align investing in our people, with customers needs.
Understanding the impact a lower oil price products and technology to has on our customers plans and projects.
Ongoing R&D investment combined with portfolio differentiate ourselves from our management to develop sustainable products for Harmonising talent management processes competitors and are building our customers.
on our core strengths to generate the next generation Further implemented new people strategy and of sustainable products.
CREATE VALUE Delivered robust overall performance, supported by Adverse impact on business performance Our aim is to grow our strong year in Emission Control Technologies.
as a result of lower oil and platinum group business and build our metal prices and economic slowdown Ongoing investment to support future growth.
Good 3rd century through value in China.
cash generation and strong balance sheet maintained.
Negative media coverage on emissions from Continued focus on Manufacturing Excellence and We are focusing on operational diesel vehicles adversely impacted investors Sustainability 2017 programmes.
excellence and sustainability to sentiment towards the group.
optimise our efficiencies in the Good progress in New Businesses supported by Decrease in return on invested capital as a most responsible way and are last years two Battery Technologies acquisitions result of lower underlying operating profit investing in new businesses and this years purchase of Stepac atmosphere and higher levels of investment.
to provide growth in new control technologies business.
sustainable markets for Global launch and roll out of Doing the right thing, the future.
our code of business integrity and ethics.
