Governance Directors' report Statement of directors responsibilities The directors submit their report The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the together with the audited financial Directors Remuneration Report and the Group and the John Wood Group PLC the Company financial statements in accordance with statements of the Group for the applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The directors have prepared the Group financial The Group consolidated income statement for the year is set out on statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting page 74.
In respect of the year ended 31 December 2016 an interim Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards dividend of 10.8 cents per share was paid on 22 September 2016 and Board IASB and as adopted by the European Union.
In line with the directors have proposed a final dividend of 22.5 cents per share to be the notice given to shareholders in May 2016 the Company financial paid on 16 May 2017.
The full year dividend will therefore be 33.3 cents statements are prepared in accordance with FRS 101 Reduced per share.
The Group and Company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of Further reading the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for Information relevant to and forming part of the report of the directors that period.
is to be found in the following sections of the annual report: In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: Pages X Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently 30 Statement of Directors responsibilities X Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent 31 Fair, balanced and understandable 26 Going concern X State that the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as 27 Viability statement issued by the IASB and as adopted by the European Union, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial 31 Risk management and internal control statements.
32 to 33 Board of Directors and biographies The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records 02 to 19 Principal activities and business review that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 26 to 28 Principal risks and uncertainties position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure 110 to 111 Acquisitions and divestments that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group 117 to 124 Subsidiaries and joint ventures financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also 34 to 41 Corporate governance responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the 24 Employment policies Group and, hence, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 21 Health, safety, security and ethics detection of fraud and other irregularities.
23 Environment The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 36 Substantial shareholders Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from 107 Share capital legislation in other jurisdictions.
63 Directors interests in options over ordinary shares Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 62 Directors interests in ordinary shares 32 and 33, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: X The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB and as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group, and X The directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the significant risks and uncertainties that it faces.
So far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Relevant information is defined as information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing their report.
Each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
30 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements X Internal control structure Governance Code compliance The Group has a clear organisational structure for the control and The Board remains fully committed to maintaining high standards monitoring of its businesses, including defined lines of responsibility of corporate governance and believes that this is key to overall through the organisation up to board level and delegations of authority performance and integrity, consistent with our shared values.
The Group has issued policies which define the standards of The Board also believes that good corporate governance extends business conduct and include Accounting: Contract Risk Management beyond regulatory compliance and consistently monitors developments and Review: Health, Safety, Security and Environment: and Business in best practice, including guidance published by investor groups.
A Group Business Ethics helpline, operated by an independent third party, is in place to enable staff and third parties to raise concerns This section of the annual report explains how the Group has in confidence about possible non-compliance with the Groups applied the main principles of Leadership, Effectiveness, Accountability, Business Ethics Policy.
Remuneration and Relations with shareholders outlined in the UK For more information on Business Ethics: Corporate Governance Code issued in April 2016 the Governance See page 21 Code.
A copy of the Governance Code is available at www.
The directors consider that the Group has, throughout 2016, fully complied with the provisions of the Governance Code which applies X Ongoing monitoring of internal control systems to the year ended 31 December 2016.
The Board has agreed certain reporting procedures to monitor key risk areas on an ongoing basis, including safety, legal and financial Fair, balanced and understandable matters.
The Audit Committee has been delegated the responsibility The Board considers that the annual report and accounts, taken to review the effectiveness of the internal financial and IT control as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the systems implemented by management.
The Safety, Assurance and information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position, Business Ethics Committee has been delegated responsibility for the performance, business model and strategy.
effectiveness of the Groups safety policies and systems and since the start of 2016 has had responsibility for ethical and regulatory matters.
In reaching this assessment, the Board was assisted by the Chair and the Senior Independent Director who engaged directly with Company The Board and its Committees are assisted by the internal audit management during the planning, drafting and review stages of function and, where appropriate, the external auditors.
Where the the annual report and were provided with draft materials for review internal or external auditors identify any significant deficiencies in the and comment as the document progressed.
This facilitated a good financial or IT internal control systems, a plan of action is agreed to level of understanding of the process of compilation and assurance remedy these and progress against them is tracked and reported with over the information contained within the annual report.
The Board updates provided to the Audit Committee as necessary.
subsequently considered the annual report and accounts as a whole The Audit Committee receives regular updates concerning ongoing and discussed the reports tone, balance, and language at the audits.
Details of audit updates received by the Committee in 2016 are February 2017 board meeting.
Risk management and internal control The Chairs of the Audit and Safety, Assurance and Business Ethics Committees report regularly to the Board on their discussions.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and risk management which is fundamental to the achievement X Information and communication of the Groups strategic objectives.
The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting performance to Risk management the Board.
This includes monthly and quarterly reports.
The quarterly The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, reports include a detailed financial review against budgets and latest evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Group, forecasts.
The Group ELT also receives detailed monthly financial reports that has been in place for the year under review and up to the date and meets on a monthly basis to discuss financial performance and of approval of this annual report.
The process is regularly reviewed other operational matters.
In addition, each BU holds Quarterly Review by the Board and is in accordance with the April 2016 edition of the Meetings QRMs involving the Chief Executive and the Group CFO.
The Group, for the purposes of applying the Code, 1 comprises John Wood Group PLC and its subsidiaries.
For further Statutory disclosures details on the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group along with associated mitigations, monitoring and assurance please Disclosures in relation to listing rule LR 9.8.
4R where applicable are refer to pages 27 to 28. included in note 20 to the financial statements in relation to Long Term Incentive Plans.
Any system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Footnotes The key elements of the ongoing procedures, which the directors 1.
Subsidiaries include those entities which are under Group management and control.
have established to review the effectiveness of the system of internal control on an annual basis, are listed below.
As a result of these ongoing procedures the Boards assessment was that the overall internal control environment was operating effectively.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 31
