Strategic report Governance Financial statements Letter from the Chair of the Board Dear Shareholder 2016 represented the first year of Robin Watsons tenure as Chief Executive and a second year of very tough market conditions.
This required the Board to once again devote significant time to challenging and supporting the executive leadership teams strategic response to the lower oil price environment.
In 2015, this response was reflected in the decisive actions taken on cost reduction and efficiency.
In 2016, focus moved to the actions taken to emerge from the prolonged downturn as a stronger, better business.
This was most visible in the strategic reorganisation and repositioning of the Group across Asset Life Cycle Solutions and Specialist Technical Services.
The Board devoted considerable time to this initiative which was communicated externally in November and was sponsored at a Board level by Thomas Botts.
This organisational change is reflected in our full year results and our revised reportable segments mirror the new operating structure.
Safety remains the Groups top priority.
In January 2016, the remit of the Safety and Assurance Committee was broadened to include Ethics.
The committee spent time considering our response to safety Richard Howson and Jacqui events in the Gulf of Mexico.
In addition to the steps already taken to Ferguson were appointed in the protect against any recurrence, we will also enter a compliance plan with government agencies for a three-year period.
The Nomination Committee continued to make good progress Their appointments strengthen in adding complementary skill sets to the Board and improving the Board, enhance the breadth the overall balance and culture.
Following the retirement of David Woodward, Jann Brown became Senior Independent Director and of knowledge of sectors adjacent Richard Howson and Jacqui Ferguson were appointed later in the year as non-executive directors.
Their appointments strengthen the to the Groups core oil and gas Board, enhance the breadth of knowledge of sectors adjacent to the market, and bolster the depth Groups core oil and gas market, and bolster the depth of experience in technology and innovation which are key to the Groups future of experience in technology and strategy.
The Board continues to comprise a majority of non-executive innovation which are key to the directors with a gender split in line with the recommendations of the Davies report.
During the year, the Audit Committee was active in the tender process for the appointment of external auditors from 2018.
Subject to shareholder approval at the AGM, KPMG will be appointed.
The Group is compliant with EU regulations and best practice on external audit rotation.
The Remuneration Committee focused on preparing for the Groups second shareholder vote on policy, as now enshrined in UK legislation.
The Committee undertook a full review of remuneration arrangements for executive directors.
Throughout the process, consideration was Ian Marchant, Chair given to: alignment with strategy and delivery of shareholder value, simplicity and balance, linking pay to performance and internal fairness balanced with external competitiveness.
As part of the review we actively engaged with our shareholders, seeking and acting on feedback on the proposed policy changes and application.
I remain confident that the executive team under Robins leadership is well placed to navigate the Group through a challenging market.
Looking to 2017, I believe the recent Board changes will improve our balance, culture and effectiveness as we continue to ensure effective challenge, debate and decision making in the best long term interests of the Group.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 29
