127 DIRECTORS REPORT For the year ended 31st March 2016 or ii becomes bankrupt or makes any Directors Dividends arrangement or composition with his or her The following served as directors during The interim dividend of 19.5 pence per share creditors generally, or iii is suffering from a the year: 2015 18.5 pence was paid in February 2016. mental disorder, or iv resigns from his or her The directors recommend a final dividend Tim Stevenson office by notice in writing to the company or, of 52.0 pence per share in respect of the in the case of an Executive Director, the Odile Desforges year 2015 49.5 pence, making a total appointment is terminated or expires and for the year of 71.5 pence per share 2015 Alan Ferguson the directors resolve that his or her office be 68.0 pence, payable on 2nd August 2016 vacated, or v is absent for more than six Den Jones to shareholders on the register at the close consecutive months without permission of of business on 10th June 2016.
Robert MacLeod the directors from meetings of the directors On 2nd February 2016, pursuant to and the directors resolve that his or her Colin Matthews approval given at a general meeting of the office be vacated, or vi is requested in Chris Mottershead company held on 16th December 2015 writing, or by electronic form, by all the other 2015 General Meeting, the company paid Larry Pentz retired 31st March 2016 directors to resign.
a special dividend of 150.0 pence per share.
Dorothy Thompson The special dividend represented a return Powers of the Directors of cash to shareholders of 304.5 million.
John Walker The powers of the directors are determined The special dividend was accompanied by a The biographical details of all the directors by our Articles of Association, UK legislation consolidation of the companys share capital serving at the date of this report are shown including the 2006 Act and any directions which took effect on 11th January 2016 on pages 82 and 83. given by the company in general meeting.
The directors have been authorised Other than as referred to under Indemnification of Directors by the companys Articles of Association Employee Share Schemes on page 128, to issue and allot ordinary shares and to Details of indemnities granted in favour of during the year there were no arrangements make market purchases of its own shares.
each director of the company and each under which a shareholder has waived or These powers are referred to shareholders director of the companys subsidiaries, which agreed to waive any dividends nor any for renewal at each AGM.
Any shares so were in force during the year and which agreement by a shareholder to waive purchased by the company may be cancelled remain in force as at the date of approval future dividends.
or held as treasury shares.
Further information of this annual report, can be found in the is set out under Purchase by the Company Dividend Payments and DRIP Corporate Governance Report on page 93. of its Own Shares on page 128.
Dividends can be paid directly into Appointment and Replacement shareholders bank accounts.
A Dividend Directors Interests in the of Directors Reinvestment Plan DRIP is also available.
Companys Shares This allows shareholders to purchase The rules about the appointment and The interests of persons who were directors additional shares in Johnson Matthey with replacement of directors are contained in of the company and their connected their dividend payment.
Further information our Articles of Association.
These include: persons at 31st March 2016 in the issued and a mandate can be obtained from our the number of directors is not subject shares of the company or in derivatives or registrar, Equiniti, whose details are set out to any maximum but must not be less other financial instruments relating to such on page 193 and on the Investor Relations than six, unless otherwise determined shares, which have been notified to the Shareholder Centre section of our website.
by the company by ordinary resolution: company in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA Disclosure and directors may be appointed by an Share Capital Transparency Rules DTR 3, are set out ordinary resolution of the members or Capital Structure in the Remuneration Report on pages 108 by a resolution of the directors: and On 11th January 2016, the Share to 126.
The Remuneration Report also a director appointed by the directors Consolidation replaced every 18 existing sets out details of any changes in those 16 must retire at the next Annual General ordinary shares of 104 21 pence interests between 31st March 2016 and Meeting AGM and is not taken into each with 17 new ordinary shares of 1st June 2016.
49 account in determining the directors 110 53 pence each.
who are to retire by rotation at the As at 31st March 2016, the issued share meeting.
At least one third of the board capital of the company was 193,533,430 Directors Interests in Contracts 49 must retire by rotation at each AGM.
ordinary shares of 110 53 pence each Other than service contracts, no director excluding treasury shares and the company Notwithstanding these provisions, the board had any interest in any material contract held 5,407,176 treasury shares.
There were has agreed that all directors will seek with any group company at any time during no purchases, sales or transfers of treasury re-election at each AGM in accordance the year.
There were no contracts of shares during the year.
with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
significance as defined in the FCAs Listing A director may be removed by a special Rules subsisting during the year to which Share Allotments resolution of the company.
In addition, any group undertaking was a party and in In connection with the Share Consolidation, a director must automatically cease to be which a director of the company is or was on 11th January 2016 the company allotted a director if he or she i ceases to be a materially interested.
0.39 of an ordinary share other than for director by virtue of any provision of the cash the partial new share was paid up by Companies Act 2006 2006 Act or becomes capitalisation of the relevant amount from prohibited by law from being a director, the companys share premium account.
There were no other share allotments during the year.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 128 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 4.
Governance DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Purchase by the Company of its Also as at 31st March 2016 and as at American Depositary Receipt the date of approval of this annual report: Own Shares Programme At the 2015 General Meeting shareholders no person held securities in the Johnson Matthey has a sponsored Level 1 authorised the company to make market company carrying any special rights American Depositary Receipt ADR purchases of up to 19,353,343 ordinary with regard to control of the company: programme which BNY Mellon administers 49 shares of 110 53 pence each, representing and for which it acts as Depositary.
Each there were no restrictions on voting 10% of the issued share capital of the ADR represents two ordinary shares of rights including any limitations on company excluding treasury shares as at the company.
The ADRs trade on the US voting rights of holders of a given 11th January 2016 the effective date of the over-the-counter market under the symbol percentage or number of votes or Share Consolidation.
When dividends are paid to deadlines for exercising voting rights subsisted at 31st March 2016. shareholders, the Depositary converts such except that a shareholder has no right During the year, the company did not dividends into US dollars, net of fees and to vote in respect of a share unless all make any purchases of its own shares or expenses, and distributes the net amount sums due in respect of that share are propose to purchase its own shares either to ADR holders.
Contact details for BNY fully paid: through the market or by an offer made to Mellon are set out on page 193. all shareholders or otherwise, nor did the there were no arrangements by which, company acquire any of its own shares with the companys cooperation, Employee Share Schemes other than by purchase.
financial rights carried by shares in the At 31st March 2016, 4,565 current and Since 31st March 2016 the company company are held by a person other former employees representing has not made any purchases of its own than the holder of the shares: and approximately 37% of employees worldwide, shares, entered into any options to there were no agreements known to were shareholders in the company through purchase its own shares or entered into any the company between holders of the groups employee share schemes.
contracts to make such purchases securities that may result in restrictions Through these schemes, current and former including transactions made through the on the transfer of securities or on employees held 3,219,322 ordinary shares market or by an offer made to all voting rights.
1.66% of issued share capital, excluding shareholders or otherwise.
As at 31st March 2016, six current and former employees held Rights and Obligations Attaching Nominees, Financial Assistance and Liens options over 5,845 ordinary shares through to Shares During the year: the companys executive share option The holders of ordinary shares in Johnson no shares in the company were schemes.
Also as at 31st March 2016, Matthey are entitled to receive dividends acquired by the companys nominee, 2,138,725 ordinary shares had been when declared, to receive the companys or by a person with financial assistance allocated but had not yet vested under annual report, to attend and speak at from the company, in either case where the companys long term incentive plan general meetings, to appoint proxies and the company has a beneficial interest in to 1,352 current and former employees.
the shares and no person acquired Shares acquired by employees through As at 31st March 2016 and as at the shares in the company in any previous the companys employee share schemes date of approval of this annual report, financial year in its capacity as the rank equally with the other shares in issue except as referred to below, there were no companys nominee or with financial and have no special rights.
Voting rights in restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares assistance from the company : and respect of shares held through the in the company, no limitations on the holding the company did not obtain or hold a companys employee share schemes are of securities and no requirements to obtain lien or other charge over its own shares.
not exercisable directly by employees.
the approval of the company, or of other However, employees can direct the trustee holders of securities in the company, for a of the schemes to exercise voting rights on transfer of securities.
Allotment of Securities for Cash and their behalf.
The trustee of the companys The directors may, in certain Placing of Equity Securities employee share ownership trust ESOT has circumstances, refuse to register the During the year the company has not waived its right to dividends on shares held transfer of a share in certificated form which allotted, nor has any major subsidiary by the ESOT which have not yet vested is not fully paid up, where the instrument undertaking of the company broadly an unconditionally to employees.
of transfer does not comply with the undertaking that represents at least 25% of requirements of the companys Articles of the groups aggregate gross assets or profit Association, or if entitled to do so under the allotted, equity securities for cash.
During Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. the year the company has not participated The directors may also refuse to register a in any placing of equity securities.
transfer of ordinary shares in certificated form, which represents 0.25% or more of Listing of the Companys Shares the issued share capital of the company, Johnson Mattheys shares have a Premium following the failure by the member or any Listing on the London Stock Exchange and other person appearing to be interested in trade as part of the FTSE 100 index under the shares to provide the company with the symbol JMAT.
information requested under section 793 of the 2006 Act.
129 Interests in Voting Rights The following information has been disclosed to the company under the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 5 in respect of notifiable interests in the voting rights in the companys issued share capital: 1 2 Nature of holding Total voting rights % of total voting rights As at 31st March 2016: BlackRock, Inc.
Indirect 20,181,149 9.85% Financial Instrument CFD 209,763 0.10% Ameriprise Financial, Inc.
Direct 107,014 0.05% Indirect 9,776,749 5.05% Norges Bank Direct 8,576,485 4.19% 1 Total voting rights attaching to the issued ordinary share capital of the company excluding treasury shares at the time of disclosure to the company.
2 % of total voting rights at the date of disclosure to the company.
Other than as stated above, as far as the company is aware, there is no person with a significant direct or indirect holding of securities in the company.
No changes in interests in the voting rights of the companys issued share capital have been notified to the company in accordance with DTR 5 between 31st March 2016 and 1st June 2016.
Other than the matters referred to below, As at 31st March 2016 and as at Contracts with Controlling these are not deemed by the company to the date of approval of this annual report, Shareholders be significant in terms of their potential there were no other agreements between There were no contracts of significance effect on the group as a whole.
the company or any subsidiary and its as defined in the FCAs Listing Rules The group has a number of loan notes or their directors or employees providing subsisting during the year between any and borrowing facilities which may require for compensation for loss of office or group undertaking and a controlling prepayment of principal and payment of employment whether through resignation, shareholder.
There were no contracts for the accrued interest and breakage costs if there is purported redundancy or otherwise that provision of services to any group change of control of the company.
The group occurs because of a takeover bid.
undertaking by a controlling shareholder has also entered into a series of financial subsisting during the year.
Branches instruments to hedge its currency, interest rate and metal price exposures which provide The company and its subsidiaries have The Companys Articles for termination or alteration if a change of established branches in a number of of Association control of the company materially weakens different countries in which they operate.
Johnson Mattheys Articles of Association the creditworthiness of the group.
are available on the Investor Relations The Executive Directors service Political Donations and Corporate Governance section of our contracts each contain a provision to the Expenditure website.
The Articles of Association may effect that if the contract is terminated by It is the policy of the group not to make only be amended by a special resolution the company within one year after a change political donations or to incur political at a general meeting of the company.
of control of the company, the company will expenditure.
During the year, there were pay to the director as liquidated damages no political donations made to any EU Change of Control an amount equivalent to one years gross political party, EU political organisation or base salary and other contractual benefits As at 31st March 2016 and as at the date to any EU independent election candidate.
less the period of any notice given by the of approval of this annual report, there were Also during the year, no EU political company to the director.
no significant agreements to which the expenditure was incurred.
The rules of the companys employee company or any subsidiary was or is a party share schemes set out the consequences that take effect, alter or terminate on a of a change of control of the company on change of control of the company, whether participants rights under the schemes.
following a takeover bid or otherwise.
Generally such rights will vest and become However, the company and its exercisable on a change of control subject subsidiaries were, as at 31st March 2016 to the satisfaction of relevant performance and as at the date of approval of this conditions.
annual report, party to a number of commercial agreements that may allow the counterparties to alter or terminate the agreements on a change of control of the company following a takeover bid.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 130 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 4.
Governance DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Information Set Out in the Disclosures Required by Listing Management Report Strategic Report Rule 9.8.
4R The Strategic Report and the Directors In accordance with section 414C 11 of the Disclosures required by the FCAs Listing Report together include the management 2006 Act, the directors have chosen to set Rule 9.8.
4R, which are not otherwise report for the purposes of the FCAs out in the Strategic Report the following included in this Directors Report, can be Disclosure and Transparency Rules information required to be included in the found on the following pages: DTR 4.1.
Directors Report: Statement of capitalised interest Employee Involvement The Directors Report was approved page 158.
A description of the action taken by the by the board on 1st June 2016 and is company during the year relating to signed on its behalf by: employee involvement.
Long term incentive schemes pages 112 and 123.
Important Events since 31st March 2016 Employment of Disabled Persons Information on the companys policy There have been no important events Simon Farrant applied during the year relating to the affecting the company or any subsidiary Company Secretary recruitment, employment, training, since 31st March 2016. career development and promotion of disabled employees.
2016 Annual General Meeting Our 2016 AGM will be held at 11.00 am Page 68. on Wednesday 20th July 2016 at The Royal Society, 6-9 Carlton House Terrace, London SW1Y 5AG.
Research and Development Activities The notice of the 2016 AGM, together An indication of the activities of the with an explanation of the resolutions to be group in the field of research and considered at the meeting, is set out in a development.
This circular is published on the Investor Relations Pages 22 and 23.
Shareholder Centre Annual General Meeting section of our website.
Likely Future Developments An indication on likely future Auditor and Disclosure developments in our business.
of Information The auditor of the company is KPMG LLP.
So far as each person serving as a director of the company at the date this Greenhouse Gas Emissions Directors Report was approved by the Disclosures relating to greenhouse gas board is aware, there is no relevant audit emissions.
information that is, information needed by the auditor in connection with preparing its report of which the companys auditor is Pages 76 and 77. unaware.
Each such director confirms that he or she has taken all the steps that he or Use of Financial Instruments she ought to have taken as a director in Information on the groups financial risk order to make himself or herself aware of management objectives and policies, any relevant audit information and to its exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk, establish that the companys auditor is interest rate risk and foreign currency aware of that information.
risk and its use of financial instruments.
