110 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 4.
Governance REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION POLICY Below we publish the Remuneration Policy table, which includes the elements of directors remuneration.
For each element we describe its purpose and its link to strategy, how it works, the opportunity, boundaries and performance measures and any clawback or withholding conditions which may apply.
This Remuneration Policy took effect immediately following the 2014 AGM and applies to all remuneration for the year commencing 1st April 2014.
Policy Table Purpose and link to strategy Operation and changes if appropriate of the element Potential value of element and performance measures Base salary Base salaries will be reviewed annually and any Base salaries at the last review are shown below: Base salary is the basic changes normally take effect from 1st August Salary as at Salary as at pay for doing the job.
1st August 1st August 2015 2014 % Its purpose is to provide In determining salaries for new Executive Directors Director change a fair and competitive level and salary increases, the Remuneration of base pay to attract and Robert MacLeod 768,750 750,000 2.5 Committee will take account of performance of retain individuals of the Den Jones 476,625 465,000 2.5 the individual director against a broad set of calibre required to lead Larry Pentz 463,300 452,000 2.5 parameters including financial, environmental, 1 the business.
John Walker 424,625 395,000 7.5 social and governance issues.
The Remuneration Committee will further take into 1 The increase awarded to John Walker is to account for some account the length of time in post and the level of market realignment and his increased board experience following salary increases awarded to the wider Johnson his appointment in October 2013.
Maximum opportunity Salaries across the group are benchmarked No salary increase will be awarded which results against a comparator group of similarly sized in a base salary which exceeds the competitive companies within the FTSE 100, with a market range.
comparable international presence and New salaries 2016 geographic spread and operating in relevant The base salary of executive directors will be reviewed industry sectors.
on 1st August 2016 in accordance with the policy.
New appointments or promotions will be paid at a level reflecting the Executive Directors level of experience in the particular role and experience at board level.
New or promoted Executive Directors may receive higher pay increases than typical for the group over a period of time following their appointment as their pay trends toward an appropriate level for their role.
111 Policy Table continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation and changes if appropriate of the element Potential value of element and performance measures Annual bonus The Remuneration Committee sets annual bonus Performance measures Provides a strong incentive performance measures and targets at the start of the It is intended that for the lifetime of this policy the aligned to strategy in the year.
At the end of the year, the Remuneration annual bonus will be subject to a financial measure short term.
The annual Committee determines the extent to which these based on achievement of the groups budgeted bonus allows the board to have been achieved.
The Remuneration Committee underlying PBT, although the Remuneration Committee ensure that the companys retains the discretion to prevent any bonus award if, retains discretion to amend the performance measure plans are properly reflected in its opinion, the underlying financial performance of upon which bonus is to be paid to ensure that bonuses in stretching but achievable the company has not been satisfactory in the remain appropriately linked to the prospects of the annual budgets.
In such circumstances the performance measures will still have a substantial proportion based The annual bonus plays a Deferral on key financial measures.
key part in the motivation Of any bonus paid, 50% is paid in cash and the and retention of senior The budget is set on a robust bottom up process to remaining 50% is deferred into shares for a three employees, one of the achieve full accountability.
The target budgeted year period as an award under the deferred bonus key requirements for long underlying PBT is retrospectively published in the plan.
No further performance conditions apply to term growth.
immediately following Annual Report on Remuneration.
awards under the deferred bonus plan.
Details of last years bonus awards are on page 121.
Bonus deferral as well as Malus and clawback malus and clawback The performance period for annual bonus purposes The deferred element of the bonus is subject to a provisions ensure that matches the financial year 1st April to 31st March.
malus provision such that it can be forfeited in part longer term considerations or in full in the event of a misstatement of results.
Maximum opportunity and vesting thresholds are properly taken into Deferred awards are also forfeited in the event of Chief Executive 180% of base salary.
account in the pursuit of dismissal for misconduct.
Other Executive Directors 150% of base salary.
Adjustments Threshold vesting will result in a bonus of 15% of base The Remuneration Committee retains judgment to salary.
On-target performance will result in 50% adjust the bonus paid within the defined range payment of the maximum opportunity.
should the original target no longer reflect overall business performance or individual contribution.
For example, appropriately adjusting budgets to reflect significant acquisitions or disposals.
The Remuneration Committee also retains discretion to amend the level of annual bonuses determined by the performance condition to seek to ensure that the incentive structure for senior management does not raise environmental, social and governance risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
For example, reducing or eliminating bonuses where the company has suffered reputational damage or where other aspects of performance have been unacceptable.
The Remuneration Committee retains the ability to increase bonus awards from the formulaic outcome where there is identifiable and exceptional performance by the executive director.
Bonus payments in such circumstances would remain within the maximum bonus opportunity and shareholders would be fully informed of the justification.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 112 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 4.
Governance REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Policy Table continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation and changes if appropriate of the element Potential value of element and performance measures LTIP Shares may be awarded each year, with the potential Performance measures LTIP is designed to ensure to vest after three years subject to performance LTIP vesting is based on the CAGR of underlying EPS that executives take conditions over a three year performance period.
over the three year performance period.
decisions in the interest of The performance targets are set by the Remuneration Vesting is also subject to a discretionary ROIC the longer term success of Committee based on internal growth forecasts and to underpin that is monitored by the Remuneration the group.
Having a target ensure they remain appropriate and aligned with Committee.
ROIC is assessed against internal that looks at growth over the shareholder interests.
longer term ensures that the Deferral The Remuneration Committee retains discretion to interests of executives are Subject to performance conditions being met, one amend the targets and or the performance measures aligned with shareholder third of the vested shares are released on the third for future awards.
Wherever possible, the views of wishes for long term value.
anniversary of the date of award.
The remaining shareholders will be sought when it is proposed to The LTIP is based around vested shares are subject to a post-vesting deferral make any substantive changes to the performance targets which require strong period and will be released in equal instalments on measures.
It is currently envisaged that the LTIP growth in underlying EPS.
the fourth and the fifth anniversaries of the initial date award will remain strongly based on underlying EPS Having a strong underlying of award.
growth for the duration of this Remuneration Policy.
EPS target requires that The proposed prospective targets and measures for Malus and clawback annual budgets are also the year commencing 1st April 2016 are shown on LTIP awards granted in 2014 and subsequently will be ambitious and focused page 122. subject to malus and clawback provisions that can on growth.
apply in the case of misstatement or misconduct.
Maximum opportunity and vesting thresholds We consider that underlying The current LTIP was approved by shareholders in 2007 Adjustments EPS is a simple and clear and allows for an absolute maximum award of 200% of The Remuneration Committee has power to adjust measure and reflects the full base salary.
This Remuneration Policy specifies that the the vesting level of an award based on the general total of all company activities.
maximum award made under this policy will be 200% of performance regarding the expected value of ROIC.
base salary for the Chief Executive and 175% of base It is also a key objective of the A guideline ROIC of 20% is in place.
However, salary for other executive directors.
company to achieve earnings the Remuneration Committee does not wish to growth only in the context discourage long term investment and acquisitions of a good performance on which might depress short term ROIC.
Therefore the return on invested capital Remuneration Committee has not implemented a ROIC.
Accordingly, the hard numerical measure to the assessment of the Remuneration Committee satisfactory development of ROIC.
is required to make an The Remuneration Committee may adjust the assessment of the groups performance measure to reflect material events ROIC over the performance such as significant acquisitions or disposals, period to ensure underlying share consolidation, share buy-back or special EPS growth has been dividend.
Any such change would be fully explained achieved with ROIC in line to shareholders.
Benefits Benefits include medical, life and income protection Benefits are not generally expected to be a significant To provide a market aligned insurance, medical assessments, company sick pay part of the remuneration package in financial terms benefits package.
and a company car or equivalent.
Other appropriate and are there to support the director in their benefits may also be provided from time to time at the performance in the role.
In general, benefits will be The purpose of any benefits discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
restricted to the typical level in the relevant market is to align with normal market for an Executive Director.
practices, and to remove Directors and officers liability insurance is certain day to day concerns maintained for all directors.
Car benefits will not exceed a total of 25,000 per from Executive Directors and annum.
Directors who are required to move for a business other senior managers, to reason may, where appropriate, also be provided The cost of medical insurance for an individual director allow them to concentrate with benefits such as relocation benefits and and dependents will not exceed 15,000 per annum.
on the task in hand schooling for dependents.
Company sick pay is 52 weeks full pay.
Directors may be assisted with tax advice and tax compliance services.
The company will reimburse all reasonable expenses which the Executive Director is authorised to incur whilst carrying out executive duties.
Certain benefits are provided to Executive Directors in connection with the company requiring them to be internationally mobile, for example the provision of living accommodation, transport or medical insurance away from their country of residence.
The company may pay the tax on these benefits.
113 Policy Table continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation and changes if appropriate of the element Potential value of element and performance measures Pension All Executive Directors will be paid a cash The supplement is 25% of base salary.
Provides for post-retirement supplement in lieu of membership in a pension scheme.
remuneration, ensures that the total package is competitive and aids retention.
All employee share plans Executive Directors are entitled to participate in the Executive Directors are entitled to participate up to the same limits in force from time to time for Encourages share ownership.
companys all employee plan under which regular all employees.
monthly share purchases are made and matched with the award of company shares, subject to retention conditions.
Executive Directors would also be entitled to participate in any other all employee arrangements that may be established by the company on the same terms as all other employees.
Shareholding requirements Executive Directors are expected to build up a The minimum shareholding requirement is as follows: To encourage Executive shareholding in the company over a five year period.
Chief Executive 200% of base salary.
Directors to build a Shares that count towards achieving these guidelines Other Executive Directors 150% of base salary.
shareholding in the company include: all shares beneficially owned by an executive and ensure the interests of The above shareholding requirements are effective as or a person connected to the executive as recognised management are aligned of the date of approval of this policy.
The previous by the Remuneration Committee: deferred bonus with those of shareholders.
shareholding requirement was 100% of base salary for shares and LTIP awards which have vested and so are the Chief Executive and the other Executive Directors.
no longer subject to performance conditions but are subject to the post-vesting deferral period.
There is no requirement for Non-Executive Directors to hold shares but they are encouraged to acquire a Executive Directors are expected to retain at least holding over time.
50% of the net after tax vested shares that are released under the LTIP and deferred bonus plans until the required levels of shareholding are achieved.
Executive Directors are not required to make personal share purchases should awards not meet the performance conditions and so a newly appointed director may take longer to reach the expected level, depending on the companys performance against targets over the period.
In the event of an Executive Director not reaching the expected level within the five year period, or subsequently, the director will discuss the circumstances with the Remuneration Committee and agree an appropriate plan.
Non-Executive Director fees Non-Executive Directors are paid a base fee each Annual fees at the last review in 2015 are shown below: year with an additional fee for each committee Attracts, retains and Non-Executive Chairman 338,250. chairmanship or additional role held.
Directors with the required Non-Executive Director fees are reviewed every year.
Audit Committee chairmanship additional fee 15,500.
Any increase will take into account the market rate for the relevant positions within the comparator Remuneration Committee chairmanship additional fee group of similarly sized companies with a 15,500. comparable international presence and geographic Senior Independent Director SID additional fee spread and operating in relevant industry sectors.
Where the SID is also the chairman of a committee an additional fee of 2,000 will be paid, such that the total payable is 18,500.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 114 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 4.
Governance REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Selection of Performance Targets Annual bonus Financial performance targets under the annual bonus plan are set by the Remuneration Committee with reference to the prior year and to the budgets and business plans for the coming year, ensuring the levels to achieve threshold, target or maximum payout are appropriately challenging.
The performance targets for 2016 17 are based upon budgeted underlying PBT to ensure that there is strong attention paid to delivery of current operational plans and 1 operational efficiency.
Commercial sensitivity precludes the advance publication of the actual bonus targets but these targets will be retrospectively published in the Annual Report on Remuneration for 2016 17.
LTIP EPS targets under the LTIP are set to reflect the companys longer term growth objectives at a level where the maximum represents genuine outperformance.
Underlying EPS is considered a simple and clear measure of absolute growth in line with the companys strategy.
It is also a key objective of the company to achieve earnings growth only in the context of a good performance on ROIC.
Accordingly, the Remuneration Committee makes an assessment of the groups ROIC over the performance period to ensure underlying EPS growth has been achieved with ROIC in line with the groups planned expectations.
1 The measures for John Walker for periods after 31st March 2015 are such that they are 60% based on the performance against the groups budgeted underlying PBT and 40% based on the financial performance of ECT.
The key elements of variable pay, LTIP Johnson Matthey operates a number Group Employee Considerations and bonus, cascade down through the next of pension arrangements around the world, The Remuneration Committee considers the tiers of senior management with appropriate relevant to the local conditions and directors remuneration in the context of the reductions in opportunity levels based arrangements.
wider employee population and is kept on seniority.
The groups senior executives The key element of remuneration for regularly updated on pay and conditions plus senior and middle managers 1,300 those below management grades is base across the group.
The company has not employees participate in the annual bonus salary and Johnson Mattheys policy is to consulted directly with employees with plan with performance conditions similar ensure that base salaries are fully competitive respect to directors remuneration.
to those described in the Remuneration in the local markets.
General pay increases Increases in base salary for directors will Policy.
In addition they participate in the take into account local salary norms, local take into account the level of salary LTIP in line with the same EPS based inflation and business conditions.
increases granted to all employees within performance conditions although only the group.
Executive Directors are subject to the The general principle for remuneration post-vesting LTIP holding period and only in Johnson Matthey is to pay a competitive the top three levels of management are package of pay and benefits in all markets subject to deferral of annual bonus.
and at all job levels in order to attract and There are also a number of country retain high quality employees.
The proportion and business dependent arrangements of variable pay increases with progression under which bonuses may be paid to the through management levels with the highest entire business unit workforce where proportion of variable pay at Executive performance conditions associated with Director level, as defined by the profitability are met.
115 Remuneration Scenarios Below is an illustration of the potential future remuneration that could be received by each executive director for the year commencing 1st April 2016, both in absolute terms and as a proportion of the total package under different performance scenarios.
VALUE OF PACKAGE COMPOSITION OF PACKAGE Robert MacLeod Maximum Maximum Target Target Threshold Threshold Below Below threshold threshold 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 0 20 40 60 80 100 thousands % Den Jones Maximum Maximum Target Target Threshold Threshold Below Below threshold threshold 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 020 40 60 80 100 thousands % John Walker Maximum Maximum Target Target Threshold Threshold Below Below threshold threshold 0500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 020 40 60 80 100 thousands % Base salary Benefits Pension Annual bonus LTIP Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 116 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 4.
Governance REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Approach to Recruitment Remuneration The recruitment policy provides an appropriate framework within which to attract individuals of the required calibre to lead a company of Johnson Mattheys size, scale and complexity.
The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration package for any appointment to an Executive Director position, either from within or outside Johnson Matthey.
The following table sets out the various components which would be considered for inclusion in the remuneration package for the appointment of an Executive Director and the approach to be adopted by the Remuneration Committee in respect of each component.
Area Policy and operation Overall The policy of the board is to recruit the best candidate possible for any board position and to structure pay and benefits in line with the Remuneration Policy set out in this report.
The ongoing structure of a new recruits package would be the same as for existing directors, with the possible exception of an identifiable buy-out provision, as set out below.
Base salary or fees Salary or fees will be determined by the Remuneration Committee in accordance with the principles set out in the policy table on page 110.
Benefits and pension An Executive Director shall be eligible for benefits and pension arrangements in line with the companys policy for current Executive Directors, as set out in the policy table on pages 112 and 113.
Annual bonus The maximum level of opportunity is as set out in the policy table on page 111.
The Remuneration Committee retains discretion to set individual performance targets for a new externally appointed Executive Director, or adjust performance targets in the case of an internal promotion, to be assessed over the remainder of the financial year, in which case any bonus payment would be made at the same time as for existing directors, such award to be pro-rated for the time served in the performance period.
LTIP The maximum level of opportunity is as set out in the policy table on page 112.
In order to achieve rapid alignment with Johnson Matthey and shareholder interests, the Remuneration Committee retains discretion to grant an LTIP award to a new externally appointed executive director with the same performance targets as awards already granted in that year.
The level of such awards would be pro-rated from the normal opportunity to take account of the time elapsed since the start of the performance period.
Replacement awards The Remuneration Committee retains discretion to grant replacement buy-out awards to a new externally appointed Executive Director to reflect the loss of awards granted by a previous employer.
Where this is the case, the Remuneration Committee will seek to structure the replacement award such that overall it is on an equivalent basis to broadly replicate that foregone, using appropriate performance terms.
If the Executive Directors prior employer pays any portion of the remuneration that was anticipated to be forfeited, the replacement awards shall be reduced by an equivalent amount.
Other The Remuneration Committee may agree that the company will meet certain mobility costs, relocation costs, including temporary living and transportation expenses, in line with the companys prevailing mobility policy for senior executives as described in the policy table on page 112.
In the case of an internal promotion to the board, the company will honour any contractual commitments made prior to the promotion.
Service Contracts and Policy on Payment for Loss of Office The table below summarises relevant key provisions of Executive Directors service contracts and the treatment of payments on termination of employment.
The full contracts of service of the Executive Directors as well as the terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the registered office of the company during normal business hours as well as prior to and during the forthcoming AGM of the company.
In exceptional circumstances, the Remuneration Committee may authorise, where it considers it to be in the best interests of the company and shareholders, entering into contractual arrangements with a departing Executive Director, for example a settlement, confidentiality, restrictive covenant or other arrangement, pursuant to which sums not set out in the following table may become payable.
In these exceptional circumstances, full disclosure of the payments will be made in accordance with the remuneration reporting requirements.
The following table describes the contractual conditions pertaining to the contracts for Robert MacLeod, Den Jones, Larry Pentz and John Walker and for any future Executive Director.
117 Summary of Key Provisions of Executive Directors Service Contracts and Treatment of Payments on Termination 1 2 Robert MacLeod Den Jones Larry Pentz John Walker Date of service agreement 31st January 2014 10th February 2014 31st January 2014 31st January 2014 Date of appointment as director 22nd June 2009 5th June 2014 1st August 2003 9th October 2013 Employing company Johnson Matthey Plc Contract duration No fixed term.
Notice period Not less than 12 months notice of termination by the company.
Not less than six months notice of termination by the director.
Post-termination restrictions The contracts of employment contain the following restrictions on the director for the following periods from the date of termination of employment: non-compete six months: non-dealing and non-solicitation of client customers 12 months: non-solicitation of suppliers and non-interference with supply chain 12 months: and non-solicitation of employees 12 months.
Summary termination payment The company may, in its absolute discretion, terminate the employment of the director with in lieu of notice PILON immediate effect by giving written notice together with payment of a sum equivalent to the directors base salary and the value of his contractual benefits as at the date such notice is given, in respect of the directors notice period, less any period of notice actually worked.
The company may elect to pay the PILON in equal monthly instalments.
The director is under a duty to seek alternative employment and to keep the company informed about whether he has been successful.
If the director commences alternative employment, the monthly instalments shall be reduced if appropriate to nil by the amount of the directors gross earnings from the alternative employment.
A PILON paid to a director who is a US taxpayer Larry Pentz and John Walker would be in equal monthly instalments.
Termination payment change of control If, within one year after a change of control, the directors service agreement is terminated by the company other than in accordance with the summary termination provisions, the company shall pay, as liquidated damages, one years base salary, together with a sum equivalent to the value of the directors contractual benefits, as at the date of termination, less the period of any notice given by the company to the director.
Termination treatment of annual bonus Annual bonus awards are made at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Employees leaving the companys employment will receive a bonus, pro-rata to service, unless the reason for leaving is resignation or misconduct.
Any bonus awarded would continue to be subject to deferral as set out in the Remuneration Policy.
In relation to deferred bonus awards which have already been made, shares will be released on the normal vesting date unless one of the following circumstances applies, and subject to the discretion of the Remuneration Committee: the participant leaves as a result of misconduct: or the participant, prior to vesting, breaches one of the post-termination restrictions or covenants provided for in his employment contract, termination agreement or similar agreement.
Termination treatment of LTIP awards Employees leaving the companys employment will normally lose their LTIP awards unless they leave for a specified good leaver reason, in which case their shares will be released on the normal release dates, subject to the performance condition.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to accelerate vesting, in which case the performance condition would be assessed to the end of the financial year preceding the accelerated vesting date.
In either case, unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise, the level of vesting shall be pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the performance period which has elapsed to the date of leaving.
In the post-vesting deferral period, only those who leave due to misconduct will lose their shares.
Redundancy scheme The director is not entitled to any benefit under any redundancy payments scheme operated by the company.
Holiday Upon termination for any reason, directors will be entitled to payment in lieu of accrued but untaken holiday entitlement.
1 Larry Pentz is eligible for continuing post-retirement medical benefits as he retired directly from Johnson Matthey on 31st March 2016, and so satisfies the conditions of this plan.
2 John Walker is eligible for continuing post-retirement medical benefits provided he satisfies the conditions of this plan and retires directly from Johnson Matthey.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
