82 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 4.
Governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS as at date of approval of this report Tim Stevenson, OBE Chairman Robert MacLeod Chief Executive Appointed to board: March 2011 Appointed to board: June 2009 Experience Experience Appointed Chairman in July 2011.
Tim was Chairman Appointed as Chief Executive in June 2014 having of The Morgan Crucible Company plc from December joined Johnson Matthey as Group Finance Director 2006 to July 2012 and Chairman of Travis Perkins plc in 2009.
Robert was previously Group Finance from November 2001 to May 2010.
He has also sat Director of WS Atkins plc for five years.
He was also on a number of other boards including National a Non-Executive Director at Aggreko plc for eight Express plc, Partnerships UK and Tribal PLC.
He is a Chartered Accountant with Chief Executive at Burmah Castrol plc from 1998 to a degree in Chemical Engineering.
He is a qualified barrister and is Lord Lieutenant Other Current Appointments of Oxfordshire.
Non-Executive Director at RELX PLC, RELX NV and Committees RELX Group plc.
Remuneration Committee, Nomination Committee International Experience Chairman UK, US International Experience Sector Experience Spain, UK Chemicals, Oil and Gas, Professional Services Sector Experience Chemicals, Manufacturing, Oil and Gas, Retail Alan Ferguson Senior Independent Director Odile Desforges Non-Executive Director Appointed to board: January 2011 Appointed to board: July 2013 Experience Experience Appointed as Senior Independent Director in July Odiles automotive industry experience began with 2014.
Alan was previously Chief Financial Officer and the French Governments Transport Research Institute a Director of Lonmin Plc.
Prior to this, he was Group and developed with Renault SA and AB Volvo.
She has Finance Director of The BOC Group.
Before joining held senior positions in purchasing, product planning, BOC, he worked for Inchcape plc for 22 yearsin a development and engineering, including as Chairman variety of roles including Group Finance Director from and Chief Executive Officer of the Renault-Nissan 1999 until 2005.
He is a Chartered Accountant and Purchasing Organization RNPO and most recently as sits on the Business Policy Committee of the Institute Executive Vice President, Engineering and Quality at of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
She was appointed a Knight of the French Legion of Honour in 2009.
Other Current Appointments Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Other Current Appointments Committee at Croda International Plc, The Weir Non-Executive Director of Safran SA, Group PLC and Marshall Motor Holdings plc, where Dassault Systmes, Imerys and Faurecia.
he is also Senior Independent Director.
Committees Committees Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee, Audit Committee Chairman, Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee, Nomination Committee International Experience International Experience France, UK South Africa, UK Sector Experience Sector Experience Aerospace, Automotive, Defence, Manufacturing, Automotive, Chemicals, Mining Technology Chris Mottershead Non-Executive Director Dorothy Thompson, CBE Appointed to board: January 2015 Non-Executive Director Appointed to board: September 2007 Experience Prior to joining Kings College in 2009, Chris had a Experience 30 year career at BP, most recently as Global Advisor Prior to joining Drax Group in 2005 Dorothy was head on Energy Security and Climate Change.
Before this, of the European business of the global power he was Technology Vice President for BPs Global Gas, generation firm, InterGen.
First starting her career in Power and Renewables businesses, and was also banking, she has had senior management roles in the Technical Manager for its North Sea exploration and UK, Asia and Africa.
He is a Chartered Engineer and Other Current Appointments Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts.
Chief Executive, Drax Group plc and Non-Executive Other Current Appointments Director, Court of the Bank of England.
Vice Principal, Research and Innovation, at Kings Committees College London, Non-Executive Director of Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee The Carbon Trust, The Francis Crick Institute and Chairman, Nomination Committee Imanova Limited.
Governor, Kings College Hospital International Experience NHS Foundation Trust.
Africa, Asia, France, UK Committees Sector Experience Audit Committee, Nomination Committee, Energy, Utilities Remuneration Committee International Experience UK, US Sector Experience Energy, Oil and Gas 83 Den Jones Group Finance Director BOARD DIVERSITY Appointed to board: June 2014 Experience Joined Johnson Matthey in June 2014 as Group Gender Finance Director.
Den was previously interim Chief Financial Officer at BG Group from September 2012.
Male Female He held an Executive Director position on its board 78% 22% between February and November 2013.
Prior to that he held a number of senior finance positions, including Group Financial Controller and Regional Finance Director of Asia and the Middle East.
Before joining Board Tenure BG Group, he spent more than a decade with the investment banking arm of Citibank Salomon Smith 6-10 years 2 Barney and PwC within their Corporate Finance and 4 0-3 years Recovery division.
International Experience 3 3-6 years UK Sector Experience Chemicals, Finance, Oil and Gas During the year, Larry Pentz served as an Executive Director of the company.
He retired from the board on 31st March 2016.
As announced on 3rd February 2016, Dorothy Thompson will retire as a Non-Executive Director with effect Colin Matthews, CBE, FREng from 20th July 2016.
Non-Executive Director As announced on 2nd March 2016, Appointed to board: October 2012 Den Jones will step down as Experience Group Finance Director over the Colin has been Chief Executive Officer of Heathrow summer of 2016.
Airport previously BAA, Hays plc and Severn Trent plc.
He was also Managing Director of Transco and Engineering Director of British Airways.
Earlier he worked in the motor industry, in strategy consulting, and at General Electric Company.
He has also served as Non-Executive Director of Mondi plc.
Other Current Appointments Non-Executive Chairman, Highways England and Non-Executive Chairman, Shanks Group plc.
Committees Audit Committee, Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee International Experience Canada, France, Japan, UK Sector Experience Aerospace, Infrastructure, Professional Services, Technology, Utilities John Walker Executive Director, Emission Control Technologies Appointed to board: October 2013 Experience Joined Johnson Matthey in 1984: appointed Division Director, Emission Control Technologies in 2009 after holding a series of positions within the division in the US, Asia and Europe.
Appointed Executive Director, Emission Control Technologies in October 2013. International Experience Asia, Australia, Europe, US Sector Experience Automotive, Chemicals Simon Farrant Company Secretary and Group Legal Director Joined Johnson Matthey in 1994.
Appointed Company Secretary in 1999 and Group Legal Director in 2007.
He is a Solicitor and Attorney & Counselor-at-Law State of New York.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
