Strategic report Segmental review In 2016 we reorganised and repositioned the Group, moving from an organisation defined by brand to one defined by service.
As a result, Asset Life Cycle Solutions West, Asset Life Cycle Solutions East and Specialist Technical Solutions replace Wood Group Engineering and Wood Group PSN as our reportable segments.
By closely mirroring our operating structure, we hope to better facilitate evaluation of the financial impact of our activities and the markets in which we operate.
Hibernia In October 2016, Wood Group secured a five-year contract to provide engineering, procurement, construction and maintenance services to the Hibernia platform, offshore Newfoundland.
Since first oil in 1997, Wood Group has been the incumbent contractor for many of these services on the Hibernia platform.
The first producing field of Canadas East Coast, it has been a cornerstone of our business in the region.
Key to our performance has been the safe execution of work with local talent, even in the harshest of environments.
10 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Asset Life Cycle Solutions - Western region Revenue in 2016 was broadly flat with 2015 due to the contribution from businesses acquired in late 2015 offsetting underlying revenues that fell by over 15%.
Despite significant pricing pressure, margin fell by only 1.6%, due to robust and decisive management of utilisation and cost.
Operations and maintenance work accounted Outlook for around 70% of revenue and was up on Asset Life Cycle Solutions There are early signs of improvement for our 2015 due to the contribution of Infinity and Western region Operations and maintenance services in the Kelchner acquired in 2015.
Our US onshore core US onshore market where we have a business was significantly impacted by breadth of capability across the Permian, the tough market but remained the largest Total Revenue Eagle Ford, Marcellus & Utica and Bakken contributor to this service line in the Western basins.
Rig count increases are beginning to region.
We saw a good contribution from 0.3% have a modest impact on activity.
In Projects our work in the Gulf coast petrochemical $2,115m 2015: $2,121m and Modifications, a number of large projects market following the acquisition of Infinity.
reached conclusion in 2016 including Flint Performance in East Canada improved Hills and Stampede.
We continue to work on our we have increased our market share in the hook up and commissioning scope on the Total EBITA greenfield topsides market albeit in a tougher Hebron topsides and we secured a five year pricing environment.
15.8% contract on the Hibernia platform.
$176m 2015: $209m Projects and modifications accounted for around 30% of revenue and was down on 2015.
US onshore work was the largest contributor to revenue and included the EBITA Margin ETC Dakota access pipeline, the Flint Hills refinery project and activity on process plants 1.6% and transmission pipelines more generally.
8.3% 2015: 9.9% Activity in greenfield offshore remained in line with prior year and included the detailed design on Stampede for Hess and Peregrino 2 for Statoil, completion of the FEED and People commencement of the detailed engineering for Noble Leviathan and ongoing FEED 21.0% activity for Anadarko Shenandoah.
We also 10,900 2015: 13,800 commenced detailed engineering for Kiewit on the BP South Pass Platform expansion project in the Gulf of Mexico.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 11 Strategic report | Segmental review | Asset Life Cycle Solutions - Eastern region CATS In 2016 we commenced work on a new $250m duty holder contract with Antin Infrastructure Partners operating the CATS Central Area Transition System terminal and pipeline.
The system transports gas from 34 producing fields through 404km of pipeline from the Central North Sea to its terminal in Teesside in the UK where it is then processed on behalf of major North Sea gas producers.
Our collaborative approach across multiple service lines including pipeline management, operations, maintenance and industrial services was key to the award, and our focus continues to be on the delivery of safe, seamless, efficient and effective operations.
12 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Asset Life Cycle Solutions - Eastern region Revenue in 2016 fell 26%, principally due to a significant reduction in brownfield modifications work in a very subdued North Sea market.
EBITA fell 34% reflecting lower activity, the tougher pricing environment and foreign exchange headwinds, despite the offsetting impact of commercial contract close out on significant and legacy projects of around $15m and further reductions in overhead costs.
Operations and maintenance accounted Projects and modifications accounted for for around 60% of Eastern region revenues.
We completed Asset Life Cycle Solutions We faced a tough market in the North Sea, the later stage follow-on engineering and Eastern Region which was down on 2015.
We maintained our construction support scope on Det Norskes leading position, having renewed a majority of Ivar Aasen project.
In the UK North Sea, we contracts over the last 18 months that secures experienced a significant fall in brownfield Total Revenue access to work as activity levels recover in the modifications and upgrade activity under 25.9% longer term.
Our duty holder scopes operating existing contracts.
Activity on our Saudi $2,331m 2015: $3,145m both the CATS gas plant and pipeline for Antin Aramco contracts grew and we renewed Infrastructure and the SAGE gas plant and our General Engineering Services Plus frame pipeline for Ancala Midstream demonstrate agreement in the second half of the year.
our strong capability to partner with new Work with Exxon in Iraq and BP in Azerbaijan entrants to the basin.
Elsewhere, activity levels is ongoing, although the pace of activity has Total EBITA increased on our Exxon contracts in Papua been slower than anticipated.
In Kazakhstan, 34.1% New Guinea and in Australia we renewed we saw strong activity on our work with NCOC.
our contract with Melbourne Water.
We also $143 m 2015: $217m secured a five year managed services scope Outlook from Hess Malaysia for their offshore facilities Activity levels in the North Sea operations, in the North Malay basin.
maintenance and modifications work are not EBITA Margin anticipated to improve significantly in 2017 Turbine related operations and maintenance and results will reflect the margin impact of activity was down on 2015.
We saw weaker 0.8% renegotiated contract renewals secured in than expected performance in our EthosEnergy 6.1% 2015: 6.9% 2016.
We do expect higher activity elsewhere, joint venture with reductions in major with customers including Hess in Malaysia maintenance and equipment sales.
We have low visibility on impacted our longer term view of performance, larger greenfield projects work in the Eastern resulting in an impairment of the carrying value People region and the market generally remains of our investment in EthosEnergy.
We are weak, following the completion of a number actively pursuing our longer term strategic 19.5% of projects in 2016 including Ivar Aasen.
15,300 2015: 19,000 The Middle East market presents the greatest opportunities for projects and modifications in 2017.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 13 Strategic report | Segmental review | Specialist Technical Solutions Digital Solutions Our digital solutions service line within our Specialist Technical Solutions business has created a suite of virtual reality and augmented reality subsea platforms that are completely accurate in their design and configuration with operable valve and well heads, offering a unique insight to the equipment we design and help to install.
Digital Solutions will be extremely important in helping shape the future delivery of our services as the world moves forward in an ever more digital and technology-enabled manner.
14 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Specialist Technical Solutions Financial performance in Specialist Technical Solutions reflects a significant reduction in subsea activity, partially offset by robust activity in automation and the contribution of ATG acquired in September 2015.
Despite a tough pricing environment, Outlook commercial contract close out on significant Specialist Technical Solutions The subsea market remains very subdued and legacy projects of around $14m, the for larger projects and it is likely there will release of deferred consideration provisions be lower activity in 2017.
We have strong for acquisitions in the second half of the year Total Revenue visibility for our Automation activity that is and the impact of cost reduction initiatives expected to grow following a number of resulted in an increase in margins.
16.7% awards and we also see good opportunities $488m 2015: $586m for our clean energy offering within our We have seen significantly reduced subsea technology business.
We are working on a number of early stage, tie back and verification scopes, but there are minimal large projects coming Total EBITA to market.
Relationships with our customers remain positive, evidenced by a number of 14.1% master service agreements secured with $79m 2015: $92m Statoil, Apache, BP and Chevron, albeit at lower margins.
Within our technology offering, we saw growth in our smart asset integrity and clean energy services.
EBITA Margin Following our engagement on early stage 0.5% engineering, we were formally awarded the 16.2% 2015: 15.7% $700m main automation contractor scope for Chevrons Tengiz expansion project in 2016, and this was followed up with a $40m award from ExxonMobil Chemical to provide main automation contractor services People for a Texas polyethylene plant following 7.7% completion of the FEED work.
2,800 2015: 2,600 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 15
