54 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 2.
Financial FINANCIAL REVIEW OF OPERATIONS CONTINUED FINE CHEMICALS DIVISIONAL SUMMARY Business Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient API Manufacturing Catalysis and Chiral Technologies API and lifecycle management Custom pharma solutions What We Do Develop and manufacture complex APIs Provide custom pharmaceutical research, Supply a leading range of speciality for a variety of treatments, including for development and manufacturing services chemical, chiral and biocatalytic pain management and Attention Deficit technologies and products Hyperactivity Disorders ADHD How We Use our unique technology position and Leading complex chemistry capabilities Use our unique catalysis technology expertise to develop and manufacture and technology, coupled with outstanding position to develop highly efficient and Add Value APIs, enabling first to market services, enabling customers to increase sustainable catalytic processes and commercialisation opportunities for our R&D productivity and speed to market manufacture products for customers in the branded and generic customers pharmaceutical and agrochemical sectors Societal Improved quality of life for an ageing Facilitating the development and Sustainable processes that enable cost global population commercialisation of pharmaceuticals effective pharmaceutical manufacture Benefits for unmet medical needs Treats critical conditions e. g. cancer, chronic pain, neurodegenerative diseases Global Drivers Health and Nutrition Population Growth Ageing Population Urbanisation Increasing Wealth Customer Profile Multiple small and large branded and Innovative pharmaceutical companies Pharmaceutical, fine chemical and generic pharmaceutical companies developing novel products agrochemical companies Major Medtronic Siegfried AMRI Hovione Evonik Competitors Noramco Cambrex Alcami Almac BASF Francopia AMRI Employees 1,238 Locations Global network of 11 sites located in US, Europe, India and China 1 2015 16 Sales 217 million 41 million 1 Excludes sales of 38 million from Research Chemicals which was sold on 30th September 2015.
Fine Chemicals is focused on delivering niche products and services to pharmaceutical STRATEGY markets where it can apply its capabilities in complex chemistry, research, development Deliver niche products and manufacturing to deliver existing and new products.
Differentiation through technology and services to while delivering on speed to market and quality is a key value proposition we offer to both pharmaceutical markets innovative and generic pharmaceutical customers.
Leverage synergies By leveraging synergies between market presence, technology and our global between market presence, manufacturing network across the division, we maintain a robust portfolio of new technology and global products and customers.
Vertical integration and close collaboration between its manufacturing network businesses are key advantages the division offers to customers through providing a Move further up the unique and differentiated offering.
pharmaceutical value chain Building upon its reputation as a premier technology led API development business, Fine Chemicals aims to extend its position in generic pharmaceuticals by moving further Deliver superior growth up the pharmaceutical value chain, through coinvesting and codeveloping new formulated drug products to increase access and value share of this high growth market segment.
The division aims to deliver superior growth in markets that are driven by global trends towards the increased use of pharmaceutical products.
Its strong position in niche areas and its technology, process development and manufacturing infrastructure position it well for growth at rates ahead of industry baselines.
55 PERFORMANCE IN 2015 16 Year to 31st March % at 2016 2015 % constant million million change rates Revenue 325 370 -12 -15 1 Sales excluding precious metals sales 296 328 -10 -13 Underlying operating profit 82.3 88.8 -7 -11 Return on sales 27.8% 27.1% Return on invested capital ROIC 16.9% 18.4% 1 Adjusted to include certain non pass through precious metal items.
Fine Chemicals made steady progress.
On the other hand, continued good Key Investments and Adjusting for the disposal of our Research demand for the provision of custom Developments Chemicals business, which was sold on services for API development and We have continued to invest in the 30th September 2015, sales were up 3% manufacturing supported the future growth of Fine Chemicals.
1% down at constant rates, and business sales.
Pharmorphix, a small acquisition which underlying operating profit was 1% higher.
During the year, we have made was completed in October 2015, has Whilst sales in our API Manufacturing progress in the development of APIs to now been integrated into our European business were stable, the division saw ensure a steady pipeline of new products.
strong demand for catalysts and chiral This has continued to support our During the year we have continued technologies.
Performance was adversely portfolio of abbreviated new drug our investment in the refurbishment of impacted by the safety shutdown applications ANDAs that have received, our manufacturing site in Annan, following a fatal accident in July 2015 or are awaiting, Food and Drug Scotland and the facility has received at our API Manufacturing facility in Administration FDA approval.
Home Office approval for the production Riverside, USA.
Return on sales of controlled substances.
We expect improved by 0.7% to 27.8% as a result Catalysis and Chiral the plant to commence operation by of the sale of Research Chemicals.
Technologies CCT the end of 2016.
In North America, However, there was a reduction in ROIC we have expanded our custom CCT has had a good year, growing its of 1.5% to 16.9% due to increased development and manufacturing position as a developer and supplier of investment over the year to support capabilities and continued to invest in speciality technologies and products future growth.
developing our API product portfolio.
which are used by customers in complex multi step reactions for the API Manufacturing production of APIs or agrochemicals.
Our API Manufacturing business sales The business saw strong demand for were up 1% at 217 million down 3% catalyst products and sales grew by 16% at constant rates and operating profit to 41 million.
Underlying operating profit was down slightly due to the safety was also well ahead.
shutdown in the first half of the year.
Demand for bulk opiates was lower Research Chemicals primarily as a result of increased imports On 30th September 2015 we completed of finished drug products from outside the sale of this business to Thermo the UK.
However, sales of speciality Fisher Scientific Inc. for 255 million.
opiates grew strongly, with increased Prior to disposal, it contributed sales demand for speciality APIs used in pain of 38 million and underlying operating relief and drug addiction therapies.
profit of 7.5 million for the six months There was a reduction in sales of APIs to 30th September 2015. for ADHD treatments due to lower volumes and the timing of some orders.
Fine Chemicals Sales by Business % change 2016 2015 % at constant million million change rates API Manufacturing 217 216 1 -3 1 Catalysis and Chiral Technologies 41 35 16 15 2 Research Chemicals 38 77 1 Total 296 328 -10 -13 1 Adjusted to include certain non pass through precious metal items.
2 Research Chemicals was sold on 30th September 2015.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
