22 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 1.
Overview RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT INNOVATING THE NEXT GENERATION OF SUSTAINABLE TECHNOLOGIES OUR CONTINUED INVESTMENT IN R&D LIES AT THE CORE OF JOHNSON MATTHEY AND AROUND 13% OF OUR PEOPLE ACROSS THE GROUP ARE INVOLVED IN THESE ACTIVITIES.
Our scientists are of the highest calibre and in combination with our world class facilities enable us to support the longer term technology needs of our customers.
The expertise and skills developed in our technology centres are applied across all stages of our R&D portfolio and enable us to deliver innovative technology products and solutions.
In 2015 16 we increased our R&D spend to 188 million, up 11% on last year.
Innovation to us means more than just By using our deep understanding Building on this, during 2015 16 generating great ideas.
In order to create of chemistry and advanced materials we launched eXovation, an external value for our customers and support and applying this know-how to product innovation challenge which invites long term growth we must translate those design, formulation and process people to submit new ideas that could great ideas into commercial successes.
development we are able to partner potentially have a beneficial impact on Johnson Mattheys expertise is in with customers and discover solutions the environment, natural resource use, chemistry and its applications: we use to their challenges.
Our aim this to design and develop advanced To help keep our science cutting is to help develop these ideas by materials that perform a vital function edge, we partner with industry experts supporting those people with the best in our customers products.
This might outside our business and have submissions with our resources and be a platinum group metal containing developed relationships with leading expertise to potentially commercialise catalyst that destroys harmful pollutant scientists from external organisations their concepts.
emissions from cars or a complex to drive research and develop new Our R&D teams continue to organic molecule which provides the products and markets that complement collaborate and apply their expertise beneficial effect when incorporated into our strategy.
in chemistry and its applications for the a drug product.
design, synthesis and application of advanced materials to create value for our customers and improve the quality of life for many people around the world.
Research and Development Employees Distribution of Research and Gross Research and Development Expenditure Development Expenditure million % New New Businesses Businesses Central Fine 200 10 Fine Central 188.0 7% 8% Research 169.9 Chemicals Chemicals Research 17% 152.3 8 12% 9% 20% 150 136.0 Precious 128.6 Precious 6 Metal Metal 100 Products Products 4 5% 7% 50 Process 2 Process Technologies Technologies 18% 0 0 Emission Emission 20% 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Control Control Technologies Technologies R&D expenditure sales 37% 40% 23 R&D to Tackle Global Challenges Our R&D activities align with four fundamental global sustainability drivers which provide opportunities for growth.
Population Growth Natural Resource Environmental Factors Health and Nutrition Constraints Urbanisation Climate Change Ageing Population Increasing Wealth Regulation Highlighted below are some examples of our R&D programmes, all of which contain projects in the advanced stages of handover to our commercial teams.
Water Food Access to clean water is something Food waste is an increasing global problem.
In the EU alone, around 100 million most of us take for granted but, with tonnes of food is wasted each year with levels predicted to increase by 20% the global growth in urbanisation, this in the next five years.
Our Atmosphere Control Technologies business is using resource is coming under increased science to address this issue head on, developing a range of technologies to pressure and smart ways to produce preserve fresh food.
We are developing advanced materials which can be used pure water will be vital in the coming to control the gases that impact the length of time that food remains fresh, years.
We are working on water such as ethylene which affects ripening, and the respiratory gases oxygen and purification technologies to treat carbon dioxide which affect food storage and shelf life.
Food packaging can be contaminated water, particularly from designed to incorporate our advanced materials which results in reduced waste, industrial processes.
Our R&D labs lower logistical costs from land and sea freight and increased freshness and have state of the art facilities for the produce quality.
analysis of complex samples from customers and our core chemistry Air skills allow us to synthesise, characterise and test advanced Air quality is an important consideration, materials in both model and real not only in terms of reducing damaging GLOBAL world conditions.
We have developed emissions to the environment, but also SUSTAINABILITY expertise in targeting contaminants in for improving air quality in confined water and in the design and selection DRIVERS spaces.
We have a long history of of the best advanced ion exchange innovation in the area of air quality and materials to capture them.
Using a are using this knowledge to develop combination of molecular modelling life enhancing technologies for the and experimentation, we are future that will protect the air we developing new materials and breathe and reduce exposure to improved processes for our customers.
harmful toxins such as formaldehyde We are also using our expertise in and carbon monoxide CO. electrochemistry to develop cost CO is a colourless, tasteless and effective and efficient disinfection odourless gas which is produced by processes that electrochemically the incomplete burning of carbon based destroy harmful contaminants fuels such as gas, coal, oil and wood.
is toxic even at very low concentrations and, if inhaled, it can be lethal.
We have developed a catalyst that will Powertrain destroy CO at low temperatures and As the automotive industry looks to the future and the possibility of zero emission are collaborating with customers to vehicles, we are working with that industry every step of the way.
Development incorporate the catalyst into personal of new technologies to power vehicles form a central part of Johnson Mattheys protective equipment PPE used by aspirations for future growth and we are investing in next generation powertrain emergency response teams, for technologies covering conventional emissions control, fuel cells and battery example in situations when they are technologies.
Our Battery Technologies business is committed to the improvement called to deal with fires.
The catalyst of existing battery materials and is concentrating its R&D efforts in this area.
Our was carefully designed to be stable and longer term approach in this area includes our work on the EU co-funded LISSEN active alongside other components in project which is targeting the development of materials for use in very high energy the PPE, so that the wearer is protected lithium sulphur batteries.
These batteries are expected to have energy densities from toxic fumes containing CO over at least three times higher than those of present lithium battery technology, a timescale sufficient to allow them to comparatively longer cycle life, much lower costs and improved safety credentials.
eu food safety food waste index en.
eu Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
