48 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 2.
Financial FINANCIAL REVIEW OF OPERATIONS CONTINUED PROCESS TECHNOLOGIES DIVISIONAL SUMMARY CHEMICALS MARKETS OIL AND GAS MARKETS Business Syngas Oleo Petrochemicals Refineries Gas Diagnostic biochemicals Processing Services What We Do Manufacture catalysts, license process technology and deliver Manufacture catalysts, additives and absorbents and deliver services to the chemical industry services to the oil and gas industry How We Innovate and develop products, process technologies and services to enable customers to operate their processes at optimum efficiency Add Value and with reduced environmental impact Societal More efficient use of natural resources Improved fuel Removal of Improved asset Benefits quality harmful impurities performance Lower energy use from gas and integrity More efficient Biorenewables low carbon technology use of natural Improved resources environmental performance for Lower energy use our customers Improved environmental performance of refineries Global Drivers Natural Resource Environmental Factors Population Growth Health and Nutrition Constraints Climate Change Urbanisation Ageing Population Regulation Increasing Wealth Customer Chemical companies Refineries Gas producers Oil and gas Profile companies Engineering contractors Industrial gas companies Major Haldor Topse BASF Clariant Grace Competitors Clariant Lurgi Albemarle UOP Employees 2,226 Locations Nine manufacturing facilities in six countries Ten technical centres in four countries Sales offices in key markets 2015 16 Sales 158 million 48 million 103 million 127 million 42 million 63 million The division is focused on maintaining leading positions in catalysts and process STRATEGY technologies for chemicals and oil and gas markets and on continued Maintain leading positions development of high performance products and services for its customers.
in catalysts and process technologies for chemicals Through combining its expertise in catalysts and process technology to create value and oil and gas markets and new opportunities, the division aims to deliver superior growth in current and new markets.
Exploiting existing technology advantages and developing process Deliver growth in current technology to complement our catalysts will enable the division to access larger sectors and through entry markets within the target sectors of oil and gas and chemicals.
The division also into new markets aims to enter new sectors, both by leveraging existing capabilities and by targeted Expand capabilities acquisition.
It will also invest in its people, manufacturing and technology to capitalise on opportunities in its markets.
Achieve margin improvement by operational excellence The division aims to expand capabilities through focused research and development, external partnerships and targeted acquisitions in order to provide value adding solutions for its customers.
Process Technologies has a broad asset base, closely aligned to market needs.
The division will deliver improved margins by rigorous application of manufacturing excellence and lean tools.
49 PERFORMANCE IN 2015 16 Year to 31st March % at 2016 2015 % constant million million change rates Revenue 551 600 -8 -9 Sales excluding precious metals sales 541 591 -8 -9 Underlying operating profit 73.6 106.0 -31 -31 Return on sales 13.6% 17.9% Return on invested capital ROIC 9.6% 14.6% In Process Technologies, challenging Across our Chemicals businesses, the Whilst no new SNG licences were trading conditions have persisted across slowdown in licensing activity in China signed in 2015 16, a licence for related many areas, with sales down 8% to continued as the country has sufficient technologies to convert coal into 541 million and underlying operating capacity in place for many of our liquefied natural gas in China was agreed.
More broadly, Chemicals businesses suffered from ongoing projects globally have Oleo biochemicals slightly weaker catalyst sales and experienced delays and opportunities Sales in our Oleo biochemicals business continued low levels of licensing activity.
for new projects have reduced as a were down 31% at 48 million, mainly In the Oil and Gas businesses, catalyst result of several factors.
These include as a result of lower licensing income.
sales remained steady but the slowdown the impact of the lower oil price on Demand for nickel based catalysts was in upstream oil and gas markets investment sentiment and hence the slightly down, especially in China, and significantly impacted our Diagnostic technology decisions of our customers, sales were also impacted by the lower Services business, which in turn had lower demand for substitute natural average price for nickel, which is a pass an adverse effect on the divisions gas SNG technology in China and the through cost to our customers.
Overall, catalyst sales in overall slower pace of economic growth the division were weaker, primarily due to in the country.
Petrochemicals lower demand for first fill catalysts for new plants.
As a result of the reduction In our Petrochemicals business, sales Syngas in underlying operating profit, return on increased by 17% to 103 million Sales of catalysts and licences in our sales and ROIC declined to 13.6% and benefiting from increased sales of Syngas business were down 14% at 9.6% respectively.
catalysts for the production of speciality 158 million.
As expected, sales of With licensing activity and the products.
However, this was partially ammonia catalysts were lower this year, oil price expected to remain subdued, offset by lower demand in other areas down 23% at 43 million, following we have taken action during the due to timing of customer orders.
In methanol, second half of the year to reduce costs from licensing was stable, supported by catalyst sales were stable at 46 million in the division as detailed on page 59. the close out of an oxo alcohols project and licensing income remained steady, This will generate annual cost reductions in China in the first half.
In addition, two supported by two new licences for of approximately 23 million, and new licences were secured in the year, methanol plants in China and Europe.
5 million was realised in the final including one for an oxo alcohols plant Demand for formaldehyde catalysts was quarter of 2015 16. in India.
in line, although licensed technology sales were slightly down due to a Chemicals slowdown in new plant builds following Technology Licensing 18 months of buoyant activity.
As a result, Sales in our Chemicals businesses were Projects Awarded 2012 2016 total sales to formaldehyde customers down 10% at 309 million and underlying 15 were 5% lower at 47 million.
operating profit was significantly lower Prospects for SNG catalysts and due to a more negative product mix for technology continued to deteriorate in catalysts and continued low levels of 10 2015 16 as the Chinese authorities licensing activity.
During the year, sales slowed approval of new projects due to of 56 million 2014 15 76 million were 5 environmental concerns.
SNG continues derived from licensing, engineering and to feature in the Chinese five year plan related activities and five new licences 0 but at much reduced levels than before.
Process Technologies Chemicals Businesses Sales Methanol SNG Oxo Butanediol Other % change alcohols 2016 2015 % at constant million million change rates Syngas Petrochemicals Syngas 158 184 -14 -14 Oleo biochemicals 48 70 -31 -31 Petrochemicals 103 88 17 16 Total 309 342 -10 -10 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 50 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 2.
Financial FINANCIAL REVIEW OF OPERATIONS CONTINUED PROCESS TECHNOLOGIES CONTINUED Process Technologies Oil and Gas Businesses Sales Key Investments and % change Developments 2016 2015 % at constant million million change rates During the year we completed the Refineries 127 133 -4 -8 refurbishment of a new research and Gas Processing 42 38 11 11 development facility at our site in Diagnostic Services 63 78 -19 -18 Savannah, USA to support the Total 232 249 -7 -8 development of advanced materials.
Towards the end of the year we also commenced construction of a new pgm catalyst plant in Germany to meet future Gas Processing Oil and Gas demand for a range of products in the Our Gas Processing business, which Our Oil and Gas businesses had a Chemicals businesses.
supplies purification products used to mixed year overall with sales 7% down We have also invested in Shanghai remove mercury and sulphur impurities at 232 million.
Underlying operating Bi Ke Clean Energy Technology Co. Ltd from natural gas, made good progress profit was significantly down, impacted CECC, a Chinese chemical process with sales up 11% to 42 million.
The by the Diagnostic Services business technology and licensing start-up business benefited from the introduction which only broke even in the year.
company which focuses on technologies of new products and increased demand for the gas and syngas to chemicals in North America.
This strengthens our existing relationship with CECC In our Refineries business, sales fell Diagnostic Services and we are working together to expand by 4% to 127 million down 8% at the use of methanol as a feedstock Our Diagnostic Services business was constant rates.
There was a reduction for petrochemical processes and in significantly impacted by the low oil in demand for hydrogen catalysts applying our methanol technologies.
price which has caused a slowdown following a strong year in 2014 15 in the upstream oil and gas market.
which saw a greater number of new The business saw lower demand for plant projects.
During the year oil services across all regions as customers refineries in some regions have been reduced their operating expenditure running past their scheduled shutdowns and our sales decreased by 19% to to take advantage of increased margins 63 million.
Operating profit was resulting from the availability of adversely impacted due to the business inexpensive feedstocks.
Consequently, relatively high fixed cost base.
However, our customers, the refinery hydrogen actions have been taken during the suppliers, are running catalysts for second half to reduce costs and, as a longer which has adversely impacted result, after making an operating loss in demand for our refill hydrogen catalysts.
the first half, Diagnostic Services broke Sales of our refinery additives, which are even for the full year.
used to reduce emissions and improve performance in the fluid catalytic cracking FCC unit of the refinery, were ahead, benefiting from increased sales of catalyst enhancement additives.
