56 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 2.
Financial FINANCIAL REVIEW OF OPERATIONS CONTINUED NEW BUSINESSES DIVISIONAL SUMMARY Business Battery Technologies Fuel Cells Atmosphere Control Technologies What We Do Research, development and manufacture Develop and manufacture catalysts and Create advanced technologies to extend of battery materials, design and supply components for emerging fuel cell markets the post harvest life of fresh produce of high performance battery systems How We Development of improved and next Leverage expertise in advanced materials Technical challenges associated with Add Value generation battery materials, design to develop more economically viable fuel atmosphere control fit strongly with and integration of high performance cell components Johnson Mattheys expertise in advanced battery systems materials, in particular our skills in coatings, surface chemistry and gas manipulation Societal Alternative energy Reduced food waste Benefits Low carbon, zero emission transport power Global Drivers Environmental Factors Natural Resource Health and Nutrition Constraints Climate Change Ageing Population Regulation Customer Automotive and heavy duty vehicle Manufacturers of fuel cells for portable, Fresh produce growers customers automotive and stationary applications Profile Distributors and importers Lithium-ion cell manufacturers High performance cordless tool and niche transport manufacturers Major Systems: Materials: W L Gore Amcor Competitors LG BASF 3M Peakfresh BMZ Umicore Employees 1,047 Locations Materials manufacturing in China Headquartered in UK Manufacturing in Israel and US and Canada R&D capability in UK R&D capability in Israel and UK Materials R&D in UK and Germany Systems design, development and manufacture in UK and Poland 2015 16 Sales 130 million 10 million 16 million We are targeting opportunities with sales potential of at least 200 million STRATEGY per annum within ten years.
We will focus on areas adjacent to our current Targeting opportunities with sales businesses and that build on our core technology competences.
potential of around 200 million per annum by 2020 The division is focused on developing new business areas.
Potential areas must show a good fit with our key global drivers, offer strong market growth, attractive Develop new business areas margin potential and present the opportunity for new market entry positions through application of Johnson Mattheys technology.
Invest in R&D to drive growth We will invest in R&D to drive growth through developing technology for new Make targeted acquisitions to markets.
Through an ongoing process, we will identify and evaluate new accelerate progress opportunities whilst developing and filtering out those already in our pipeline.
Alongside organic development and the evolution of our business plans, we anticipate the need to fill gaps in our experience and make targeted acquisitions to accelerate progress.
These are likely to be relatively small scale, up to the value of around 100 million.
57 PERFORMANCE IN 2015 16 Year to 31st March % at 2016 2015 % constant million million change rates Revenue 161 93 72 82 Sales excluding precious metals sales 157 91 73 83 Underlying operating profit loss 17.9 22.1 19 20 New Businesses continued to make The CAM-7 platform of patented Atmosphere Control good progress with sales up 73% to materials is particularly suited to Technologies 157 million, boosted by recent demanding, high energy density Our ACT business, now fully integrated acquisitions in Battery Technologies and applications such as battery electric following the acquisition of StePac Atmosphere Control Technologies ACT.
vehicles and plug-in hybrid electric Modified Atmosphere Packaging in Excluding these acquisitions, sales were vehicles.
This licence will accelerate May 2015, made good progress and 20% higher.
As expected, the underlying our move into nickel rich products delivered sales of 16 million and a operating loss reduced modestly in the for the automotive market and support small operating profit in the year.
the longer term growth in our Battery Technologies business.
New Business Development Our battery systems business for Battery Technologies non-automotive applications, such as We invested just under 10 million in Our Battery Technologies business made powertools and e-bikes, made further other new opportunities, the most good progress with sales up 56% to progress, although sales of battery advanced being our Water Technologies 130 million up 66% at constant rates systems to automotive customers were business.
As part of our strategy in this supported by the contribution from the slower.
We commenced the relocation area, in April 2016 we completed the two battery materials acquisitions of our battery systems automotive purchase of MIOX Corporation and in completed during 2014 15.
Excluding business from Dundee to Milton May 2016 we acquired Finex, both of these acquisitions, sales were 17% higher.
Keynes, UK, in order to better serve which enable us to broaden our Overall, excluding acquisition-related our customers.
technology and commercial capabilities costs, Battery Technologies broke even in this market.
Water purification is one in the year.
of our new business areas where we Fuel Cells In battery materials, where our focus believe there is an attractive and growing is on materials for highly demanding Sales in our Fuel Cells business were market for high value technologies, applications such as for the automotive 10 million, well ahead of last year, developed using our chemistry and sector, we have continued to grow benefiting from good demand from applications expertise.
We anticipate that sales to around 40 million in 2015 16. non-automotive customers for in 2016 17 the Water Technologies We have fully integrated the businesses applications including combined heat business will deliver sales of around acquired in 2014 15, establishing and power CHP, backup power and 15 million and, excluding integration Johnson Matthey as a major supplier materials handling.
costs, make a small operating loss.
of lithium iron phosphate LFP cathode For transport applications, the material to 15 platforms across the light phased emissions regulation in California, and heavy duty sectors.
Sales of LFP USA and the impact of Japans Basic have been strong, especially in China.
Energy Plan continue to incentivise the New Businesses Sales We continue to develop our leading introduction of small numbers of fuel cell Fuel position in LFP by further enhancing powered cars and we have continued to Other Cells our products in a market which is work with a number of original equipment 1% 6% expected to grow strongly.
We also manufacturers on their development ACT 10% plan to expand into a wider range of programmes.
However, we do not materials, including nickel rich cathode anticipate any significant penetration materials which offer improved range of fuel cell electric vehicles until at compared to LFP.
As a result, we have To support this, since the year completed a review of the business end we have licensed the CAM-7 and we have impaired it.
Battery Technologies platform of nickel rich cathode The net expense of our Fuel Cells 83% material technologies for lithium-ion business reduced to 8.5 million in the batteries from CAMX Power LLC.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
