Strategic report Governance Financial statements Chairs statement Markets 2016 represented a second successive fall in global E&P customer spending which was down over 20% following a similar reduction in 2015.
Oil and gas markets remained very challenging: lower oil prices endured and activity fell across the sector.
Early indications for 2017 suggest the potential for some modest increase in spending from 2016 levels, reflecting a recovery in North American onshore spending, largely offset by further reductions elsewhere for a third successive year.
Given the spending outlook for 2017 and the inherent lag of the impact on service company activity, we are cautious on the near term outlook for the Group.
However, we remain positive on the longer term recovery.
Overview of 2016 The flexibility of Wood Groups business model, market leading position and the impact of bolt on mergers and acquisitions M&A were key to delivering financial performance in line with expectations.
In particular, the management of utilisation and early and decisive The flexibility of Wood Groups actions taken on cost reduction and efficiency in 2015, which business model, market leading continued in 2016, partly mitigated the impact of the tough pricing environment and reduced volumes.
position and the impact of bolt During the year, Robin and the executive leadership reorganised on M&A were key to delivering and repositioned the Group across Asset Life Cycle Solutions and Specialist Technical Solutions.
This organisational change is reflected financial performance in line with in our full year results and our revised reportable segments mirror the new operating structure.
The impact of Together, the impact of structural cost reductions and the structural cost reductions and the organisational change will help ensure that Wood Group emerges organisational change, will help from this prolonged downturn as a stronger, better business in an oil & gas market that has recalibrated to a lower for longer commodity ensure that Wood Group emerges price environment.
from this prolonged downturn as Dividend a stronger, better business.
The Board has recommended a final dividend of 22.5 cents per share, which makes a total distribution for the year of 33.3 cents, an increase of 10% in line with previously stated intentions.
The dividend cover ratio was 1.9 times 2015: 2.8 times.
Following successive 10% annual increases in the dividend, we intend to pursue a progressive dividend policy going forward, taking into account cash flows and earnings.
Ian Marchant, Chair John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 07
