Governance Board of Directors Chair Executive directors N S Ian Marchant Robin Watson David Kemp Chair Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer Key experience: Public company boards, Appointed: 2013 Appointed: 2015 power sector, finance and public capital Chief Executive since January 2016.
Group CFO since May 2015, previously CFO markets, government and regulation Formerly chief operating officer from April of Wood Group PSN, having joined Wood 2015, CEO of Wood Group PSN and Group in 2013.
Prior to joining Wood Group, Appointed: 2006 managing director of Wood Group PSN in David served in executive roles at Trap Oil Chair since 2014.
Ian is currently a director of the UK, having joined Wood Group in 2010.
Group, Technip, Simmons and Company Nova, the tidal energy company, non-executive Prior to joining Wood Group, Robin served International, and Hess Corporation, working director of Aggreko plc and Maggies Cancer in a variety of leadership and management across Finance, M&A and Operations.
Charity and Honorary President of the Royal positions with Petrofac and Mobil.
He He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Zoological Society of Scotland.
Until December served as non-executive director of Oil & Accountants of Scotland.
2015 he was chair of Infinis Energy plc and is Gas UK, the Oil & Gas UK Contractors the immediate past president of the Energy Council and the Scottish Business Board.
He was chief executive of SSE plc, a He was previously co-chair on the Step leading UK energy utility company, for over 10 Change in Safety Leadership Team.
years until stepping down in mid-2013.
Key to committee membership Executive Leadership Team Previous directors S Safety, Assurance & Business Ethics Dave Stewart David Woodward CEO Asset Life Cycle Solutions Appointed: 2007, retired May 2016 N Nomination Eastern Region Senior Independent Director, Chair of the A 19 years with Wood Group Remuneration Committee and member of Audit the Audit and Nomination Committees R Remuneration Michele McNichol CEO Asset Life Cycle Solutions Chair Western Region 15 years with Wood Group Bob MacDonald Find out more about our leaders at: CEO Specialist Technical Solutions www.
com ourleaders 13 years with Wood Group Sue MacDonald Executive President People & Organisation 6 years with Wood Group Nina Schofield Executive President HSSEA 2 years with Wood Group Steve Wayman Executive President Strategy & Development 27 years with Wood Group 32 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Non-executive directors N A R N A R S N A Jann Brown Jeremy Wilson Thomas Botts Non-executive Director and Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Senior Independent Director Key experience: International oil & gas, Key experience: Public company boards, Key experience: International oil & gas public company boards, finance and public finance and public capital markets including North America, Europe, South capital markets America, Middle East and downstream Appointed: 2011 Appointed: 2014 Jeremy is a non-executive director of Tullow Oil Appointed: 2013 Jann became Senior Independent Director plc and chair of The Lakeland Climbing Centre.
Thomas is a non-executive director of in May 2016.
She is a past-president of the He spent his career at J. P. Morgan, which he EnPro Industries.
He is also co-chair of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland joined in 1987, until retiring in October 2013.
Governors Task Force at the University of ICAS and currently Audit Committee chair He held a series of senior level positions there, Wyoming, a director of the University of of Troy Income and Growth Trust and of the including head of the European Mergers and Wyoming Foundation and is a long-standing Scottish Ballet, and a trustee of Edinburgh Acquisitions Group, global co-head of the member of the Society of Petroleum University Development Trust.
She spent her Natural Resources and Diversified Industrials Engineers.
He was formerly with Shell for career in the accounting profession before Group, and latterly vice chair of the Energy 35 years, latterly as global head of Shells moving into the oil industry, latterly as managing Group, and was involved in a number of major manufacturing business.
director and CFO of Cairn Energy PLC.
oil & gas mergers over the years.
S N R S N N A Mary Shafer-Malicki Richard Howson Jacqui Ferguson Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Key experience: Public company boards, Key experience: Middle East, North Africa Key experience: Technology sector international oil & gas including Europe, and UK construction businesses: health & specialising in cloud security, Asia and Africa safety and sustainability programmes telecommunications, financial services, travel and transportation, energy and government Appointed: 2012 Appointed: 2016 Mary is currently a non-executive director Richard has been chief executive of Carillion Appointed: 2016 of McDermott International, Inc. and is a plc since January 2012.
He served as the Jacqui has been SVP & General Manager of member of industry councils at Oklahoma chief operating officer from September Hewlett Packard UKI & MEMA since October State University and the University of 2010 to 31 December 2011, having been 2014 and previously served as the VP & Chief Wyoming.
She worked for Amoco and BP appointed to the board in December 2009 of Staff to the CEO of Hewlett Packard from for 26 years, latterly as senior vice president as executive director.
He is a Fellow of the March 2012 to 2014.
Prior to this she held a and CEO for BP Angola, with previous Institution of Civil Engineers.
number of senior roles within the technology appointments in Vietnam, Aberdeen, Holland sector in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, and the US, principally in upstream activities.
Currently she is Public Services Chair at the CBI and a board member of the Tech Partnership.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 33
