6 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 1.
Overview CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Overview The macroeconomic environment this year has SUMMARY created difficult trading conditions for some of our Strategic focus and effective management businesses.
In that context I am pleased to report that Johnson Matthey has maintained momentum enabled the group to deliver a robust overall, delivering a robust performance.
At the performance despite the challenging same time, we have continued to invest in R&D, macroeconomic environment.
our facilities and our business systems to enable future growth.
Underlying earnings per share of Continued investment to support future growth.
178.7 pence were slightly down on last year.
We have further refined our strategy of focusing Special dividend of 150 pence per share paid on value adding sustainable technologies and have in February 2016, proposed ordinary dividend responded to the difficult conditions in some markets of 71.5 pence up 5% on last year.
by taking action to reduce our costs.
Since early March 2015, two non-core businesses have been Board focused on the development and sold and the proceeds returned to shareholders execution of strategy, board effectiveness and through a special dividend.
At the same time we the companys people, culture and values.
have also made a number of bolt-on acquisitions that have strengthened our capabilities.
Ongoing emphasis on the development of value Health and safety is a priority across the group: adding sustainable technologies.
The group it is the first item on every board and management committee agenda.
Tragically, last summer an remains well placed for continued growth.
accident at our Fine Chemicals Riverside facility in the US resulted in the death of one of our colleagues.
This has reinforced our determination to ensure that at all times our people are aware of the importance of managing our business in a way that prevents accidents and injuries across the group.
The 26% reduction in our lost time injury and illness rate illustrates that progress towards this goal is well underway.
Tim Stevenson Chairman Performance The solid performance for the group as a whole was underpinned by another strong year for Emission Control Technologies.
With air quality remaining high on the global agenda, sales of our emission control catalysts continued to grow.
Elsewhere, Fine Chemicals made progress and in New Businesses we have continued our investment to drive future growth, notably in the area of battery materials.
Challenging macroeconomic conditions in the markets for Process Technologies and Precious Metal Products, which are expected to remain for a number of years to come, demanded a high level of management responsiveness.
In both divisions, costs have been reduced which will benefit the group over the coming year.
However, we recognise and regret the difficulties this will have caused to those employees who, as a result, left the group during the year.
