Strategic Report continued CHAIRS STATEMENT CONTINUED This exercise provided both the Board and Investment Manager with useful information, which we hope will assist with shaping investment behaviour going forward.
We have worked with the Investment Manager to take the lessons from the findings, as Garrett describes in his report.
We also discussed the approach with the head of US equity fund management in New York.
Garrett has begun to implement changes, which are likely to result in a slightly more concentrated portfolio with a greater active share, and a more ruthless approach to underperforming holdings.
At the same time, the valuation bias of the portfolio has been a benefit in relative terms in more recent months.
In addition to investment management, the Manager provides other services to the Company, including marketing, accounting and company secretarial services.
These have been formally assessed through the annual manager evaluation process.
The Board concluded that it was generally satisfied with JPMorgans performance.
Thus, taking all factors into account, the Board concluded that the ongoing appointment of the Manager is in the continuing interests of shareholders.
Share Price and Premium Discount Apart from three days in June ahead of the Brexit referendum, the Companys shares have traded at a discount to the NAV throughout 2016.
The Company has continued with its buy back policy, increasing levels of activity in February 2017 after persisting with the buyback programme throughout 2016.
This resulted in the purchase of a total of 17,709,623 shares into Treasury over 2016, at a cost of 54.1 million.
From the emergence of the discount in the first quarter of 2015, we have now repurchased 29,963,323 shares into Treasury as at the date of this statement, representing 10.7% of the Companys issued share capital at the beginning of 2015, which has also had the benefit of enhancing the Companys NAV by 0.5%.
As evidenced above, and to repeat our statements in previous years, the Board has this year demonstrated its willingness to buy shares back when they stand at anything more than a small discount.
The Board continues to remain aware of its responsibility not to let the discount widen significantly and therefore the Company will again be asking shareholders to approve the repurchase of up to 14.99% of the Companys shares at the Annual General Meeting.
We will also be seeking shareholder permission to issue shares, where Directors are confident of sustainable market demand.
The authority, if approved, will allow the Company to issue up to 10% of its issued share capital.
The Company will only issue shares at a price in excess of the estimated NAV including income with the value of the debt deducted at market price.
Discount Premium level month end data calculated with debt at fair value and including income.
4 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
