Dividends US companies continued to provide a growing dividend flow and when converted to sterling the income we received last year showed further gains.
The increase in your Companys income received from the portfolio was approximately 17%.
Our analysis shows that, just over 13% of the income increase over the year came from the strengthening of the US dollar vs. sterling as the dividend receipts are converted into sterling through the year as the underlying stocks trade ex-dividend.
The remainder was due to an increase in dividends paid out by portfolio companies.
The Company paid an interim dividend in respect of the 2016 financial year of 2.25p on 11th October 2016.
Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting, a final dividend of 2.75p will be paid on 15th May 2017 to shareholders on the register on 18th April 2017, making a total of 5.0p per share, compared with last years total of 4.0p per share.
After the payment of the proposed final dividend, we will have a balance in the revenue reserves of 16.0 million equivalent to 6.2p per share or 1.2 times the current dividend.
It is our intention that such reserves be used to support dividend payments when corporate pay outs are less healthy for a shorter term period, or if there are other fluctuations in the revenue account which we also assess to be temporary.
Gearing Bar the occasional one day dip below 8% over the review period, gearing has remained within the Boards strategic gearing level of 10%, plus or minus 2% over the year.
Our Investment Manager has the ability to hold cash of up to 5% of net assets if he feels there is a real risk of capital loss and we have indicated that our highest level of gearing would be 20%.
Having increased its borrowing capacity in December 2016, the Company has dollar bank facilities totalling 65 million, together with a 50 million debenture.
Repayment dates for the bank debt are November 2018 and April 2020: the debenture matures in June 2018.
Given that the maturity of the debenture is now only 15 months away, the Board is considering replacement options carefully.
Costs and Directors Fees The Board continues its focus on costs and continues to consider ways to enhance shareholder value.
The Board resolved again not to raise Directors fees, so they remain at the 2015 level.
However, the amount of work demanded of an investment trust director only increases year on year and hence an increase is likely for next year to ensure that the Company can continue to attract good quality candidates and reflect the workload and responsibilities involved.
The table set out below is in the same format as we have used for a number of years.
It aims to shows the returns generated on the Companys investments, the extent to which the capital base of the Company has grown or shrunk through share issuance and buy-backs, and the full costs of the Companys operations.
The Companys biggest cost remains the management fees at 4.5 million 2015: 4.3 million.
As this fee is calculated as a percentage of assets it varies with the size of the Company and therefore rose.
No performance fee was payable and a second year of NAV underperformance against the benchmark results in an increase in the negative performance fee offset.
We note that the Companys Ongoing Charges remain unchanged from the prior year at 0.62% 2015: 0.62%.
