Strategic Report CHAIRS STATEMENT In 2016, the US equity market, as measured by the S&P 500 total return Index, provided a return of 11.6% to US investors.
This strength was considerably boosted to UK investors by the steep decline in sterling following the result of the Brexit referendum.
That decline, of 16.6% over the period, resulted in an overall return in sterling terms, from the US equity market, of just over 33%.
In money terms, gains on investments of approximately 153 million were a consequence of sterling weakness following the result of the UK referendum.
Absolute Return The absolute return for shareholders has been very strong, despite a number of major surprises on the political front.
The share price total return for the period was also very strong at 34.9%, which was in addition, ahead of the market return.
The discount at which the shares trade narrowed over the year, as the Board stepped up its buyback activities.
This return has been influenced significantly by the strength of the dollar compared with sterling and by the strength of the US equity market itself.
The Companys gearing also provided a small benefit.
Relative Returns Over the longer term, your Company has performed well: the net asset value per share has more than trebled over ten years and has also outperformed its benchmark.
However, in relative terms, the past two years have been more challenging for the Companys investment approach which has led to recent underperformance.
Although the share price total return was ahead of the benchmark S&P 500 Index over the last year, the net asset value total return based on the NAV calculated including income and taking the debt at par value was below by just over 2 percentage points.
This follows a prior year of underperformance of 2.2 percentage points.
However, the 10 year performance record over which period Garrett Fish has been responsible for investment management remains ahead of the Index.
Board Review of the Fund Management Process The Companys objective is to achieve capital growth from North American investments by outperformance of the Companys benchmark, which is the S&P 500 Index with both net asset value and benchmark measured in sterling total return terms.
In 2016, the Board again visited the Managers offices in New York where it held meetings with the Investment Management team to include both Garrett and the manager of the small companies portfolio, Eytan Shapiro.
The Board further met with senior management, the behavioural finance team of which Garrett is a member, the corporate engagement and the dealing teams.
The Board also attended a seminar arranged with New York University, the week after the election, and received the benefit of a wide range of economic, political and social analysis, to help put the Investment Managers views into context.
Given shorter term performance concerns, this year the Board commissioned a consultancy firm called Inalytics to assist the Board with its understanding of how the Investment Managers investment style and actions have impacted upon performance, both in terms of contributing to, and detracting from, performance returns against benchmark.
Inalytics advise the trustees of large pension funds and other institutional investors and have many years experience of working with active managers.
The initial findings were then developed further by the Investment Manager, who completed a forensic review of his investment decisions going back over 14 years.
The results suggest that the Investment Manager has demonstrated considerable skill in buying shares, over a long period, and with statistical significance.
However, some of the gains derived from buying shares which then outperformed, were being given away by holding on too long to shares which did not perform well or selling shares disadvantageously.
