Features Objective Management and Performance Fees To achieve capital growth from North American investments by The management fee is charged at a rate of 0.5% per annum, outperformance of the Companys benchmark.
paid quarterly in arrears, on the Companys total assets less current liabilities.
The performance fee is calculated at the Investment Policies rate of 10% of the difference between the cum-income debt at par net asset value total return and the total return of the - To invest in North American quoted companies including, S&P 500 Index, expressed in sterling terms.
The performance when appropriate, exposure to smaller capitalisation fee is capped in any one year at 0.25% of the cum-income companies.
debt at par net asset value at the Companys latest year end, - To emphasise capital growth rather than income.
with any unpaid excess being carried forward until paid in full.
Any negative fee resulting from underperformance is Please refer to page18 for full details of the Companys deducted from any unpaid fees brought forward from prior investment policies.
years with any remaining amount of the negative fee carried forward to be absorbed in future years.
Please refer to Gearing and Hedging Policies page 24 for full details.
- To use short and long term gearing to increase potential returns to shareholders.
The Companys gearing policy is to Management Company operate within a range of 5% net cash to 20% geared in The Company employs JPMorgan Funds Limited JPMF or the normal market conditions.
The Manager is accountable for Manager as its Alternative Investment Fund Manager.
JPMF tactically managing the gearing, within a 2.0% range delegates the management of the Companys portfolio to around a normal gearing level.
The normal gearing level, JPMorgan Asset Management JPMAM which further which is set by the Board and kept under review, is delegates the management to JPMorgan Asset Management, currently 10%.
Inc. All of these entities are wholly owned subsidiaries of - To hedge the currency risk only in respect of the Companys J. P. Morgan Chase & Co. sterling debenture.
All other debt is drawn in dollars.
FCA regulation of non-mainstream pooled Benchmark Index investments The S&P 500 Index expressed in sterling total return terms.
The Company currently conducts its affairs so that the shares issued by the Company can be recommended by independent Capital Structure financial advisers to ordinary retail investors in accordance As at 31st December 2016, the Companys share capital with the FCAs rules in relation to non-mainstream investment comprised 281,633,910 ordinary shares of 5p each, including products and intends to continue to do so for the foreseeable 23,060,507 shares held in Treasury.
The Company has a 50 million debenture in issue, carrying a The shares are excluded from the FCAs restrictions which apply fixed interest rate of 6.875%, per annum, repayable in June to non-mainstream investment products because they are 2018.
The Company currently also has two floating rate debt shares in an investment trust.
AIC The Company is a member of the Association of Investment Companies.
Website The Companys website, which can be found at www.
co. uk, includes useful information on the Company, such as daily prices, factsheets and current and historic half year and annual reports.
